Story 0
On Thursday Shares of Empire Company Limited,(TSE: EMP-A) is an exciting player in the Consumer Staples, generated a change of 0.01% and closed at $34.46.
Most Recent EMP-A Updates For ShareHolders:
The market price of a stock is the value that it sells for on the open market at a given point in time. The market price will typically vacillate during the trading day as investors buy and sell stocks. The Empire Company Limited started at $34.4 and closed at $34.46 in the latest trading session on marking the change of 0.01% from the preceding day.
Technical Indicator With Trading Price (High & Low):
Volume is a remarkable technical indicator for investors & stockholders, which gives the idea of the price activity of a stock and whether he should buy or sell the security. If trading volume raised, prices usually move in the same direction. The EMP-A exchanged hands with current Volume 368114, while precious’s day the Volume 467906. The high trading price was $34.62 at which a stock traded during the day and the low trading price remained $34.32.
ROE%, Market Cap & Growth Rates (Return / Revenue)of EMP-A:
Market Cap is determined by multiplying a company’s shares outstanding by the current market price of one share $9363580553.
Looking into the profitability ratios of EMP-A stock, an investor will find its ROE, i.e., 0.11%. A performance measure used to estimate the effectiveness of an investment or to compare the ability of some different investments.
The 01-Year Return of the company Empire Company Limited 0.47%, while the revenue growth percent over five years is 0.33%.
Price Opinion Signals (Buy / Sell / Hold) About EMP-A Share:
Buy Signals: An occasion or condition that alerts an individual to place a buy request for investment. Purchase signals can be either observed by analyzing graph patterns or calculated by trading systems.
Hold Signals: An experts recommendation to neither buy nor sell a security. An organization with a hold recommendation generally is expected to perform with the market or at a similar pace as a comparable organization.
Sell Signals: A condition or quantifiable level at which an investor is cautioned to sell a specified investment. Sell sign can be created through a variety of techniques. They are also observed and utilized by many types of investors. The Current Price Signals & Last Month Prices Signals are hereunder:
· Current Price Signals “Buy”
· Last Month Price Signals “Buy”
Weighted Alpha:
Weighted Alpha tells that how much a stock has risen or fallen over a one year with a higher weighting for most recent price activity. The company’s “Empire Company Limited”, TSE has a Weighted Alpha 38.70. A positive weighted alpha sign that the stock has risen over the previous year. A negative means that the stock is down over that similar period.
Trend Analysis And Indicators of the Empire Company Limited:
The Trend analysis of the Empire Company Limited shows that the Company Sell the Trend Signal & having Trend Strength Maximum with the Trend Direction of the Weakest.
Trend Signals demonstrates that uses wave theory, market momentum and volatility in an attempt to find a general trend, while Trend Strength of the sign contrasted to its recorded performance where max the most grounded this signal has been being, and the minimum is the weakest. Trend Direction demonstrating whether the Buy or Sell signal is strengthening or weakening or whether a Hold signal is going towards a buy or sell signal.

Story 1
On Tuesday Shares of Empire Company Limited,(TSE: EMP-A) is an exciting player in the Consumer Staples, generated a change of -0.14% and closed at $34.56.
Most Recent EMP-A Updates For ShareHolders:
The market price of a stock is the value that it sells for on the open market at a given point in time. The market price will typically vacillate during the trading day as investors buy and sell stocks. The Empire Company Limited started at $34.65 and closed at $34.56 in the latest trading session on marking the change of -0.14% from the preceding day.
Technical Indicator With Trading Price (High & Low):
Volume is a remarkable technical indicator for investors & stockholders, which gives the idea of the price activity of a stock and whether he should buy or sell the security. If trading volume raised, prices usually move in the same direction. The EMP-A exchanged hands with current Volume 551950, while precious’s day the Volume 326291. The high trading price was $34.76 at which a stock traded during the day and the low trading price remained $34.5.
ROE%, Market Cap & Growth Rates (Return / Revenue)of EMP-A:
Market Cap is determined by multiplying a company’s shares outstanding by the current market price of one share $9431531065.
Looking into the profitability ratios of EMP-A stock, an investor will find its ROE, i.e., 0.11%. A performance measure used to estimate the effectiveness of an investment or to compare the ability of some different investments.
The 01-Year Return of the company Empire Company Limited 0.49%, while the revenue growth percent over five years is 0.33%.
Price Opinion Signals (Buy / Sell / Hold) About EMP-A Share:
Buy Signals: An occasion or condition that alerts an individual to place a buy request for investment. Purchase signals can be either observed by analyzing graph patterns or calculated by trading systems.
Hold Signals: An experts recommendation to neither buy nor sell a security. An organization with a hold recommendation generally is expected to perform with the market or at a similar pace as a comparable organization.
Sell Signals: A condition or quantifiable level at which an investor is cautioned to sell a specified investment. Sell sign can be created through a variety of techniques. They are also observed and utilized by many types of investors. The Current Price Signals & Last Month Prices Signals are hereunder:
· Current Price Signals “Buy”
· Last Month Price Signals “Buy”
Weighted Alpha:
Weighted Alpha tells that how much a stock has risen or fallen over a one year with a higher weighting for most recent price activity. The company’s “Empire Company Limited”, TSE has a Weighted Alpha 38.80. A positive weighted alpha sign that the stock has risen over the previous year. A negative means that the stock is down over that similar period.
Trend Analysis And Indicators of the Empire Company Limited:
The Trend analysis of the Empire Company Limited shows that the Company Sell the Trend Signal & having Trend Strength Minimum with the Trend Direction of the Weakening.
Trend Signals demonstrates that uses wave theory, market momentum and volatility in an attempt to find a general trend, while Trend Strength of the sign contrasted to its recorded performance where max the most grounded this signal has been being, and the minimum is the weakest. Trend Direction demonstrating whether the Buy or Sell signal is strengthening or weakening or whether a Hold signal is going towards a buy or sell signal.

Story 2
Call of Duty: Modern Warfare perks are the best way to truly customize your style of play. You can have up to five loadouts that you can switch between, and each of these allows you to chop and change your tactics as the match demands.
While weapons are an integral part of this layer of strategy; it’s really the perks that are the stars of the show. In Call of Duty: Modern Warfare, each of the custom loadouts can be altered once you hit level four in the multiplayer progression. You can change between a fast assault playstyle, one focussed on stealth, or just one that is all about explosions. All you need to do is pick the right perks.
Call of Duty: Modern Warfare perks
The perks are split into three groups. These aren’t necessarily groups of similar perks, but probably just groups that stop specific builds from becoming too powerful. The important thing to keep in mind is that you’ll unlock extra ones as you level up, but you should always try and choose three that will help you play how you want to.
There are no right or wrong choices here, but you should definitely consider whether or not you will benefit from the perks you’ve chosen. For example, if you prefer to play as a sniper who rarely moves, then the Double Time perk probably isn’t the right choice for you. It’s also worth choosing good perks for the map you’re going to be playing or the mode. Every single one of these can benefit you if you choose wisely.
(Image credit: Activision)
Perk 1
Double Time: Double the duration of Tactical Sprint. Increase crouch movement by 30%.
E.O.D.: Take reduced damage from non-killstreak explosives and fire. Hack enemy Claymores, Proximity Mines, C4, and Trophy Systems.
Overkill: Carry two primary weapons (unlocks at level 8).
Scavenger: Resupply ammo from dead players (unlocks at level 18).
Cold-Blooded: Undetectable by AI targeting systems and thermal optics. Does not trigger High Alert (unlocks at level 29).
Quick Fix: Killing players, capturing objectives and holding objectives will increase your health regeneration rate (unlocks at level 42).
Perk 2
Restock: Recharge equipment over 30 seconds.
Hardline: Killstreaks cost one less kill.
High Alert: Your vision pulses when enemies outside your view see you (unlocks at level 11).
Ghost: Undetectable by UAVs, Radar Drones, and Heartbeat Sensors. Immune to snapshot grenades (unlocks at level 24).
Kill Chain: Killstreak kills count toward your next killstreaks. Only applies to killstreaks earned this life (unlocks at level 34).
Pointman: Turn your killstreaks into scorestreaks (unlocks at level 49).
Perk 3
Tune Up: Reduces the charge time of field upgrades by 33%.
Amped: Faster weapon swap and rocket launcher reload speed.
Shrapnel: Spawn with an extra piece of lethal equipment. Explosive damage delays enemy health regeneration (unlocks at level 13).
Battle Hardened: Reduces the strength of enemy flash, stun, and EMP grenades (unlocks at level 26).
Spotter: See enemy equipment, field upgrades, and killstreaks through walls. Mark them for your team by aiming down sights (unlocks at level 38).
Tracker: Enemies leave behind a footprint trail. See markers at enemy death locations and hide the death markers of enemies you kill (unlocks at level 51).

Story 3
Pardon Our Interruption
As you were browsing, something about your browser made us think you were a bot. There are a few reasons why this might happen:
You're a power user moving through this website with super-human speed
You've disabled JavaScript in your web browser
A third-party browser plugin, such as Ghostery or NoScript, is preventing JavaScript from running. Additional information is available in this support article.
After completing the CAPTCHA below, you will immediately regain access to the site.

Story 4
Depositphotos enhanced by CogWorld
In 2007, statistician Nassim Nicholas Taleb defined “Black Swan” as an event that “is an outlier,” as it lies outside the realm of regular expectations. Black Swans by that definition are mostly unforeseen, rare, and can be created by geo-political, economic, or from other unexpected events.
Black Swans bring challenges to risk management, especially in our rapidly transforming technological landscape. However, those transformative changes in emerging technology add to the ability to analytically forecast and try to mitigate Black Swan events.
Because of advanced computing and other emerging technologies, there are Black Swan events we can plan for, and help contain through risk management. While there are many scenarios. There are three categories that I believe we should apply risk management principles to including; 1) threats to the energy grid and critical infrastructure, 2) bio-terrorism and pandemics, and 3) the potential of malevolent artificial intelligence.
The Black Swan Threat to the Grid and Critical Infrastructure
Private industry owns most of the nation’s critical infrastructure (e.g., communications, transportation, financial, healthcare) dependent on the energy grid. The public sector helps protect it. Blackouts and persistent cyber-attacks are already a part of operational concern. Helping reduce the vulnerability of the grid and critical infrastructure has become a national imperative and the clock is ticking.
In the United States, the grid itself refers to critical infrastructure comprising a network of more than 7,650 power plants, integrated via 450,000 miles of transmission lines and 70,000 transformer power substations and thousands of power generating units. Much of the infrastructure is decades old. The (aging) grid is very susceptible to three main Black Swan threats from an energy frequency perspective. They are solar flares, Electro Magnetic Pulse (EMP), and cyber threats.
Solar Flares and Geomagnetic Storms:
Solar flares are made up of high-energy particles resulting from explosions on the Sun’s surface. A geomagnetic storm can be defined as a major disturbance of Earth's magnetosphere that occurs when there is an exchange of energy from the solar wind into the space ecosphere surrounding Earth.
It has been estimated that the earth has been struck by more than 100 solar storms in recent years. In 2008, the National Academy of Sciences estimated that the damage and disruption of the grid caused by a severe solar flare could cost up to $2 trillion in damages, with a full recovery time of 4 to 10 years. According to former CIA Director Jim Woolsey, a rare geomagnetic super-storm would collapse electric grids and life-sustaining critical infrastructures everywhere on Earth, putting at risk the lives of billions.
EMP:
EMP describes pulses of energy that can be emitted from the blast of a nuclear weapon, portable devices like high power microwave weapons (HPMWs). A 2018 military study by the Air Force titled, “Electromagnetic Defense Task Force,” warned that an EMP weapon attack such as those developed by adversaries could destroy our way of life and displace millions. (View Military warns EMP attack could wipe out America, 'democracy, world order', the Washington Examiner)
Military warns EMP attack could wipe out America, 'democracy, world order'
Washington Examiner Paul Bedard
Cyber threats:
EMP and Flares are not the only extreme threats to critical infrastructure. There have been attempted cyberattacks on grids and utilities, many via phishing and ransomware, and some have been successful. In 2014, a computer in the control room at Monju Nuclear Power Plant in Tsuruga, Japan, was subjected to malware, but possibly by accident. In 2015, South Korean hackers targeted Korea Hydro and Nuclear Power Company, but luckily to no avail.
Non-nuclear power plants have also been subjected to intrusions and breaches. A hack in Ukraine was held up as a prime example. In December 2015, hackers breached the IT systems of the electricity distribution company Kyivoblenergo in Ukraine, causing a three-hour power outage.
Refineries, dams and data centers have all been targets of cyber incursion, many by state-sponsored adversaries. According to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Alert (TA17-293A), threat actors have targeted government entities and the energy, water, aviation, nuclear, and critical manufacturing sectors since at least 2017 and, in some cases, have leveraged their capabilities to compromise victims’ networks.
In the federal civilian sector DHS’s new agency, Critical Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA), puts a keen focus on DHS’s integral role in cyber preparedness, response and resilience for critical infrastructure. CISA’s stated role is to coordinate “security and resilience efforts using trusted partnerships across the private and public sectors, and deliver training, technical assistance, and assessments to federal stakeholders as well as to infrastructure owners and operators nationwide.”
Risk Management Response:
On March 26, 2019, President Trump issued “Executive Order on Coordinating National Resilience to Electromagnetic Pulses” in an effort to assess the risks of such an attack to critical U.S. infrastructure. This Executive Order should lead to new investments in protecting The Grid from existential Solar Flares, EMP, and Cyber threats. There are very promising near-term technologies available that can help insulate critical infrastructure from solar and EMP risks. These solutions require urgent implementation to mitigate existing vulnerabilities. In addition, the fortification of cybersecurity through detection, encryption, automation and threat response are tools we have and can further develop to thwart potentially devastating cyber-attacks on critical infrastructure.
The Black Swan of Pandemics and Bio-terrorism:
We are all vulnerable and the vigilance to bio threats are necessary. The recent focus in the news over the outbreak again of infectious Ebola has once again alerted us to the threat of pandemics and bio-terrorism. This is not the first time the issue of biological risks has emerged. Back in 2002 and 2003, the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) raised alarms over an epidemic. There was also the 2001 Anthrax scare, and the 2004 ricin letters. Measles is once again a contagious threat, and many forget that the 1918 Spanish Flu influenza pandemic killed more than 50,000 people.
In the study “Global Trends 2030” researchers found that, “No one can predict which pathogen will be the next to start spreading to humans, or when or where such a development will occur. An easily transmissible novel respiratory pathogen that kills or incapacitates more than one percent of its victims is among the most disruptive events possible. Such an outbreak could result in millions of people suffering and dying in every corner of the world in less than six months.” (View Global Trends 2030: ALTERNATIVE WORLDS, a publication of the National Intelligence Council.)
null
Wordpress
The frightening reality is that as technological sophistication grows, so does the spectrum of threat capabilities deployed by terrorists. According to Daniel M. Gerstein of Rand Corporation, “The proliferation of biotechnology coupled with the increasing use of technology by terrorists suggests a growing likelihood of a bioterrorist attack. Al Qaeda, in a previous version of its Inspire magazine, had called for like-minded scientists—biologists and chemists—to conduct attacks.” (View A Countering Bioterrorism Facility Worth a Second Look, The RAND Blog.)
A Countering Bioterrorism Facility Worth a Second Look
Rand
Risk Management Response:
Many public sector organizations play significant roles in warning, treating, and protecting against infectious outbreaks. The World Health Organization, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the Health and Human Services, Department of Agriculture, and the Department of Defense are all experienced with the challenges that may arise when dealing with worldwide pandemic events. DHS also plays an important role in this area, especially when it comes to bio-surveillance and countering bio-terrorism.
Technological and pharmaceutical advances in recent years have provided some comfort in knowing the ability to detect and combat biological threats. However, a new super-virus pathogen and the bio-terrorist threat still looms large as a Black Swan potential threat.
The Black Swan of Malevolent Artificial intelligence:
The Research and consulting firm Gartner describes Artificial Intelligence (AI) as a “technology that appears to emulate human performance typically by learning, coming to its own conclusions, appearing to understand complex content, engaging in natural dialogs with people, enhancing human cognitive performance or replacing people on execution of non-routine tasks.”
AI can be a game-changer for accelerating cognitive capabilities and economic benefits. In the very near future, we will be able to develop an intelligence from AI that in itself will be an evolving form of sentience of the human. We will live in a world where human/computer interface will extend our human brain capacities, memories, and capabilities. We will create robots with the ability to reason and act.
But what if AI runs amok? A reminder of that possibility is of the sentient computer HAL in the science fiction movie a 2001 Space Odyssey who experiences jealousy and commits murder. Many great visionary minds such as Elon Musk, Bill Gates, and Stephen Hawking have expressed fears that our artificial creations may bring pitfalls. Will artificial intelligence pose a threat to humanity? At the very least AI will impact our privacy and work force, but it is not too difficult to imagine a scenario of self-replicating AI robots and control over humans with interfaced implants dictating our futures and controlling our networked environments. Or is it?
Risk Management Response:
With the development of AI, we will need to proceed with caution and an ethical framework. It’s evident that science and technology will pave our futures. How we harness and manage the tools and quantify the risk of emerging technologies such as AI can play a meaningful role lessening risk and consequences of a Black Swan event.
These are only three brief ponderings of potential Black Swan events. There are many others. For example, a meteor hitting Earth (that has happened a few times in the past), or a massive volcanic eruption that has the effect of a major nuclear blast. In all of these scenarios, there are public and academic agencies and organizations examining the implications and responses.
Black Swans and other threats really do come down to risk management and its basic applications. A good formula to apply is RISK = THREAT X VULNERABILITY X CONSEQUENCE. We can use this formula combined with new advanced computing to better predict, synthesize data, and mitigate extreme events. It is never too late to start planning.

Story 5
The report on the global Electrical Oil Pump market has been prepared by experienced and knowledgeable market analysts and researchers. It is a phenomenal compilation of important studies that explore the competitive landscape, segmentation, geographical expansion, and revenue, production, and consumption growth of the global Electrical Oil Pump market. Players can use the accurate market facts and figures and statistical studies provided in the report to understand the current and future growth of the global Electrical Oil Pump market. The report includes CAGR, market shares, sales, gross margin, value, volume, and other vital market figures that give an exact picture of the growth of the global Electrical Oil Pump market.
Request a sample of the research study at https://www.qyresearch.com/sample-form/form/1277380/global-electrical-oil-pump-industry
Our analysts have used advanced primary and secondary research techniques and tools to compile this report. The research sources and tools that we use are highly reliable and trustworthy. The report offers effective guidelines and recommendations for players to secure a position of strength in the global Electrical Oil Pump market. New players can also use this research study to create business strategies and get informed about future market challenges. We provide a comprehensive competitive analysis which includes detailed company profiling of leading players, a study on the nature and characteristics of the vendor landscape, and other important studies.
Major Players of the Global Electrical Oil Pump Market
Nidec Corporation
Brose
SHW AG
FTE Automotive
Aisin Seiki
Rheinmetall Automotive
Hitachi Automotive Systems
Magna International
LG Innotek
ZF TRW
SLPT
Mitsubishi Electric
Engineered Machined Products (EMP)
Global Electrical Oil Pump Market: Types of Products
Separate Pumps
Integrated Pumps
Global Electrical Oil Pump Market: Applications
Passenger Vehicles
Commercial Vehicles
Global Electrical Oil Pump Market: Regions and Countries
The research study includes key results and findings of our monitoring and analysis of the global Electrical Oil Pump market. We have provided crucial data points, which include divestments, new product launches, expansions, partnerships, mergers, acquisitions, and other strategic initiatives taken by players in the global Electrical Oil Pump market. The report also provides price trends for regional markets and analysis of important market events on a regional as well as global scale. Our analysis will enable you to take informed decisions in the global Electrical Oil Pump market relating to procurement, inventory, pricing, and production. We enable you to give a tough competition to your opponents by providing real-time, actionable, and quick market information.
The report will help you to understand how and whether or not the global Electrical Oil Pump market has become customer-centric. It offers deep insights into customer needs and preferences for players to increase their brand value, better connect with their clients, and improve their sales in the global Electrical Oil Pump market. As part of our customer insights, we have shed light on product positioning, customers’ perception of market competition, customer segmentation, consumer buying behavior, customer needs, and target customers.
Our competitor profiling includes evaluation of distribution channels and products and services offered by and financial performance of companies operating in the global Electrical Oil Pump market. We also provide Porter’s Five Forces, PESTLE, and SWOT analysis to assess competitive threat and examine other aspects of the global Electrical Oil Pump market. The report offers strategic recommendations, competitor benchmarking for performance measurement, and analysis of partnership, merger, and acquisition targets and industry best practices. It also provides analysis of profitability and cost across the industry value chain.
Request Customization of Report @ https://www.qyresearch.com/customize-request/form/1277380/global-electrical-oil-pump-industry
Table of Contents
Study Coverage: It includes key manufacturers covered in the report and highlights of product type and application segments of the global Electrical Oil Pump market. Some of the other chapters included in this section are years considered, product scope, and study objectives.
Executive Summary: This part of the report offers growth rate and market size analysis by region. It also provides analysis of revenue and sales by region.
Breakdown Data by Manufacturer: Sales, revenue, and price are three critical factors analyzed here. This section also includes analysis of manufacturing base distribution, products offered by manufacturers, expansion plans, mergers, and acquisitions.
Breakdown Data by Product: Here, sales, revenue, and price are analyzed on the basis of type of product.
Breakdown Data by Application: It provides breakdown data of the global Electrical Oil Pump market by application.
Geographical Analysis: All key regions and countries are assessed here on the basis of company, type of product, and application. This section includes a study on revenue, sales, and production of all regional and country-level markets.
Company Profiles: Key players of the global Electrical Oil Pump market are profiled on the basis of gross margin, revenue, sales, recent developments, and other factors.
Value Chain and Sales Channels Analysis
Market Opportunities, Challenges, Risks, and Influences Factors Analysis
Research Findings and Conclusion
Appendix
About Us:
QYResearch always pursuits high product quality with the belief that quality is the soul of business. Through years of effort and supports from huge number of customer supports, QYResearch consulting group has accumulated creative design methods on many high-quality markets investigation and research team with rich experience. Today, QYResearch has become the brand of quality assurance in consulting industry.

Story 6
In good times, the treehouse at Fortitude Ranch is a place for children to play. In bad times, Miller said, it would become a guard tower.
In good times, the mountainous landscape offers an inviting place for hiking, ziplining or disc golf. Bad times: The ranch’s wooded slopes would become fields of fire to protect the camp’s inhabitants from their most dangerous threat — other people.
AD
“It’s just human nature,” Miller said. “The worst enemy you face in a pandemic could well be your neighbor.”
Miller, along with about 100 other people who he says have purchased Fortitude Ranch memberships, believes that underground bunkers, stockpiled food, and semiautomatic weapons will see them through an apocalypse, however it may come.
AD
Some preppers — people who invest significant amounts of money and time in preparing for anything from a natural disaster to the collapse of civilization — think the end may come sooner than later. In addition to worrying about overpopulation, climate change, economic collapse and war, some also fret about politics. With impeachment in the air and tensions building toward the 2020 presidential race, preppers warn that violence could erupt in this fiercely polarized nation.
AD
“You know, people use the term ‘civil war,’ and that seems hard to imagine, but what started World War I? Some guy assassinated a minor archduke,” Miller said. “. . . Stuff escalates unpredictably.”
The scenario most often advanced by ranch members concerns the possibility of a disputed election. There’s fear by some members that if President Trump loses, he might blame cheating and refuse to step down. Others believe that if Trump wins, his opponents might also blame the outcome on fraud, triggering unrest. It’s not a scenario Miller thinks likely, but he’s heard it from both sides.
AD
Trump, in one of a series of tweets trying to discredit the impeachment inquiry launched by House Democrats, has stoked tensions further, suggesting his removal from office could trigger a “Civil War like fracture.”
AD
That’s the scenario David L. Jones, a Fortitude Ranch member who’s also something of a celebrity prepper, believes could set off unrest. Jones, 62, a former Alaska state trooper and Army veteran, is known as the “NBC Guy” because of his military background in nuclear, biological and chemical warfare. He has also worked in state and federal emergency management agencies. He has a podcast and was one of this year’s featured speakers at Prepper Camp, a three-day symposium that attracted more than 1,000 off-the-gridders, survivalists and homesteaders to a private campsite last month in North Carolina. Jones said he foresees turmoil, and perhaps violence, whether Trump wins or loses.
“You see, the veneer of civilization is very thin,” Jones said.
AD
Fortitude Ranch occupies more than 50 acres within the George Washington National Forest. Its serene setting belies talk of catastrophe. On a recent tour, there were green mountain vistas just below the clouds and a stillness broken only by the soft patter of rain on leaves.
Members, who pay about $1,000 per person per year to be a part of the community, are encouraged to use the ranch’s two large rustic cabins here as vacation lodgings. In the event of emergency, however, they would head to 10-by-10-foot, claustrophobia-inducing rooms in underground shelters, some of which are constructed of metal culverts. Altogether, the compound here can hold up to 500 people.
AD
The organization also has two sites in Colorado. It’s working to set up a fourth in Wisconsin. The motto: “Prepare for the Worst — Enjoy the Present.”
AD
The camp is a reflection of a survivalist movement that has grown in recent years, although reliable numbers are hard to find. The Federal Emergency Management Agency, which analyzes community preparedness, doesn’t track survivalists. And many preppers are reluctant to identify as such or discuss their activities, fearing that attention could attract marauders when things go south — or “s--- hits the fan,” in prepper parlance.
The number of preppers also tends to expand and recede in sync with social crises, both real and imagined. (Remember Y2K?) But interest appears to have grown since the Great Recession. Google searches for terms such as “survivalist” began ticking upward in mid-2008 as the economic crisis deepened. Reality TV — “Doomsday Preppers” on the National Geographic Channel in 2011 and “Apocalypse Preppers” on the Discovery Channel in 2013 — fed the end-of-days craze and fed off it.
AD
24/7WallSt.com, a financial news website, estimated in 2013 that there are 3.7 million preppers and a multibillion-dollar market that includes “bugout gear” such as freeze-dried foods, water purification systems, crossbows and tools. Businesses such as the Ready Store and the website Doomsday Prep have built on the movement, too.
AD
David Sanders, Doomsday Prep’s owner, launched the online store near Atlanta in 2012. Although Sanders declined to provide exact sales figures, he said that except for a flat year or two around 2015, the business has had annual growth of about 25 percent. His orders increase in sync with disasters or other bad news, such as the outbreak of Zika virus.
The bitterly divided political atmosphere is a driver right now, Sanders said. But his typical customer is someone who thinks about enduring a power outage for a few days, not a nuclear holocaust, although the website sells supplies and equipment for that, too.
AD
“Preparedness is a choice for empowerment, security and peace of mind,” he said. “Why would anyone not choose that?”
Miller’s experience with doomsday scenarios goes back to the Cold War. He’s a retired colonel in U.S. Air Force intelligence. He’s also a Harvard PhD, cryptocurrency consultant and author of a post-apocalyptic novel, “Rohan Nation: Reinventing America after the 2020 Collapse.” He’s disdainful of the recent prepper craze, especially the reality TV shows that often focus on the most wide-eyed survivalists and hold them up for ridicule.
AD
“It really hurt preppers,” Miller said. Fortitude Ranch, he said, offers a more sober and realistic strategy for survival that draws on his own professional military experience. “I’ve been a prepper a long time,” he said.
AD
Raymond Andrew Miller, 61, grew up in Lincoln, Neb., about an hour’s drive from the U.S. Strategic Air Command at Offutt Air Force Base, a prime target for the Soviet Union. Yet, Miller said, he didn’t dwell on the threat of nuclear annihilation, even after reading somewhere that Soviet ICBMs were accurate only to within about 60 miles.
“I thought, ‘Oh, that’s great. They’re going to aim for Offutt, and it’s going to land in Lincoln,’ ” Miller said.
He volunteered for the Civil Air Patrol when he was 13 years old. He entered the U.S. Air Force Academy, graduating in 1980 with a double major in history and international affairs. He obtained masters and PhD degrees at Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy School of Government. His dissertation argued that NATO troops could survive a Warsaw Pact nuclear blitz at little cost if the allies built 10,000 inexpensive shelters using metal culverts with some dirt on top.
AD
AD
“Three feet of earth is kind of the magic number,” Miller said. “That’s why at Fortitude Ranch we have shallow underground facilities. No one’s going to drop a penetrating multi-megaton nuclear warhead in our area.”
Miller has analyzed other lethal threats, too, particularly pandemics, that he thinks are more likely to occur than another civil war. He noted that the 1918-1920 “Spanish flu” pandemic alone killed an estimated 30 million people. The next such outbreak could be started with a genetically engineered pathogen that has been designed to be more lethal and resistant to treatment, Miller said.
He also wants to ensure Fortitude Ranch could survive natural disasters such as Hurricane Katrina; the eruption of a supervolcano, such as the one below Yellowstone National Park; or widespread civil disorder, such as occurred during the 1977 New York City blackout when rioting broke out and nearly 2,000 businesses were burned or looted. He wants the ranch to be prepared for nuclear attack, economic collapse or an electromagnetic pulse (EMP), a massive burst of energy that could fry the nation’s electrical grid.
AD
There are stockpiles of food, ranging from homemade preserves to cafeteria-sized cans and buckets of emergency rations, and a small greenhouse, along with seeds specially created to withstand long shelf lives. There are also chickens, milk goats and — in Colorado — cattle.
The ranch also has radio gear and solar- and propane-powered electrical generators, along with supplies of coal, kerosene and wood. Down the hill from the main bunker is a burn pit to dispose of contaminated bodies during a pandemic. Miller said he’s already tested the pit with a dead goat.
Miller and assistant camp managers are armed, and members receive training in using AR-15 semiautomatic rifles or pump-action shotguns for self-defense, but he emphasized that his group is not allied in any way with anti-government militias.
“We’re not gun nuts,” Miller said.
Miller has never had to shoot at anyone, although he came under rocket and mortar fire while serving in Iraq.
But he said he is prepared to do whatever is necessary defend himself, his family and members of Fortitude Ranch. There’s a saying among preppers — “72 hours to animal” — that suggests anyone can become dangerous when desperate.
“I think it’s more like 72 seconds,” Miller said.
And yet his worst nightmare is imagining a mother arriving at the camp’s gates with a starving child during a pandemic and asking for help. Survival discipline, he said, requires even they be turned away.

Story 7
Call of Duty: Mobile is doing pretty well for itself. Within the span of a month, the game has amassed over 50 million downloads via the Google Play Store itself. So, it was high time we got around to giving you guys some handy gameplay tips. This time, we will be looking at all the various grenades that players can unlock in the Multiplayer mode. Unlike PUBG Mobile, the grenades in Call of Duty: Mobile are unlocked once players reach a certain level. They can then be equipped in a loadout for Multiplayer matches.
The grenades in Call of Duty: Mobile are divided into two categories, namely Lethal and Tactical. Players start multiplayer matches with one grenade each and the inventory is refreshed whenever a player respawns. So, let’s get down to it, shall we?
Lethal
Frag Grenade
Unlocked at : Level 2
In-game description: Explodes after a short delay.
Tactics : The first grenade players will get access to. The Frag Grenade does exactly what it says on the tin. These are best used on choke points, or indoors. So if there is a camper in the game, it can be used to flush out the player or kill them outright. The delay can also be used to ‘cook’ the grenade, so that your opponents have less time to react. Just make sure you don’t blow yourself up.
Sticky Grenade
Unlocked at : Level 17
In-game description : A grenade that sticks to surfaces before detonating.
Tactics : The Sticky Grenade works in a manner similar to the Frag Grenade, with one crucial difference; it sticks to anything it touches. This includes surfaces, opponents and even team mates. This also means that these grenades will not roll away once they land, so they make more sense on uneven terrain. It should be noted that these grenades do not cook, and only explode once thrown.
Trip Mine
Unlocked at : Level 36
In-game description : Proximity mine that launches into the air before detonating.
Tactics : The Trip Mine does not explode on impact. Rather, it is triggered when an enemy runs by it. As such, it is best used in areas where there is a lot of enemy traffic. It can also be used by snipers to ensure no one sneaks up behind them by placing it on the doorway. Remember: If it’s blue, it’s set by you. If it’s red, be careful where you tread.

A Trip Mine set by your team
Tactical
Flashbang
Unlocked at : Level 9
In-game description : Device that blinds and deafens the target when detonated.
Tactics : The Flashbang is the first tactical grenade you get and in the right hands, can be quite deadly. The flashbang is best used in enclosed spaces. As such, it comes in very handy when you want to clear a camper hiding in a room. When used well, it can be used to kill whole groups of enemies.
Smoke Grenade
Unlocked at : Level 25
In-game description : Grenade that creates a smokescreen when detonated.
Tactics : The Smoke Grenade is a godsend for anyone who hates being picked off from a distance by snipers. It effectively lets you close in for the kill without exposing yourself too much. It can also be used to cover movement and help you and your teammates reach a better tactical position.
Concussion Grenade
Unlocked at : Level 42
In-game description : Disorients and slows enemy movement speed.
Tactics : The Concussion Grenade works in a manner similar to Flashbangs, but they do not blind. Rather, the enemy's movement speed is slowed down considerably. As such, it is best used when ambushing groups of enemies as a team. It should be noted that players under the effect of the Concussion Grenade can still look and shoot. So, if the enemy already has you in their sights, they can still attack you.
EMP
Unlocked at : Level 49
In-game description : Damages and disables nearby mechanised enemy units and equipment.
Tactics : An EMP grenade is designed to disrupt electronics. This makes them deadly against automated systems such as sentry turrets. They also affect people by disrupting their HUD for a few seconds. Those affected will not see any buttons, map or targeting reticle. However, they can still shoot if they know where those buttons are supposed to be.
Trophy System
Unlocked at : Level 58
In-game description : A deployable autonomous defense system that destroys incoming explosives.
Tactics : The Trophy System isn’t exactly a grenade. Rather, it is a device that the player deploys to cover a certain area. This then shoots down any incoming explosives like grenades or other such equipment. It should be noted that the Trophy System is the only tactical ‘grenade’ that can cause damage. So any enemies, or even the player itself can be hurt or even killed when it destroys a projectile.

Players can also pick up and move the Trophy System if needed

Story 8
If you’re like most people, you probably check your email first thing in the morning, even before you brush your teeth or brew your coffee. But imagine on this particular morning, your Gmail account isn’t loading on your laptop. Soon, the classic error message pops up in your browser: no internet.
Hey, no matter. Must be something with the router. So you unplug it from the wall and plug it back in. Problem solved, right?
Assume the morning keeps unfolding this way and you might find yourself staring deep into the belly of what Extremely Online people probably call hell. The router trick doesn’t work, so you pick up your smartphone and resolve to load your inbox using your carrier’s cell network, only to find out this doesn’t work either.
Sweat starts to form on your brow—although that’s because your Nest thermostat isn’t working. Your smart TV is on the fritz. Your connected refrigerator’s display monitor won’t work. And when you frantically dart across the street to ask the neighbors if they can get online, the series of anomalies that have characterized your morning suddenly don’t seem so anomalous.
The internet isn’t just down. It’s gone. Stopped. Kaput. No more. May God have mercy on our Instagram influencers.
A World Without Internet
So how long could society carry on without the internet? However implausible, it’s nonetheless a scenario that futurists, economists, and IT workers spend considerable time contemplating.
“Eliminating all internet communications, even if only for a few days, would inflict huge economic costs,” says Thomas Hazlett, who served as chief economist of the Federal Communications Commission in the early 1990s. “Look at the economic damage wrought by the 9/11 attacks that closed Wall Street trading and cut off international flights in a large part of the world for about a week. Those losses are calculated to be over $120 billion.”
The number one application of the internet is still email, and, given that it’s such a crucial piece of how we conduct business around the globe, we can expect a screeching halt in productivity on a grand scale. The major cell phone carriers use the internet for call routing and communications, so forget trying to phone your family or your friends. The credit cards in your wallet? Useless.
The notion of an internet shutdown in a 21st-century context isn’t entirely farfetched. Think of any number of countries that block certain applications or turn off telecommunications services. The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development estimated that if the internet had been shut off the whole year during the 2011 revolution in Egypt, close to 5 percent of the country’s $236 billion GDP would’ve been eliminated. And in a 2016 report , the Brookings Institution figured that internet shutdowns in 2015 amounted to $2.4 billion in economic losses.
Some businesses actually prepare for this sort of disruption by sketching up plans to withstand internet loss for as much as a month.
“If the whole internet vanished, I would withdraw a big enough chunk of money to buy a year’s worth of rice, beans, desalination tablets, and fresh drinking water.”
But we’re not talking about a limited, modern internet shutdown. We’re talking about a global, holy-balls event, the stuff of science fiction come to life, where a massive disruption of the internet backbone eliminates anyone’s ability to do anything online for an indefinite period of time.
“Most businesses don’t plan on an apocalypse lasting more than 30 days,” says Bret Piatt, CEO of cybersecurity firm Jungle Disk. “If the whole internet vanished, I would withdraw a big enough chunk of money to buy a year’s worth of rice, beans, desalination tablets, and fresh drinking water.”
In the event of a world without internet, the inclination to panic or prepare might be fairly strong. It’s no zombie apocalypse or repeat of the 1918 flu pandemic, but a massive internet shutdown would probably rock neighborhoods, towns, and cities much in the same way hurricanes, earthquakes, or tornados do.
Devastation wrought by a disaster calls into question or highlights everything that was already troubling in a community, according to Anita Chandra, a senior policy researcher at the RAND Corporation who studies community resilience and long-term disaster recovery. It’s why repairing critical infrastructure in the wake of a natural disaster is always easier compared to helping people get back on their feet.
“It’s more difficult to recover from things that disrupt social connections,” Chandra says. “We’ve now relied on the internet in more ways than we probably expected back in the ’90s. It’s a means of social connection; it’s a means of routine and normalcy.”
Some people are eminently prepared for a world without internet, mainly because they’re preparing for an even more catastrophic event. Think: an atmospheric EMP, a massive cyberattack, a solar flare, a collision between satellites orbiting above the Earth that knocks out GPS capabilities or weather forecasting. Ramzi Rizk / EyeEm Getty Images
Filling the Void
While the internet has existed for quite some time—it was 50 years ago this week when two ARPANET computers first transmitted messages—the general public has really only had a relationship with it for about a quarter-century, when the World Wide Web arrived in the early 1990s. Yet in that time, it has fundamentally reshaped the contours of our lives. On a daily basis, we rely on complex infrastructure and a dizzying array of software.
“Some of us grew up in a world without internet,” says internet pioneer Vint Cerf . “So some of us know what that pre-internet world was like and would honestly not want to return to it.”
Some people are eminently prepared for a world without access to Twitter’s blue-checkmark brigade, mainly because they’re preparing for an even more catastrophic event. Think: an atmospheric EMP, a massive cyberattack, a solar flare, a collision between satellites orbiting above the Earth that knocks out GPS capabilities or weather forecasting.
“We assume the entire electric system is going to go down,” says Drew Miller, a retired colonel in U.S. Air Force Intelligence. “And if the electric system goes down, our worry isn’t dealing with the internet. Our worry is dealing with the loss of law and order.”
Miller is the founder of Fortitude Ranch , a survival community in West Virginia, where all the essentials for a collapse-level disaster are available for members, like wood for heating and cooking, solar power, and propane towers and tanks in order to charge batteries from time to time. As a result, their default is to operate as if there is no internet.
When the internet goes, businesses that do just-in-time delivery, like Amazon Prime, will grind to a halt. These businesses will have to rediscover paper processes, sure, but Miller’s concern is that people react violently to the slowing pace of commerce.
“We don’t really give a crap about the internet going down,” he says. “We care about lawlessness.”
Whether a lack of internet leads to societal upheaval is hard to predict. Most of the people Popular Mechanics interviewed for this story didn’t seem to think that crime, conflict, or geopolitical altercations would erupt, and argued instead that this is more about becoming reacquainted with landlines than land mines.
“I don’t think anyone would end up in a war or something like that,” says Christopher Hooton, chief economist of the Internet Association, a Washington, D.C., advocacy organization that represents the online industry. “But if the internet goes down, I think we’re talking about a greater-than 50-year setback on the technology impacts on the day to day lives of individuals.”
“We don’t really give a crap about the internet going down. We care about lawlessness.”
Absent the internet, how we operate in the world suddenly hits a steep learning curve. Think about the myriad ways the internet fits into a normal day: talking to friends and colleagues; checking in on family members; paying bills and rent; DoorDashing that Wendy’s order to your place before Netflix-and-chilling with the person who earned a right swipe on Tinder.
Just sharing information, like the news, becomes a challenge. Your Boomer parents could offer guidance here, except for the fact that you can’t contact them by phone, and it’ll be about a week and a half for you to exchange letters, assuming the U.S. Postal Service is still running.
“Communities may have to become more self-sufficient on local services than we now experience with the major cloud-based systems,” Cerf says. “One can easily imagine far more manual operations: Think of traffic cops when the traffic signals stop working.”
So what’s the solution to an offline world, other than packing up and heading out to Californee-way like the Marsh family ? You could probably Google it.
After all, there’s no on-off switch to the internet. Indeed, the decentralized nature of the network of networks that we know as the internet is thought to be pretty hardy.
The bigger worry is a sharp splintering of the online world, says Amy Webb, founder of the Future Today Institute and a professor of strategic foresight at New York University’s Stern School of Business. Such a splintering, where information and how it’s digested is increasingly fractured, would only exacerbate many of the current problems we have with misinformation, election interference, and businesses being blocked from operating in certain locations. (So, you could probably Google something, provided you don’t live in China, where Google is prohibited.)
But the entire internet just stopping? Very unlikely.
David Bray, executive director for the People-Centered Internet Coalition, notes that the TCP/IP backbone of the internet was built to be resilient. While there could be disruptions in access to specific regions—maybe an autocratic nation will “turn off” activities associated with their national-level internet domain—it would be incredibly hard, he says, to take the internet completely down for the entire planet.
“It’s fun to think about a Mad Max future of the Internet. As a futurist, I would never say anything is impossible,” Webb says. “But to me that’s not scary, because it’s not plausible.”

Story 9
By Rich Heidorn Jr.
EPRI's report on EMPs underestimated the risks the grid faces and should not be used as the basis for mitigation, according to a critique by a little-known group with ties to Maxwell Air Force Base. | Electromagnetic Defense Task Force, Metatech Corp.

Story 10
ADVERTISEMENT
You might find your car dying on the freeway while other vehicles around you lose control and crash. You might see the lights going out in your city, or glimpse an airplane falling out of the sky. You've been in a blackout before, but this one is different.
In critical facilities across the country, experts predict that it is only a matter of time before the electrical infrastructure holding society together undergoes catastrophic failure. According to a 2017 report of the United States Congressional Commission appointed to assess the risk, we face the threat of "long-lasting disruption and damage" to everything from power and clean water to electronic banking, first-responder services, and functioning hospitals. Until now, such a dire prediction has typically been associated with only the most extreme doomsday true believers but William Graham, the former chairman of the Congressional Electromagnetic Pulse (EMP) Commission, says that in this case they could be right.
In the broadest sense, an EMP is a sudden burst of extreme electromagnetic interference that causes systems using electricity — especially devices controlled by chips or computers — to fail when the load gets too high. EMPs come in three basic varieties, including a ground-level or high-altitude EMP (HEMP) released by a nuclear burst that could potentially impact power lines, transformers and other critical devices; drive-by EMPs created by high-powered microwave weapons that could silently incapacitate equipment from hundreds of yards away; and coronal mass ejections (CMEs) resulting from solar storms that could interfere with the magnetic sphere surrounding the Earth, bringing down the grid that powers the electronic devices defining our contemporary way of life. According to the 2017 report, Russia, China, and North Korea could already have these weapons under wraps. And CMEs from solar storms are like metaphorical magnetic earthquakes: They vary in intensity from relatively harmless ripples all the way to a potential Big One that could take down a nation's grid within minutes, creating widespread destruction that would take years to repair.
In the most widespread and catastrophic EMP scenario, even motorized vehicles that aren't damaged will be impacted by the lack of functioning fuel stations as gasoline stops flowing to and from the pumps. With regular deliveries interrupted by the lack of fuel and power, major urban populations will confront empty grocery shelves and a complete breakdown in essential services — from firefighting to garbage collection — in a matter of days.
Like an earthquake, the extent and nature of the damage from an EMP will depend on its intensity and location, as well as its altitude and range. The more intense and higher-altitude the pulse, the more widespread the likely damage, with some bursts more likely to damage long electrical and telephone lines and transformers, and others extending their impact to localized electronic devices and systems. But EMPs do not necessarily behave in ways that are entirely predictable. For example, a local, ground-level EMP burst could enter the underground grid and travel, potentially damaging a crucial transformer and other equipment miles away.
The technology that creates the interwoven fabric of our modern lives also makes us vulnerable to the reverberating impact of any potential interruption. The 1965 Northeast blackout that left 30 million people without power occurred because a transmission line relay was improperly set. The 2003 Northeast blackout, affecting 50 million people, was reportedly tripped by a single point of failure when a tree branch touched a power line. The 1977 New York City blackout was caused by two circuit breakers tripping when lightning struck a substation. There are many similar examples, but suffice to say a nuclear-triggered EMP would cause millions of critical failure points across the system. As the EMP Commission concluded in 2004, even low-yield nuclear weapons detonated at an altitude of 20 miles could create extensive damage, while a detonation at 200 miles could affect the entire continental U.S. and have a catastrophic impact on the nation.
In behind-the-scenes emergency meetings and discussions taking place among informed government and private industry experts in infrastructure-related engineering, information technology, pandemic outbreaks, law-enforcement, logistics, psychology, and other relevant disciplines, our conversations are less about whether such a scenario will ever happen than about when — and how bad it will be. If we're lucky, the coming meltdown might be less than apocalyptic. It might be far off enough that we will still have time to mitigate the worst possible impact. But more likely than not, the disaster will be on us before we can fully prepare. The more we can do in each community right now, the more able we will be to help ourselves and our neighbors. It could happen as quickly as switching off the lights.
It is one thing to confront a major disaster such as a wildfire, hurricane, earthquake, or flood, and be able to mobilize critical regional resources to converge on the crisis. Such disasters benefit from a phenomenon referred to as the "edge effect," in which neighboring localities and states are able to provide recovery assistance. It is another to be hit by simultaneous disasters nation- or even worldwide. Imagine what will happen if the kinds of extreme Western wildfires the U.S. has recently encountered are left to explode because there is no way to put them out. Imagine hurricanes Katrina, Sandy, or Michael hitting landfall with no way to prepare, escape, or respond.
If dehydration, starvation, disease, and environmental threats don't kill most of us relatively quickly, we are likely to turn on each other. Some recent disasters, such as the hurricanes hitting Texas and Florida, have shown people rallying together to help each other prevail. And yet we still encounter all-too-frequent examples of road rage and similar primitive behavior, even when life is proceeding as usual.
In behind-the-scenes projections, some experts predict that if such a critical meltdown of infrastructure expands beyond regional containment, anywhere from 60 to 90 percent of the U.S. population will be dead within roughly the first 11 months. While that prediction might appear extreme, it could conceivably be optimistic. In his 2008 testimony to the U.S. House of Representatives on the threat posed by an EMP attack, Graham summarized the calculation, stating: "We don't have experience with losing the infrastructure in a country with 300 million people, most of whom don't live in a way that provides for their own food and other needs. We can go back to an era when people did live like that ... 10 percent would be 30 million people, and that is probably the range where we could survive as a basically rural economy."
Fortunately, a handful of experts are now working on practical solutions to mitigate the risk. At Instant Access Networks (IAN) near Annapolis, Maryland, the focus is on hardening critical systems against EMPs, and developing local microgrids that will function independently even in worst-case scenarios. In a point raised by my colleague and leading EMP systems integrator, Charles Manto of IAN, safeguarding even 10 percent of the country's critical infrastructure could potentially secure as much as 85 percent of the economy. At Deasil Cognitive in Houston, Texas, the focus is on developing systems to parse and pattern potentially threatening communications across multiple languages and sources, in anticipation of a possible malevolent incursion, and ultimately utilizing artificial intelligence and other technology to move vital data from vulnerable systems to EMP resilient backups in a hardened cloud. Other companies, such as CDS, also in Houston, Texas, are focused on providing basic emergency social, remedial, and medical services. These unsung heroes and an interdisciplinary group of colleagues are working behind the scenes to develop effective methods to avert or at least help to mitigate the crisis. In the best-case scenario, these efforts will succeed and contemporary society will power on.
This article was originally published by Aeon, a digital magazine for ideas and culture. Follow them on Twitter at @aeonmag.

Story 11
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20191017005422/en/
EMI/EMC Chambers at the NTS Rockford Laboratory (Photo: Business Wire)
The summit featured renowned EMI/EMC Expert and NTS’ Chief Engineer, Jeff Viel, who gave presentations on Radiated Immunity Testing 61000 Series, Changes to MIL-STD-461 and MIL-STD-464, and EMP. In addition, the event highlighted Tom Tidwell, iNARTE EMC Lab Engineer and Director at Nemko, who presented on Regulatory Testing of Wireless Technology.
“This was an important summit that served as a checkpoint for industry leaders to stay agile and prepared for changes to testing requirements, and accommodate our customer’s needs,” said Viel. NTS’ reputation as a worldwide leader in providing EMI/EMC engineering and compliance services, and its concentration of EMI/EMC experts, made it the ideal choice to host the IEEE EMC Summit.
NTS boasts the largest collection of EMI/EMC laboratories in the Western Hemisphere. With unmatched breadth and capacity, NTS continues to expand its EMI/EMC capabilities into more regions, adding new chambers in Rustburg, Virginia and equipping its Boxborough, Massachusetts laboratory with a massive 10-meter chamber.
Operated by the world’s top experts in EMI/EMC testing, NTS now offers hundreds of chambers across 28 laboratories, featuring multiple 10-meter semi-anechoic chambers for Military and Aerospace applications. As one of NTS’ laboratories, the Boxborough facility continues to provide EMI/EMC/ESD capabilities with incomparable expertise in testing to military, aerospace, telecommunications, electronics, nuclear, and other global industry specifications.
About National Technical Systems
National Technical Systems, Inc. (NTS) is the leading provider of qualification testing, inspection, and certification services in North America, serving a broad range of industries, including the civil aviation, space, defense, nuclear, telecommunications, industrial, electronics, medical, and automotive end markets. Since 1961, NTS has built the broadest geographic presence in the United States, offering more than 70 distinct environmental simulation and materials testing categories, including climatic, structural, dynamics, fluid flow, EMI/EMC, lightning, ordnance, product safety, acoustics, failure analysis, chemical, and other industry-specific tests. Operating through a network of more than 27 technologically advanced testing laboratories, this geographically diverse footprint puts NTS facilities in close proximity to its more than 4,000 clients, allowing NTS to serve the nation’s most innovative companies with industry-leading accessibility and responsiveness. NTS is accredited by numerous national and international organizations and operates its inspection division under the Unitek brand, providing a wide range of supply chain management services. NTS’ certification division, which operates under the NQA brand, is one of the largest and most respected global ISO registrars, with active certifications in more than 75 countries. For additional information about NTS, visit our website at www.nts.com or call 800-270-2516.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20191017005422/en/

Story 12
The recent published research report sheds light on critical aspects of the global Renewable Propulsion for Marine Vessels market such as vendor landscape, competitive strategies, market drivers and challenges along with the regional analysis. The report helps the readers to draw a suitable conclusion and clearly understand the current and future scenario and trends of global Renewable Propulsion for Marine Vessels market. The research study comes out as a compilation of useful guidelines for players to understand and define their strategies more efficiently in order to keep themselves ahead of their competitors. The report profiles leading companies of the global Renewable Propulsion for Marine Vessels market along with the emerging new ventures who are creating an impact on the global market with their latest innovations and technologies.
Ask for sample: www.statsandreports.com/request-sample/377094-global-renewable-propulsion-for-marine-vessels-market-size-status-and-forecast-2019-2025
Key Segments Studied in the Global Renewable Propulsion for Marine Vessels Market
Segment Details Market Analysis By Type Natural Gas Ship Propulsion System, Wind Ship Propulsion System, Sunlight Ship Propulsion System Market Analysis By Applications Passenger Ship, Cargo Ship Market Analysis By Regions North America, United States, Canada, Mexico, Asia-Pacific, China, Japan, South Korea, India, Australia, Indonesia, Thailand, Malaysia, Philippines, Vietnam, Europe, Germany, France, UK, Italy, Russia, Rest of Europe, Central & South America, Brazil, Rest of South America, Middle East & Africa, GCC Countries, Turkey, Egypt, South Africa and Rest of Middle East & Africa Market Analysis By Companies Deltamarin, Eco Marine Power (EMP), Eniram (Wartsila), Norsepower, Smart Green Shipping Alliance (SGSA), ABB, Alewijnse Marine Systems, Echandia Marine, Leclanche, A.P. Moller-Maersk Group, NYK Group, STX France
The recent published study includes information on key segmentation of the global Renewable Propulsion for Marine Vessels market on the basis of type/product, application and geography (country/region). Each of the segments included in the report is studies in relations to different factors such as market size, market share, value, growth rate and other quantitate information.
The competitive analysis included in the global Renewable Propulsion for Marine Vessels market study allows their readers to understand the difference between players and how they are operating amounts themselves on global scale. The research study gives a deep insight on the current and future trends of the market along with the opportunities for the new players who are in process of entering global Renewable Propulsion for Marine Vessels market. Market dynamic analysis such as market drivers, market restraints are explained thoroughly in the most detailed and easiest possible manner. The companies can also find several recommendations improve their business on the global scale.
The readers of the report can also extract several key insights such as market size of varies products and application along with their market share and growth rate. The report also includes information for next five years as forested data and past five years as historical data and the market share of the several key information.
Read detail report: www.statsandreports.com/report/377094-global-renewable-propulsion-for-marine-vessels-market-size-status-and-forecast-2019-2025
Sample Table: Global Renewable Propulsion for Marine Vessels Market Size By Regions (USD Million) (2014-2025)
Regions 2014 2016 2018 2020 2022 2024 2025 CAGR %
(2019-2025) North America XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XX% Europe XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XX% APAC XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XX% Rest of the World XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XX% Total XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XX%
Research Methodology
The research report has been prepared by conducting various rounds of primary interviews with key management of several Tier-I and II companies. The primary research percentage of all of reports are above ~80% whereas ~20% of secondary research includes data from hoovers, factiva, one source avention and other government published records. Both top-down approach has been applied for the calculation of market size, volume, import and export and has been validated thoroughly.
Ask for the discount: www.statsandreports.com/check-discount/377094-global-renewable-propulsion-for-marine-vessels-market-size-status-and-forecast-2019-2025
The report on the global Renewable Propulsion for Marine Vessels market covers 12 sections as given below:
1. Industry Overview of Renewable Propulsion for Marine Vessels: This section covers market definition, classifications, specifications, applications, and market segmentation by region.
2. Renewable Propulsion for Marine Vessels Cost Structure Analysis: Here, raw materials and suppliers, industry chain structure, process analysis, and manufacturing cost structure analysis are covered.
3. Technical Data and Manufacturing Plants Analysis: In this section, the report provides capacity and commercial production date of Renewable Propulsion for Marine Vessels, manufacturing plants distribution, major manufacturers in 2018, raw material sources and technology sources analysis, and R&D status.
4. Overall Overview of Global Renewable Propulsion for Marine Vessels Market: It covers 2014-2018 overall market analysis, sales price analysis, capacity analysis, and sales analysis.
5. Renewable Propulsion for Marine Vessels Regional Market Analysis: The report includes a study on North America, China, Europe, Japan, Southeast Asia, and India Renewable Propulsion for Marine Vessels market analysis.
6. 2014-2018 Global Renewable Propulsion for Marine Vessels Market Segmentation Analysis by Type: This section covers Renewable Propulsion for Marine Vessels sales by type, interview price analysis of different types of Renewable Propulsion for Marine Vessels products and driving factors analysis of different types of Renewable Propulsion for Marine Vessels products.
7. 2014-2018 Global Renewable Propulsion for Marine Vessels Market Segmentation Analysis by Application: It includes Renewable Propulsion for Marine Vessels consumption by application, different applications of Renewable Propulsion for Marine Vessels products, and other studies.
8. Major Manufacturers Analysis of Global Renewable Propulsion for Marine Vessels Market: It provides analysis on each company profile with product pictures and specifications, sales, ex-factory price, revenue, gross margin analysis, and business distribution by region analysis.
9. Development Trend of Renewable Propulsion for Marine Vessels Market Analysis: Here, the report covers Renewable Propulsion for Marine Vessels market trend analysis, market size (volume and value) forecast, regional market trends, and market trends by product type and application.
10. Renewable Propulsion for Marine Vessels Marketing Type Analysis: It includes marketing type analysis, Renewable Propulsion for Marine Vessels market supply chain analysis, Renewable Propulsion for Marine Vessels international trade type analysis, and Renewable Propulsion for Marine Vessels traders or distributors by region with their contact information.
11. Consumers Analysis of Global Renewable Propulsion for Marine Vessels Market: This section explains consumer behavior and provides deep insights into various types of consumers in the global Renewable Propulsion for Marine Vessels market.
12. The conclusion of Global Renewable Propulsion for Marine Vessels Market Research Report 2018: It includes information on methodology, analyst introduction, and data sources.
Buy this Report: www.statsandreports.com/placeorder?report=377094-global-renewable-propulsion-for-marine-vessels-market-size-status-and-forecast-2019-2025
About Us
Stats and Reports is a global market research and consulting service provider specialized in offering wide range of business solutions to their clients including market research reports, primary and secondary research, demand forecasting services, focus group analysis and other services. We understand that how data is important in today’s competitive environment and thus, we have collaborated with industry’s leading research providers who works continuously to meet the ever-growing demand for market research reports throughout the year.
Contact:
Stats and Reports
Satish K. (Global Sales Manager)
Mangalam Chamber, Office No – 16, Paud Road
Sankalp Society, Kothrud, Pune, Maharashtra 411038
Phone: +1 650-646-3808
Email: sales@statsandreports.com
Web: https://www.statsandreports.com
Follow Us on: LinkedIN| Twitter|

Story 13
Developer Infinity Ward changed a lot of about the Call of Duty franchise's established formula with the reboot of Call of Duty: Modern Warfare. This year's installment adds new equipment to your loadout, offers new abilities like reloading while aiming down the sights of your gun, and presents new opportunities for strategic thinking thanks to its take on map design. It also makes some changes to how its weapons work in multiplayer, allowing you to add attachments to your guns that change how they handle.
Like past Call of Duty games, Modern Warfare includes a slate of "perks" you can add to your loadout that give you different abilities. Some will fill up your killstreaks a little faster, while others will make you tougher for enemy technology to spot you. But perks work a little differently in Modern Warfare. They're not just specific to your character loadout, they can also be added to your weapons, as well. Here's what you need to know about how perks work in Modern Warfare, and how to make the most of them.
For more Call of Duty: Modern Warfare, be sure to check out our beginner's guide. Though, you can check out our feature highlighting how this game's version of Ground War works.
Perks On Your Loadout
Your main group of perks come as part of your character loadout. As in past games, you get three of them, each with a different thematic drive. Some affect how fast you move or how quickly you can ready your weapons; others change how enemies can see you or how you're affected by their equipment. Combining the perks for different situations can help you make the game fit your playstyle and give you an edge against an opponent under the right circumstances.
Modern Warfare also lets you edit your loadouts mid-match, so you can make adjustments to your perk choices as the situation dictates. If your enemy is using a lot of UAVs, you can switch to a perk that makes you invisible to enemy radar, for example. In general, you don't want to just pick a set of perks and forget about them--try to adjust your perks to give yourself advantages and abilities to deal with whatever you're dealing with in a given match.
Modern Warfare Loadout Perks
Perk 1
Double Time -- Double the duration of Tactical Sprint. Increase crouch movement by 30%
-- Double the duration of Tactical Sprint. Increase crouch movement by 30% E.O.D. -- Take reduced damage from non-killstreak explosives and fire. Hack enemy Claymores, Proximity Mines, C4, and Trophy Systems.
-- Take reduced damage from non-killstreak explosives and fire. Hack enemy Claymores, Proximity Mines, C4, and Trophy Systems. Overkill -- Carry two primary weapons (unlocks at Level 8).
-- Carry two primary weapons (unlocks at Level 8). Scavenger -- Resupply ammo from dead players (unlocks at Level 18).
-- Resupply ammo from dead players (unlocks at Level 18). Cold-Blooded -- Undetectable by AI targeting systems and thermal optics. Does not trigger High Alert (unlocks at Level 29).
-- Undetectable by AI targeting systems and thermal optics. Does not trigger High Alert (unlocks at Level 29). Quick Fix -- KIlling players, capturing objectives and holding objectives will increase your health regeneration rate (unlocks at Level 42).
Perk 2
Restock -- Recharge equipment over 30 seconds.
-- Recharge equipment over 30 seconds. Hardline -- Killstreaks cost 1 less kill.
-- Killstreaks cost 1 less kill. High Alert -- Your vision pulses when enemies outside your view see you (unlocks at Level 11).
-- Your vision pulses when enemies outside your view see you (unlocks at Level 11). Ghost -- Undetectable by UAVs, Radar Drones, and Heartbeat Sensors. Immune to snapshot grenades (unlocks at Level 24).
-- Undetectable by UAVs, Radar Drones, and Heartbeat Sensors. Immune to snapshot grenades (unlocks at Level 24). Kill Chain -- Killstreak kills count toward your next killstreaks. Only applies to killstreaks earned this life (unlocks at Level 34).
-- Killstreak kills count toward your next killstreaks. Only applies to killstreaks earned this life (unlocks at Level 34). Pointman -- Turn your killstreaks into scorestreaks (unlocks at Level 49).
Perk 3
Tune Up -- Reduces the charge time of field upgrades by 33%.
-- Reduces the charge time of field upgrades by 33%. Amped -- Faster weapon swap and rocket launcher reload speed.
-- Faster weapon swap and rocket launcher reload speed. Shrapnel -- Spawn with an extra piece of lethal equipment. Explosive damage delays enemy health regeneration (unlocks at Level 13).
-- Spawn with an extra piece of lethal equipment. Explosive damage delays enemy health regeneration (unlocks at Level 13). Battle Hardened -- Reduces the strenth of enemy flash, stun, and EMP grenades (unlocks at Level 26).
-- Reduces the strenth of enemy flash, stun, and EMP grenades (unlocks at Level 26). Spotter -- See enemy equipment, field upgrades, and killstreaks through walls. Mark them for your team by aiming down sights (unlocks at Level 38).
-- See enemy equipment, field upgrades, and killstreaks through walls. Mark them for your team by aiming down sights (unlocks at Level 38). Tracker -- Enemies leave behind a footprint trail. See markers at enemy death locations and hide the death markers of enemies you kill (unlocks at level 51).
Perks On Your Guns
Modern Warfare uses a similar system to past Call of Duty games, in that you don't just level up your overall character to unlock new guns, equipment, and perks as you play, you also rank up your individual guns as you use them. Experience earned with a particular weapon unlocks new attachments for that gun, which can change the way it handles--a scope increases a weapon's range while making it heavier and therefore slower to wield, while a different stock might speed up how quickly you can move around while aiming.
Guns also have perks of their own you can unlock, independent from your loadout perks, and specific to each weapon. Unlike attachments, each of which has pros and cons when you add it to a weapon, perks are slight boosts to your weapon that can give you a particular edge. For instance, one perk gives your gun more bullet penetration, allowing you to do more damage to players you shoot through cover. Perks don't drastically change a weapon's capabilities or damage, but like attachments, they can change how a gun works to make it better fit your playstyle. You can add one perk to a gun, so you'll have to choose wisely--and adding a perk counts as an attachment, which means you'll have one less slot for things like magazines, barrel attachments, and sights.
Spend some time considering which perks work best with your playstyle on a particular weapon. As with loadout perks, you can change your gun attachments in your loadout at any time during a match, and that goes for your gun's perk, too. Adjusting to the situation is key to victory in Modern Warfare, and with perks on both your character and your weapons, you have a lot of customization options that, if used well, can help you excel over the opposition.

Story 14
President Trump has signed an executive order (EO) to boost coordination for and national resilience against electromagnetic pulse (EMP) threats—both from nuclear warfare and natural events like solar superstorms. The action suggests new federal mandates to protect critical infrastructure against EMP events and attacks may be on the horizon.
Senior Trump administration officials from the National Security Council (NSC), the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), and the Department of Energy (DOE)—who took the unusual step in asking not be named—on March 26 told reporters on a call that the administration is taking “concrete steps” to address EMP threats.
These steps are designed to protect key systems, networks, and assets that are “most at risk from EMP events in a dynamic threat environment,” they said. A DOE official added that the steps are designed to reduce the risk that EMPs pose on U.S. critical infrastructure and its asset network—including power plants and the grid.
The EO essentially directs multiple federal agencies to coordinate to increase national resilience to EMPs. “This includes clear roles and responsibilities for departments and agencies to facilitate action to improve information-sharing between federal and non-federal stakeholders, including assessing and developing, if necessary, EMP standards, and circulating testing results, so that the standards are well-informed by the best science that we have,” an NSC official said.
Agencies that will need to coordinate under the EO include the Departments of State, Defense, Interior, Commerce, Energy, Homeland Security, and Director of National Intelligence, which serves as the head of the intelligence community. Coordination and development of executive branch actions will fall under the purview of the national security advisory and the NSC in consultation with the director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, they said.
Federal Mandates for Private Sector Defenses Against EMPs Are Coming
Under the EO, the federal government will first move to identify critical functions and infrastructure at greatest risk from EMPs. It will then improve its understanding of EMPs, and evaluate “appropriate ways to mitigate the effects of an EMP or strengthen EMP critical infrastructure to stand against the effects of EMPs,” a DOE official said. Finally, it will formulate a response plan, “taking a whole government approach.”
“So, the [EO] is going to aid preparedness against EMPs events for increased public-private coordination and planning, including engaging critical infrastructure owners and operators to identify mechanisms to enhance private sector efforts,” a DHS official added.
Responding to a reporter’s question about why the administration was acting now, the NSC official said that the measure formalizes “an adequate security strategy that reflects the importance that we give to risks that are involved here, because of how they can impact critical infrastructure across the nation.” A DHS official noted, though the DHS already has an EMP strategy that aligns well with the EO, it was crucial to officially forge intra-agency coordination and encourage private-sector action.
The Ever-Present EMP Threat
Industry and academia have warned for years—and the DHS has internally recognized that—EMP events, and especially high-altitude EMP (HEMP) events resulting from detonation of a nuclear device, could severely damage critical electrical infrastructure.
EMP components are referred to as E1, E2, and E3. E1 is a “fast pulse” that primarily disrupts or damages electronic-based control systems, sensors, computers, and similar devices, but may also adversely affect long-line electrical systems. The E2 component is similar to lightning and has a similar ability to impair or destroy control features that are not protected from lightning. The E3 “slow pulse” component is a subsequent, slower-rising, longer-duration pulse that creates disruptive currents in transmission lines, which causes grid instability and increases heat in transformers. If the E3 pulse is high enough and long enough, it can result in grid collapse and potentially damage transformers, experts warn.
Solar weather events of sufficient intensity can cause E3-type electromagnetic impacts. In 1989, for example, a geomagnetic disturbance (GMD) caused a regional grid collapse within 92 seconds in the Hydro-Quebec power system that left six million customers without power for up to nine hours. The threat of GMDs has been played up with good reason: Space weather researchers currently estimate a 6% to 12% chance that a Carrington-class storm—a solar storm comparable in size to the largest on record—is likely to hit the earth within the next 10 years. In July 2012, a storm of that magnitude missed Earth by about nine days, and only because it occurred on the far side of the sun, facing away from the Earth.
Meanwhile, a high-altitude burst nuclear test 900 miles from Hawaii in 1962 (a project known as Starfish Prime), offered “just a small taste of things to come,” as Dr. George Baker, professor emeritus at James Madison University and director for the foundation for resilient societies, testified on Feb. 27 before a Senate committee. “Consequences involve risk measurement units of millions of casualties (EMP Commission), trillions of dollars (Lloyds of London), and, dents in the history of civilization (Center for Policy on Emerging Technology). The good news is that well-known, effective, and practical engineering solutions are available to counter these threats. We have the engineering know-how and tools to protect ourselves. What is lacking is resolve,” he said.
While about 85% of critical electrical infrastructure is owned by private industry, the DHS, DOE, and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) have addressed EMP and GMD risks through standards and guidelines, research, strategy development, planning, and training. In 2001, Congress also established the EMP Commission, tasking it to assess the nature and magnitude of potential EMP threats to the U.S.
In July 2017, the EMP Commission released a much-awaited assessment of EMP threats, and its foremost, most-critical recommendation was that the president establish an “executive agent” with the authority, accountability, and resources to manage U.S. national infrastructure protection and defense against existential EMP threats. “Current institutional authorities and responsibilities—government, industry, regulatory agencies—are fragmented, incomplete, under-resourced, and unable to protect and defend against foreign hostile EMP threats or solar superstorms,” it warned.
The commission also encouraged the president to work with Congressional leaders, and that government agencies and industries adopt new standards to protect critical national infrastructure from damaging E3 EMP heave fields.
However, while government entities in the U.S. and Canada along with industry organizations, such as the Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI), have widely studied general threats posed to the grid from a severe GMD resulting from a solar storm, and to a lesser extent, threats posed by a HEMP, consensus is that more research is needed to inform assessments for specific mitigation measures by generators and transmission providers.
According to Baker, that’s one reason the private sector “is not doing very much of anything to address the EMP threat.” Another reason is an absence of federal EMP directives and standards for the electric power grid, which has resulted in “inconsistent industry interest, approaches and questionable protection effectiveness.” Baker added: “The [North American Electric Reliability Corp.(NERC)]/electric industry EMP approach appears to be to let the national grid fail and concentrate attention, investments and preparedness on elaborate recovery plans to rebuild the grid in the aftermath of an EMP-caused grid collapse. This approach is fraught with risk.”
Power Sector Reluctant to Harden Without Regulatory Certainty
The issue is compounded by a widespread industry reluctance to harden because there are no current EMP/GMD regulations or requirements for civilian infrastructure. “Power industry officials have expressed reservations that any near-term protection initiatives could well be rendered obsolete if they don’t conform to unknown future regulations and standards,” Baker said. Cost is another factor. “Generation stations have not been addressed because of cost-recovery limitations (unlike transmission systems where federal regulations allow cost recovery),” he said.
Still, Baker noted, a few uncoordinated efforts exist: CenterPoint Energy, PJM, and Dominion Energy have each hardened a major control center, and American Electric Power has protected 400-plus substation control shelters.
“Notwithstanding, other than a beta-test of a GMD protection device for one transformer in Wisconsin, no hardening of the bulk power system’s high-voltage, heavy-duty, long-lead-time replacement items has occurred. The grid, in its current unhardened state, would likely be out of service for long periods following a major solar storm or EMP attack,” he said.
“Without protection, there is real evidence from atmospheric testing and laboratory testing that the grid will collapse, causing long-term, large-scale cascading debilitation of dependent infrastructures and services,” he warned. EMP system debilitation is mainly due to the upset and thermal burnout of grid-essential command, control, and communication electronics, and physical damage to the heavy-duty grid components that supply our power, including transformers and possibly generators, he said.
“The military has the benefit of decades of system testing and a classified database documenting EMP effects on hundreds of systems that has caused them to recognize that the electric power grid, in its present unprotected state, cannot be relied on following an EMP attack,” he noted. “The military includes hardened backup power as part of mission-essential system design. [The Department of Defense] is installing hardened ‘microgrids’ on key bases to make them independent of the surrounding grid.”
Several commercial enterprises, too, have developed turnkey EMP services and product lines, he noted. Manufacturers of emerging power technologies are also integrating EMP resilience. NuScale, the small modular nuclear reactor that is farthest along in the development chain, for example, exhibits many features that reduce EMP vulnerability in comparison with traditional nuclear plant designs, according to a published November 2018 analysis (that Baker co-authored). Design features include passive shut-down capability; island-mode operation and steam bypass mode; electrical isolation of safety equipment; inherent shielding; underground cables and redundant fibre optics; and built-in redundancy.
But when asked how much it could cost to harden the nation’s power grid with available technical options, Baker estimated that “prioritized protection” for the existing electric power system is on the order of $50 billion.
That estimate considers protection of “top-down thin-line” priority grid systems, including selected high-voltage generation plants—such as nuclear plants and black-start plants—and selected transmission substations. Power plants, which are not subject to FERC protection standards, likely represent the largest share of EMP/GMD protection costs, and few solutions exist. In fall 2018, the Defense Threat Reduction Agency began for the first time testing EMP resiliency at a generating station, he noted.
His estimate also includes control centers and communication networks necessary for monitoring grid status and controlling post-event restoration efforts, along with necessary fuel assets. “From a cost-benefit standpoint, this amount is reasonable when compared with the dollar losses from a national-scale blackout,” which he estimated could result in losses of tens of trillions of dollars, he said.
Industry Wants EPRI’s EMP Findings to Inform Action
The Edison Electric Institute (EEI) on Tuesday said its member companies—which include all U.S. investor-owed power companies—applauded the president’s “ongoing focus” on EMP threats to critical infrastructure. EEI Vice President for Security and Preparedness Scott Aaronson noted industry security strategies “constantly evolve and are closely coordinated with the federal government through the Electricity Subsector Coordinating Council (ESCC) partnership. “From electric company CEOs to energy grid operators, we work closely to share threat information and partner with all levels of government to mitigate, and respond to, national-level incidents or threats to electric-sector critical infrastructure,” he said.
But he cautioned: “How an EMP may impact critical infrastructure is an extremely complex issue that cannot be solved with a one-size-fits-all solution. Sound policy should be informed by sound science.”
For now, industry is awaiting findings from a research project EPRI launched in 2016 to evaluate how EMPs could impact the energy grid. EPRI is expected to share its EMP findings next month with industry, policymakers, and the public, “providing the necessary information for companies to better understand the potential impact of EMP incidents to the transmission system. The findings also will include recommendations for mitigation approaches and investments,” Aaronson said.
“Developing this scientific basis enables companies to make science-informed decisions for developing, testing, and deploying EMP-resistant grid components,” he said.
—Sonal Patel is a POWER associate editor (@sonalcpatel, @POWERmagazine)
Updated (March 26): Adds EEI’s comments

Story 15
“Dew drops gather as the night sky fades, running as morning comes.
Dreams escape with the rising of the sun. Hope is cautious to return.
Heat grazes the seeds of a sunflower and thorns of a rose;
Petals begging for a gust of wind.
Leaves fall and lose their might,
But rest among the brush – eternal slumber.
Earth never seemed so far away.”
Extract from a poem by BryseBishoff
Dew, nature’s bounty that has enamoured poets and philosophers for centuries and who harbour in its glistening glory to meaningfully derive life’s message has now been reduced to a mere spectre of its original. Only, the attribution of the word takes different connotation when applied to different domains. To the chagrin of the amorist, Dew is being unfortunately flagged to have a reverberating connotation that military professionals all too well understand.
Directed Energy Weapons (DEW) is not the codicil to describe the isochronous drops that accompany it, but the cusp of development and destruction that accompanies DEW in the context of military applications.
Abound for many years as a technology demonstrator, there is sufficient evidence to prove that the weapon has moved beyond the concept stage and promises to provide governments with the leverage over their adversaries.
By definition, DEW, it can be inferred, “is a concentrated beam of minuscule mass of Electromagnetic (EM) energy/atomic/subatomic particles, other than sonic/ultrasonic sources used as a direct means to either incapacitate, maim or kill people, or to incapacitate, degrade, damage or destroy objects.”DEW is attractive for its speed of light engagement, deep shot magazine, ‘stealth-like’ performance, precision targeting and low cost per shot.
DEW could manifest in the form of Lasers, EM Waves and Particle Beams; Where Lasers have the capability of downing planes and missiles and the bright light emanating to dazzle and disorient people; EM Waves including Millimeter Wave (mmW) and Microwaves can be directed against both humans and hardware targets as Electro Magnetic Pulse (EMP) and finally, Particle Beams to damage a target’s molecular or atomic structure itself. The scope offers myriad application avenues.
Application Avenues
Application of Lasers was first demonstrated in 1960 at Hughes Research Laboratories and has since witnessed application in industrial, medical, scientific and military fields. In the military, Lasers have been proliferating with Optronic devices for application in range finding, target designation, target acquisition and tracking and precision-guided munitions. In the last decade or so, development of DEW by use of Lasers, High-powered MW and High Energy Particle Beams, referred to as Particle Beam Weapons (PBW), laser-induced plasma channel (LIPC) weapons, generating precise streams of desired electromagnetic energy directed over long distances to disable or destroy intended targets, has seen a fillip.
The current attractiveness of the weapon stems from the renewed prescription of intrigues that had in the past subdued its rampant development. The aspect of power sources, beam control concepts and pointing and tracking techniques, have all been addressed to provide a weapon that uses lethal energy from a high-power Laser/high-power microwaves/high-energy particle beam to the target for either causing neutralization of onboard electro-optic sensors or structural damage to the target itself.
Kinetic Energy Weapons (KEW), like DEW, are known to have similar effects on their targets, though they travel at sub-sonic or super-sonic speeds through the atmosphere, whereas, DEW travels at the speed of light! As a concept, therefore, militarily, DEW is an extension of KEW, whereby large amounts of stored energy is delivered from weapon to target to produce incendiary or structural damage effects. One transfers High Energy Propellant/explosives and the other- radiation and particle beam, but that alone does not qualify to make a weapon a DEW. Three important constituents of a DEW that differentiate it from other weapons are the high-energy sources influencing operational range; target-tracking and beam-pointing technology determining the probability of hitting target and interaction of high-energy beams with matter determining lethality. Therein lies the appeal of these weapons.
Classification
DEW can be classified based on their source of energy. It is also been tipped as a repartee to the Hypersonic Weapons, the reason why the Pentagon has ascribed the highest classification to its development. DEW can take the following forms:
Particle Beam Weapon (PBW): By definition is taken from the website, ‘electronicsforu.com,’ “PBWuses a high-energy beam of atomic/subatomic particles to inflict intended damage to the target by disrupting its atomic/molecular structure.” Since it delivers KE into the target’s atomic structure and is only a hard-kill weapon, it is the least mature of DEW types. The Cathode Ray Tube TVs at the turn of the century and the old computers functioned on the principle of Particle accelerators. A PBW accelerates particles to near light speed shooting them towards the target. Possessing KE, they create instantaneous superheating on the target’s surface with catastrophic results. They are regarded as ideal for targeting Hypersonic Missiles in their boost phase, since it bakes the circuitry of the missile and is capable of bypassing laser-deflection measures like brightly polished, mirror-like surfaces. The weapon is also known by various alibis as ‘Phasers, Particle Accelerator gun, Ion cannon, Proton beams, Lightning rays and Ray guns.’
By definition is taken from the website, ‘electronicsforu.com,’ “PBWuses a high-energy beam of atomic/subatomic particles to inflict intended damage to the target by disrupting its atomic/molecular structure.” Since it delivers KE into the target’s atomic structure and is only a hard-kill weapon, it is the least mature of DEW types. The Cathode Ray Tube TVs at the turn of the century and the old computers functioned on the principle of Particle accelerators. A PBW accelerates particles to near light speed shooting them towards the target. Possessing KE, they create instantaneous superheating on the target’s surface with catastrophic results. They are regarded as ideal for targeting Hypersonic Missiles in their boost phase, since it bakes the circuitry of the missile and is capable of bypassing laser-deflection measures like brightly polished, mirror-like surfaces. The weapon is also known by various alibis as ‘Phasers, Particle Accelerator gun, Ion cannon, Proton beams, Lightning rays and Ray guns.’ Microwave Based DEW: Designed to produce the equivalent of Electro-Magnetic Interference (EMI) to damage the targeted electronics systems, though the collateral impact on the host itself cannot be ruled out. This form is, therefore, ideally suited to be strapped on Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs). Has high utility for targets with a thick overhead cover which are resistant to High Explosive (HE).
Designed to produce the equivalent of Electro-Magnetic Interference (EMI) to damage the targeted electronics systems, though the collateral impact on the host itself cannot be ruled out. This form is, therefore, ideally suited to be strapped on Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs). Has high utility for targets with a thick overhead cover which are resistant to High Explosive (HE). Laser Based DEW : At the core of DEW, development is Laser-based prognosis with seminal research having been undertaken over the years. Use of Pulsed/Continuous Wave electrically charged solid-state Lasers to inflict damage to the target appears most promising and ongoing research will only enhance its lethality.
: At the core of DEW, development is Laser-based prognosis with seminal research having been undertaken over the years. Use of Pulsed/Continuous Wave electrically charged solid-state Lasers to inflict damage to the target appears most promising and ongoing research will only enhance its lethality. Laser Induced Plasma Channel (LIPC):A hybrid operation performed by the weapon emitting a Laserbeam of enough intensity, say a 50 billion watt pulse lasting only two-trillionths of a second to form an Electro-Magnetic field strong enough to ionize the surrounding air and then sending a high-voltage current discharge down this conducting filament to destroy the target. The lightning strike passes through the path of least resistance and is a good conductor.
Where are the World Powers on this Development?
The appeal for these weapons stems from their Non-Lethal use. Russia, the US, the UK, Israel, China, Japan, South Korea, the UAE and even India will increase their demand for these weapons, owing to the onset of hybrid nature of warfare. Further, enhanced attack capabilities such as accuracy and undetectable characteristics become the key drivers for the market. Countries have earmarked revenue for the development of both High Powered Microwave (HPM) and High Powered Laser (HPL) weapon development programmes.
India
As per The DefenceMinistry’s 2013 Technology Perspective and Capability Roadmap document, two DRDO laboratories, Centre for High Energy Systems and Sciences (CHESS) and Laser Science & Technology Centre (LASTEC) are currently working on developing the source for generating the laser, regarded as the heart of the system and presently being imported from Germany. The other crucial aspect being worked on is the cooling mechanism. Information on Microwave weapon development is scant in the open sources.
US
The 1980s Strategic Defence Initiative (SDI) by the then US President, Ronald Reagan is historic after the programme was nicknamed ‘Stars Wars.’ Targeted at ICBMs and space-based applications, the programme now is more within the realm of application in earth-based utility. At a media briefing in Pentagon in June 2019, the Project Director of Hypersonics, Directed Energy, Space and rapid acquisition, stated that “the office will deliver a battery of combat-capable long-range hypersonic weapons to soldiers by 2023, and will field a battery of Stryker combat vehicles with 50-kilowatt lasers by late 2022.”
The ongoing flirtation with DEW post the shelving of the Stars Wars programme, was when Northrop Grumman with Israelis developed the Tactical High Energy Laser weapons (THEL), shelved and migrated to Mobile THEL (MTHEL) to again shift its focus from bulky and logistics-intensive chemical lasers to solid-state lasers which could be powered by electricity-producing diesel generators. Raytheon developed the Active Denial System (ADS) that projects a focused millimetre wave energy beam inducing a painful heating sensation on an adversary’s skin with the intent of repelling individuals without injury. HPM systems as Counter IED have been developed mounted on the wheeled vehicle to operate in Afghanistan. Some of the other mounts include the High Mobility Trucks, Attack Helicopters, UAVs and next-generation combat vehicles.
Russia
History aside, currently, Russia is reportedly developing DEW mounted on vehicles, ships, and aircraft, capable of destroying guidance and navigation systems in manned and unmanned aircraft and precision-guided missiles, disrupting Global Positioning System (GPS) navigation signals and destroying radio communications equipment and satellites. Russia currently is known to have laser systems for aircraft and helicopter defence to mount Lasers with greater attack capabilities on their sixth-generation aircraft, likely to be operational by late 2030s. The development is targeted towards networked systems and precision weapons of the US.
China
China, in a book, ‘Light War or Light Warfare,’ published in 2015 by PLA emphasized the concept of “Informatization,” suggesting the next generation warfare to be characterized by ‘Big Data’ and reliance on AI, with DEW at its core. Emphasis is placed on autonomous space-based Laser weapons in keeping with its evolving space program and airborne Lasers. A 30 KW Low-Altitude Laser Defending System (LASS) with a claimed range of 4 km has been developed. It is reported that China used ground-based lasers to dazzle/ blind U.S. surveillance satellites. Since 2017, news of successfully testing Laser-based Air Defence weapons, designed to defeat UASand HPM developed as ship-borne ‘anti-missile system’ have appeared intermittently. This potentially threatens the US Long Range Anti-Ship Missiles development programme and places China in the league for its use as an anti-Satellite Weapon (ASAT) and would contribute to China’s anti-access/area-denial (A2/AD) capabilities.
Israel
Israel basically started with Lasers for designation and range finders, until a collaboration with the US had it weaponise it for shooting down Katyusha rockets, artillery, and mortar shells. The ‘Iron Dome’ programme for the protection of Israel against incoming missile attacks and on detection destroy the incoming attack by firing missiles, has been replaced by ‘Iron Beam’ program, designed against short-range rockets and other attacks. Ultimately, it is reported that Israel intends juxtaposing the Iron Beam with the Iron Dome for optimum results.
Defensive Measures in Vogue
Countermeasures are often concurrent with thesis development of niche technologies when protection of strategic arsenal becomes paramount in the developmental quest. Likewise, DEW has attendant antidotes.
Active Measures
Deflector Shield Technology: Shockwave attenuation techniques using the electromagnetic arc are some of the deflector shield technologies in use. Though not impervious to Laser bolts, it does guard against the explosive shockwaves rampant on the battlefield. The arc generator superheats the air between the intended target and the blast through magnetic induction. The denser than air plasma shield then deflects/ reduces the blast energy minimizing the damage.
Shockwave attenuation techniques using the electromagnetic arc are some of the deflector shield technologies in use. Though not impervious to Laser bolts, it does guard against the explosive shockwaves rampant on the battlefield. The arc generator superheats the air between the intended target and the blast through magnetic induction. The denser than air plasma shield then deflects/ reduces the blast energy minimizing the damage. Laser Developed Atmospheric Lens (LDAL): LDAL mimics naturally occurring phenomenon to alter the atmosphere much like a mirage in the deserts to produce reflective effects. The light waves are bent in a hot atmosphere using the reflective properties of the ionosphere and deflect the electromagnetic energy, thus protecting own assets from an incoming DEW attack.
Passive Measures
Material Hardening: Laser material hardening and electronic hardening means by development and use of ‘meta-materials’,‘nano-scale materials’ and ‘non-linear materials’ ensuring platform integrity and survival.
Laser material hardening and electronic hardening means by development and use of ‘meta-materials’,‘nano-scale materials’ and ‘non-linear materials’ ensuring platform integrity and survival. Filters: Use of novel filters, material obscurants, signal-noise mitigation to synthetically degrade the atmosphere for directed energy propagation.
Use of novel filters, material obscurants, signal-noise mitigation to synthetically degrade the atmosphere for directed energy propagation. Sub-system Hardening: The electronic/optical subsystem hardening, communications, navigation and ISR sensor hardening, circuitry protection, all enhance survivability.
The electronic/optical subsystem hardening, communications, navigation and ISR sensor hardening, circuitry protection, all enhance survivability. Against Lasers .
. Use Laser safe goggles and optic filters.
In laser expected zones, use Night Vision and Thermal viewers.
Fire smoke rounds if being lased with Lasers.
Rely on established tactics from being pinpointed.
Against Microwave Radiation Emitters .
. Keep all electronic equipment disconnected when not in use.
Smaller electronic items can be stowed in additional sheath cartons like ammunition boxes.
Terrain masking as a natural movement tactic, providing natural protection against microwave radiation.
Limit personnel exposure time to radiation.
Conventions
Whilst, DEW offers distinct advantages over KEW, there are basic constraints, such as beam attenuation, limited range, and inability to be employed against Non-Line-of-Sight targets. This will need to be addressed to make the weapon effective across the entire spectrum of conflict.
Use of DEW raises some ethical questions. Use of DEW has national security connotations and has the potential of altering International Relations. In a Discussion Paper, Article 36, on DEW for the Convention on Certain Conventional Weapons (CCW), at Geneva in November 2017, Protocol IV of CCW ‘Protocol on Blinding Lasers’ was quoted to state, “It is prohibited to employ laser weapons specifically designed, as their sole combat function or as one of their combat functions, to cause permanent blindness whether to naked eye or devices used for vision.” This entails illegality to the development of Lasers for weapon purposes.
The pinpoint accuracy, reduced collateral damage and lower-power Non-Lethal uses for HELs and HPMs reflects the promise these weapons hold. Ever since H.G. Wells published ‘War of the Worlds’ in 1898, DEW a recurring theme in science fiction literature and subsequently in the movies, is now very much part and parcel of our battlefield resource.
Brig Yogesh Kapoor, VSM
(Disclaimer: The views and opinions expressed in this article are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect the official policy or position of BharatShakti.in)

Story 16
Epirus was awarded the SBIR contract for its novel architecture that makes multibeam phased array systems designed to neutralize UASs or drones; the company has been using this technology to develop the world's first solid-state, software-defined, phased-array high-power microwave directed-energy system. The Epirus architecture uses commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) field-programmable gate arrays (FPGA) -- semiconductor devices commonly used in electronic circuits -- as ultra-wideband radio frequency (RF) transceivers. Company officials say that this approach is much faster and less expensive than using ASIC-based transceivers. Using this new architecture, it becomes much faster and more affordable to develop RF systems for digital beamforming and channelizing, which has multiple uses in communications, electronic warfare, and radar.
Epirus CEO Nathan Mintz stated: "This new contract type is a proactive approach that empowers Epirus and the U.S. government to work together and think holistically about drone defense-- and not lose valuable time and ground to potential adversaries on this new battlefield like China and Russia."
The Air Force established the AFWERX program in 2017 to develop cutting-edge solutions for dynamic security threats through forming partnerships with private companies and using a technology startup-inspired approach.

Story 17
President Trump believes the danger of an EMP is not just a Hollywood plot device. He recently announced an executive order meant to protect the United States from an EMP, directing federal agencies to coordinate in assessing, planning and guarding against its risks from human and natural sources.
AD
But what is an EMP, and do we really need to worry about it? If it is a real threat, will this new executive order make a difference?
What is an EMP?
AD
An EMP is a high-intensity surge of energy that can disrupt or destroy electronics by, essentially, overloading them. There are two ways an EMP could potentially pose a large-scale threat to U.S. security.
The first is through the detonation of a nuclear warhead at high altitude. We know this because, in 1962, the U.S. tested a nuclear bomb 250 miles above the Pacific Ocean. The test led to electronic disturbance 900 miles away in Hawaii. Specifically, streetlights were blown out, telephones went dead, and U.S., British and Soviet satellites were damaged.
AD
The second is through a natural solar superstorm, known as a geomagnetic disturbance (GMD), which has about a 10 percent chance of occurring every decade, according to NASA. An event like this took place in 1859 and caused telegraph circuits to catch on fire.
AD
Though an EMP is not directly harmful to people, it could lead to deaths by shutting down medical, transportation, communication, banking, finance, food and water systems. In the worst possible scenario, a large-scale EMP could have effects like Hurricane Katrina but on a national scale.
Should you worry about EMPs? Probably not that much.
In the doomsday scenarios politicians like to talk about, an adversary like North Korea could detonate a nuclear weapon above the United States, causing an EMP to knock out the electrical grid. Theoretically, any country with nuclear weapons could do this. Fortunately, there’s little cause for concern about an EMP attack in isolation, because a nuclear EMP attack would be just that: a nuclear attack. Such brazen aggression would prompt an overwhelming — and most likely nuclear — American response. Such deterrence makes it unlikely a nuclear EMP attack would happen in the first place.
AD
AD
Nor is it likely that an EMP could be used to prevent U.S. retaliation, as our nuclear infrastructure is already designed to withstand such an attack. And nuclear-armed submarines deployed across the world would not be affected by an EMP directed against the continental United States.
Thus, the prospect of nuclear retaliation will almost certainly deter rival governments.
Technical challenges make an EMP attack harder still. It isn’t clear that an EMP would have the devastating effects that some predict. Public data are scarce, but Nobel Prize-winning physicist Jack Steinberger says their destructive capacity is overstated. EMPs’ effects depend on many factors, like the altitude of detonation, the yield of the warhead and the strength of Earth’s magnetic field. This all makes it hard to predict how much damage an EMP will cause, reducing its strategic value for governments that have only one chance to inflict damage before being destroyed by the response.
AD
AD
Nor is it likely that terrorist groups could conduct a large-scale EMP attack against the United States. Doing so would require acquiring both a powerful nuclear warhead and a sophisticated ballistic missile able to detonate at high altitude. Governments have many reasons not to give nuclear weapons to terrorists. And if by some small chance terrorists managed to acquire such technology, would they really risk it on a relatively untested concept?
A more likely terrorist attack scenario is via a high-power microwave (HPM) device, as this kind of weapon is relatively simple and cheap to build — the kind that’s been suspected of causing the mysterious illnesses that have struck the U.S. diplomatic staff in Havana. However, such a weapon would probably affect electronic devices within only a one-mile range and thus does not pose the strategic threat that a nuclear EMP might.
What should we be worried about? The sun.
AD
AD
While solar GMDs occur rarely, they can indeed interrupt power for an entire city — as happened in Quebec for nearly nine hours in 1989. That has the same kind of disruptive potential as a nuclear EMP.
How would a natural GMD blast be different from other large-scale natural disasters like a hurricane? Time. Electromagnetic incidents occur within seconds or even milliseconds over large areas of the country, the relative unpredictability of which could undermine disaster response. In areas where the power infrastructure is especially interconnected, failures could cascade.
There’s also an important difference between nuclear EMPs and solar GMDs. The former requires an attacker intent on and capable of launching such a threat. The latter is an inevitable, natural event. For a lot of reasons, governments and terrorists are highly unlikely to launch an EMP attack. Space weather events, on the other hand, happen with some regularity. The first might occur; the second eventually will.
AD
AD
What comes next for Trump’s EMP order?
A nuclear EMP may very well be less likely than a GMD. But either way, we don’t know whether further investments into U.S. resilience can reduce the impact. Working to better understand the hazards to U.S. infrastructure may be a good investment to evaluate if greater protection against EMPs is worth pursuing.
Will Trump’s executive order help accomplish this? Perhaps. But the burden of proof remains on the administration to demonstrate whether taxpayer dollars invested in resilience are worth taking away from other national policy priorities.
Christopher W. Blair (@cwblair10) is a PhD candidate in international relations at the University of Pennsylvania.
AD
Casey Mahoney (@caseymahoney) is a PhD student in political science at the University of Pennsylvania and was Nunn-Lugar Fellow at the U.S. Department of Defense from 2013 to 2017.
Shira E. Pindyck (@spindyck) is a PhD candidate in international relations at the University of Pennsylvania.
Joshua A. Schwartz (@JoshuaASchwartz) is a PhD candidate in international relations at the University of Pennsylvania.
AD

Story 18
In 1983, a young Matthew Broderick played a young hacker named David Lightman who accidentally discovers a military supercomputer and gets it to play “Global Thermonuclear War” with him in the movie ‘War Games.’ The computer stages a first strike involving hundreds of missiles, bombers and submarines, and the U.S. military, believing the Soviets are attacking us, prepare to respond with real nukes.
Fortunately, global thermonuclear war is averted by the end of the movie. But the perpetuation of the belief that complete and total destruction will be the result of massive nuclear strikes continues to this day. And it’s wrong.
A little more than 21 years before the movie, a more real and worrisome event was taking place. The Air Force Special Weapons Center delivered a preliminary plan in November of 1961 under the entirely unassuming name of Operation FISHBOWL. This operation was a “proposed series of high altitude nuclear effects tests.”
ADVERTISEMENT
According to the plan, which was only declassified on April 6, 2007, the primary objective of the series of tests was to “…obtain data regarding the interference to radar and communication systems produced by a high altitude nuclear burst.” At the time, the scientists and defense specialists suspected that a such a blast could cause a blackout with “serious implications for critical defense systems such as BMEWS, Nike-Zeus, ICBM penetration and many communication systems, and conversely that its employment may be an effective ICBM offensive tactic.”
On July 9, 1962, a single nuclear weapon was detonated 900 miles southwest of Hawaii from a height of over 240 miles. The International Space Station orbits at that height. To put it in perspective, the average passenger jet only flies around 35,000 feet or a little over 7 miles up.
Code-named ‘Starfish Prime,’ the 1.4 megaton nuclear bomb was around one-hundred times more powerful than Hiroshima.
It delivered more than test results.
Thirteen minutes after launch, an electromagnetic pulse (EMP) “…knocked out electrical service in Hawaii, nearly 1,000 miles away. Telephone service was disrupted, streetlights were down and burglar alarms were set off by a pulse that was much larger than scientists expected.”
The EMP weapon was born.
It wasn’t until October 2000 that the ‘Commission To Assess The Threat To The United States From Electromagnetic Pulse (EMP) Attack’ was established. From 2001 to 2008, the EMP Commission looked at four major areas, including the “vulnerability of the United States military and especially civilian systems to an EMP attack, giving special attention to vulnerability of the civilian infrastructure as a matter of emergency preparedness.”
For many years, the United States knew the protection of the civilian infrastructure was extremely lacking.
In the 1960s, telephone systems were copper wire and circuit-based. This made our primary means of communication vulnerable to a single missile strike by the USSR. What was needed was a “galactic network” of computers that would continue to function even if the Soviets devastated our telephone system. Thus, the internet was born.
Our telephone systems are no longer copper wire and circuit-based. They are computer networks moving voice, video and data on fiber strands at the speed of light. However, just like in 1960, they are vulnerable to a single strike. This time a single EMP weapon could fry the electronics and devices carrying our network and internet traffic — among other, more destructive, things.
An EMP attack sends an electromagnetic shock. According to The Heritage Foundation, this shock “…disrupts electronics, such as sensors, communications systems, protective systems, computers, and other similar devices.” The insidious scheme of an EMP attack is that it doesn’t destroy buildings or kill people directly — It doesn’t have to. And the effects are both immediate and long-term.
ADVERTISEMENT
The very first victim of an EMP attack — or its lingering effects, at least — was the United States. It was self-inflicted. One day after the detonation of Starfish Prime, AT&T launched the communications satellite Telstar, which relayed the very first transatlantic television signal between the United States and France. During its brief life, Telstar transmitted telephone calls and faxes in addition to television signals. But the transistors aboard Telstar were irreparably damaged by the lingering radiation from the blast and began to quit working. A subsequent high-altitude test by the Soviet Union in October of 1962 finished off the satellite. The persistent radiation from the tests conducted by the United States and the Soviet Union continued to do extensive damage long after the detonations.
So an EMP attack could immediately fry all electronics in a large radius and then continue to degrade systems in orbit.
Imagine a city, county or state without power. No communications of any kind whether it’s a landline, mobile or internet. Hospitals would have no power of any kind — main or emergency. The safety of the water supply would rapidly deteriorate. There would be little to no access to money. ATM’s wouldn’t function, and banks would close out of security concerns.
How long could a city or region go without power, food or water?
Surely a threat of this magnitude would be a key focus in protecting our critical infrastructure. From 2001 to 2008, the EMP Commission undertook its duties and delivered its final report that detailed over 100 recommendations to protect our critical infrastructure, including communications, transportation, energy, business, finance, food and water.
As of 2015, not a single recommendation had been implemented.
Even when the Commission was reconstituted for 2015-2017, it seemed to fall on deaf ears.
The number of adversaries capable of conducting and EMP attack is growing, not diminishing. EMP attacks are included in the military doctrines of China, Russia, Iran and North Korea.
Failure to harden our infrastructure against EMP attacks only lowers the threshold of capability needed by an adversary to inflict catastrophic damage. Our single point of failure in the 1960s was our reliance on the telephone system. Our biggest single point of failure today isn’t our reliance on all of our marvelous technology. It’s our failure to harden them from the very kind of attack the United States demonstrated nearly fifty-seven years ago.
Former Israeli Defense Force Major General Isaac Ben-Israel, cyber security advisor to Prime Minister Benyamin Netanyahu, summed it up in a single sentence: “If you want to hit a country severely, you hit its power and water supplies.” He also noted, “Cyber technology can do this without firing a single bullet.”
The combination of an EMP and cyber attack might be something movies get made about, like a modern War Games. In real life, there’s not a happy ending.
Morgan Wright is an expert on cybersecurity strategy, cyberterrorism, identity theft and privacy. He previously worked as a senior adviser in the U.S. State Department Antiterrorism Assistance Program and as senior law enforcement adviser for the 2012 Republican National Convention. Follow him on Twitter @morganwright_us.

Story 19
By Rich Heidorn Jr.
An EPRI study concluded that a high-altitude nuclear explosion could cause a multi-state outage but not the lengthy blackout some observers have feared. | EPRI

Story 20
Depending on the hazard field, electromagnetic pulses (EMPs) resulting from detonation of a nuclear weapon at high altitude or in space could cause significant damage to electronics on the bulk power system and even prompt a regional voltage collapse, the Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) says in much-anticipated findings from its three-year study on high-altitude EMPs (HEMPs).
However, the research does not support notions that a HEMP event could cause a crippling nationwide blackout that could last for many months to years, as some experts have warned for years, EPRI said.
EPRI’s April 30–released report is geared mainly toward asset owners and operators of the U.S. bulk power system, though it is also designed to inform regulators and policymakers. By furnishing the power sector with options for mitigating potential HEMP impacts that it identified, its primary aim is to help stakeholders make “more informed” decisions regarding the threat of a HEMP attack on the U.S. grid.
The findings come barely a month after President Trump signed an executive order to boost coordination for and national resilience against EMP threats—both from nuclear warfare and natural events like solar superstorms. Warning that EMPs could debilitate critical infrastructure and have implications for national security, the order lays out an assortment of actions for the Departments of Energy (DOE), Defense, Homeland Security, and Commerce to incentivize action to strengthen “vulnerable priority critical infrastructure” by the private sector—including through guidance and regulations.
The agencies, for example, must share technical expertise and data with the private sector and develop plans to mitigate the effects of EMPs within 90 days of the order. And within a year, the DOE must review existing standards for EMPs and “develop or update” quantitative benchmarks that describe the physical characteristics of EMPs, including waveform and intensity.
Uncertainties Remain
But while the order suggests new federal mandates to protect critical infrastructure against EMP events and attacks may be on the horizon, EPRI’s report outlines a broad range of uncertainties that it identified during its three-year effort.
EPRI uses the International Electrotechnical Commission’s (IEC’s) definitions for HEMP hazard fields. EMP components are referred to as E1, E2, and E3. E1—a “fast pulse”—consist of intense, short-duration EMPs characterized by a rise time of 2.5 nanoseconds and amplitude on the order of tens of kV/m, and up to 50 kV/m at the most severe location on the ground. E2, which is similar to lightning, have field pulse amplitudes of about 0.1 kV/m, lasting 1 microsecond to 10 milliseconds. E3—a “slow pulse”—are at very low frequencies of below 1 Hz with amplitudes on the order of tens of V/km, lasting 1 second to hundreds of seconds.
E1 EMP fields “can be quite large,” EPRI said, but the area of coverage depends on where the nuclear weapon explodes. “For example, a detonation at 200 km can affect a circular area of on the order of 3 million square miles. However, not all areas included within the circular region experience the maximum electric field, and strength of the field falls off with distance from the ground zero location.” Its impact can be severe. If it couples to overhead lines and cables, it can expose connected equipment to voltage and current surges, and radiate equipment directly. Potential impacts include moderate disruption or damage of electronics, including digital protective relays (DPRs), communication systems, and supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) systems, and they could affect “large areas such as an electrical interconnection.”
However, E1 impacts were not found to cause immediate interconnection-scale disruption or blackout of the grid—though EPRI noted that finding was not conclusive owing to uncertainties about how damaged DPRs might respond during an actual event, or how damage to generator controls and other systems might affect long-term operation of the grid. Among mitigative options EPRI outlined for a 50-kV/m threat level are to shield control/signal cables with proper grounding; to install low-voltage surge protection devices and filters; and to modify substation control houses.
E2 EMPs do not couple to overhead lines or cable, though they could couple to conductors through the air like an E1. Still, because the amplitude is low, “impacts to the transmission system are not expected to occur,” EPRI said. That’s why it recommended no mitigation options for this hazard field.
E3 EMPs, perhaps the most insidious threat, induce low-frequency (quasi-DC) currents in transmission lines and transformers. “The flow of these geomagnetically induced currents (GICs) in transformer windings can cause magnetic saturation of transformer cores, which causes transformers to generate harmonic currents, absorb significant quantities of reactive power, and experience additional hotspot heating in windings and structural parts,” EPRI warned. “Potential impacts of E3 EMP on the bulk power system can include voltage collapse (regional blackout) and transformer damage due to additional hotspot heating.” Among mitigative options it identified for E3 are similar to those to guard against GMD events. They include:
Avoiding protection system misoperations by modifying protection and control schemes to be resilient to harmonics and system imbalance.
Blocking or reducing the flow of GICs.
Automatic removal of some shunt reactive power compensation devices, for example shunt reactors, and/or employing under-voltage load shedding (UVLS).
Sparing of large power transformers and high-voltage circuit breakers.
The research also showed that the combined effects of the initial and late pulses could trigger a regional service interruption but would not trigger a nationwide grid failure. “Recovery times are expected to be similar to those resulting from large-scale power interruptions caused by other events provided that mitigations specific to the initial pulse are deployed. Possible damage to large power transformers was found to be minimal,” EPRI said.
Industry Wants to Make Decisions Based on ‘Sound Science’
EPRI’s findings are significant because experts have speculated about HEMP impacts for years, citing limited EMP field tests. These include the 1962 Starfish Prime high altitude burst nuclear test 900 miles from Hawaii, which knocked out 36 strings of streetlights and set off burglar alarms, and tests by the former Soviet Union in Kazakhstan in 1961 and 1962, which reportedly caused damage to communications systems, the power supply, and safety devices. William Graham, chairman of the former EMP Commission, established by Congress in 2001, in July 2017 concluded in a report that “even for a low-yield 10 to 20 kiloton weapon, the EMP field should be considered for unprotected U.S. systems.”
But experts, like Dr. George Baker, professor emeritus at James Madison University and director for the foundation for resilient societies, have warned that industry is reluctant to harden against EMPs because there are no current EMP/GMD regulations or requirements for civilian infrastructure. “Power industry officials have expressed reservations that any near-term protection initiatives could well be rendered obsolete if they don’t conform to unknown future regulations and standards,” Baker said. Cost is another factor. “Generation stations have not been addressed because of cost-recovery limitations (unlike transmission systems where federal regulations allow cost recovery),” Baker testified on Feb. 27 before a Senate committee.
On Monday, Michael W. Howard, president and CEO of EPRI, said EPRI’s research represents “the largest utility collaborative on this issue focused on understanding the technical facts using both laboratory testing and advanced modeling.” The results also “provide a cost-effective pathway to enhance the resilience of the grid and accelerate recovery. EPRI’s research continues to support the very high priority that the electric utility industry places on providing reliable electricity for all customers,” he said.
The power industry, meanwhile, says it works closely to share threat information and partner with all levels of government to mitigate and respond to national-level incidents to critical infrastructure. However, the Edison Electric Institute (EEI), which includes all U.S. investor-owned power companies, has urged regulators to remember that how an EMP may impact critical infrastructure is “an extremely complex issue that cannot be solved with a one-size-fits-all solution.”
On Monday, EEI Vice President for Security and Preparedness Scott Aaronson told POWER that EPRI’s research will enable “electric companies to make science-informed decisions for developing, testing, and deploying EMP-resistant grid components. Sound policy should be informed by sound science.”
—Sonal Patel is a POWER associate editor (@sonalcpatel, @POWERmagazine)

Story 21
On March 26, President Donald Trump issued an executive order (EO) on the threat to the country from an electromagnetic pulse. The EO, titled “Coordinating National Resilience to Electromagnetic Pulse,” correctly explains that
[a]n electromagnetic pulse (EMP) has the potential to disrupt, degrade, and damage technology and critical infrastructure systems. Human-made or naturally occurring EMPs can affect large geographic areas, disrupting elements critical to the Nation’s security and economic prosperity, and could adversely affect global commerce and stability. The Federal Government must foster sustainable, efficient, and cost-effective approaches to improving the Nation’s resilience to the effects of EMPs. REF
While some downplay the EMP threat and question the need for this EO,REF the White House was right to issue it, and should be commended for doing so. The Obama Administration had issued an EO on EMPs,REF but it focused only on developing a response to space weather, not to human-made EMPs.
Besides exerting important leadership on the EMP issue, this EO will help determine the United States’ level of vulnerability to, and bolster resilience against, a human-made EMP or a naturally occurring geomagnetic disturbance (GMD), protecting the American public from avoidable catastrophe.REF
The EMP Threat
According to the October 2018 Department of Homeland Security’s Strategy for Protecting and Preparing the Homeland Against Threats of Electromagnetic Pulse and Geomagnetic Disturbances, “[An EMP or GMD] could damage significant portions of the Nation’s critical infrastructure, including the electrical grid, communications equipment, water and wastewater systems, and transportation modes.”REF This means no heating or cooling, no light, no water—and, in a matter of days, no access to food or medications, for millions of people.
The report continues: “The impacts [of an EMP] are likely to cascade, initially compromising one or more critical infrastructure sectors, spilling over into additional sectors, and expanding beyond the initial geographic regions.”REF Such an event would have a significant impact on the private sector, which has ownership over a vast majority of America’s critical infrastructure.
Beyond critical infrastructure, the potentially devastating effects of an EMP could also directly or indirectly permeate the national security establishment, including the military and intelligence community, undermining their ability to respond to the National Command Authority and provide for the country’s security.REF
An EMP attack would most likely come from an enemy detonating a nuclear weapon high above the United States—delivered by a long-range missile.
Russia and China, with their robust nuclear and long-range missile arsenals, clearly have the capability to attack the United States through an EMP, and North Korea claims to have the ability.
Though Iran is not believed to have an EMP capability yet, its previous work on nuclear weapons and ongoing development of long-range ballistic missiles is of deep concern to U.S. policymakers.
An EMP capability could be an important asymmetric weapon in the hands of adversaries such as North Korea and Iran, but also in the hands of terrorist groups around the world.
It is not only nuclear weapons that can create an EMP. An EMP can also come from radio-frequency (RF) weapons, though their range of effectiveness is smaller than that of a high-altitude EMP (HEMP) exploded above the Earth’s surface.REF
While other issues, such as political relations, must be considered alongside nuclear, missile, or other military capabilities in assessing any threat scenario, there is little question that a HEMP over the United States would likely have a devastating effect on life and property.
While hostility plays a role in the military use of an EMP, it does not apply to naturally occurring GMDs, which may severely disturb the Earth’s magnetic field, causing damage to aerial infrastructure (such as satellites), maritime infrastructure (such as undersea cables), and terrestrial infrastructure (such as the electric grid).REF
Either an EMP or GMD, though a low probability, would be a high-consequence event that would have potentially severe repercussions on human health, security, and life. With little expected warning time for a military or solar EMP, there is clearly a need to address this challenge.
The Executive Order
The threat posed by EMPs is the reason why it is appropriate for the President to issue this executive order.REF The EO calls for a whole-of-government approach to prevent, mitigate, and recover from the effects of a military or solar EMP based on a better understanding of the risk.
The EO specifically calls for identifying critical functions and infrastructure at risk, improving the understanding of EMP effects, evaluating approaches to mitigating EMP effects, strengthening existing infrastructure to withstand EMPs, and improving the response to EMPs.REF
The EO also calls for the sharing of EMP information among the necessary public and private stakeholders that will lead to the “development and implementation of best practices, regulations and appropriate guidance.”REF Information sharing will be critical to preparing for, and responding to, an EMP.
Supported by the Secretaries of State, Defense, Energy, Homeland Security, the Interior, and Commerce, and by the Director of National Intelligence, and others, the National Security Advisor will be responsible for tracking the progress of this EO and reporting its status to the President annually.REF
In order to ensure effective implementation of the EO, Congress should:
Conduct rigorous oversight. As the EO process begins, congressional committees should hold hearings as soon as practicable on the risks of, vulnerability to, and state of preparedness for an EMP. Additional hearings should be held once the National Security Advisor has submitted his first annual report to the President to assess its findings. Congress should also call for the release of a public, unclassified version of the report to the President for the benefit and knowledge of the American public.
As the EO process begins, congressional committees should hold hearings as soon as practicable on the risks of, vulnerability to, and state of preparedness for an EMP. Additional hearings should be held once the National Security Advisor has submitted his first annual report to the President to assess its findings. Congress should also call for the release of a public, unclassified version of the report to the President for the benefit and knowledge of the American public. Ensure public–private engagement. Considering the operation and ownership of the country’s critical infrastructure, this EO process must not evolve into a largely executive branch or government exercise. Instead, this EO process must look to more fully develop a public–private partnership on this issue, opening critical channels of communications and information flows. Congress can ensure this is happening through hearings, roundtables, and staff briefings with principle public and private stakeholders.
The executive branch should:
Designate the Department of Homeland Security as the executive agency for EMP policy and planning. Responsibility for EMP policy and planning currently spans numerous U.S. government departments and agencies. For enduring leadership and continuity purposes, and given the department’s ties to federal, state, local, and international policymakers as well as critical-infrastructure leaders in the private sector, the White House should designate the Department of Homeland Security as the lead agency within the executive branch that is responsible for EMP policy and planning once the initial set of reports and recommendations have been approved by the President.
Responsibility for EMP policy and planning currently spans numerous U.S. government departments and agencies. For enduring leadership and continuity purposes, and given the department’s ties to federal, state, local, and international policymakers as well as critical-infrastructure leaders in the private sector, the White House should designate the Department of Homeland Security as the lead agency within the executive branch that is responsible for EMP policy and planning once the initial set of reports and recommendations have been approved by the President. Continue to identify roles, responsibilities, authorities, and resources. There have long been concerns about the public and private roles, responsibilities, authorities, and resources for preventing, planning for, and responding to an EMP. REF The executive branch, with strong congressional and private-sector input and involvement, must address this concern comprehensively if the U.S. is to improve the public and private sectors’ readiness to protect the American people from an EMP.
Conclusion
Through this EO, the Trump Administration has taken on a critical leadership role in energizing the public and private sector to better understand, consider, and respond to both human-made and naturally occurring EMPs. This is an important first step, and the White House should be commended for taking it.
Though an EMP is a low-probability event, unlikely events can prove to be catastrophic at a number of different levels. It is unquestionably best to be prepared. This EO begins the work of moving in that direction.
—Peter Brookes is Senior Research Fellow for Weapons of Mass Destruction and Counter Proliferation in the Center for National Defense, of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for National Security and Foreign Policy, at The Heritage Foundation.

Story 22
The 2020 Rezvani Tank is EMP-proof 1,000 hp SUV excess
If you won’t consider dropping off the kids at school without at least 1,000 horsepower under the hood of your SUV, or brave the local Target without military-grade electromagnetic pulse weapon protection, happily there’s finally the truck for you. Rezvani Motors has become a mainstay at auto shows with its outlandish and eye-catching Tank SUV, and now there’s a new model which promises something that wouldn’t look out of place in the Batcave.
It’s the 2020 Rezvani Tank, and while the name might be the same as the automaker’s old model, the truck itself is all-new. As before, the idea is to make something with more than just military-inspired styling, capable of tackling off-road terrain while not sacrificing too much in the way of on-road manners.
The 2020 Tank’s full reveal won’t be for another few weeks time, but Rezvani is already sharing some details. It’s a body-on-frame design, with a steel frame supporting both the custom body and a choice of engines. Top of the list will be the ridiculous 6.2-liter Supercharged V8 HEMI that’s typically found inside the Dodge Demon. In the Tank X, it’ll be tuned for more than 1,000 horsepower, Rezvani says.
“The design was inspired by extreme off-road concepts typically never seen on the road,” CEO Ferris Rezvani says, “but is completely street legal and ready for production to be able to be driven and enjoyed as a daily driver.” So far we only have these three partial shots to go by, but figure on a mixture of crisp lines and sculpted curves that should get you more than noticed on the road.
Should you find yourself coming in for some bad attention, the new Tank may well have you covered there, too. For a start there’s standard, military grade EMP (Electromagnetic Pulse) protection. That, Rezvani promises, will protect the SUV’s electronic systems from E1, E2, and E3 electromagnetic pulses.
Other security features will be carried across from the old model, shown below. The previous Tank X, for example, was offered with high-intensity LED lighting and a night-vision system that can track objects by heat. On the Tank Military, meanwhile, there was even protection like bullet-proof armor, a smokescreen, run-flat tires, a self-sealing fuel tank, and electrified door handles.
It may well be a little much even for the mean streets of LA, where we suspect what few 2020 Tank trucks are produced will likely end up. Still, we can’t deny that there’s a part of us glad to see oddball experimentation still going on in the auto industry: after all, the USSV Rhino GX needs some competition in its tongue-in-cheek bid to be “the perfect family car.”
The 2020 Tank will be officially launched over the summer. Pricing is yet to be confirmed – you can secure your spot in line with a $2,500 deposit now – though its predecessor started at $165,000.

Story 23
Executive Order Highlights Electromagnetic Pulse Threat
Photo: iStock
In March, President Donald Trump signed an “Executive Order on Coordinating National Resilience to Electromagnetic Pulses,” which many observers see as an important step in confronting an unconventional threat that could wreak havoc on the United States.
An electromagnetic pulse, or EMP, is an intense burst of energy that can be released by a nuclear weapon detonated high in the atmosphere, or by a geomagnetic disturbance caused by natural phenomena such as solar flares.
Consider this scenario that some analysts have envisioned: An electromagnetic pulse hits the nation’s electric grid. The power goes out across a large swath of the country, communication systems and other critical infrastructure are disrupted, military readiness is degraded, chaos ensues and many people die.
That is a nightmare situation that the U.S. government is making a new concerted push to avoid.
“It is the policy of the United States to prepare for the effects of EMPs through targeted approaches that coordinate whole-of-government activities and encourage private sector engagement,” Trump’s directive stated.
The federal government must provide warning; protect against, respond to and recover from the effects of electromagnetic pulses through planning, investment and stakeholder engagement; and prevent EMP attacks through deterrence, defensive capabilities and nuclear nonproliferation efforts, the order said. It called for prioritizing research and development to address the needs of critical infrastructure stakeholders, and implementing pilot programs.
The executive order provided a list of implementation instructions to the Departments of Homeland Security, Defense, Energy, Commerce and State, and the Director of National Intelligence. It also put the assistant to the president for national security affairs and the National Security Council in charge of coordinating the executive branch’s efforts.
For years, experts and advocacy groups have been sounding the alarm about the possibility of a far-reaching, disastrous incident.
“An electromagnetic pulse … poses a direct threat to the U.S. electric grid and the products, services and activities that depend on access to electricity,” Heritage Foundation analysts warned in a policy paper published last year titled, “The Danger of EMP Requires Innovative and Strategic Action.”
“An EMP could cause widespread failure of the electric grids of entire regions, grinding the U.S. economy to a halt,” the authors added. “Without electricity, almost nothing will work, which means that millions of people will die as a result of not being able to refill medical prescriptions, millions more will be without food, and predictable rioting and looting can quickly create a state of anarchy.”
A loss of electric cooling for nuclear power plant reactors and spent fuel pools could expose Americans to dangerous levels of radiation, warned a report by the military-civilian Electromagnetic Defense Task Force, citing the 2011 Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster in Japan as a cautionary tale.
The Heritage Foundation policy paper noted that a high-altitude EMP attack could also temporarily or permanently damage satellites — most of which are not hardened to withstand its effects.
Critical civilian infrastructure aren’t the only assets at risk. The U.S. military could also be vulnerable.
“From an adversary’s standpoint, military installations represent the vulnerable underbelly of the defense enterprise,” the Electromagnetic Defense Task Force said in a self-titled report published last year by the Air Force’s Air University.
An installation’s ability to maintain connectivity would depend on the nature and severity of an EMP incident. But in all likelihood, the facility would be unable to continue uninterrupted operations within a short period of time in the absence of a cohesive response and sustainment plan, the study said.
Installation response plans often omit EMP contingencies from planning and programs, it noted.
“In many cases, an interruption of [command-and-control systems] could lead to a degraded ability to bring organic mission capabilities to bear for national defense or civil recovery operations,” the report said.
Nevertheless, U.S. efforts to understand and address the EMP threat have been limited by insufficient information sharing, coordination and investment among different parts of the government and the private sector, analysts say.
Trump’s new directive aimed at addressing the problem was well received by non-governmental observers.
“It gives the issue more prominence and more visibility within the departmental agencies,” said Michaela Dodge, a defense analyst at the Heritage Foundation who co-authored the think tank’s policy paper. “It’s fairly specific as to which agencies do what. It puts time pressure on accomplishing what the executive order demands. And so I do believe it’s a step in the right direction.”
So far, the United States hasn’t been very successful in terms of organizing its government to deal with the EMP threat, she said. The executive order “is very positive and a large contribution to the way we sort of deal with that problem,” she added.
Duke Energy, one of the nation’s largest electric power companies, said it also views Trump’s directive as a positive step. “We are pleased with the efforts to coalesce activities of the various federal entities and the focus on non-classified research to understand the [potential EMP] impacts better,” a spokesperson said in an email to National Defense.
However, there is disagreement among observers about the magnitude of the threat and what should be done to address it.
Trump administration officials have said there is no intelligence indicating that an EMP attack is imminent.
However, William Graham, the chairman of the congressionally-chartered Commission to Assess the Threat to the United States from Electromagnetic Pulse Attack, has said that EMPs represent an “immediate, existential” danger that could wipe out a large fraction of the U.S. population through the effects of starvation, disease and societal collapse.
The Heritage Foundation policy paper described electromagnetic pulse events as “low probability” but “high risk” scenarios.
But others are warning against overreaction.
“EMPs are by no means one of the top-tier national security challenges, nor the most pressing concern for the safety of our electrical grid,” Gregory T. Kiley, a former senior staff member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and U.S. Air Force officer, said in a recent op-ed published by The Hill.
Trump’s executive order is reasonable but “we must also be vigilant to ensure the EMP threat is not overblown and thereby dedicate limited resources to a highly unlikely threat,” he added.
In April, the nonprofit Electric Power Research Institute released the results of a three-year study titled, “High-Altitude Electromagnetic Pulse and the Bulk Power Systems: Potential Impacts and Mitigation Strategies.”
EMP fields can impact large areas. One stemming from a detonation of a nuclear weapon at an altitude of 200 kilometers could affect a circular area equivalent to 3 million square miles, the report said. However, the strength of the EMP field would dissipate the farther away it was from ground zero, it noted.
The study concluded that a high-altitude electromagnetic pulse, or HEMP, attack similar to the ones that were modeled could cause regional disruptions or voltage collapse.
However, “research findings do not support the notion of blackouts encompassing the contiguous United States and lasting for many months to years,” the report said.
Recovery times for a HEMP-induced blackout would be commensurate with historical large-scale blackouts if robust protections for grid components are deployed. However, additional research is needed to address remaining uncertainties about electromagnetic pulse effects, the report said.
The Secure the Grid Coalition — which includes former House Speaker Newt Gingrich and former CIA Director James Woolsey — and the EMP Task Force on National and Homeland Security issued a joint statement dismissing the EPRI findings as “junk science,” and accused the organization of underestimating the threat to serve the interests of the electric power industry.
Paul Scharre, director of the technology and national security program at the Center for a New American Security, said U.S. military assets could be vulnerable to electromagnetic pulses because most of them aren’t hardened against that type of threat. But the Pentagon should be more focused on other, more likely methods of enemy attack, he added.
“It wouldn’t be at the top of my agenda,” Scharre said. “I’m really more concerned about cyber and more traditional kinetic attacks on those DoD infrastructures than something more exotic like a high-altitude EMP.”
As of press time, the Defense Department had not provided comment for this story.
Studies have recommended a number of steps to protect critical infrastructure against electromagnetic pulses including: various methods of equipment shielding and surge protection; adding “firebreaks” to the national electric grid to limit the scope of damages and power outages; and investments in boost phase and space-based missile defense technology that could shoot down enemy nuclear-armed ballistic missiles before they were able to release an EMP.
Scharre said EMPs raise interesting questions about deterrence because the pulses wouldn’t kill people directly. “You would have sort of this non-kinetic attack where the [nuclear] blast wouldn’t kill anyone. It would be disrupting the infrastructure, but that might have second order effects that could lead to mayhem and death and other problems.”
It’s unclear how U.S. policymakers would react, he said.
“Would it be seen as a nuclear event or as a non-kinetic event? Is it something that’s either worse than a conventional bomb [attack] or less than a conventional bomb [attack]?” he asked.
“There’s just no good way to know how big the effect would be as well as how people would respond,” he added. “It’s one of the reasons why you do worry that it could be appealing to an [enemy] actor if they might see it as a cheap way to disable U.S. electrical infrastructure or disrupt the United States in a way that there was a perception that it was less escalatory than a more traditional form of attack.”
The situation is further complicated by the fact that geomagnetic disturbances are natural phenomena that, unlike a nation-state actor, cannot be deterred militarily.
“It seems like a low probability event and I think it’s easy to be dismissive, but it’s probably a prudent measure to shore up the resilience of our electrical grid,” Scharre said.
If there were a geomagnetic disturbance and a large section of the country lost power for a period of time, people would be angry that the government hadn’t done more to prepare, he said. “It can look like hype and people overreacting [to the threat] until one of those events occurs, and then everyone wants to know why didn’t we act sooner.”
Dodge noted that bolstering defenses against electromagnetic pulses will come with a price tag.
“There is a great deal we can do,” she said. “The question is how to fund it and who pays for what?”
Trump’s executive order noted that the federal government must foster efficient, cost-effective approaches to enhance resiliency.
In a 2017 report for the EMP Commission, Graham said protecting and defending the national electric grid and other critical infrastructures from electromagnetic pulses could be achieved at reasonable cost and with minimal disruption to existing systems.
Scharre said electric companies and other stakeholders might be reluctant to spend large amounts of money hardening their assets. Measures that make systems more resilient and robust add costs, and they are expenses that don’t add value for businesses and shareholders on a day-to-day basis, he noted.
The government could end up funding those measures directly or creating incentives for companies to do so through tax breaks or other means, Scharre said.
The Heritage Foundation policy paper said critical national defense assets that rely on the electric grid should be hardened by the federal government at the expense of taxpayers, and utilities should be allowed to recover costs for EMP-related investments.
“It’s a little bit silly to assume that the private market will automatically step in and do things when there is not a profit incentive to do so,” Scharre said. “It’s going to require some government involvement to make that happen.”
Topics: Homeland Security, Energy

Story 24
Pacific Gas & Electric (PG&E), the largest energy supplier in California, has cut off power to portions of 22 counties in the northern half of the state. Outages are expected to last for up to seven days, potentially longer, as high winds buffet that portion of the state, heightening the risk of wildfires due to downed power lines.
“The power will be turned off to communities in stages, depending on local timing of the severe wind conditions, beginning with counties in the northern part of the state,” PG&E said in a statement.
Thus far, approximately 630,000 residents of the area have been affected by the outages. The number may rise to over a million if weather conditions warrant. Numerous schools and colleges, including the University of California–Berkley have been shut down due to power outages and the fire threat.
California Governor Gavin Newsom put the blame for the outages squarely at the feet of PG&E. “I’m outraged because it didn’t have to happen,” Newsom told reporters in San Diego on Wednesday. “[PG&E is] in bankruptcy due to their terrible management going back decades. They’ve created these conditions, it was unnecessary.”
While PG&E may indeed be guilty of not upgrading its power grid in a timely manner, Newsom completely dodges any responsibility that might lie with local, county, state, and federal regulations regarding forest management and zoning regulations.
The National Weather Service (NWS) has issued red flag fire warnings for a large portion of the state, north of the Bay Area. The Diablo winds, which occur annually in the region, coupled with dry vegetation and low humidity create perfect conditions for potentially deadly fires. “This is a recipe for explosive fire growth, if a fire starts,” NWS tweeted. “Have your go bag ready.”
Wind gusts over 60 mph are possible in mountain passes and canyons, while the coastal and valley areas could see winds up to 45 mph.
“California’s Mediterranean climate makes it unique, as our warmest months coincide with our driest,” said Jan Null, a climate scientist from San Jose State University.
California’s dry season typically runs from May until October, a time when most of the state only receives approximately 10 percent of its annual rainfall. Right now is when the state’s vegetation is at its driest, making autumn peak fire season. “By the end of summer and into early fall, the state’s vegetation has dried out,” Null said.
After last year’s disastrous Camp Fire in Northern California, it seems reasonable that PG&E take this drastic action in order to reduce fire risks in the area. After all, the energy company is still on the hook for billions of dollars, owing to its role in the 2018 fires.
But some are suggesting that the power outages might not be fully explained by the forecasted high winds.
On July 4 and 5, earthquakes measuring 6.4 and 7.1 hit the U.S. Navy’s secret China Lake weapons facility near Ridgecrest, which is in Kern County, 150 miles northeast of Los Angeles. The region has suffered thousands of aftershocks since the two main quakes in July.
Some are suggesting that the China Lake facility is the victim of a “seismic attack,” in which unknown forces used some sort of “tectonic weaponry” in an attempt to take out the weapons facility.
And to whet conspiracy theorists appetites even more, this tweet points out that the epicenter of the July quakes weren’t just near the naval base, it indeed was the epicenter. Are the PG&E power outages some sort of response or preparedness drill for unknown weapons, which can create earthquakes?
With rolling power outages expected to hit Southern California in the days to come, some believe that the power outages are merely a precursor of some greater disaster yet to come. Or they might be some sort of “beta test” of disaster preparedness for an electromagnetic pulse (EMP) attack on the U.S. power grid. In theory, a nuclear missile exploded at high altitude could cause the failure of electrical systems, which would cause millions to lose power instantaneously.
Maybe, but the simplest explanation is usually the best one. PG&E has suffered billions of dollars’ worth of lawsuits in the last few years owing to its rickety power grid in the state. Until it is able to upgrade those above-ground power lines that hang perilously over the dry vegetation, which the state and federal government refuse to clear, the prudent thing to do is to shut down power to remove at least one possible ignition source for those terrible wildfires.
Photo: Yelantsevv / iStock / Getty Images Plus

Story 25
Electromagnetic pulses from man-made sources, such as a nuclear detonation in the atmosphere, are known as a High-Altitude Electromagnetic Pulse (HEMP). The phenomenon of HEMPs was first discovered in 1962, when the United States detonated a 1.4 megaton device 250 miles above Johnston Island during a test in the South Pacific — producing an EMP that accidentally damaged electrical and electronic systems in Hawaii some 900 miles away.
Before the test ban treaty went into effect in 1963, the United States and the Soviet Union had conducted fewer than 20 nuclear tests in the atmosphere combined — meaning there is very little historical data available on the effects of HEMPs. As a result, most HEMP standards today are based on computer models using data from two high-altitude nuclear tests that the Soviets conducted in late 1962.
There is little doubt that the impact of a HEMP attack could be significant, but the details surrounding such an impact remain hazy. Any actor plotting such an attack would still be dealing with some important unknowns — including the ideal altitude at which to detonate a specific device based on its design and yield to maximize its effect, as well as the nature of those effects and just how devastating and widespread they could be.
When it comes to the threat posed to the United States, the principles of mutually assured destruction — which have helped steer the world away from nuclear war since the USSR became a nuclear power in 1949 — would still apply to a HEMP attack. It's unlikely that a HEMP attack would successfully disarm the United States, since the U.S. nuclear weapons triad is specifically designed to survive a direct nuclear attack. And any country that launches such an attack is certain to face retaliation.
I don't believe that a rogue regime such as North Korea or Iran would be foolish enough to think it could launch a nuclear strike on the United States and survive — especially given both countries' lack of mature and thoroughly tested missile and nuclear weapons programs. There is simply too much margin for error. About the only thing worse than having your country destroyed by a U.S. nuclear strike in retaliation for a successful HEMP attack is having your country destroyed for a botched one.
As I've stated previously, I also don't believe that a nuclear power would ever be willing to provide a nuclear weapon to a terrorist proxy — and that even if a terrorist group somehow got their hands on a nuclear weapon, the difficulties of pairing it with a missile and launching it over the center of the United States without an intelligence agency finding out about it are pretty much insurmountable. Besides, in such a case, a terrorist group would be far more likely to use a nuclear weapon to target a large city for a mass casualty attack instead of exploding it hundreds of miles above the Earth. While the HEMP threat is real, it remains highly unlikely. It is thus my assessment that there is a much greater chance that the United States will be hit by a natural EMP incident than a man-made catastrophe. But that, of course, has not stopped the hype.
Dousing the Hype
Following the release of Trump's executive order, I have seen several articles lately that have, once again, begun repeating much of the EMP hype that has ebbed and flowed since the discovery of HEMPs in 1962. Such articles claim that EMP is "one of the biggest threats to our national security" and that an EMP event will have a cataclysmic impact on the United States.
One such article was published April 2 by In Homeland Security managing editor Glynn Cosker. In the article, titled "Why President Trump’s Executive Order on EMP Preparedness Is Huge," Cosker wrote:
"An EMP itself is not harmful to people, but its aftermath would cause devastating, long-lasting effects that could ultimately kill 90 percent of the U.S. population. Most deaths would be due to the shutting down of our entire essential infrastructure, including financial, medical, communication, transportation, food, water and sewer systems…
…The breakdown of society as we know it today would cause wide-scale death and destruction of biblical proportions.
Imagine a riot in a downtown city neighborhood, and then imagine that same riot taking over your entire city and state. It would look like ‘The Walking Dead’ without the zombies."
A 90 percent death toll is quite the claim, so allow me to put the possibility of such mass casualty into context. In 1979, the U.S. Congress Office of Technology Assessment published a study named "The Effects of Nuclear War" which, as the title suggests, provided an estimate of U.S. casualties in the event of a nuclear war.
The report examined several scenarios ranging from a limited to a full nuclear exchange — the worst of which being an all-out Soviet first strike involving more than 1,200 warheads hitting targets across the United States, including multiple HEMP strikes. But even in this worst-case scenario, the estimated death toll was somewhere between 35 percent to 77 percent of the population. It is hard to imagine that a HEMP detonation in the atmosphere could cause a higher casualty toll than such a massive barrage of nuclear weapons.
In the case that a GMD does take down the U.S. electrical grid and damage other infrastructure (as the one in 1989 did in Quebec), it is hard to imagine it would wipe out nearly the entire U.S. population. In 2017, Hurricane Maria completely destroyed Puerto Rico's electrical grid. Thousands of people were killed and billions of dollars of damage was done — and even today, Puerto Rico's electrical grid is not totally back in service. Yet despite this massive damage, nothing faintly resembling the apocalyptic picture painted in Cosker's article occurred. That is not to downplay the immense suffering that Puerto Ricans endured — and continue to endure — amid the aftermath of Hurricane Maria, but rather to point out that people are often more resilient than some give them credit for.

Story 26
Dr. Peter Vincent Pry is executive director of the Task Force on National and Homeland Security. He served on the Congressional EMP Commission as chief of staff, the Congressional Strategic Posture Commission, the House Armed Services Committee, and the CIA. He is author of Blackout Wars: State Initiatives to Achieve Preparedness Against An Electromagnetic Pulse (EMP) Catastrophe
OPINION — While most military and other analysts are fixated on when in the future North Korea will develop highly reliable intercontinental missiles, guidance systems, and re-entry vehicles capable of striking a U.S. city, the present and continuing threat from an Electromagnetic Pulse (EMP) attack is largely ignored.
An EMP attack does not require an accurate guidance system because the area of effect, having a radius of hundreds or thousands of kilometers, is so large. No re-entry vehicle is needed because the warhead is detonated at high-altitude, above the atmosphere. Missile reliability matters little because only one missile has to work in order for an EMP attack against an entire nation to be effective. Here’s how.
North Korea could launch an EMP attack against the United States by Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM), or by launching a short-range missile off a freighter or submarine or by lofting a warhead to a 30-kilometer burst height by balloon. While such lower-altitude EMP attacks would not cover the entire U.S. mainland, as would an attack at higher-altitude (300 kilometers), even a balloon-lofted warhead detonated at 30 kilometers could blackout the Eastern Grid that supports most of the population and generates 75 percent of U.S. electricity.
An EMP attack could also be launched via a North Korean satellite.
North Korea’s KMS-3 and KMS-4 satellites were launched to the south on polar trajectories and passed over the United States on their first orbit. Pyongyang launched KMS-4 on February 7, 2017, shortly after its fourth illegal nuclear test on January 6, 2017, that began the present protracted nuclear crisis with Pyongyang.
These satellites resemble a Russian secret weapon developed during the Cold War, called the Fractional Orbital Bombardment System (FOBS) that would have used a nuclear-armed satellite to make a surprise EMP attack on the United States.
Access The Cipher Brief’s analysis on The Real Threat Posed by EMPs exclusively for members, here.
Ambassador Henry Cooper, former Director of the U.S. Strategic Defense Initiative, and a preeminent expert on missile defenses and space weapons, has written numerous articles about North Korea’s EMP threat from satellites, saying “U.S. ballistic missile defense (BMD) interceptors are designed to intercept a few North Korean ICBMs that approach the United States over the North Polar region. But current U.S. BMD systems are not arranged to defend against even a single ICBM that approaches the United States from over the South Polar region, which is the direction toward which North Korea launches its satellites. This is not a new idea. The Soviets pioneered and tested just such a specific capability decades ago—we call it a Fractional Orbital Bombardment System (FOBS)…So, North Korea doesn’t need an ICBM to create this existential threat. It could use its demonstrated satellite launcher to carry a nuclear weapon over the South Polar region and detonate it…over the United States to create a high-altitude electromagnetic pulse (HEMP)…The result could be to shut down the U.S. electric power grid for an indefinite period, leading to the death within a year of up to 90 percent of all Americans—as the EMP Commission testified over eight years ago.”
Former NASA rocket scientist James Oberg visited North Korea’s Sohae space launch base, witnessed elaborate measures undertaken to conceal space launch payloads, and concludes the EMP threat from North Korea’s satellites should be taken seriously. He told Space Review that, “there have been fears expressed that North Korea might use a satellite to carry a small nuclear warhead into orbit and then detonate it over the United States for an EMP strike. These concerns seem extreme and require an astronomical scale of irrationality on the part of the regime. The most frightening aspect, I’ve come to realize, is that exactly such a scale of insanity is now evident in the rest of their ‘space program.’ That doomsday scenario, it now seems, has been plausible enough to compel the United States to take active measures to ensure that no North Korean satellite, unless thoroughly inspected before launch, be allowed to reach orbit and ever overfly the United States.”
An earlier generation immediately understood the alarming strategic significance of Sputnik in 1957, yet few today understand the strategic significance of North Korea’s satellites, perhaps because of widespread ignorance about EMP.
The prospects that North Korea can be persuaded through negotiations to surrender its nuclear weapons and EMP attack capabilities are not good. Despite several summits to advance nuclear disarmament, North Korea continues to build nuclear weapons and missiles.
As of this writing, North Korea continues to observe its commitment to suspend testing of nuclear weapons and intercontinental missiles. However, prior to entering into negotiations, North Korean dictator Kim Jong-Un announced that they achieved their nuclear and long-range missile testing objectives—which is plausible and consistent with North Korea’s historic military technological standards, that are much lower than those of the United States.
Recently, North Korea is testing a new generation of advanced short-range missiles, resembling Russia’s nuclear-capable Iskander, that flies on a flattened “hypersonic” trajectory that could defeat U.S. THAAD missile defenses based in South Korea.
Kim Jong-Un also recently unveiled a new ballistic missile submarine nearing completion, apparently designed to carry three nuclear-armed missiles, according to South Korean estimates.
Kim Jong-Un’s game is to use negotiations to buy time to build enough nuclear missiles so the fact of a nuclear-armed North Korea is irreversible by U.S. military action, because the risks of a U.S. disarming strike are unacceptably high.
Pyongyang, Beijing and Moscow hope that nuclear-armed North Korea will undermine the credibility and upset the whole strategic calculus of U.S. security guarantees to Pacific allies—and eventually make the U.S. retreat from the region.
Washington’s long consensus delusion that China and Russia want North Korean nuclear disarmament is belied by the fact that Pyongyang’s rapidly acquired nuclear capabilities are built on Russian and Chinese technology.
North Korea alone is reason enough to protect U.S. electric grids and other life-sustaining critical infrastructures from EMP attack, and to deploy space-based missile defenses to sustain the credibility of U.S. security guarantees in the Pacific.
Access The Cipher Brief’s analysis on The Real Threat Posed by EMPs exclusively for members, here.

Story 27
From right: Jeff Finan, vice president of business development for Washington-based Echodyne Corp., presents radar technology information after earning an on-the-spot contract for development with the U.S. Air Force during Unmanned Aerial Systems Pitch Day, July 24, at Northeastern University’s Innovation Campus as Steven Wert, program executive officer Digital, and Dr. William Roper, Air Force assistant secretary for acquisition, technology and logistics, look on from the stage.
EL SEGUNDO, Calif., - Epirus, who develops software-defined electromagnetic pulse (EMP) technology designed to take down dangerous drones, was awarded a Small Business Innovative Research (SBIR) Phase I contract by the U.S. Air Force at its Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) Pitch Day on July 24. Epirus CEO Nathan Mintz and CTO Bo Marr led the company's presentation, held at the Kostas Research Institute for Homeland Security in Burlington, Mass.
Epirus, which is based near the U.S. Air Force Space and Missile Systems Center in El Segundo, Calif., was one of just 13 firms out of 108 selected to present at UAS Pitch Day. Epirus presented the world's first ever megawatt-class drone-mounted, directed energy capability system and was the only company with this capability that was selected for a contract award. Epirus presented video demonstrations of the megawatt class system at work in the field.
Epirus's technology uses a short burst of directed energy to neutralize UAS such as drones, which present a new, unique threat to national security. In fact, recreational drones have caused shutdowns at busy airports like London's Gatwick, affecting thousands of travelers. And as drone technology becomes cheaper and more easily accessible, the possibility of them being used by enemy combatants of all types continues to increase. The company has expertise in understanding how drones respond to EMP, which helps inform its work in developing technological innovations for how America will defeat drone swarms.

Story 28
Iran’s “Non-Nuke EMP and Swarm” anti-US Fleet attack is doomed to failure as the US deploys its weaponry.
Mark Langfan The writer is Chairman of Americans for a Safe Israel (AFSI) and specializes in security issues, has created an original educational 3d Topographic Map System of Israel to facilitate clear understanding of the dangers facing Israel and its water supply. It has been studied by US lawmakers and can be seen at www.marklangfan.com. More from the author ► The writer is Chairman of Americans for a Safe Israel (AFSI) and specializes in security issues, has created an original educational 3d Topographic Map System of Israel to facilitate clear understanding of the dangers facing Israel and its water supply. It has been studied by US lawmakers and can be seen at www.marklangfan.com.
It is a well-known military cautionary adage that: Loose lips sink ships. However, this time the “loose-lips” of a high-ranking cleric in the Iranian government following Israel's alerting the US that there is an escalation in the works, may have warned America of Iran’s exact attack plan against the US Battle Carrier Group in the Persian/Arabian Gulf.
Given the warning, America will have likely already deployed nuclear armed submarines which would respond to any attack against the Carrier Group with an annihilation counter-attack. Hence, the Iranian cleric’s “loose lips” may have very well saved America’s ships.
On May 10 Reuters reported that the “semi-official ISNA news agency quoted hardliner Ayatollah Tabatabai-Nejad in the city of Isfahan as saying: “Their [America’s] billion(-dollar) fleet can be destroyed with one missile. If they attempt any move, they will ... (face) dozens of missiles because at that time ([Iranian]government) officials won’t be in charge to act cautiously, but instead things will be in the hands of our beloved leader (Ayatollah Ali Khamenei),” he said.”
The only possible type of “one missile” that could render a US Carrier Group blind to a follow-on conventional swarm of Iranian anti-ship missiles is a non-nuclear EMP warhead.
This is not the first time a non-nuclear EMP device has been threatened by the middle-east against the West. In 2013 I reported that on September 26, 2013, Syrian President Bashar Assad said that Syria possesses "more advanced weaponry which can serve as a detterent and blindside Israel within seconds..."
No one can describe non-nuclear conventional EMPs better than its maker the Boeing Company. On 22 October 2012, Boeing released a press release and video that explained conventional EMP weapons as follows: "A recent weapons flight test in the Utah desert may change future warfare after the missile successfully defeated electronic targets with little to no collateral damage.
Boeing and the U.S. Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) Directed Energy Directorate, Kirtland Air Force Base, N.M., successfully tested the Counter-electronics High-powered Microwave Advanced Missile Project (CHAMP) during a flight over the Utah Test and Training Range.
CHAMP, which renders electronic targets useless, is a non-kinetic alternative to traditional explosive weapons that use the energy of motion to defeat a target. During the test, the CHAMP missile navigated a pre-programmed flight plan and emitted bursts of high-powered energy, effectively knocking out the target's data and electronic subsystems.
CHAMP allows for selective high-frequency radio wave strikes against numerous targets during a single mission. ‘This technology marks a new era in modern-day warfare,’ said Keith Coleman, CHAMP program manager for Boeing Phantom Works. ‘In the near future, this technology may be used to render an enemy’s electronic and data systems useless even before the first troops or aircraft arrive.’”
Now, add to Boeing’s 2012 announcement, in 2017, it was reported by the UK’s Express, that “Russia’s military is developing sophisticated new weapons which harness radio electronic pulses capable of decimating an entire city and its defence systems. The electro-magnetic missiles can knock out all electronics and reduce tanks to scrap metal, according to a report in Sputnik News.
Vladimir Mikheyev, a senior adviser behind the team developing the weapons, said: “The effect of such weapons may vary from ordinary interference that temporarily knocks out the enemy’s weapons systems, all the way to a complete radio-electronic destruction of electronic elements, motherboards, microchips and systems.”
Therefore, with open source reporting both American and Russian governments having developed non-nuclear EMP bombs capable of destroying an “entire city,” and Iran’s ally Assad threatening its use, it is not a far jump for Iran to have either bought such weapons from Russia or developed them on their own.
If Iran has developed such a non-nuclear EMP missile, Iran would use such an EMP first-strike to blind the US Fleet long enough for Iran to fire swarms of its 120-mile-range Noor anti-ship missiles at the temporarily blinded US fleet. Such a follow-on swarm of anti-ship missiles attack would likely devastate the paralyzed US fleet, and result in thousands of US casualties.
However, what Iran might not know is that the United States has long been warned of a similar possible Chinese tactical EMP attack on its forward-deployed ships and has likely developed an EMP warning system. For, in 2011, Bill Gertz, one of Washington’s greatest reporters, reported US Intelligence had discovered that “China's [high altitude] EMP capability could be used in two different ways: as a surprise measure after China's initial strike against Taiwana and other U.S> [aircraft carrier strike group] assets have moved into a vulnerable position and as a bluff intended to dissuade the United States from defending Taiwan with a CVBG. ."
CVBG” is the Pentagon acronym for a US carrier Battle Groups. Such an EMP warning alarm system would immediately alert the US command structure that an EMP attack has been used. Such an immediate EMP alert would bring an instant US annihilation counter-attack against any enemy who launched such an EMP attack against US forces. Such an immediate US annihilation counter-attack would likely render Iran anti-ship missiles null and void.
In this regard, it is almost a certainty that the Pentagon has deployed Ohio Class submarines to Iran’s immediate environs. The Ohio class submarines are fully equipped to launch numerous scenarios of counter-attacks including an immediate counter EMP strike that would fry all the circuit’s in Iran’s entire west coast including all its anti-ship missiles. Then, the fully submerged, EMP-proof, Ohio class submarine would launch a total annihilation counter-attack against Iran.
In short, America has now been explicitly and specifically warned that Iran might use a tactical EMP warhead against our US carrier battle group. If Iran is stupid enough to make such an attempt, it will be the last act of the Islamic Republic of Iran.

Story 29
NuScale
Yes. Specifically, the small modular nuclear reactor company, NuScale, out of Oregon, has made their reactor resistant to electromagnetic pulses (EMP) and most other reactor designs should follow.
EMPs are one of those things that many people think is fake, or over-blown, or a conspiracy theorist’s dream. But they are real. EMPs can be either natural, from things like extreme solar geomagnetic disturbances, or man-made like a large thermonuclear detonation or a cyberattack. If they are coordinated with physical attacks then things can get real dicey real fast.
As the U.S. Commission to Assess the Threat to the United States from EMP Attack points out, “the physical and social fabric of the United States is sustained by a system of systems - a complex and dynamic network of interlocking and interdependent infrastructures whose harmonious functioning enables the myriad actions, transactions, and information flow that undergird the orderly conduct of civil society.”
According to the Commission, EMP effects represent arguably the largest-scale common-cause failure events that could affect our electric power grid and undermine our society, leaving it vulnerable on many fronts. High-voltage control cables and large transformers that control the grid are particularly vulnerable. Transformers weigh 400 tons, take two years to build, and cost $7 million apiece. We are already way behind in having backup transformers ready, so if many go out at once, we have a big problem powering our country.
So can we do anything about it?
The phenomenon of a large electromagnetic pulse is not new. The first human-caused EMP occurred in 1962 when the 1.4 megaton Starfish Prime thermonuclear weapon detonated 400 km above the Pacific Ocean.
One hundred times bigger than what we dropped on Hiroshima, Starfish Prime resulted in an EMP which caused electrical damage nearly 900 miles away in Hawaii. It knocked out about 300 streetlights, set off numerous burglar alarms, and damaged a telephone company microwave link that shut down telephone calls from Kauai to the other Hawaiian islands.
And that was from 900 miles away.
On the natural side, in 1989, an unexpected geomagnetic storm triggered an event on the Hydro-Québec power system that resulted in its complete collapse within 92 seconds, leaving six million customers without power. The storm resulted from the Sun ejecting a trillion-cubic-mile plume of superheated plasma, or ionized gas.
It took two days for this cloud to smash into the Earth’s magnetosphere overwhelming its normal ability to throw off charged cosmic particles, triggering hundreds of incidents across the globe and causing undulating, multicolored auroras to spread as far south as Texas and Cuba.
Such storms occur every 60 years or so, and in 1989, we weren't anywhere near as electrified and electronically interconnected as we are today, or as we will be in 30 years.
This is the most likely EMP to occur.
A new 2018 study by the U.S. Air Force Electromagnetic Defense Task Force addresses direct EMP threats to the United States and its allies. While some issues have existed for decades, the window of opportunity to mitigate some of these threats is closing. Meanwhile, many existing threats have gained prominence because of the almost universal integration of vulnerable silica-based technologies into all aspects of modern technology and society.
In 2008, the Commission to Assess the Threat to the United States from Electromagnetic Pulse Attack made a compelling case for protecting critical infrastructures against EMP and solar geomagnetic disturbances. To avert long term outages, the U.S. must assure the availability of survivable power sources with long-term, readily accessible and continuous fuel supplies to blackstart the grid, sustain emergency life-support services, and reconstitute local, state, and national infrastructures. Long term outages are defined as the interruption of electricity for months to years over large geographic regions.
NuScale
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission tracks this issue closely, and has been examining these issues for more than 30 years, starting in the late 1970s when the agency studied how EMP could affect nuclear power plant safe-shutdown systems. The agency concluded as recently as two years ago that nuclear power plants can safely shut down following an EMP event. NRC drafted a rule last year on maintaining key plant safety functions after a severe event, particularly on how to keep spent fuel pools cool.
On the other hand, Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) just came out with a 2019 report that says the threats are not as grim as these past studies imply. They found the potential impacts of EMPs on transmission substations do not include long-lasting blackouts, national grid failure and mass casualties, as previously reported. Instead they would lead to regional service interruptions.
"We did not see the dire consequences that some of the other reports have documented," said Randy Horton, senior program manager at EPRI.
EPRI did advise using options such as shielded cables and low-voltage surge suppression devices or filters, diverting the extra surge to the ground.
Regardless of source or level of risk, protection of electric power plants, and upgrading our infrastructure, will be essential in preventing long term outages and in restarting portions of the grid that have failed in the face of wide-area threats.
It would be good at this point to understand some of the technical steps to an EMP. The first pulse occurs when gamma rays emanating from the burst interact with the Earth’s atmosphere and eject electrons that stream down the Earth’s magnetic field to generate an incredibly fast electromagnetic pulse within about a billionth of a second after the burst. That pulse peaks around 50,000 V/m on the Earth’s surface.
This first pulse is of the most concern because of its high amplitude and wide bandwidth, allowing it to inject significant energy into conductors as short as twelve inches. Fortunately, this pulse only lasts a millionth of a second, but still time to wreak havoc.
Another pulse occurs just after this, resulting from a second set of gammas produced by energetic neutrons. The peak fields are much lower, about 100 V/m and last less than a second.
The final pulse is a wave similar in nature to naturally-occurring geomagnetic storms associated with coronal mass ejections from the Sun’s surface. These are low frequency, low amplitude pulses that lasts from minutes to hours. Although this may appear to be less intense, these can cause direct damage to equipment connected to long electrical lines, and can damage transformers, uninterruptible power supplies and generators.
Fortunately, the same protection devices we have developed to withstand natural solar events will work with this third pulse. So new protection strategies need to focus on the first two short pulses.
Nuclear power plants have a special place in any strategy because of perceived threats of meltdowns of the core and of nuclear fuel pools, as well as from public concern over all things nuclear. But in addition, nuclear plants could be the most likely power generators to restart quickest after a pulse and would be the baseload power that could keep critical parts of society operating.
At present, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission has no regulatory framework to address the EMP risk to nuclear power stations, although NRC is currently working to create new fuel storage standards and most nuclear plants are EMP-hardening their back-up generators.
So while there are differing opinions as to the direct threat of an EMP to a nuclear power plant, it is generally agreed that the threat should not be ignored.
So NuScale didn’t ignore it, and set about to actively deter EMP effects in the design of their new small modular nuclear reactor (SMR). NuScale’s SMR is already the most resilient, reliable and flexible of any energy source in history, with Black-Start Capability, Island Mode and First Responder Power, without needing external grid connections, capable of withstanding earthquakes, category 5 hurricanes and F5 tornados, planes crashing into it, floods, and cyberattacks. Now it has added EMP threats and geomagnetic disturbances.
Fortunately, NuScale is the first SMR company to file a license and design certification application with the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, and it is the first one to have the NRC complete their Phase 1 review – in record time. So the first unit should roll out in only a few years.
NuScale evaluated support systems of their SMR as either likely vulnerable or inherently resilient to an EMP. The evaluation involved a qualitative vulnerability assessment of above and below ground subsystems, including communications, controls, switches, transformers and machinery within the SMR with special attention to the nuclear plant’s ability to safely shut down and the potential to provide continuous power during and after exposure to an EMP pulse.
Several design features allow the SMR to withstand an EMP attack. There are no safety-related electrical loads, including pumps and electric motor-operated safety valves. Because natural convective core heat removal is used, electrically-operated pumps are not needed to circulate coolant. This means that, if necessary, the reactor can shut down and cool itself for indefinite periods without the need for human intervention, adding water, or external electrical power. So the inherent safety of the reactor is impervious to an EMP and can’t melt-down due to an event.
But just being safe isn’t good enough. It would be great to be able to start up right away or, better yet, keep operating right through the event, so that power is available to mitigate, recover and respond to the worst of attack.
The SMR can go into Island Mode operation, not requiring a connection to the grid to provide electrical power, and allowing for a rapid recovery to full power following the event. The reactor modules can keep safely running and go into stand-by mode
such that they can be rapidly put back into service.
Also, safety-related systems are electrically-isolated from the main plant electrical system, and all sensor cables penetrate the reactor containment vessel at a single location (containment vessel top plate), thereby reducing the EMP pathway.
In addition, the reactor building provides effective electric shielding of EMPs by being several-foot thick concrete walls laced with steel rebar, effectively making it into a Faraday Cage, which is an enclosure or structure that can block an electromagnetic field.
Electrical conducting lines are underground, which significantly attenuates the first burst effects. NuScale uses redundant fiber optic cable for communication links, which are immune to EMP effects.
The NuScale plants feature multiple reactors, multiple turbine generators, an Auxiliary AC Power Source (AAPS), two 2MW backup diesel generators for blackstarting the plant, multiple main power transformers (MPTs) and unit auxiliary transformers (UATs), and redundant backup battery banks. Such redundancy is essential for addressing these complex threats.
The design also provides good grounding practices, lightning protection systems, surge arrestors for connections to the switchyard, delta-wye transformers, and circumferentially-bonded stainless-steel piping.
So new nuclear plants are able to be designed, and old ones upgraded, to withstand EMPs better than most energy systems. Their inherent isolation from the rest of the world is similar to why they can so effectively withstand cyberattacks.

Story 30
LOS ANGELES, United States: The global Electric Oil Pump market is exhaustively researched and analyzed in the report to help market players to improve their business tactics and ensure long-term success. The authors of the report have used easy-to-understand language and uncomplicated statistical images but provided thorough information and detailed data on the global Electric Oil Pump market. The report equips players with useful information and suggests result-oriented ideas to gain a competitive edge in the global Electric Oil Pump market. It shows how different players are competing in the global Electric Oil Pump market and discusses about strategies they are using to distinguish themselves from other participants.
The researchers have provided quantitative and qualitative analysis along with absolute dollar opportunity assessment in the report. Additionally, the report offers Porters Five Forces analysis and PESTLE analysis for more detailed comparisons and other important studies. Each section of the report has something valuable to offer to players for improving their gross margin, sales and marketing strategy, and profit margins. Using the report as a tool for gaining insightful market analysis, players can identify the much needed changes in their operation and improve their approach to doing business. Furthermore, they will be able to give a tough competition to other players of the global Electric Oil Pump market while identifying key growth pockets.
Get PDF template of this report: https://www.qyresearch.com/sample-form/form/1057090/global-electric-oil-pump-market
Key players profiled in the report on the global Electric Oil Pump Market are:
Nidec Corporation
SHW Group
FTE automotive
AISIN SEIKI
Rheinmetall Automotive AG
Hitachi Automotive Systems
Magna
LG Innotek
ZF-TRW
Slpt
Mitsubishi Electric Corporation
EMP
Each company assessed in the report is studied in relation to various factors such as product and application portfolios, market share, growth potential, future plans, and recent developments. Readers will be able to gain complete understanding and knowledge of the competitive landscape. Most importantly, the report sheds light on strategies that leading players are banking on to maintain their dominance in the global Electric Oil Pump market. It shows how the market competition will change in the next few years and how players are preparing themselves to stay ahead of the curve.
Global Electric Oil Pump Market by Type:
Separate Pump
Integrated Pump
Global Electric Oil Pump Market by Application:
Start-Stop System
Electric and Hybrid Vehicle
Global Electric Oil Pump Market by Region:
North America (United States, Canada and Mexico)
Europe (Germany, UK, France, Italy, Russia and Turkey etc.)
Asia-Pacific (China, Japan, Korea, India, Australia, Indonesia, Thailand, Philippines, Malaysia and Vietnam)
South America (Brazil etc.)
Middle East and Africa (Egypt and GCC Countries)
The analysts authoring the report have segmented the global Electric Oil Pump market according to product, application, and region. All of the segments are deeply researched about with heavy emphasis on their CAGR, market size, growth potential, market share, and other vital factors. The segmental study provided in the report will help players to focus on lucrative areas of the global Electric Oil Pump market. The regional analysis will help players to strengthen their footing in key regional markets. It brings to light untapped growth opportunities in regional markets and how they can be capitalized on during the course of the forecast period.
Get Customized Report in your Inbox within 24 hours @ https://www.qyresearch.com/customize-request/form/1057090/global-electric-oil-pump-market
Highlights of TOC:
Overview: Along with a broad overview of the global Electric Oil Pump market, this section gives an overview of the report to give an idea about the nature and contents of the research study.
Market Dynamics: Here, the authors of the report have comprehensively discussed about key drivers, restraints, challenges, trends, and opportunities of the global Electric Oil Pump market.
Product Segments: This part of the report throws light on the market growth of several types of products sold by leading companies.
Application Segments: The analysts authoring the report have deeply assessed the market potential of key applications and identified future opportunities they are expected to create in the global Electric Oil Pump market.
Geographical Segments: Each regional market is carefully looked into for understanding its current and future growth scenarios.
Company Profiles: Top players of the global Electric Oil Pump market are thoroughly profiled in the report based on their market share, market served, products, applications, regional growth, and other factors.
The report also includes dedicated sections on production and consumption analysis, key findings, important suggestions and recommendations, and other aspects. On the whole, it offers complete analysis and research study on the global Electric Oil Pump market to help players to ensure strong growth in the coming years.
About Us:
QY Research established in 2007, focus on custom research, management consulting, IPO consulting, industry chain research, data base and seminar services. The company owned a large basic data base (such as National Bureau of statistics database, Customs import and export database, Industry Association Database etc), expert’s resources (included energy automotive chemical medical ICT consumer goods etc.

Story 31
Dawn came early on September 2, 1859. Shortly after midnight an aurora borealis brighter than the moon woke residents as far south as New Orleans. A Baltimore paper reported that "The light appeared to cover the whole firmament, apparently like a luminous cloud, through which the stars of the larger magnitude indistinctly shone."
Elsewhere, telegraph operators fought to keep their systems online. The telegraph was 20 years old, and the event so powerful that it disrupted operator batteries and made effective telegraph operation impossible. Other operators turned off their batteries in frustration, only to find to their astonishment that the telegraph worked normally again — powered exclusively by the aurora borealis.
The Carrington Event of 1859, so named for the British astronomer who recorded the sun spot activity that day, was the largest geomagnetic disturbance (GMD) event of modern times. Apart from a telegraph outage, the largely analog world of 1859 continued with little consequence. But what would happen today if a solar flare of similar magnitude occurred — or if a human-made electromagnetic pulse weapon (EMP) produced similar results?
An EMP attack would reduce a city like San Francisco to the Stone Age. — Mike Overly
Both threats pose risks to the enterprise and should be considered as part of your business continuity and disaster recovery planning. Here are some gotchas you might not have thought of when considering the risks of an EMP attack or a GMD event.
What is an EMP attack?
During the Cold War, military planners chased the chimera of a neutron bomb, a nuclear weapon that would kill everyone in a city but leave the infrastructure intact. EMP weapons, widely believed to be possessed by the United States and other nuclear powers, are small nuclear weapons designed to be detonated at high altitude over a large city that would fry all the electronic equipment within the blast area — energy grid, cell phones, computers of all kinds, modern vehicles and so forth.
The current worry, overhyped according to some, is the risk of North Korea launching an ICBM with an EMP payload and detonating it over San Francisco. While such an attack would almost certainly invoke mutually assured destruction and turn Pyongyang into a glass parking lot, it would also fry most of Silicon Valley and grind America's information-based economy to a halt for months, since every piece of electronic equipment affected would have to be junked and replaced.
The risk of an EMP attack ever happening is low, Brian Harrell, assistant secretary for infrastructure protection at the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS), tells CSO. "We have absolutely no specific or credible intelligence that suggests that an EMP attack is likely to happen," he says. "GMD events are certainly a higher risk for occurrence than EMP attacks, but nonetheless have similar characteristics from a scientific perspective."
Despite the low risk, the White House issued an "Executive Order on Coordinating National Resilience to Electromagnetic Pulses" in March. The order outlines what steps agencies such as the Department of Defense (DoD), the Commerce Department and the DHS should be doing to minimize the risk from EMPs.
What is a GMD event?
A GMD event is a solar flare that affects the energy grid and other electronics the way the Carrington Event disrupted telegraph infrastructure in 1859. We don't have to go back to pre-Civil War times, though — the 1989 solar flare event disrupted the North American energy grid and turned off the power in Quebec for eight hours in the middle of a Canadian winter.
Because of the way the Earth's magnetic field works, with poles near the north and south geographic poles, respectively, solar flare events disproportionately affect systems the further north (in the Northern Hemisphere) and further south (in the Southern Hemisphere) that you go. In North America energy grid systems in Canada have the most experience dealing with space weather events that affect the power grid.
As a result of the 1989 blackout, the North American energy grid providers worked together to research the risk and better understand how to prevent such a blackout in the future. According to Dave Roop, director of electric transmission at Dominion Virginia Power, the North American energy grid is well-prepared for a GMD event larger than the 1989 solar flare, and maybe even larger than the Carrington Event.
"We've done a lot of modeling to see where we stand, not only for what we consider a 100-year storm but storms above that," Roop tells CSO. "We've placed sensors across our network and we're working with NASA and NOAA [National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration] and the U.S. Geological Survey to improve our modeling and forecasting tools."
So, what specific concrete steps should an enterprise take to mitigate the risk of a GMD event or EMP attack?
Mitigating the risk of a GMD event or EMP attack
While both involve similar types of electromagnet radiation, mitigating the risk for each is quite different. A GMD event is lower severity over a larger geographical area and is a well-understood problem that the energy sector has been working to solve for decades. An EMP attack is much, much lower probability but would have a much higher severity over a smaller geographical region.
"An EMP attack would reduce a city like San Francisco to the Stone Age," Mike Overly, an engineer-turned-cybersecurity lawyer at Foley & Lardner, tells CSO.
Enterprises should include both GMD events and EMP attacks in their business continuity and disaster recovery planning scenarios. Because defending against a direct EMP blast is extraordinarily expensive, the easiest thing to do is to review the location of your secondary backup recovery facilities and ensure they are in a part of the country unlikely to be affected by an EMP blast, perhaps a less-populated region in the middle of the country.
One gotcha security teams should watch out for, Overly says, is to review the legal language in any contract with a disaster recovery facility, which often says that the secondary facility can prioritize resources to other customers. Negotiate in any contract that your enterprise will not be treated to the detriment of another client. "Most of those agreements give the provider the right to do just that and leave you hanging."
This is important because an EMP blast would likely require the permanent transition of operations to a secondary facility, as it could take months to a year to replace fried electronics and to decontaminate any radioactive fallout to make the primary facility suitable for humans again.
Of the 16 named critical infrastructure sectors in the United States, sectors that ought to prioritize thinking about EMP attacks are financial services, utilities and healthcare. For those companies worried about the survival of their data in the event of an EMP blast, a handful of cloud providers have begun offering nuclear-hardened facilities designed to resist an EMP blast, if not, perhaps, a direct hit by a nuclear weapon.
The big takeaway here is that while solar flares pose a far higher risk than an EMP attack. enterprises should include both in their disaster recovery and business continuity plans and evaluate how to diversify their infrastructure to be resilient in the face of either happening.

Story 32
UPDATE: On September 10, U.S. Army researchers Adam L. Foltz and James E. Burke were issued U.S. Patent 10,408,579 for their directed energy modifications to the blank firing adapter used on M4 rifles. The patent can be found below.
A U.S. Army engineer’s idea to turn the standard M4 rifle into an electromagnetic pulse gun recently got the nod from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.
James E. Burke, electronics engineer at the U.S. Army’s Combat Capabilities Development Command Armaments Center, received U.S. patent 10,180,309 on Tuesday, giving the Army intellectual property protections on Burke’s “Electromagnetic Pulse Transmitter Muzzle Adapter.”
This invention would enable a single soldier in a ground unit to destroy enemy electronics, such as small drones or improvised explosive devices, by attaching a special blank-firing adapter to their rifle’s muzzle, then firing a shot.
The muzzle attachment contains a piezoelectric generator, powered by firing the blank cartridge, which creates an electromagnetic pulse directed by a horn antenna.
Most of the Army’s directed-energy weapons are large, vehicle-mounted systems. For example, the High Energy Laser Mobile Test Truck is an 8-wheeled behemoth.
“A need exists for an inexpensive, one-man portable directed energy weapon,” according to the Army patent, which you can download along with Burke’s slides below.
Troops “already carry rifles. Why not use something that every soldier already carries?” Burke told Defense One.
A prototype has been tested, its effective range has not been disclosed, but Burke indicated that larger caliber ammunition may affect performance.
TechLink, the Department of Defense’s national partnership intermediary for technology transfer, can help businesses interested in productizing DoD technology learn more about patent licensing. Through technology transfer, DoD inventions are made available to businesses and entrepreneurs for use in new products and services.
The Armaments Center has over 400 available technologies.
A patent license confers the right to practice the invention for commercial purposes and often includes related data and technical knowledge. License fees paid to the laboratory are typically negotiable.
To receive more information on this technology, interested parties can contact Brian Metzger, senior technology manager at TechLink, at brian.metzger@montana.edu or 406-994-7782.

Story 33
Epirus Co-Founder & Chief Technology Officer Dr. Bo Marr will join other top U.S. technology innovators as a presenter at the Defense Advanced Research Project Agency’s (DARPA) Electronics Resurgence Initiative (ERI) Summit on July 17 in Detroit, Michigan. Epirus is the only U.S. developer of software-defined electromagnetic pulse (EMP) technology—a short burst of directed energy that can take down unmanned aircraft systems (UAS), otherwise known as drones, a growing national security problem that has caused airport shutdowns and other disturbances. DARPA is the federal agency responsible for making pivotal investments and breakthrough technologies for the U.S. Department of Defense.
The ERI Summit’s agenda focuses on Edge Intelligence (EI), which “enables smart devices to sense, decide with, act on and send information at the point of raw data collection rather than relying on the cloud.” Marr’s presentation is titled, “Edge Intelligence in Extremely Compact Form Factors Enables New Military Capability.”
“I am grateful to DARPA for the opportunity to share our successful field testing and research that shows the tactical value of the world’s first software-defined EMP weapon aided by artificial intelligence for targeting,” said Marr, who is a Fellow of the National Science Foundation. “I look forward to discussing how two trends are emerging in edge processing in military applications – increased target recognition, classification, and tracking, especially in combating drone swarms, and the move towards fully autonomous systems.”
Other presenters at the ERI Summit include senior researchers and executives from Qualcomm, NVIDIA, Intel, and Raytheon, as well as professors from UC Berkeley, Stanford University, the University of Notre Dame, the University of Michigan, the Georgia Institute of Technology, and Purdue University. On June 1, 2017, DARPA’s Microsystems Technology Office announced a new ERI effort to focus on creating “far-reaching improvements in electronics performance well beyond the limits of traditional scaling.” According to DARPA, “ERI draws on new and existing DARPA programs to make a significant investment into enabling circuit specialization and managing complexity.”
Marr is well-respected for his leadership in the development of major RF-based products and roadmaps, including on airborne systems such as the F-18, Growler, F-15, and Coyote UAS. While at Raytheon, Marr won the CEO award for innovation, filed over 70 U.S. and international patents, and was a technical lead on the Next Generation Jammer program. He has reviewed and facilitated 600 inventions and 100 peer-reviewed papers as elected Raytheon IP Champion. Marr began his career at IBM where he co-engineered the chips behind Watson. He is a Fellow of the National Science Foundation and holds a Ph.D. in electrical and computer engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.
About Epirus:
Epirus is the only U.S. developer of software-defined electromagnetic pulse (EMP) technology—a short burst of directed energy to take down unmanned aircraft systems (UAS), otherwise known as drones. The company is under contract with various U.S. Department of Defense agencies and has successfully tested its EMP systems under rigorous government oversight. Headquartered near the U.S. Air Force Space and Missile Systems Center in El Segundo, CA, Epirus draws on the heritage that launched the Space Age combined with the culture of innovation from founders, early investors, and executives who have been behind Palantir, Oculus, Rally Health, and OpenGov, among other leading companies. The leadership team at Epirus includes senior-level engineers, researchers, and scientists from Raytheon, Boeing, IBM, and Google. Collectively, they hold over 120 U.S. patents—more patents per employee than any of its closest competitors. The company has expertise in understanding how drones respond to EMP, which helps inform its work in developing technological innovations into how America will defeat drone swarms. Epirus is formally collaborating with two legacy aerospace and defense companies.
Epirus Systems

Story 34
Department of Homeland Security workers at the National Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center in Arlington, Va., January 13, 2015. (Larry Downing/Reuters)
A threat that could literally mean the end of civilization is finally getting the attention it needs under Trump.
Washington and the press call almost everything an “existential threat” these days. But the threat from a natural or man-made electromagnetic pulse (EMP) really is one, as our congressional commission reported in 2017:
The critical national infrastructure in the United States faces a present and continuing existential threat from combined-arms warfare, including cyber and manmade electromagnetic pulse (EMP) attack, as well as EMP from a solar superstorm. During the Cold War, the U.S. was primarily concerned about an EMP attack generated by a high-altitude nuclear weapon as a tactic by which the Soviet Union could suppress the U.S. national command authority and the ability to respond to a nuclear attack — and thus negate the deterrence value of assured nuclear retaliation. Within the last decade, newly-armed adversaries, including North Korea, have been developing the ability and threatening to carry out an EMP attack against the United States.
The bottom line:
Such an attack would give countries that have only a small number of nuclear weapons the ability to cause widespread, long-lasting damage to critical national infrastructures, to the United States itself as a viable country, and to the survival of a majority of its population. The EMP Commission warns that potential adversaries are developing a revolutionary new way of warfare combining cyber-attacks, sabotage, and nuclear EMP attack against national electric grids and other critical infrastructures to achieve quick and decisive victory: Combined-Arms Cyber Warfare, as planned by Russia, China, North Korea, and Iran, may use combinations of cyber-, sabotage-, and ultimately nuclear EMP-attack to impair the United States quickly and decisively by blacking-out large portions of its electric grid and other critical infrastructures. Foreign adversaries may also consider nuclear EMP attack as the ultimate cyber “denial of service” weapon, one which can gravely damage the U.S. by striking at its technological Achilles’ heel, without having to engage the U.S. military. . . .
The synergism of such combined-arms is described in the military doctrines of all these potential adversaries as the greatest Revolution in Military Affairs (RMA) in history — one which anticipates rendering obsolete many, if not all, traditional instruments of military power.
Alarmingly, in the military doctrines of potential adversaries, nuclear EMP attack is considered a dimension of cyber warfare, because EMP is not directly injurious to people, only to electronics. High-altitude EMP attack entails exo-atmospheric detonation (30 to 500 kilometers high), so none of the blast, fire, radiation, radioactive fallout, or other effects associated with a nuclear attack on a city would occur — only the EMP.
Yet EMP, like a super-energetic radio wave that can destroy all kinds of electronics across a region as vast as North America with a single weapon, could in the long run kill far more Americans through its indirect effects than nuclear bombing of a city. Fatalities estimated from a protracted nationwide blackout lasting one year range from 67 to 90 percent of the U.S. population, due to starvation, disease, and societal collapse.
The EMP Commission tried, but could not figure out a way to keep 328 million Americans alive for a year without food and water. In 1880, just before the invention of the first electric grid in 1882, and long before the advent of our high-tech electronic civilization, the U.S. population was about 50 million, sustained by horse-drawn, coal-fired, and mechanical critical infrastructures that no longer exist.
Advertisement
Advertisement
Nuclear deterrence may not prevent an EMP attack, which can be executed anonymously using a balloon or a private jet or by doing a zoom-climb, with a short-range missile launched off a freighter (as practiced by Iran), or by satellite (as practiced by North Korea). Retaliatory threats are credible only if you know who attacked.
EMP also blinds, at the speed of light, satellites, radars, and other National Technical Means used for threat assessment and identifying attackers. Super-EMP weapons now possessed by Russia, China, and probably North Korea could generate 100,000 volts/meter or more, greatly exceeding the U.S. military hardening standard (50,000 volts/meter) and potentially paralyzing U.S. nuclear and conventional retaliatory capabilities.
For more on the military dimensions of the EMP threat, see the EMP Commission Report “Nuclear EMP Attack Scenarios and Combined-Arms Cyber Warfare” (July 2017). All the unclassified EMP Commission reports are available at www.firstempcommission.org.
Terrible as the consequences of a nuclear EMP attack on the United States would be, a natural EMP from a solar superstorm, such as a recurrence of the 1859 Carrington Event, could be even worse, potentially collapsing life-sustaining critical infrastructures — electric grids, communication, transportation, business and finance, food and water — worldwide:
Solar super-storms, like the 1859 Carrington Event, generate natural EMP that could blackout electric grids and other life-sustaining critical infrastructures . . . putting at risk the lives of many millions. Recurrence of another Carrington Event is inevitable. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) reports the Earth was nearly impacted by a solar super-storm on July 23, 2012. NASA estimates the likelihood of such an event to be 12 percent per decade, virtually guaranteeing Earth will be impacted by a solar super-storm within the lifetimes of our grandchildren — and perhaps ourselves as well.
But there is some good news, according to the EMP Commission Chairman’s Report: “Protecting and defending the national electric grid and other critical infrastructures from EMP can be accomplished at reasonable cost and minimal disruption to the present systems.” Protecting against the most severe threat — nuclear EMP attack — could be done in a manner that also protects against natural EMP from solar storms and mitigates other threats, including cyber-attacks, sabotage, and severe weather such as hurricanes.
The great news is that President Trump has issued his “Executive Order on Coordinating National Resilience to Electromagnetic Pulses” (March 26, 2019), which implements core recommendations of the EMP Commission, requiring that: “The Federal Government must foster sustainable, efficient, and cost-effective approaches to improving the Nation’s resilience to the effects of EMPs.”
Advertisement
The EMP Executive Order describes a program for protecting electric grids and other life-sustaining critical infrastructures that shall be, as recommended by the EMP Commission, run from the White House.
One of the biggest obstacles to achieving national EMP preparedness is buck-passing by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), Department of Defense (DOD), Department of Energy (DOE), and utilities. No one wants to take the lead on protecting critical infrastructures from EMP, and everyone has plausible arguments why responsibility belongs to someone else. Now the EMP Executive Order requires DHS, DOD, DOE, and the utilities to work together on national EMP preparedness — under White House supervision.
The recent foot-dragging and erroneous DHS “National EMP Strategy” (October 9, 2018) — reluctantly drafted by DHS only because Congress tried to compel them to do something about EMP in the Critical Infrastructure Protection Act — would have continued studying EMP until 2028. In contrast, President Trump’s EMP Executive Order moves like lightning. Some deadlines:
“Within 90 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of Homeland Security . . . shall identify and list the national critical infrastructures . . . that, if disrupted, could reasonably result in catastrophic national or regional effects.”
“Within 180 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of Homeland Security . . . shall review and update Federal response plans, programs, and procedures to account for the effects of EMPs.”
“Within 1 year of the date of this order . . . the Secretary of Homeland Security . . . shall submit to the President . . . a report that analyzes the technology options available to improve the resilience of critical infrastructure to the effects of EMPs.”
“Within 1 year of the date of this order, the Secretary of Homeland Security . . . shall identify regulatory and non-regulatory mechanisms, including cost recovery mechanisms, that can enhance private-sector engagement to address the effects of EMPs.”
“Within 1 year of the date of this order . . . the Secretary of Energy . . . shall review existing standards for EMPs and develop or update . . . quantitative benchmarks that sufficiently describe the physical characteristics of EMPs, including waveform and intensity, in a form that is useful to and can be shared with owners and operators of critical infrastructure.”
Very importantly, given the development of super-EMP weapons by Russia, China, and probably North Korea, the EMP Executive Order directs:
The Secretary of Defense shall conduct R&D and testing to understand the effects of EMPs on Department of Defense systems . . . and develop technologies to protect Department of Defense systems and infrastructure from the effects of EMPs to ensure the successful execution of Department of Defense missions.
President Trump’s EMP executive order is an opportunity for the U.S. government and private sector to achieve national EMP preparedness quickly, within two to three years. But “the swamp” may yet win. Obama holdovers and career bureaucrats, the electric-power lobby, and ignorant media “instant EMP experts” will do everything in their power to derail Trump’s plan to make America safe from EMP.
Shortly after issuance of the EMP executive order, a spate of articles appeared claiming that EMP is not a real threat, or the threat is overblown. For example, on April 30, the Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI), a lobby for the electric utilities masquerading as a quasi-governmental partner with the Department of Energy, released a bogus study purporting a nuclear EMP attack would be no big deal. The EPRI report includes a disclaimer that EPRI is not responsible and cannot be sued if anyone believes their report, follows their advice, and suffers loss of property or life from EMP.
Stratfor’s Scott Stewart, in “The EMP Threat Is Real, but It Shouldn’t Keep You Up at Night” (April 9, 2019), makes many erroneous claims, including that, because Puerto Rico recovered from Hurricane Maria (with massive emergency assistance from the United States), somehow a protracted blackout of North America would not kill millions of Americans deprived of food and water, possibly for months or years.
Advertisement
Advertisement
Stewart writes reassuringly, “People are often more resilient than some give them credit for.” But among the reasons we have a U.S. government is so that American men, women, and children will not have to test their individual unaided resilience against the EMP threat.
—William Graham was the chairman of the Congressional EMP Commission, the White House science advisor to President Reagan, and a member of the defense-science team that discovered the EMP phenomenon. Ambassador R. James Woolsey was CIA director and a senior advisor to the Congressional EMP Commission. Peter Vincent Pry was the chief of staff of the Congressional EMP Commission and served on the staffs of the House Armed Services Committee and the CIA.

Story 35
Electric Oil Pump market report examines the short-and medium-term economic and profitability outlook for Electric Oil Pump industry.. Global Electric Oil Pump Market Report is a professional and comprehensive research report on the world’s major regional market conditions, focusing on the main regions (North America, Europe and Asia-Pacific) and the main countries (United States, Germany, United Kingdom, Japan, South Korea and China).
In this report, the global Electric Oil Pump market is valued at USD XX million in 2019 and is projected to reach USD XX million by the end of 2024, growing at a CAGR of XX% during the period 2019 to 2024.
Read Report Details at https://www.proaxivereports.com/3728
The major players profiled in this report include:
Nidec Corporation
SHW Group
FTE automotive
AISIN SEIKI
Rheinmetall Automotive AG
Hitachi Automotive Systems
Magna
LG Innotek
ZF-TRW
Slpt
Mitsubishi Electric Corporation
EMP
Request for Sample Report at https://www.proaxivereports.com/request-sample/3728
The report firstly introduced the Electric Oil Pump basics: definitions, classifications, applications and market overview; product specifications; manufacturing processes; cost structures, raw materials and so on.
On the basis of product, this Electric Oil Pump market report displays the sales volume, revenue (Million USD), product price, market share and growth rate of each type, primarily split into-
Separate Pump
Integrated Pump
On the basis on the end users/applications, this report focuses on the status and outlook for major applications/end users, sales volume, market share and growth rate of Electric Oil Pump for each application, including-
Start-Stop System
Electric and Hybrid Vehicle
Ask more details or request custom reports to our experts at https://www.proaxivereports.com/pre-order/3728
Then it analyzed the world’s main region Electric Oil Pump market conditions, including the product price, profit, capacity, production, supply, demand and Electric Oil Pump industry growth rate and forecast etc. In the end, the report introduced new project SWOT analysis, investment feasibility analysis, and investment return analysis.
The report highlights historic and forecasted market size in terms of revenues & unit sales, average selling price, growth rates, and company market shares.
Highlights and compares key application/product categories for growth trends and revenue forecast.
Market size, revenue and unit sales according to each region
Cross category comparison – Growth and revenue comparison for product categories, historic and forecast through 2024.
Market share of top key players
Current trends and recent Developments
Reasons to Purchase Electric Oil Pump Market Research Report
Develop competitive strategy based on competitive landscape
Build business strategy by identifying the high growth and attractive Electric Oil Pump market categories
Identify potential business partners, acquisition targets and business buyers
Design capital investment strategies based on forecasted high potential segments
Prepare management and strategic presentations using the Electric Oil Pump market data
Plan for a new product launch and inventory in advance
Purchase Electric Oil Pump Market Report at https://www.proaxivereports.com/checkout/3728

Story 36
GERMAN born theoretical physicist, Albert Einstein once said: “I know not with what weapons World War 3 will be fought, but world war four will be fought with sticks and stones.”
He predicted that world war three would be waged with nuclear weapons that would virtually destroy civilisation.
In fact, superpowers are working towards the best possible weaponry with devastating capabilities.
In this regard, Einstein had presumed that the war after that would revert to the Stone Age.
In 1962, the US government set off a 1.4 megatonne nuclear warhead at a height of 399km above Johnston Atoll, Hawaii, in an operation the military named “Starfish Prime”. No one expected the test to impact Hawaii, as it was 1,400km away.
But it produced a sudden burst of electromagnetic pulse (EMP) radiation, which is an intense energy field that can instantly overload and damage electrical circuits from computer to electronic grids for hundreds of kilometres.
The sky turned red. There was radio disruption. Streetlights and telephones went out in Hawaii, California and Alaska, and six satellites above the Pacific were knocked out. The bomb was about 100 times larger than the one which was dropped on Nagasaki but it had no immediate harmful effects on humans because it was not an act of nuclear war.
The entire way of life of a society today relies on electricity and electronic technology. In a worst-case scenario, an EMP event, a threat that is not well understood and lacks the leadership to address, could occur with little or no warning, and have catastrophic effects.
A report by the US Congressional Research Service confirmed that a nuclear EMP attack could collapse the entire electrical grid and directly disrupt transport systems, industry and manufacturing, satellite navigation, telecommunication systems and computers, banking and finance, and food and water infrastructure systems.
Although blackouts can be restored, it would take months. This would not only have immediate effects on the population’s ability to function normally, but would also have devastating long-term effects on the country’s economic structure.
Hospitals would become death traps and this could cost thousands of lives and irreparably cripple a country. It is estimated that the average US city only has enough food and healthcare provisions to last three days. Hunger, disease outbreaks and civil violence may cause death.
No other threat can cause such broad and deep damage to all the critical infrastructure as a nuclear EMP attack.
More than 1,000 jetliners carry about 500,000 passengers in the skies over the US at any given moment. Many, most or virtually all of these would crash, depending on the strength of the EMP field.
The US is the primary target of attack by Iran, North Korea, Russia or China, which are actively developing EMP weapons. Recently, the South China Morning Post reported that “Competition between the US and China could escalate into a Cold War-style rivalry as “Counter-China” and “far-right populist” policymakers dominate the White House.
Zhao Minghao, a senior fellow at the Institute of International Studies at Fudan University in Shanghai, surveyed a number of Chinese academics and concluded that “the possibility of a major US-China confrontation and armed conflict can by no means be ruled out”.
Dr Peter Vincent Pry, executive director of the Task Force on National and Homeland Security in America, said there were fears that North Korea was secretly developing the ability to detonate a high-altitude nuclear weapon in space. It has two earth observation satellites that were launched in 2012 and last year.
It is believed that Pyongyang may be taking its inspiration from a plan the former Soviet Union drew up to attack America with an EMP during the Cold War. Besides North Korea, Iran, Russia and China have an EMP attack capability. There is a fear that North Korea and Iran could team up to launch an EMP strike on a “defenceless” US by detonating a nuclear weapon carried by one of their satellites as it passes over the US.
According to the Commission to Assess the Threat to the US from EMP Attack, nuclear EMP attack is part of the military doctrines, plans, and exercises of Russia, China, North Korea, and Iran for a revolutionary new way of warfare against forces and critical civilian infrastructure.
The technology to carry out such attacks already exists.
Heads of government should act with integrity and not use it to attack or threaten other nations. Leaders and nations with such destructive capabilities need to come to their senses and not put humanity at risk.
The writer holds a professional chair in crime and criminology, Institute of Crime and Criminology, HELP University

Story 37
Mike Huckabee, Newt Gingrich, Ben Carson, John Bolton, James Woolsey Photo illustration by Slate. Photos by Alex Wong/Getty Images, Zakaria Abdelkafi /AFP/Getty Images, Spencer Platt/Getty Images, Brendan Smialowski/AFP/Getty Images, and Karen Bleier/AFP/Getty Images.
On March 26, Donald Trump issued an executive order to ward off the apocalypse. The “Executive Order on Coordinating National Resilience to Electromagnetic Pulses” instructs the Department of Homeland Security, the Department of Defense, and other federal agencies to evaluate the potential damage of a catastrophic electromagnetic pulse attack and implement measures to protect the U.S. should such an event occur.
A large-scale EMP attack that affects the entire nation would, in theory, involve a foreign power detonating a nuclear missile in the atmosphere above the U.S. The explosion would produce gamma rays that could then disrupt all sorts of electronic equipment on the ground below—cellphones, power grids, the works. It’s not hard to imagine how our society could devolve into a survivalist hellscape if it were suddenly stripped of functioning electronics.
Trump’s executive order is the product of decades of right-wing fretting. Mainstream national security experts tend to be extremely skeptical that an enemy is likely to launch an EMP attack against the U.S., largely due to the risk of retaliation. Yet some of the most visible figures in the Republican Party—such as Newt Gingrich, Ben Carson, and Mike Huckabee—have headlined conferences dedicated to EMPs and incorporated the issue into their campaigns for public office. Ex-intelligence officials have lobbied tirelessly for government initiatives to harden the country’s infrastructure, as have conservative organizations like the Heritage Foundation. All of that raises a question: Why are conservatives so obsessed with EMPs?
It’s important to note that there has never been a nuclear EMP attack, and much of the national security community thinks it’s not very likely to happen. It would be bizarre for a foreign power to initiate a nuclear war with a largely untested means of attack when it could just level a city with a bomb, according to Peter Singer, a senior fellow at New America. (New America is a partner with Slate and Arizona State University in Future Tense.)
There are some EMP scenarios that are slightly more likely to actually happen. For instance, governments around the world are developing weapons that can produce EMP disruptions for electronics in a one-mile radius. Using such a device would be much less risky, but also less devastating, than deploying a nuclear EMP. A similar disruption could also occur naturally during a solar flare, a sudden release of energy on the sun’s surface that also produces gamma radiation. The probability of such an event is also slim—there’s around a 10 percent chance of a massive solar flare happening every decade—but it’s happened before. In 1859, a solar superstorm set telegraph circuits ablaze around the world. And in 1989, a solar flare caused a 12-hour blackout in Quebec, Canada.
Scientists first observed the effects of a nuclear EMP during the Starfish Prime bomb test in 1962, which disrupted electrical services in Hawaii. Both the U.S. and the Soviet Union studied the potential impacts of an attack during the Cold War and continued to detonate atmospheric nuclear explosions for several months, though the countries eventually agreed to stop such testing with the Limited Nuclear Test Ban Treaty in 1963. And as tensions eventually decreased, so did concerns over the scenario.
According to the New Republic, that changed in the late ’90s when then-Rep. Roscoe Bartlett, a Republican from Maryland, glommed onto the issue. Bartlett consulted with espionage novelist Tom Clancy and in 2000 convinced lawmakers to form a commission to evaluate EMP attacks. The commission was enacted in 2001 and put out a report warning that the technology was a looming threat—but the timing was off. The report came out the same day as that of the 9/11 commission. Bartlett eventually became a doomsday prepper and was last reported as living in a remote cabin in the West Virginia mountains.
Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich has in some ways taken the EMP mantle from Bartlett. In 2009, author William Forstchen published the thriller novel One Second After, which follows a North Carolina man’s quest to save his family in the wake of an EMP attack.* The book predicts that 90 percent of the American population would be wiped out from an attack, and the figure has since then become a popular talking point among EMP alarmists. (Tests conducted by the EMP commission show that a “significant fraction” of electrical systems would fail from an attack, but it’s hardly enough to wipe out 90 percent of the population.) Gingrich, who has co-authored several novels with Forstchen, wrote a foreword for One Second After and has regularly touted it as an essential read on the dangers of an EMP scenario. “I’ve believed for a long time that EMP may be the greatest strategic threat we face,” Gingrich said during a conference in 2009. (He regularly gives talks about the issue.) “Without adequate preparation, its impact would be so horrifying that we would in fact basically lose our civilization in a matter of seconds.”
“I’ve believed for a long time that EMP may be the greatest strategic threat we face.” — Newt Gingrich
Plenty of other influential figures in Trump’s orbit have tried to raise awareness around nuclear EMP attacks. Former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee, a prominent Trump booster and father of White House press secretary Sarah Sanders, warned during his 2016 presidential campaign kickoff speech that EMPs could “take this country back to the Stone Age in a matter of minutes.” Housing and Urban Development Secretary and former presidential candidate Ben Carson mentioned the threat both during the primary debates and on the campaign trail in 2016, as did Rick Santorum, who seemed particularly worried that Iran would try make “planes fall out of the sky.” And former CIA Director James Woolsey, one of the most active EMP doomsayers, was an adviser for John McCain’s 2008 presidential campaign and Trump’s 2016 campaign, though he has been associated with the Democratic Party and previously served in both Democratic and Republican administrations.
Former congressional adviser Peter Pry, another leading figure in the EMP lobby, also had contact with Trump on the campaign trail. Pry visited Iowa in 2016 shortly before the first caucus to speak to Republican candidates about EMPs, and apparently Trump was particularly receptive to the warnings. “[Trump] got it,” Pry told BuzzFeed. “He’s a smart guy. He basically said, ‘If I’m elected President, I’ll knock their heads together and solve this problem.’ ”
Why conservative figures have traditionally been the loudest alarmists for EMP attacks is a bit of a mystery. Indeed, the national security experts I spoke to for this piece weren’t exactly sure why this issue has become an important issue for people with a certain ideological bent. “Why this obsession? I’ve always wondered about that,” says Singer.
One theory is that the Republican approach to global affairs has a tendency to emphasize catastrophic threats. “[EMP threats] work for all flavors of conservative foreign policy,” says Robert Farley, an assistant professor at the University of Kentucky who studies military doctrines and has tracked the rise of EMP fears among conservatives. Farley says that EMPs are a useful bogeyweapon for Republican causes like maximizing the defense budget and subduing the axis of evil. The idea that one device couple cripple the entire U.S. makes North Korea and Iran seem even more threatening.
For the most part, the measures necessary to safeguard the country from EMP-related disruptions are harmless, even useful. For example, modernizing the electrical grid and investing in alternative energy sources would both reduce the United States’ carbon emissions and make the country more resilient to EMP attacks. But security experts worry that an obsession over EMP preparedness could mutate from a largely benign call for upgrades to U.S. infrastructure into an excuse for hawkish military actions. Sharon Burke, a senior adviser at New America, points out that while most of Trump’s executive order seems innocuous, it does include instructions for the secretary of defense to “defend the Nation from adversarial EMPs originating outside of the United States through defense and deterrence.” Burke says, “That’s a really problematic clause … giving a justification for a preemptive attack, potentially.”
Shortly before he became the national security adviser, John Bolton gave an interview to Fox News in which he made the hawkish claim that “the only diplomatic option left is to end the regime in North Korea” in the wake of the country’s sixth nuclear test. In supporting his point, Bolton later added that the country’s nuclear devices “can be used as electromagnetic pulse weapons that are not necessarily hitting targets, but destroying our electrical grid’s capabilities.” Throughout the 2000s, Republicans also marshalled the EMP threat as an argument for developing an expanded national missile defense system, which would cost billions of dollars.
Conservative-leaning fiction may also have played a part in stoking the imaginations of the public, breathing new life into panic over EMPs. Singer described Clancy’s and Forstchen’s EMP-related novels as belonging to “the genre of the U.S.’ collapse taking us back to when it was the real U.S. … Society has fallen apart, but our guns still work, and we’ll re-create it. There’s a neat ideological fit.”
Michaela Dodge, a research fellow for the Heritage Foundation, which has been instrumental in publicizing the EMP threat over the years, says that her talks about EMPs seem to enthrall her largely conservative audiences. “I would say of all the issues I work on, this one captures the imagination of the general public the most.” Dodge suggested the post-apocalyptic TV shows Jericho and Revolution, which premiered in 2006 and 2012 respectively, helped people to think about the consequences of EMPs and widespread power loss. While Dodge said she didn’t see why these shows would appeal to a certain political demographic, Jericho’s first season had a notably conservative plotline. And according to viewership data, Revolution had a largely Republican audience.
Some experts further suggested that there may be a financial incentive for certain conservative figures to be pushing the EMP threat. “There are some people who marketized it. It’s a moneymaking scheme,” said Singer, who pointed to several opportunities to cash in: writing novels on EMPs, securing think tank funding for further research on the threat, selling doomsday prepper equipment. (Companies like Faraday Defense and Mission Darkness sell lines of key fob cases and backpacks that can withstand EMPs on Amazon.)
It’s difficult to divine how exactly certain EMP alarmists could be profiting off increased attention to the issue, since their think tanks often don’t disclose their funding and because it’s not yet clear which companies will be receiving government contracts as a result of the executive order. However, the Washington Examiner, a conservative outlet, published an op-ed in 2018 by former Senate Armed Services Committee staffer Gregory Kiley noting that former CIA Director James Woolsey “has worked with three different venture capital firms who have investments in companies that could profit off of EMP hysteria.” Woolsey serves as the chairman of Woolsey Partners LLC, which invests in industries crucial to EMP readiness such as alternative energy, cybersecurity, and telecommunications. He’s also a venture partner at Lux Capital. The firm has invested in companies like Gridco—which helped utilities become more resistant to power outages before it folded—and Crystal IS, which manufactures water purification products that would be crucial in a disaster scenario. Woolsey formerly served as a partner at VantagePoint Venture Capital, which was investing in “grid optimization” companies during his time there. (Woolsey declined Slate’s requests for comment.)
Whatever the motivations may be for Trump’s executive order on EMPs, it’s probably not a harbinger of war with a nuclear power. “My feeling is that you don’t necessarily worry about the snowball when it’s at the top of the hill. You worry about the snowball when it’s rolling toward you,” says Farley. “If you’re worried about [the EMP issue] being used for missile defense or attacking North Korea, wait until people are making those arguments.”
Indeed, administration officials haven’t said much about EMPs following the executive order. As tensions rise with Iran and North Korea, it’s possible that EMPs could eventually become a fraught part of the national conversation. There’s also the chance, though, that the government will prepare by simply upgrading the energy grid and broadcasting PSAs urging us to buy EMP-resistant duffel bags and fabrics on Amazon.
Correction, June 3, 2019: This article originally misidentified the state in which the protagonist of One Second After lives. It is North Carolina, not South Carolina.
Future Tense is a partnership of Slate, New America, and Arizona State University that examines emerging technologies, public policy, and society.

Story 38
The Trump Administration recently launched a game plan to protect the country from one of its greatest and least appreciated catastrophic risks: electromagnetic pulse (EMP) disturbances. These bursts of electromagnetic energy, whether naturally occurring or through malicious human action (i.e., from terrorists or other enemies), can cripple large sections of the electric grid by frying and ruining critical equipment.
EMP risks have been known and scientifically well documented for decades. They have been extensively addressed at military installations. Yet, at the civilian level, next to nothing has been done, even as we have become increasingly dependent on electricity and electronic devices.
In Senate testimony on February 27, Dr. George Baker, a leader who has spent decades helping protect defense installations from EMP, emphasized the overdue need for civilian action.
“Government and industry laboratory tests of hundreds of items have revealed EMP vulnerability of grid distribution transformers, grid control electronics, computers, and communication networks…we have become more vulnerable to EMP due to technology advances and the foundational role of electricity and electronics in our everyday life,” said Dr. Baker.
EMP events can be triggered by the following:
A space weather event, such as a solar flare
Detonation of a nuclear bomb at high altitude
An on-the-ground attack using conventional weaponry at key nodes in the electric system
Presidential Executive Order
On March 26, President Trump issued an executive order to coordinate the activities of the highest levels of the U.S. government to identify and take key near-term actions to protect the American grid, while also laying the foundation for longer-term, sustainable measures.
The Secretary of Defense is to, “provide timely operational observations, analyses, forecasts and other products for naturally occurring EMPs.” The Director of National Intelligence is to double down on collecting and analyzing EMP threat assessments.
Perhaps most important, by late June the Homeland Security Department is to “list the national critical functions and associated priority critical infrastructure systems, networks, and assets, including space-based assets, that, if disrupted, could reasonably result in catastrophic national or regional effects on public health or safety, economic security or national security.”
Also, pivotally important, the Secretary of State is to coordinate with “allies and international partners regarding enhancing resilience to the effects of EMPs.”
Ending Apathy
Nuclear atmospheric testing and prior solar events show that the effects of EMP can be quite disruptive. Yet, there seems to be a natural human tendency to become complacent and ignore these rare but potentially catastrophic events. As business sage Arnold Glasgow observed, “One of the tests of leadership is the ability to recognize a problem before it becomes an emergency.”
EMP threats are rising for several reasons. North Korea and other rogue nations have or are developing nuclear weapons. On-the-ground terrorists have assessed ways to disable power grids and wreak havoc. And, as time passes, the odds of a naturally occurring solar event rise.
NASA has warned that a major EMP solar storm like the 1859 Carrington Event, which would cause widespread electric system disruption, has a 12 percent chance of occurring each decade. The National Academy of Sciences has estimated the damage could exceed $2 trillion, 20 times the cost of Hurricane Katrina.
Next Steps
The country’s exposure to EMP disruptions did not occur overnight nor will it be solved quickly. Widespread changes will have to be made to the electric grid. Dr. Baker estimates it will cost $50 billion to take priority protection actions for the civilian electric grid.
Many cost synergies can be realized though as much of the grid is old and needs modernization. According to the U.S. Energy Information Administration major utilities are already spending $50 billion a year on overall grid improvements.
EMP issues can only be addressed at the national level and by working with allies and electric utilities. By following the cost effective and necessary approaches that have worked at defense installations, the United States will do much needed catch up work to reduce its risks to EMP.
We should eagerly and diligently approach this work. It is not a time to panic, though complacency must end.
Paul Steidler is a Senior Fellow with the Lexington Institute, a public policy think tank based in Arlington, Virginia.

Story 39
Electromagnetic threats have been known, and to a degree understood, for almost a century. Nevertheless, it is only in the past couple of decades that governments and military organizations have come to realize the extent of the threat that intentional/unintentional electromagnetic interference (IEMI/UEMI) pose to critical facilities, infrastructure, aerospace, and land mobile electronic systems. Most nations' electrical infrastructure and utilities have been identified as vulnerable to sabotage and intentional disruption using IEMI, the threat to these systems has been a known entity for many years. What is an emerging unknown, and possibly equally as disruptive, is the new threat to digital and communications network infrastructure (data centers and internet systems) that the worldâs banking, transportation, and resource allocation now relies on.
The threat of IEMI, and even UEMI and natural EMI, on every level of a modern society only grows, as people become more dependent on electrical systems to enhance efficiency, reduce expenditures, speed processes, and raise profits. Additionally, the most recent electronics are built with low power ICs and other sensitive active and passive devices whose economics depend on miniaturization, power reduction, and feature integration. Unfortunately, few non-governmental/military organizations have come to recognize this threat, and fewer have taken action to ensure their essential systems, for which many other organizations and individuals depend, are robust toward IEMI, or EMI in general.
Notwithstanding the general blind eye, there are a few organizations that have been studying and developing technologies to protect critical and sensitive electronic systems from the dangers of IEMI and EMI. Where most prior efforts have been in the protection of buildings and racks of electronic equipment, a new breed of EMI filters, electromagnetic pulse/high altitude electromagnetic pulse (EMP/HEMP) or IEMI filters are now available. EMP/HEMP filters are designed to protect specific electrical assemblies, or sub-assemblies, from IEMI and ensure that these susceptible electrical systems benefit from not only survivability, but suppression of harmful EMI.
Overview of electronic threats
The term EMI broadly applies to any unwanted signals that degrade or disrupt the desired performance of electrical equipment. EMI can be further broken down into three categories, intentional, unintentional, and natural, all of which can be destructive to electronics. Natural and unintentional EMI can be produced by naturally occurring sources, such as geomagnetic storms caused by weather patterns and the interaction of the Earthâs electro magnetosphere and space weather (solar coronal mass ejections), or by a number of poorly planned/designed or damaged electronic systems. As the effects of several EMI generators can be cumulative, even several relatively weak EMI generators could pose a hazard if in close proximity to a EMI sensitive system.
Natural and unintentional EMI are outside of the scope of this work. However, the methods of protecting electronics from IEMI can also provide some protection from natural and unintentional EMI sources.
The potential threat of IEMI is hard to gauge, as malicious, or even ignorant, parties could produce EMI that could affect different electrical systems in a variety of ways. IEMI is a risk to electrical systems which is only increasing as access to EM weapons is becoming easier. There are several countries, namely Russia and China, who are actively developing EM weapons designed to disable even protected electrical systems and infrastructure. Though nuclear weapons are destructive enough in their immediate blast radius, there is also an EMP component of a nuclear blast that can be destructive toward electronics over a much wider area than what was affected by the nuclear blast.
Even nuclear weapons detonated in space can emit severe and damaging radiation, known as HEMP, which can even affect ground based electrical systems, aircraft, and vehicles. This is why nuclear EMP is used as a basis for the development of standards and EMP protection systems. Nuclear EMP/HEMP threats are classified by the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) as E1, E2, and E3 components, and have a dominant energy distribution from 1 MHz to 300 MHz. Each component classification comes with a description of the type of EMI that is generated and guidelines on how to protect against it.
The E1 component
The E1 pulse, or short pulse, component of nuclear EMP is a result of electrons being ejected from atoms in the upper atmosphere due to the huge initial surge of gamma radiation from a nuclear explosion. A product of the interaction of these highly accelerated electrons and the Earthâs magnetic field, the stray electrons are predominantly directed toward the Earth over a large affected area. The E1 pulse acts as a very intense, but short duration, blast of relativistic speed electrons, which are capable of interacting with conductors and producing high voltages in those conductors. These voltages can easily exceed the electrical breakdown voltages of the conductors and connected electronic components, devices, and interconnects.
Typically, the E1 pulse is too brief for traditional lightning protection to be effective, and only transient protection that can respond to extremely fast rise-time pulses is capable of mitigating E1 EMP. The E1 pulse has a typical rise time of 20 nanoseconds, and reaches 50% of its peak value in 500 nanoseconds, and by the IECâs definition, completely occurs within 1 microsecond. The critical frequency range for the E1 pulse is between 1 MHz and 300 MHz. The electric field strength of the E1 pulse peaks at roughly 50,000V per meter, with peak power densities reaching 6.6 MW per square meter. Depending on a variety of factors, the peak current induced into an electrical system from an E1 pulse could reach 2500A. The E1 pulse is the most dangerous of the HEMP pulses toward smaller electronics and electrical system not connected to long conductor lines, still damaging integrated circuits.

Story 40
Industry Challenge
When discussing high-altitude electromagnetic pulse (HEMP) research, it is important to understand the nature of HEMP. HEMP is created by detonating a nuclear weapon at high altitude or in space. The resulting HEMP consists of an initial short-duration pulse (E1) and an intermediate pulse with characteristics similar to those caused by nearby lightning strikes (E2), followed by a late pulse (E3) similar to a severe geomagnetic disturbance (GMD) event.
Since the 1950s, the U.S. military and others have recognized the potential for E1 to disrupt or damage electronic equipment; later, they began to understand the potential effects of E3. To address concerns during the Cold War, the U.S. Departments of Energy and Defense assessed the potential impacts of a HEMP attack on the electric grid. Although most of the early HEMP research was classified, the main unclassified findings were that E1 can damage unhardened assets over large geographic areas, but long-term blackouts would be unlikely due to limited damage to large power transformers from E3.
Following the Cold War, research by the former EMP Commission provided a different perspective. The Commission identified potentially dire HEMP impacts on the electric grid, with a widespread blackout possibly lasting for months or even years due to the combination of E1 impacts and widespread damage to large power transformers from E3.
These differing outcomes left electric industry stakeholders wondering about the actual impacts from a HEMP attack on the electric grid and how to approach cost-effective mitigation.
EPRI’s Response
To address these questions, the Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) launched a three-year research project in April 2016 to provide the electric utility industry and other stakeholders with a technical basis for understanding the potential impacts of HEMP on the transmission system and to identify appropriate mitigation options.
Progress, Results & Next Steps
EPRI’s initial, three-year research concluded in April 2019. Its findings related to E1, E2, and E3 impacts and identified mitigation options are outlined in the final report.
A significant portion of the research included assessing the potential impacts of E1 on digital protective relays (DPRs) in substations. First, a modeling and simulation effort provided insight into the electrical stress that DPRs might be exposed to during an event. Next, researchers performed testing of DPRs to determine the thresholds (conducted and radiated) at which damage or disruption can occur. The impacts then were assessed by comparing the potential electrical stress with the withstand levels determined through testing.
The results of the assessment showed that modern DPRs can be damaged or disrupted by E1 and that impacts could be experienced over large geographic regions. This finding prompted laboratory testing and/or evaluation of several potential mitigation options, which included the following:
Shielded cables with proper grounding
Low-voltage surge protection devices and/or filters
Fiber optics-based protection and control and communications systems
Enhanced electromagnetic shielding of substation control houses
Grounding and bonding enhancements
It was found that these mitigation options adequately protected DPRs up to the 50-kV/m threat level.
The effect of the E2 component of HEMP was found to not have a significant impact on the transmission grid. Modeling of the E3 impacts showed that, depending on the target location, up to 21 large power transformers could be at potential risk of thermal damage and that voltage collapse (blackout) of a multi-state area is possible.
How to Use the Research
This research identified options for hardening DPRs against the potential impacts of E1, but additional research is needed to improve mitigation designs and understand potential unintended consequences. Collaborative research involving field evaluations of E1 mitigation in live substation environments with multiple utilities is underway. Mitigation options for E3 impacts were found to be similar to those used to address severe GMD events.

Story 41
Experts identify solutions to safeguard the electric grid system from electromagnetic pulses
The United States can better protect its electric grid from major natural and man-made disturbances if portions of the grid are strategically reconfigured.
© Shutterstock
That was one of the points made by a panel of experts who testified before the U.S. Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs on Wednesday. They highlighted ways the government and industry can prevent impacts to the grid, as well as determining coordinated response and recovery plans if the grid is attacked by malicious, man-made electromagnetic pulses (EMPs), which result in a sudden burst of electromagnetic radiation.
“Given the shift in geopolitical threats to our nation, and our sector being particularly key to national security, this is why the sector came together at the CEO level to start really focusing on some of the threats that we’re facing. We’re proud of the progress we have made,” Scott Aaronson, vice president for security and preparedness at the Edison Electric Institute, told the committee.
Aaronson of EEI, which represents the nation’s investor-owned electric companies, noted that the defense of the U.S. grid is bolstered by its biodiversity.
“From a cyber perspective, in particular, that gives us an awful lot of resilience because an adversary can attack one company, and they’ve attacked one company. Because of the resilience, the redundancy, the biodiversity in the grid, we do have excess capacity … and the ability to move electricity in different ways.”
Disruptive cyberattacks on critical infrastructure have made news in recent years. In one example that occurred in 2015, tens of thousands of people in Ukraine experienced power outages as a result of a cyberattack Ukrainian officials blamed on the Russian government.
In the United States, the electric power industry and government have partnered to develop a stronger grid in the event operations are impacted by man-made or natural events. The industry works with the Electricity Subsector Coordinating Council (ESCC), which serves as the principal liaison between the federal government and the electric power sector; the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC); the Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI); the Department of Defense (DOD); Department of Energy (DOE); Department of Homeland Security (DHS); the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC); and state and local law enforcement agencies.
The industry is eagerly awaiting a final report from EPRI that will further help it develop strategies to mitigate the impact of a potential EMP attack on the electric transmission system. EPRI launched the three-year research project in April 2016 and its final report is expected to be released by April 30.
To tackle threats to the grid, some experts recommended an expedited process to adopt national standards of protection. However, Joseph H. McClelland, director of the Office of Energy Infrastructure Security at FERC, advocated using a best practices tool instead.
“The standards development process is too slow,” McClelland said. “Our adversaries can read the standards and design around them.”
Although they provide a foundation, government and industry can’t rely exclusively on standards, some experts said.
“Understand that there are going to be incidents that strain our imaginations of what could happen,” Aaronson said. “We should absolutely spend time and resources and effort to prepare, protect, detect, defend, exercise, but also to prepare to respond and recover.”
Part of the process of learning about the resiliency of the U.S. energy system is observing the effects of real-world situations that have already damaged the grid. Despite power outages caused by Hurricane Michael in Mexico Beach, Fla., officials were still able to rebuild parts of the grid in short order, serving as a model for repair if faced with a cyberattack or a high-altitude nuclear weapon, the experts said.
“This is one of the ways that we are taking physical natural hazards and applying our resilience and recovery methods to potential cyber, physical or EMP type of events,” Aaronson said.
George Baker, professor emeritus at James Madison University, noted, “You can protect portions of the grid so that it can continue to operate during geomagnetic disturbances and EMP events.”
That includes having trained people in place to operate manual overrides as a system back up.
Experts are also concerned about naturally occurring geomagnetic disturbances (GMD) events resulting from magnetic storms that flare on the sun’s surface. It’s difficult to predict the next solar event, but geomagnetic storms have occurred at different intensities. Currently, humanity is entering a period of heightened solar activity and, as a result, an increase in the number of geomagnetic events on Earth that will also affect the grid, according to the North American Electric Reliability Corporation.
“There’s more than one perimeter that affects the severity of the storm,” Justin Kasper, associate professor of space, science, and engineering, University of Michigan, told the committee. “We need a spacecraft that is closer to the sun for better data.”
However, lawmakers were concerned that there weren’t enough immediate actionable measures to protect the grid.
“What have we actually done besides admiring the problem?” U.S. Sen. Ron Johnson (R-WI), committee chairman, asked the experts. “I blame the government for being slow off the mark.”
Government officials argued otherwise.
Karen Evans, assistant secretary, Cybersecurity, Energy Security, and Emergency Response at the U.S. Department of Energy, said in written testimony, her agency plans “to develop a hardening and resilience roadmap this year specifying what can and should be done, working with industry partners with available resources, to deploy technologies to protect critical components, equipment, and systems on the electric grid from EMP and GMD effects and impacts… We recently worked with the North American Transmission Forum as they developed proposed Fast Act Grid Security Emergency options that could be directed before, during, and after the highest extreme GMDs.”
Congressional leaders also asked the stakeholders participating in the roundtable discussion what Congress could do to help the government and industry protect the grid from potential threats.
“As a fiscal conservative,” Sen. Johnson said, “I will carry the water as long as I know what it is we’re supposed to do. And that’s what’s been so frustrating for me. What can we do? Let’s actually act. Let’s actually spend some money on things that actually mitigate.”
EEI’s Aaronson said, “Rather than customers bearing the cost of something that is a national security issue, there are ways that I think we can find federal money to do some of these things. Also working with us in our commissions at the state and federal level so that these costs can be recovered. Having your leadership say: ‘This really matters state commission, this is why this company is coming for cost recovery,’ is going to carry a lot of weight.”
In addition, due to the complexities of the power grid, protecting it from threats cannot be solved with a one-size-fits-all solution.
Prescriptive legislative directives “could have unintended consequences on operations of the energy grid and increase costs to our customers,” Aaronson said in written remarks.

Story 42
Get started on your Homeland Security degree
By Glynn Cosker
Managing Editor, In Homeland Security
An electromagnetic pulse (EMP) is one of the biggest threats to our national security, with worst-case scenarios showing a doomsday scene right out of an apocalyptic movie. However, President Donald Trump’s important March 26 executive order is a huge step toward making America prepared for an EMP.
EMPs are not a new concern. The Congressional EMP Commission has warned for nearly 20 years that an EMP is capable of destroying civilization and killing millions of people, but the Commission’s findings have largely gone unnoticed. President Trump’s executive order should make the nation take notice.
President Trump’s EMP Executive Order
The Executive Order on Coordinating National Resilience to Electromagnetic Threats mandates that the White House take charge of national EMP preparedness. This order circumnavigates the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Department of Energy (DOE).
Putting the White House in charge of EMP preparedness is a bold, but vital, component of the president’s executive order. Traditionally, cabinet departments – including DOE and DHS – have a long history of playing down the seriousness of the EMP threat.
The new executive order states that the president’s National Security Advisor, coordinating with the National Security Council and the director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, “shall coordinate the development and implementation of executive branch actions to assess, prioritize, and manage the risks of EMPs.”
President Trump’s executive order also directs DHS to liaise with DOE and other agencies, along with the private sector, to “develop a plan to mitigate the effects of EMPs on the vulnerable priority-critical infrastructures.”
Rare Bipartisan Progress on EMP Preparedness
Getting an EMP preparedness executive order is one of those extraordinarily rare bipartisan successes on Capitol Hill. Republican and Democratic factions in Congress have emphasized for years how important EMP preparedness is, but past administrations were mostly indifferent.
Senators Ted Cruz (R-Texas), Edward Markey (D-Mass.), Ron Johnson (R-Wis.) and former Senator Jim Webb (D-Va.) have all led calls for EMP preparedness legislation. U.S. Representatives Michael McCaul (R-Texas) and Doug Lamborn (D-Colo.) also played a big part, as did many other current and former lawmakers at the state and federal level.
“It is way past time to stop admiring this problem,” Sen. Johnson told the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Operations Committee on Feb. 26, “and actually begin to do something concrete to protect our vulnerable electrical grid, control systems, and the ever- increasing array of electronic devices our society has become dependent upon.”
EMPs Explained
So, why all of the concern and the need for national preparedness? An EMP is an intense surge of energy that interrupts, damages, or destroys all electronic devices on and above our planet. There are natural and manmade EMPs, but each type poses a huge threat to America’s national security and way of life. There is a real possibility of deaths on a scale rarely observed in human history.
The bottom line is this: The United States is prepared to deal with hurricanes, earthquakes, fires and other natural disasters; it is prepared to deal with foreign invasions, terror attacks and cyber-attacks. However, it is not ready to handle an EMP event.
The natural type of EMP, solar superstorms, happen quite regularly. In fact, there is a 10 percent chance of one occurring during any given decade.
During a solar superstorm, the sun emits a solar coronal mass ejection (CME), which causes a geomagnetic storm when it hits the Earth’s magnetosphere. These storms are usually weak and harmless, but stronger ones are a major concern.
Strongest EMP On Record
The strongest geomagnetic storm ever recorded occurred in 1859. Known as the Carrington Event (after one of the astronomers who first observed it), it took out primitive telegraph systems all over Europe and North America. Of course, there was zero reliance on electricity for anything in the mid-1800s.
If the same magnitude geomagnetic storm happened today, however, all electrically operated items would instantly stop working, and global positioning satellites and cell phone towers would fail. The internet would be down indefinitely, and the national electrical power grid would be gone for months. There is also a risk that without power to regulate essential functions, the nation’s nuclear power stations might suffer meltdowns.
No one can predict when the next strong geomagnetic storm will occur, but manmade EMPs are definitely avoidable and involve the possibility of a terror attack hundreds of miles above the United States. As recently as September, North Korea threatened such an attack.
North Korea Producing Super-EMP Weapon
“An EMP attack might be made by a North Korean satellite, right now. A Super-EMP weapon could be relatively small and lightweight, and could fit inside North Korea’s Kwangmyongsong-3 (KMS-3) and Kwangmyongsong-4 (KMS-4) satellites,” Congressional EMP Commission Chairman, Dr. William Graham, warned last year. “These two satellites presently orbit over the United States . . . The south polar trajectory of KMS-3 and KMS-4 evades U.S. Ballistic Missile Early Warning Radars and National Missile Defenses, resembling a Russian secret weapon developed during the Cold War, called the Fractional Orbital Bombardment System (FOBS) that would have used a nuclear-armed satellite to make a surprise EMP attack on the United States.”
Another terror EMP attack scenario involves the detonation of a nuclear warhead above the U.S. at a very high altitude. A terror EMP attack of this kind is extremely unlikely. The United States ready for any nuclear threat and would retaliate in kind, destroying any entity who even tried.
An EMP and the Breakdown of Society
An EMP itself is not harmful to people, but its aftermath would cause devastating, long-lasting effects that could ultimately kill 90 percent of the U.S. population. Most deaths would be due to the shutting down of our entire essential infrastructure, including financial, medical, communication, transportation, food, water and sewer systems.
At first, the population would react as they do during any blackout. Soon, though, when it became apparent that the electricity would be out for ‘months,’ all hell would break loose. Oil refineries would shut down, gas stations would be gone, ATMs and bank cards would no longer work, phone communications would be out, the internet would be dead, water reservoirs would be contaminated, and the food and drugs supply chain would stop.
Emergency services, hospitals and law enforcement officials would become overwhelmed, and mob rule would ensue. The breakdown of society as we know it today would cause wide-scale death and destruction of biblical proportions.
Imagine a riot in a downtown city neighborhood, and then imagine that same riot taking over your entire city and state. It would look like ‘The Walking Dead’ without the zombies.
All of that is something that the United States should urgently take steps to avoid. President Trump’s executive EMP order is a good first action in preparing for one of today’s biggest threats to civilization.
Comments
comments

Story 43
Hide press release Show press release
Orange County, CA., – Rezvani today is proud to unveil its most extreme and capable model to date. Building on the success of TANK, the all new 2020 Rezvani TANK, a street-legal, Xtreme Utility Vehicle (XUV), embodies many of the same characteristics found on its military predecessor. Under the hood of the TANK X trim is a new powerful 6.2-liter Supercharged V8 found in the Dodge Demon, tuned further by Rezvani to deliver over 1,000 horsepower and 870 pound-feet of torque; making it the most powerful production SUV in the world. Rezvani TANK features a steel body-on-frame design, and an on-demand four-wheel-drive system standard on all trims.
Designed to be a daily driver, Tank was inspired by the look of some of the world's most recognizable military vehicles, but designed for civilian use. Its rugged exterior is highlighted by a chiseled fascia, a defined profile, and comes paired with capable world-class suspension system. Extensive development was done on the suspension of the all new TANK to make it one of the most planted and comfortable SUV's on the planet. "The focus of this generation’s Tank was to be athletic in design and stance, have a refined sports car ride and suspension, have a luxurious interior, and surpass 1,000 horsepower all in a car that’s easily a daily driver", says CEO Ferris Rezvani. The aggressive grille and sleek defined lines share similarities to the outgoing TANK model. A roof-mounted LED light bar also gives drivers another added lighting element.
A luxurious interior ensure driver and passenger feel like they are in a special vehicle. Many elements of the interior are customizable including seat style, stitching, and color of the gauge cluster. Tank features serious off-road capability with 37” tires, Fox racing suspension, Dynatrac axle set with air lockers and an air compressor, Dynatrac ProGrip front and rear brakes, front 1350 and rear 1410 driveshafts, and optional Fox racing 3.0 Internal Bypass Shocks with DSC. The cabin is defined by a hand-stitched Leather Package that provides comfort and compatibility for driver and passengers alike, with leather seats and a suede headliner.
A 7.9-inch central infotainment screen with Apple CarPlay provides access to features like Google Maps, Pandora, Stitcher, and a suite of apps optimized for use on and off road. TANK Military Edition The new 2020 TANK Military Edition adds to the previous list of security features which includes standard features such as: FLIR Thermal Night Vision System Ballistic Armor: Kevlar Armor, Bulletproof Glass, Military-Grade Run Flat Tires Underside Explosive Protection Electro-Magnetic Pulse Protection (including E1, E2 and E3 pulses) Self sealing fuel tank Armored radiator Reinforce suspension Ram bumpers Electrified door handles Sirens and strobe lights Smoke screen Continuous video surveillance uploaded to the cloud in real time Blinding front and rear lights Magnetic dead bolts Intercom system Gas masks Hypothermia kit and first aid kit The 2020 Rezvani TANK comes in four trims, TANK, TANK X, TANK Military Edition, and TANK X Military Edition.
The all new 2020 TANK starts at $155,000 with pre ordered deliveries beginning in the next few weeks. Production orders are being taken now. Electro-Magnetic Pulse Protection Explained Electro-Magnetic Pulses are radiated after a nuclear explosion and render electronic devices inoperable. EMP weapons are also used to disable electrical systems prior to a broader attack. Tested at a Department of Defense (DOD) approved testing facility, the EMP protection device is the worlds first electromagnetic pulse (EMP) protection technology for a vehicles entire electrical system. Proven to exceed military standards, the EMP shield is also one of the worlds fastest surge protection devices.
The EMP shield utilizes three incredible technologies and a patent pending advanced design to operate at incredible speeds while also being capable of protecting from over 40 EMP strikes with zero degradation. The first technology inside the device utilizes radioactively charged gasses and is capable of shedding initial strikes of electricity in five hundred trillionths of a second. The EMP Shield passes high electrical current to ground within billionths of a second and is engineered to protect the vehicle through multiple high level exposures to an EMP using our advanced load sharing technology.
The device is so robust, it is designed to protect against over 100,000 amps. All electronics are protected within the vehicle in less than a billionth of a second. Continuously protecting until the excess charge is completely expelled from the vehicles electrical system, the device will protect against all three surges of an EMP. This includes the E3 surge which can last hours.

Story 44
When the Lights Went Out: On Blackouts and Terrorism
While a blackout can spark an eruption of sociability and friendliness, it can also be a harbinger of terror, crime, or chaos.
Power grids, nuclear power stations, and computer systems are all potential targets for terrorists.
By: David E. Nye
When the Northeast Blackout of 2003 killed electricity to more than 50 million people in the United States and Canada, the night sky turned so pristinely dark that in some cities the milky way could be seen by the naked eye. But in New York City, where hundreds of commuters were suddenly trapped in stranded subway trains and stalled elevators, stargazing remained far from people’s minds, at least until initial fears subsided. One reporter in Times Square observed “the bewildered, disoriented throngs, frightened by thoughts of terror” who “were trying to get their bearings in an environment that had been transformed in an instant.”
The FBI, like many in New York who were still reeling from the September 11, 2001 attacks, shared these concerns. Just the previous year the agency concluded that terrorists were studying weaknesses in power grids. Meanwhile, groups across the country had been preparing for and speculating about doomsday scenarios — scenarios that the first moments of the 2003 blackout mimicked to a disquieting degree.
A generation ago, the immediate question when the lights went out was whether a fuse had blown or lightning had struck. But today, when a blackout strikes, time stops, plans fall apart, and fears fill the sudden void.
The FBI’s Cyber Division ultimately found no indication that the outage was the result of an attack; a failed power line and crumbling infrastructure were entirely to blame. But what if enemies had targeted the power system to augment a physical or biological attack?
The military has long understood the centrality of electricity to society. In World War II, both the Allies and the Axis Powers attacked power plants. During the 1992 siege of Sarajevo, Serb nationalists dynamited four power-transmission lines into the city, taking electricity away from 400,000 people. The U.S. military, meanwhile, has designed weapons specifically to incapacitate electrical networks, including the BLU-114/B “soft bomb,” which supposedly disperses a cloud of graphite filaments and tiny wires that short-circuit transformers and switches (information about the weapon remains classified). When used against Serbia in May 1999, the bomb blacked out 70 percent of the country; a similar weapon had been deployed with success in the 1991 Desert Storm operation against Iraq.
Power grids, nuclear power stations, and computer systems are all potential targets for terrorists. An electrical network is built to be resilient, but an attack on certain nodal points might trigger “a cascade of overload failures capable of disabling the network almost entirely,” as two network systems experts found. A terrorist cell that included several senior commanders of the Irish Republican Army and a former U.S. Marine recognized this when, in 1996, they prepared to attack the electrical system of London and southeast Britain. While their plan was ultimately foiled by the British Secret Service, who found in the cell’s possession diagrams of six power substations in a ring around London and enough detonators and fuses to arm 37 bombs, other groups have had more success.
Satellite imagery of the Northeastern United States and Eastern Canada taken before and during the August 14, 2003 blackout. Source: National Oceanic and Atmospheric Association.
Between 1975 and 1995, the National Liberation Front of Corsica struck Corsica’s electrical system on multiple occasions, according to a report issued by the Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Monterey Institute of International Studies. In the Philippines, the Communist New People’s Army, the Moro National Liberation Front, and the Abu Sayyaf group all attacked the electrical grid. And in South Africa, a military wing of the African National Congress carried out multiple attacks on electrical stations during the apartheid regime. These groups operated inside their own country. Their motivation, the report from the Center for Nonproliferation Studies found, was primarily to embarrass the government without many casualties, which could weaken popular support. In contrast, terrorists who attack countries other than their own generally want to destroy national symbols and to maximize human suffering. They prefer not transmission lines but highly visible locations such as churches in Sri Lanka on Easter Sunday. This helps to explain why the power grid has not been a primary terrorist target.
Assaults on critical infrastructure have increased worldwide from 42 during the 1960s to more than 25 a year since 1990.
Yet assaults on critical infrastructure have increased worldwide from 42 during the 1960s to more than 25 a year since 1990. The targets of major strikes have been oil and gas facilities (50 percent), electrical infrastructure (15 percent), office buildings (8 percent), railways (5 percent), and a wide range of miscellaneous facilities (22 percent). Fifty years ago, religious groups almost never made such attacks, but between 1980 and 2004 Islamist groups alone targeted infrastructure 84 times. Moreover, al-Qaeda members have specifically listed infrastructure attacks as a primary objective when attacking industrialized countries. In fact, computers captured from Afghanistan had been logged on to sites dealing with utility security.
After a major blackout in 1965 impacted an estimated 25 million people, the U.S. federal government “focused increased attention on the vulnerability of power systems to disturbance and damage from acts of sabotage,” according to a Federal Power Commission report from the time. But by far the most serious threat remained terrorism directed at nuclear plants or using stolen nuclear fuel. Between 1969 and 1971, explosives were discovered at a research reactor at the Illinois Institute of Technology, for instance, and bombs were detonated in the Stanford University Linear Accelerator, causing substantial damage. Nevertheless, the isolated location, solid construction, and high security surrounding nuclear facilities make them less vulnerable to attack.
Far more worrisome are dangerous “dirty bombs” that could spread deadly plutonium over a wide area. The Atomic Energy Commission concluded in 1974 that “the potential harm to the public from the explosion of an illicitly made nuclear weapon is greater than that from any plausible power plant accident, including one which involves a core meltdown.” Perhaps even more unsettling is the threat of an electromagnetic pulse, or EMP, attack. As Lowell Wood, an astrophysicist involved with the Strategic Defense Initiative and former chair of the EMP Commission concluded, EMP “is one of the few ways in which the United States can die as a nation.” It is “not a blackout,” he added, “it is a stayout.” Indeed, the commission noted an attack would paralyze much of the U.S., shutting down radio, television, and the telephone system. The nation would not be able to harvest, store, ship, or market food. Hospitals, schools, factories, and offices would cease to function. It would destroy computer chips embedded in millions of devices, yet leave the physical landscape intact. In theory, EMP damage from one bomb exploded over Kansas could black out most of the United States. Fortunately, vulnerability to EMP can be reduced; it only requires adopting more robust shielding materials.
Yet even with the recognition of these threats, little was being done to improve the electrical grid before the 2003 blackout. This despite the North American Electric Reliability Council, an industry group, warning that the grid was not being upgraded fast enough, and concluding that “the question is not whether, but when the next major failure of the grid will occur.”
One civilian defense expert concluded that an electromagnetic pulse attack “is one of the few ways in which the United States can die as a nation.”
Even in 1936, it was clear that short-lived power outages cause few or no deaths and little destruction, whereas a bomb causes both and is terrifying.
Without electricity, society loses most of its critical infrastructure. Yet the U.S. electrical system is hard to protect because of its sheer extent, and though American grids have not been attacked, it is not because they are impregnable. Perhaps Alfred Hitchcock’s 1936 film “Sabotage” suggests why transmission systems are not yet a target of choice. The film begins with a blackout that darkens a whole district of central London. A saboteur has thrown sand into some powerhouse equipment, and it takes an hour to clean and restart the system. The public response to this unexpected darkness, however, is not fear but nonchalance and even considerable laughter. Like the crowds in the 1965 New York blackout three decades later, Hitchcock’s Londoners take it with aplomb. Frustrated at this result, the saboteur then decides to bomb a crowded public place. This seems more likely to cause panic than a blackout. Even in 1936, it was clear that short-lived power outages cause few or no deaths and little destruction, whereas a bomb causes both and is terrifying.
Nevertheless, in the popular imagination, a blackout can have dire consequences, leading to spectacular unrest or social collapse. Josef Konvitz, an expert on crisis management, has called this “the myth of terrible vulnerability,” depicting catastrophes that are out of control while ignoring the human ability to improvise solutions and cope with hardships. With worst-case scenarios, popular films and novels depict the electrical system as an ideal terrorist target. After the 1977 New York blackout, Arthur Hailey’s novel “Overload” described a terrorist attack on California’s electrical system during a summer heatwave. It was among the top five New York Times best-sellers of 1979. In his 1987 novel “Patriot Games,” Tom Clancy described an electrical engineer in Baltimore, determined “to hurt America” by “hitting people where they lived.” The character muses that “if he could turn out the lights in fifteen states at once” he would weaken public confidence in the government. A similar theme underlay the 2007 film “Live Free or Die Hard,” in which a disaffected former national security employee, angry because the government has ignored his warnings about the vulnerability of the United States to a computer attack, launches one himself.
Electrical engineers have warned that a “determined group of terrorists could likely take out any portion of the grid they desire.”
But “Live Free or Die Hard” exaggerates the centralization of the grid. There is no single command-and-control center that can turn off all of the East’s electrical systems. Rather, as the electricity consultant Jason Makansi concluded, the U.S. transmission system in some ways is poorly integrated: “Not only is our electricity grid ‘third world’ in quality, it is actually weakly interconnected.” However, he adds, “a weakly interconnected grid may be beneficial when it comes to security. Disconnected systems cannot all fail together.” Utilities are linked, but each can cut itself off from the grid.
Terrorists could more easily provoke a widespread blackout by blowing up transformers or shutting down transmission lines, causing power surges and a cascade of automatic load shedding. This would recapitulate the 2003 blackout that rippled from Ohio to Detroit, Cleveland, Toronto, and New York. Only after that expensive failure did utilities adopt improved communication systems between regions so operators could see what was going on elsewhere on the grid. “Think of an air traffic controller’s screen,” one operator told the New York Times. “The circle we can scan just got a whole lot bigger. So if there are blips [breakdowns or irregularities] further out, we see them right away.” They got information far faster than they could have gotten it by telephone. Indeed, during a crisis, phone calls can be distracting, and it is often difficult to explain verbally a rapid succession of events, which can be quickly grasped in visual representations.
Many researchers argue that a decentralized system with a larger number of generating stations and shorter supply lines would be less vulnerable to attack. Photo: Frans Van Heerden
Yet a cascade is extremely difficult to stop. Electrical engineers have warned that “it is impossible to secure the whole system,” which includes more than 180,000 miles of transmission lines, and that a “determined group of terrorists could likely take out any portion of the grid they desire.” The most vulnerable components are high-voltage transformers, many of which are located in substations protected only by chain-link fences and could be taken out with improvised explosive devices.
The grid is also vulnerable to cyberattacks. In 2000, expert witnesses before Congress estimated that terrorists needed only 5–10 years to develop the technical capabilities to inflict major damage on the United States. Indeed, a “skilled hacker could disable a network of several plants without ever entering a facility,” journalist Johanna McGeary points out. He or she could tamper with the monitoring and control software systems, which “often lack rudimentary security, leaving technical specifications and flaws on view to potential attackers.”
“Live Free or Die Hard” reinforced the notion circulating in popular culture that a power failure is the ultimate collapse, ripping away the underpinnings of the computerized state. However, the visions of catastrophe that pervade popular culture overemphasize vulnerability and overlook adaptation and improvisation. Moreover, in anticipation of possible infrastructure attacks, utility companies have worked with the Department of Homeland Security to prepare contingency plans. The focus has been less on the transmission lines, which can rapidly be restrung, than on hardening nodal points of vulnerability against attack and erecting more barriers against intruders. Security measures also continue to focus on nuclear plants and hydroelectric dams, whose impounded waters, if released, would cause destructive flooding as well as power failures. As for cyberattacks, utility computers are in some ways more vulnerable now than before the advent of the internet. Until the mid-1990s, most utility companies had standalone systems that were distinctive in design and cut off from computers elsewhere. Their incompatibilities and relative isolation from one another were undesirable for day to day operations, however, so the companies increased transparency and interoperability, enhancing the operators’ access to crucial information in emergencies but simultaneously opening up the electrical grid to hackers.
The visions of catastrophe that pervade popular culture overemphasize vulnerability and overlook adaptation and improvisation.
Researchers at Carnegie Mellon University concluded that one can mitigate the effects of an attack on the electrical system more easily than one can prevent it. Drawing on experience with rolling blackouts in California, they suggested maximum defense of essential services, including traffic control, hospitals, and the police. Rather than treat the grid as a fortress to be protected at every point, they call for a resilient system with multiple ways to supply power to any given area. Their suggestion challenges the electrical infrastructure’s design, which for decades has been consolidated into large central stations. Yet a decentralized system with a larger number of generating stations and shorter supply lines would be less vulnerable. “A more regional, decentralized electricity system,” read a pointed editorial in Bloomberg following the 2003 blackout, “may actually be more rational, especially in an age of insecurity.” In 2017, Scientific American published a similar conclusion.
People content to be alone when the power is on seek others when it fails. They want information and reassurance. As long as electricity supplies light and communication, the regular pulse of electrons is an indirect assurance that society is humming along and that a safety net of services surrounds and protects. Disrupt the flow and people immediately look for human contact. Adding the threat of terror to a power outage amplifies both fear and the desire for community.
When the lights go out, the sheer physicality of the world and its inhabitants becomes bewilderingly near.
After the rolling blackouts of the 1990s, and especially after Sept. 11, 2001, the public does not take blackouts lightly. Rather, they improvise moments of solidarity, based on the implicit belief that the power will soon return. Once initial fears are dispelled, people flock into the streets, and the blackout can become a carnival, not an apocalypse. The Russian critic Mikhail Bakhtin noted that during a carnival “people who in life are separated by impenetrable hierarchical barriers enter into free and familiar contact.”
Something similar occurred in New York in 2003. As in the 1965 blackout, few people could work and all had to negotiate a city without most of its amenities. At Muldoon’s Irish Pub on Third Avenue, “the loss of power meant a license to party.” Patrons ordered extra beer, and many ambled outside, glasses in hand. The New York City-based blog The Gothamist reported that at first the event “made New Yorkers wonder if there was another terrorist attack” but “then they just settled in for some street parties after finally making it home.” Many brought out battery-powered audio players, sat on their front stoops, and partied into the night. According to one bystander’s account, recounted in Phillip Schewe’s book “The Grid,” the “August 14 event was a bit like the medieval Feast of Fools, the Yuletide holiday when in towns around Europe class distinctions were suspended, if only for a day, and masters and servants switched places, church observances were mocked, and revelry overruled solemnity.”

During this time, the city was “re-materialized.” The visiting Brazilian architect Fernando Lara later wrote: “Forget Virilio and Baudrillard and the virtual realities, there is no compression of time and space anymore. You are left alone with the disvirtual reality of space.” Suddenly it was not possible to mediate one’s relation to the built environment, which had to be measured by the body and its ability to climb, to walk, and to adjust. “Without neon lights and electronics, space becomes what it has always been,” he added, where one “cannot hide behind a wireless phone nor dive yourself into the Internet.” The sheer physicality of the world and its inhabitants becomes bewilderingly near.
The average cost of the 2003 power loss was almost $60,000 per hour per business, but some corporations lost as much as a million dollars an hour.
In 2003 such disorientation did not presage riots. Predictions that future blackouts would lead to unrest, persistently made during the 1980s and the 1990s, proved incorrect. Fear of terrorism partially explains why neighborhoods that erupted in looting and arson in the blackout of 1977 displayed social solidarity in 2003. But just as importantly, by 2003 New York had regained prosperity.
More than 200,000 people owned inexpensive apartments that had been built or renovated in areas that had rioted in 1977. People whose homes are appreciating are unlikely arsonists. Furthermore, New York’s policing had improved. The blackout came when merchants were in their stores, and millions of people were walking home. The economic impact of the 2003 blackout was much greater for commerce and industry than for households. All businesses from Detroit to Long Island were affected. At John F. Kennedy Airport, 50,000 bags could not be scanned, located, or returned to their owners, whose flights were canceled. More than 70 automobile and auto-parts plants shut down, sending 100,000 workers home. Eight oil refineries stopped production, and the main pipeline carrying Canadian oil to the United States stopped pumping. Steel plants lost batches of molten iron that had to be dumped into slag pits, and it took four days to resume production. At food-processing plants, tons of meat, fruit, and vegetables rotted. The average cost of a power loss was almost $60,000 per hour per business, but some corporations lost as much as a million dollars an hour. White-collar work losses, meanwhile, were often instantaneous and usually irretrievable. All unsaved data and many emails were lost.
The power failure exposed just how dependent on electricity American society had become.
Human beings are no longer awed by the immense changes electrification made possible in lighting, manufacturing, transportation, and domestic life, and few are concerned that nations have become so dependent upon electricity — perhaps because it now seems to have been always already there. The wall switch and the light socket seem natural, a power failure unnatural. People notice electricity only in its absence. Blackouts, after all, are breaks in the flow of social time. Each time one occurs, we confront our essential condition — not as isolated individuals, but as a community that increasingly binds itself together with electrical wires and signals.
David E. Nye is Professor of American History at the University of Southern Denmark. He is the author of several books, including “American Illuminations,” “Electrifying America,” and “When the Lights Went Out,” a trilogy of works that form a collective history of electricity and lighting in the United States.
Correction: An earlier version of this article erroneously stated that explosives were discovered at the Point Beach Nuclear Plant between 1969 and 1971.

Story 45
Power lines (left) (Screenshot) and "Don't Believe the Liberal Media" sign (right) (MRC Photo)
President Trump has signed an executive order for protection of America’s electric grid and other infrastructure against electromagnetic pulse (EMP). Few mainstream media outlets bothered to cover this story. The Washington Post, with its banner slogan “Democracy Dies in Darkness,” was the exception.
The Post decided to cover this important story in its online blog, the Monkey Cage. Four nontechnical graduate students from the University of Pennsylvania were given the assignment to write about EMP. They naively concluded that the doctrine of mutually assured destruction would prevent use of all nuclear weapons, including EMP-enhanced weapons. The headline asked the question “Trump issued an executive order to prepare for an EMP attack; What is it and should you worry?” Two flippant subheads answered that question: “Nah. But the U.S. should get ready for a very similar threat—from the sun;” and “No, you don’t need to worry about a nuclear EMP. Here’s why.”
A nuclear EMP attack from Russia, China, North Korea, Iran, or other adversary is an existential threat to the United States and all other technologically advanced societies. Cyber warfare, coupled with nuclear EMP targeting, is part of the military doctrines of Russia, China, North Korea, and Iran. A first-strike EMP attack would disrupt command, control, and communications for America’s military and almost all of the supporting critical infrastructures. While our strategic nuclear forces are protected against EMP, most other military and civilian equipment remains vulnerable. All domestic military bases ultimately depend on the commercial electric grid for their water and power, and the grid is almost completely unprotected against EMP. Mutually assured destruction is not the policy of our adversaries. They believe that an EMP can so damage a nation’s command, control and communications that a retaliatory strike is difficult to achieve.
When asked to envision nuclear warfare, what captures the public’s mind is the World War II attacks on Hiroshima and Nagasaki. If asked to imagine a modern-day attack with nuclear weapons, Americans tend to think of giant mushroom clouds over New York, Washington, or Los Angeles. But an EMP attack, although it produces no blast, radiation, thermal or local fallout on the ground, could kill many more people than a ground-level nuclear attack, because without electricity, most people would starve or die of disease.
To conduct an EMP attack, a nuclear device is exploded high in the atmosphere. High intensity ultra-fast (E1) pulses damage the electronics, switches, and control systems on which virtually all critical infrastructures depend. Slower pulses couple with long line infrastructures – the electric grid, gas, crude oil and refined product pipelines, Internet, and telecommunication systems. Long line systems suffer from the so-called E3 pulses. Such an attack could burn out critical electric grid energy supplies and grid components, producing a blackout lasting months or years.
The Post’s piece included a link to a description of the Starfish Prime test, a high altitude nuclear explosion that revealed surprising results in 1962. Among other effects, the test disabled communications and street lights in Hawaii some 900 miles away, where EMP effects were attenuated due to distance. Vacuum tube devices have since been replaced by far more fragile semiconductor components.
Starfish Prime was a well-publicized event. Honolulu hotels advertised cocktails on their roofs to watch the aurora borealis that would be produced by “Thor’s Rainbow Bomb.” Following the test’s unexpected and disturbing results, most information about EMP became classified.
The astute Soviets had sent two ships with scientists to collect data on the Starfish Prime event. They then performed their own EMP tests over Kazakhstan, using better instruments. The Soviets learned that well-timed EMP weapons had the capability to disable a nation’s command and control, hence its ability to retaliate. EMP placed the doctrine of mutually assured destruction in significant doubt.
We need to take quick, decisive and sustained actions to protect the critical infrastructures, such as electricity, communications, water, food, transportation, and supply chains on which 327 million Americans depend for their survive. We need to decide how our infrastructures will be protected, and exactly how to pay for those protective measures.
If the grid does go down, we need to have community-based organizations in place ready to offer food, provide potable water, and deal with disposal of sewage. Preparedness should be everyone’s business.
When The Washington Post claims that nuclear EMP is nothing to worry about, and if the federal policymakers and bureaucrats believe the Post, we may well be in trouble. When faced with an unfamiliar and complex threat, a bureaucracy will do what a bureaucracy does best: study, postpone, and delay. Whether a blackout is caused by nuclear EMP or severe solar storm, if the grid goes down, then democracy may well die in darkness, especially if Americans depend on The Washington Post and other mainstream media for information on the threat of EMP.
Melissa Hancock is Media Relations Manager for the Foundation for Resilient Societies, and a trustee of the Media Research Center.
DONATE

Story 46
The United States Air Force has reportedly deployed 20 new missiles to deal with the escalating threats from North Korea and Iran that can “zap” their military electronics, thus rendering their militaries completely ineffective.
“Known as the Counter-Electronics High Power Microwave Advanced Missile Project (CHAMP), the missiles were built by Boeing’s Phantom Works for the U.S. Air Force Research Laboratory and tested successfully in 2012,” The Daily Mail reported. “They have not been operation until now.”
The Mail’s report came from Ronald Kessler, a former Washington Post and Wall Street Journal investigative reporter who is also a New York Times bestselling author. Kessler writes:
Because of sequestration budget cuts, the CHAMP missiles did not become operational under the Obama administration. But after I emailed then Trump National Security Adviser H. R. McMaster in August 2017 information about CHAMP that I was about to include in my book, The Trump White House, he thanked me for letting him know about the capability, agreed to an interview, and ordered a briefing from the Pentagon. As a result, the Pentagon funded the program and ordered Air Force training worldwide to deploy and operate the missile systems.
The missile, which reportedly has a range of 700 miles, is delivered from bombers and flies at a low altitude and delivers “sharp pulses of high power microwave (HPM) energy.”
The pulses delivered by the weapon system can reportedly destroy electronic systems that are buried deep inside mountain bunkers and underground military facilities.
Kessler reports that U.S. officials believe that even if North Korea and Iran tried to shield their military equipment, their efforts would not be sufficient. Kessler adds:
Most amazing of all, the missile renders inoperable any radar that might detect it as it flies to and from a target. Thus, a country cannot take out CHAMP before it strikes and has no way of knowing why its facilities have suddenly gone dead. CHAMP missiles emitting HPM also differ from an electromagnetic pulse (EMP) attack that is created by detonating a nuclear weapon in the atmosphere. Because it is targeted, HPM leaves intact civilian facilities needed to sustain life.
Tensions have risen sharply in recent weeks with North Korea, which has resumed missile testing, and Iran, which has reportedly been behind multiple provocations in the Middle East in recent weeks.
“In response to a number of troubling and escalatory indications and warnings, the United States is deploying the USS Abraham Lincoln Carrier Strike Group and a bomber task force to the U.S. Central Command region to send a clear and unmistakable message to the Iranian regime that any attack on United States interests or on those of our allies will be met with unrelenting force,” National Security Adviser John Bolton said earlier this month. “The United States is not seeking war with the Iranian regime, but we are fully prepared to respond to any attack, whether by proxy, the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, or regular Iranian forces.”
President Donald Trump will reportedly visit South Korea next month to discuss with South Korean President Moon Jae-in how to deal with the latest missile tests from North Korea.

Story 47
We urgently need effective ballistic missile defense (BMD) systems to protect Americans from an existential electromagnetic pulse (EMP) threat posed by a nuclear explosion high in or above the atmosphere.
We know from authoritative sources that such an attack would shut down our unhardened electric power grid for an indefinite period. Without electricity, most Americans would die within months from starvation, disease, and societal collapse that would inevitably follow without just-in-time delivery of food and other vital goods.
This threat can be delivered by Russia, China, North Korea and probably Iran — and possibly terrorists who gain nuclear weapons (by hook or crook) and use Scuds costing a few million dollars to launch such an attack from off-shore vessels.
That Russia and China pose this threat is well known; less so is the threat from the other three potential sources.
Nevertheless, the Congressional EMP Commission learned from Russian generals fifteen years ago that how to build low-yield “Super EMP” nuclear weapons was passed to North Korea — and Iranian scientists have reportedly attended and/or observed North Korea’s low yield nuclear tests.
Thus, North Korea and Iran both pose an EMP threat to the American people — and they (or Russia or China) could hire terrorists to launch such an attack from vessels off our coasts. Our defense is poor at best against this threat, which may well now exist.
Iran conducted a possible “dry run” test from a vessel in the Caspian Sea in the late 1990s, has many proven ballistic missiles, and could be armed with nuclear weapons derived from their long standing cooperation with their ally North Korea that has several tens of nuclear weapons.
In June 2013, two SA-2 nuclear capable missiles (developed by the Soviet Union in the 1960s) that could be used in an EMP attack were discovered under tons of sugar on a North Korean vessel after passing through the Panama Canal, headed to Cuba.
Bear in mind that in late 2017, North Korean leaders stated that obtaining an EMP attack capability is their “strategic goal.”
Meanwhile, congress disbanded the EMP Commission after its service for 17 years; and Washington continues to procrastinate on programs to counter this well-known threat.
Department of Defense (DoD) experts, who served on that now disbanded commission, worked a half century ago to harden against EMP our strategic systems (international ballistic missiles (ICBMs), sea launched ballistic missiles (SLBMs), and strategic bombers — and critically important command, control, and communications systems that enable the president and our military commanders to retaliate if we are attacked.
EMP hardening was, and is, needed to deter or defeat such a threat. But we have not protected our critical civil infrastructure upon which our citizens depend for essential support. And, beginning in the early 1990’s, the DoD reduced support to maintain key technologists and associated Defense Nuclear Agency (DNA) activities that had previously retained that basic knowledge and competence.
So, while we once understood how to harden our critical civil infrastructure, our leaders have been delinquent even in maintaining that competence.
Moreover, our representatives and senators exacerbated this deficient condition by disbanding the EMP Commission that had long warned Americans and recommended effective responses — so far mostly ignored by the “powers that be.”
Instead, they decided to start over with a younger, less informed and less competent commission, while deferring any effective response, based on well-known technology, to protect Americans against the EMP threat.
So, a resistant federal bureaucracy is trying to stonewall, dissemble, and delay to block progress in dealing with this important existential threat. It likely will be some time before the “powers that be” muddle their way to deal effectively with this existential threat to all Americans under the best of conditions.
Hopefully, President Trump will shortly sign an Executive Order to expedite a needed reversal of these conditions by directing the currently dysfunctional federal government’s departments and agencies to get their act together, under the direction of the President’s National Security Advisor.
But it will take time, under the best of conditions, to harden most of the nation’s electric grid against such an attack.
Given these conditions, we should rapidly build the best possible BMD systems to protect Americans against such threats that could be launched from practically any location on the surface of the earth.
For example, we can quickly protect against North Korean ICBMs early in their flight with defensive interceptors launched from nearby aircraft — either fighter aircraft or unpiloted air vehicles (UAVs). Later in their flight, North Korean ICBMs launched northward can be intercepted by our existing ground and sea-based BMD systems, if they are prepared to do so.
Intercepting Iranian ballistic missiles nearby from the air is a bit more problematic because of geographic constraints. Our ground based interceptors could intercept most of Iran’s ICBMs later in their flight as they approach the U.S. from the north.
But both North Korea and Iran launch satellites southward to approach the U.S. from the south, and we have been ill prepared to intercept them. They could carry nuclear weapons to be detonated over the United States to produce the existential EMP threat.
Either state or their terrorist surrogates could launch ballistic missiles from vessels off our mostly undefended coasts, especially from the Gulf of Mexico.
We have left ourselves mostly unprepared to deal with these threats, whatever we may think is needed to continue to deter larger scale nuclear attacks from Russia or China.
Given the uncertainties of identifying potential threat missile launch sites, the most effective BMD system would be based in space. Over 30 years ago, President Reagan’s Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI) leaders understood this necessity and approved a formal demonstration/validation (DemVal) program for the most consequential concept developed during the SDI era (1983-93).
Two contractor teams were selected in 1990 to accomplish this DemVal program to design 1000 “Brilliant Pebbles” space-based interceptors, judged by the Pentagon’s independent authorities to cost $10 billion dollars in 1988 dollars (inflates to $20 billion today) for development, deployment and 20 years of operations. With today’s technology, a more effective system should cost less.
That system was designed to destroy with high confidence all of a salvo attack involving up to 200 reentry vehicles, beginning in the “boost phase” of the ballistic missiles carrying those attacking warheads. Compare that with today’s BMD systems that have cost the American taxpayers many times that amount.
This system should be built within five years, would take care of the existential EMP threat launched from anywhere on earth, and could also be an early counter to the hypersonic threat from Russia and China.
Ambassador Henry F. (Hank) Cooper, Chairman of High Frontier and an acknowledged expert on strategic and space national security issues, was President Ronald Reagan's Chief Negotiator at the Geneva Defense and Space Talks with the Soviet Union and Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI) Director during the George H.W. Bush administration. Previously, he served as the Assistant Director of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, Deputy Assistant USAF Secretary and Science Advisor to the Air Force Weapons Laboratory. In the private sector he was Chairman of Applied Research Associates, a high technology company; member of the technical staff of Jaycor, R&D Associates and Bell Telephone Laboratories; a Senior Associate of the National Institute for Public Policy; and Visiting Fellow at the Heritage Foundation. He received B.S. and M.S. degrees from Clemson and a PhD from New York University, all in Mechanical Engineering. To read more of his reports — Click Here Now.

Story 48
With the news that the duo behind Eleven Madison Park, decorated chef Daniel Humm and service whiz Will Guidara, are heading for a split, it’s worth looking back at how the pair told the world that their partnership worked. For years, the two were characters in story that played out on Instagram — of a dedicated pair of coworkers and friends who worked hard at making something amazing together. The captions written by one always praised the other, while the photos themselves captured two men who were deep in it, whether the “it” was a pre-service meeting or a night partying.
Here now, a look at how the pair performed their partnership on social media.
Together in the restaurant
How do you prove to the world that neither the chef nor the manager can do their job without the other? You show the two of them together at work, as equals. This is, without a doubt, the signature Guidara-Humm photo style.
The hand-on-heart pose
Another recurring trope — especially, it seems, in “official” photos for media outlets — features Will’s hand on Daniel’s chest. It’s a familial gesture, and telegraphs the message: “this all comes from the heart” and also “I can literally feel your heartbeat.”
At work, having fun
On social media at least, it seemed like the pair loved to be together at the events that shaped their brand: the masquerade parties, the photoshoots on beaches and in yurts, the awards-show prep and wins. These photos helped tell the story of a partners in work, life, and capital-F friendship, which is defined as staring intensely into each others’ eyes whenever a camera materializes. It’s a strong “wife guy” energy.
In conclusion: Good night, sweet princes
It’s highly likely that there will be some conscious-uncoupling-style posts in our feeds soon. Never forget the good times, you two.

Story 49
U.S. military facilities involved in command and control of forces face a growing risk of disruption by an electromagnetic pulse attack or solar superstorm that could knock out all electronics at the strategic bases, according to a report.
The report by the Air Force Electromagnetic Defense Task Force, made up of civilian and military experts, also warns that EMP or geomagnetic disturbances could cause catastrophic damage and the loss of life in the United States.
“Multiple adversaries are capable of executing a strategic attack that may black out major portions of a state’s grid,” the report said. “An EMP attack affects all devices with solid-state electronics and could render inoperative the main grid and backup power systems, such as on-site generators.”
With heavy reliance on electronics, American society is not prepared to deal with the effects of either a nuclear weapon-caused EMP or a large solar flare that could disrupt critical electric-powered functions for months or years, the report says.
One of the key threats facing the military outlined in the report involves potential EMP attacks on command and control systems used to communicate with and direct military forces.
The report noted that flooding in 2017 at a military base incapacitated a major military command and control facility. Military mission operations were negatively affected for several days while repairs were made.
The report said America’s adversaries recognize that U.S. command and control systems are major targets in a conflict. They know that if the military’s ability to communicate is disrupted, then military effectiveness will be severely limited.
“In terms of strategy, from an adversary’s standpoint, military installations represent the vulnerable underbelly of the defense enterprise,” the report said. “In particular, if deliberate or natural EMS phenomena affect an installation’s command post, the capabilities of associated forces may be degraded or stopped.”
The report warned that under the right conditions “an adversary could impact the communications systems of most U.S. military installations simultaneously.”
The commander of the U.S. Strategic Command, Air Force Gen. John Hyten, warned in 2017 that the United States is ill-prepared to deal with threats posed by an EMP attack.
“EMP is a realistic threat, and it’s a credible threat.” Gen. Hyten said.
The Strategic Command, which commands nuclear forces, is capable of continuing most operations after an EMP attack or solar superstorm beyond seven days. However, the command’s reliance on systems that are not hardened against EMP could rapidly restrict nuclear forces. An example is aerial refueling needed to support the National Airborne Operations Center and other command and control systems could be degraded.
The report included a chart showing that the Air Force is preparing to deal with an EMP attack from a nuclear weapon detonated miles above the United States, an explosion that would cause a catastrophic power outage affecting an estimated 318 million people for 30 days.
By contrast, the Air Force sees a kinetic attack on the power grid as causing a catastrophic power outage that would affect 10 million people for two weeks, while taking three to six months to replace electrical equipment.
China’s drive to become the dominant power in the advanced, high-speed 5G digital communications technology also poses risks to the U.S. military. “The states or non-states that control the 5G network will dictate or control all digital transactions including the ability to share and receive information,” the report said.
“Because control of 5G is roughly equivalent to control of the internet, open 5G is critical to freedom and free-market economics,” the report noted. “Meanwhile, access to the 5G-millimeter wave bandwidth will be critical to operations in all war-fighting domains, in particular, space [command and control].”
Another vulnerability for the United States involves the network of nuclear power stations, which rely on electricity to maintain cooling systems to prevent meltdowns and the release of radioactive material.
“Most experts agree that if a GMD or EMP incapacitates an electrical grid, the grid will likely remain in a failed state from weeks to months,” the report said. “In turn, the ability to provide continued electrical cooling for nuclear power plant reactors and spent fuel pools would be at the top of electricity restoration priorities within hours.”
Currently, however, the ability to aid distressed nuclear power stations is “very limited” and power plants have about 16 hours of backup battery power.
“In the United States, this would risk meltdowns at approximately 60 sites and 99 nuclear reactors, with more than 60,000 metric tons of spent nuclear fuel in storage pools,” the report said. “Prolonged loss of power to these critical sites poses a risk of radioactive contamination to the continental United States with consequentially disastrous impact to the economy and public health.”
Both to military and civilian infrastructure and hardware face risks from jet-stream winds spreading radioactive materials.
The report, published by the Air University at Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama, in November, was written by Air Force Maj. David Stuckenberg, former CIA Director R. James Woolsey and Col. Douglas DeMaio.
NAVY SUBMARINE WOES
An investigation by Congress’ Government Accountability Office found that the Navy has been unable to begin or complete most of its attack submarine maintenance in a timely fashion, resulting in operational delays and excessive costs.
“GAO’s analysis of Navy maintenance data shows that between fiscal year 2008 and 2018, attack submarines have incurred 10,363 days of idle time and maintenance delays as a result of delays in getting into and out of the shipyards,” a report made public last month states.
One example was the USS Boise, which was scheduled for extended maintenance in 2013. The work was held back by shipyard delays. In 2016, the Boise was unable to conduct normal operations and remained idle at pierside for over two years waiting for access to a shipyard.
GAO estimates that since fiscal 2008, the Navy has spent $1.5 billion to support attack submarines that “provide no operational capability — those sitting idle while waiting to enter the shipyards, and those delayed in completing their maintenance at the shipyards.”
The report focused on the Navy’s 51 attack submarines — 33 Los Angeles-class, 3 Seawolf-class and 15 Virginia-class submarines. The vessels are engaged clandestine intelligence gathering, attacking enemy targets, and transporting special operations forces. The capabilities make the submarine among the most requested assets for global military commanders.
The GAO said the Navy has begun addressing the problems at shipyards. However, the service has “not effectively allocated maintenance periods among public shipyards and private shipyards that may also be available to help minimize attack submarine idle time,” the report said.
Investigators discovered that as public shipyards are working overtime over the past several years, “attack submarine maintenance delays are getting longer and idle time is increasing.”
“Without addressing this challenge, the Navy risks continued expenditure of operating and support funding to crew, maintain, and support attack submarines that provide no operational capability because they are delayed in getting into and out of maintenance,” the report said.
GAO urged the Navy to carry out a business case analysis to improve maintenance workload allocation across public and private shipyards.
BUSH HUMOR
A former White House official who worked for former President George H.W. Bush, whose state funeral was held Wednesday, shared this humorous anecdote about the World War II Navy pilot.
The ex-White House official met Mr. Bush a few years after he left office, and the former president recalled that the former official had been a Marine.
“I had to join the Navy; I was ineligible for the Marines,” Mr. Bush said.
“Why?” the former official asked.
“My parents were married when I was born,” Mr. Bush quipped.
• Contact Bill Gertz on Twitter at @BillGertz.
Sign up for Daily Newsletters Manage Newsletters
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC. Click here for reprint permission.

Story 50

Lightning flashes in the distance as a thunderstorm passes over Busch Stadium during a rain delay in a baseball game between the St. Louis Cardinals and the Cincinnati Reds on July 14, 2018, in St. Louis. (Jeff Roberson/AP)
Baseball games can be a magnet for lightning, as they’re played outside under tall metal towers during storm-prone months, but the Cincinnati Reds believe they may have found a way to ward off dangerous bolts.
A lightning-suppression system — purporting to balance the electric field between the clouds and ground — was installed at Great American Ball Park in early May; since then, a team official said, the stadium has escaped being struck despite a summer’s worth of thunderstorms.
The Reds are piloting the system for Major League Baseball, so if the CMCE120 Lightning Suppressors — flattened aluminum globes about the width of the bases on the diamond — mounted atop the ballpark’s light poles keep working as advertised, they may be coming soon to a stadium near you.
“Our number one responsibility is the safety of people in this ballpark,” said Reds vice president of ballpark operations Tim O’Connell, “and if we can have another tool to make this a safer place to be, I’m all for it.”
Still, the Reds have left in place the lightning rods studding GABP as well as a lightning-detection system. O’Connell said the stadium, in an average season, has about a dozen games during which threatening lightning prompts the team to order fans out of exposed seats.
The lightning at Great American Ball Park was captured by a viewer. What's the weather like in YOUR area? pic.twitter.com/D1VUJRCSUt — FOX19 NOW (@FOX19) September 5, 2015
Cloud-to-ground lightning strikes occur when a connection is made between channels of negatively charged ions, called leaders, emerging from storm clouds and positively charged streamers reaching up from the ground.
According to Indiana-based EMP Solutions, which sold the devices to the team, a suppressor — which in technical terms is a non-polarized capacitor — works by balancing the electric field within a 120-foot radius and neutralizing the streamers.
Said EMP Solutions CEO Jay Kothari, “It almost camouflages the stadium from lightning.”
The technology comes from a concept the inventor Nikola Tesla patented in 1918, Kothari added.
But some lightning experts say the devices won’t work because the immutable laws of physics mean they can’t work, and reliance on them could jeopardize public safety.
“Lightning events are complex weather phenomena that often extend over many miles in many directions. The suggestion that a small object on a pole could possibly possess powers to attract or repel lightning over an appreciable distance is simply not rooted in established physical facts,” said Jennifer Morgan, education coordinator with the Lightning Safety Alliance. “Promising protection for people in open areas during storm conditions is irresponsible, especially in the case of a sports stadium where tens of thousands of people are potentially exposed to lightning strike risk.
“Relying on unproven gimmicks to protect people in a stadium is an invitation for a lightning tragedy.”

A bolt of lightning strikes beyond the centerfield wall at Nationals Park. (Jonathan Newton/The Washington Post)
Also skeptical is one of MLB’s top stars.
“I don’t think that’s possible,” said Los Angeles Angels center fielder Mike Trout, a self-professed weather geek, when told of Cincinnati’s lightning suppressors.
Possible or not, the Reds say the system at GABP is working.
O’Connell said he learned of the suppressors two years ago through a professional connection, then performed his due diligence by asking the team’s meteorological advisers — and an MLB team can have many — whether such a thing was possible.
As O’Connell remembered, “Their response, frankly, was, ‘We’d love to see it work.’ ”
O’Connell also spoke with clients of EMP Solutions including sailboat owners and parks districts, and he did not receive any negative reviews.
Lightning strikes during the 7th inning of tonight's Rockies-Padres game in Denver - @AP photo pic.twitter.com/jqj10ZHCJx — BuzzFeed Storm (@BuzzFeedStorm) July 8, 2014
When Capital Weather Gang did its own investigating, reaching out to companies and government agencies listed as customers in EMP Solutions documents or news articles, it, too, found customers who raved about the suppressors — including one client that really knows about thunderstorms.
The National Weather Service’s office in Amarillo, Tex., had lost $157,000 worth of electronics to damage caused by lightning bolts in the year before buying a suppressor. After its installation on a tower by the office, no strikes.
“We approve of it,” said David Wilburn, electronic systems analyst at the Amarillo office.
Like the Reds and MLB, Amarillo is piloting the system for the other forecast offices in the National Weather Service’s Southern Region.
Other entities to speak positively about EMS Solutions’ products:
The city of Deerfield Beach, Fla., which installed a suppressor to protect the popular “fish cam” underneath its pier. Said city manager David Santucci: “Considering what we’ve probably spent on fixing the camera and the electrical boxes, we’ve made our money already because we spent less than $30,000 on the system.”
Sarasota County, Fla., which wanted protection for its Emergency Operations Center. “Sarasota County is happy to report that our units have been installed for two years and have not had any direct lightning strikes,” said Bill Rhodes, technology systems manager for the county’s public safety communications. “Prior to installation, our tower was struck twice in a one-year period.”
Hancock County, Ind., which suffered two strikes to its 911 call center within a five-minute span in August 2016. “We have made it through 2017, 2018, and half of 2019 with no strikes, and we have had several strong storms pass through our area during that time,” said John M. Jokantas, director of Hancock County 911.
National Oilwell Varco, which said it hasn’t had any strikes in three years since installation at its R&D facility in Navasota, Tex.
However, the endorsements certainly were not unanimous. Capital Weather Gang was given no comment by:
Northeast Florida Regional Airport, in St. Augustine.
The U.S. Tennis Association, which has suppressors installed at its campus in Orlando.
First Energy, for which EMP Solutions says it is protecting 22 communications towers for the utility in Pennsylvania and West Virginia.
One critic of EMP Solutions’ technology says the absence of such suppressors at space-launch complexes in lightning-prone Florida provides evidence these devices do not work.
“Not just NASA, but any commercial launch provider, whether it is Space X or Blue Origin or Boeing or ULA or you name it … none of these gadgets are used at their launchpads — not a single one,” said Carlos Mata, chief technologist for Scientific Lightning Solutions and a former technical lead of Kennedy Space Center’s Advanced Electronics and Technology Development Laboratory.
Also, Mata added, there are myriad capacitors in use across the world, and no one believes those are preventing lightning strikes.
Kothari, in response, said he believes the critics are wrong — but he gets where they’re coming from.
“It’s a disruptive technology,” Kothari said. “If everybody understood what this did and what it could do for them and the benefits of this over regular lightning protection, it would put the lightning rod people out of business.”
Correction: The original version of this article named the Deerfield Beach, Fla. city manager as Dave Hunt. His actual name is David Santucci.

Story 51
Los Angeles, United States, –QY Research has published a latest and most trending report on Electric Oil Pump Market offers detailed value chain assessment, comprehensive study on market dynamics including drivers, restraints and opportunities, recent trends, and industry performance analysis. Furthermore, it digs deep into critical aspects of key subjects such as market competition, regional growth, and market segmentation so that readers could gain a sound understanding of the global Electric Oil Pump market.
The global Electric Oil Pump market is valued at million US$ in 2018 is expected to reach million US$ by the end of 2025, growing at a CAGR of during 2019-2025
Get PDF Sample Copy of this Report: https://www.qyresearch.com/sample-form/form/1057090/global-electric-oil-pump-market-report-history-and-forecast-2014-2025-breakdown-data-by-manufacturers-key-regions-types-and-application
The report represents the statistical data in the form of tables, charts, and info-graphics to assess the market, its growth and development, and market trends of the Global Electric Oil Pump Market during the projected period.
Key Players of the Global Electric Oil Pump Market
Nidec Corporation
SHW Group
FTE automotive
AISIN SEIKI
Rheinmetall Automotive AG
Hitachi Automotive Systems
Magna
LG Innotek
ZF-TRW
Slpt
Mitsubishi Electric Corporation
EMP
Global Electric Oil Pump Market: Segmentation by Product
Separate Pump
Integrated Pump
Global Electric Oil Pump Market: Segmentation by Application
Start-Stop System
Electric and Hybrid Vehicle
In terms of region, this research report covers almost all the major regions across the globe such as North America, Europe, South America, the Middle East, and Africa and the Asia Pacific. Europe and North America regions are anticipated to show an upward growth in the years to come. While Electric Oil Pump Market in Asia Pacific regions is likely to show remarkable growth during the forecasted period. Cutting edge technology and innovations are the most important traits of the North America region and that’s the reason most of the time the US dominates the global markets. Electric Oil Pump Market in South, America region is also expected to grow in near future.
Request Customization of Report: https://www.qyresearch.com/customize-request/form/1057090/global-electric-oil-pump-market-report-history-and-forecast-2014-2025-breakdown-data-by-manufacturers-key-regions-types-and-application
Table of Contents
Market Overview: The report begins with this section where product overview and highlights of product and application segments of the global Electric Oil Pump market are provided. Highlights of the segmentation study include price, revenue, sales, sales growth rate, and market share by product.
Competition by Company: Here, the competition in the global Electric Oil Pump market is analyzed, taking into consideration price, revenue, sales, and market share by company, market concentration rate, competitive situations and trends, expansion, merger and acquisition, and market shares of top 5 and 10 companies.
Company Profiles and Sales Data: As the name suggests, this section gives the sales data of key players of the global Electric Oil Pump market as well as some useful information on their business. It talks about the gross margin, price, revenue, products and their specifications, applications, competitors, manufacturing base, and the main business of players operating in the global Electric Oil Pump market.
Market Status and Outlook by Region: In this section, the report discusses about gross margin, sales, revenue, production, market share, CAGR, and market size by region. Here, the global Electric Oil Pump market is deeply analyzed on the basis of regions and countries such as North America, Europe, China, India, Japan, and the MEA.
Application or End User: This part of the research study shows how different application segments contribute to the global Electric Oil Pump market.
Market Forecast: Here, the report offers complete forecast of the global Electric Oil Pump market by product, application, and region. It also offers global sales and revenue forecast for all years of the forecast period.
Upstream Raw Materials: The report provides analysis of key raw materials used in the global Electric Oil Pump market, manufacturing cost structure, and the industrial chain.
Marketing Strategy Analysis and Distributors: This section offers analysis of marketing channel development trends, indirect marketing, and direct marketing followed by a broad discussion on distributors and downstream customers in the global Electric Oil Pump market.
Research Findings and Conclusion: This is one of the last sections of the report where the findings of the analysts and the conclusion of the research study are provided.
Appendix: Here, we have provided a disclaimer, our data sources, data triangulation, market breakdown, research programs and design, and our research approach.
About Us:
QYResearch always pursuits high product quality with the belief that quality is the soul of business. Through years of effort and supports from huge number of customer supports, QYResearch consulting group has accumulated creative design methods on many high-quality markets investigation and research team with rich experience. Today, QYResearch has become the brand of quality assurance in consulting industry.

Story 52
Start an Emergency & Disaster Management degree at American Military University.
By Glynn Cosker
Managing Editor, EDM Digest
Note: This article was originally published on In Homeland Security.
An electromagnetic pulse (EMP) is one of the biggest threats to our national security, with worst-case scenarios showing a doomsday scene right out of an apocalyptic movie. However, President Donald Trump’s important March 26 executive order is a huge step toward making America prepared for an EMP.
EMPs are not a new concern. The Congressional EMP Commission has warned for nearly 20 years that an EMP is capable of destroying civilization and killing millions of people, but the Commission’s findings have largely gone unnoticed. President Trump’s executive order should make the nation take notice.
President Trump’s EMP Executive Order
The Executive Order on Coordinating National Resilience to Electromagnetic Threats mandates that the White House take charge of national EMP preparedness. This order circumnavigates the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Department of Energy (DOE).
Putting the White House in charge of EMP preparedness is a bold, but vital, component of the president’s executive order. Traditionally, cabinet departments – including DOE and DHS – have a long history of playing down the seriousness of the EMP threat.
The new executive order states that the president’s National Security Advisor, coordinating with the National Security Council and the director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, “shall coordinate the development and implementation of executive branch actions to assess, prioritize, and manage the risks of EMPs.”
President Trump’s executive order also directs DHS to liaise with DOE and other agencies, along with the private sector, to “develop a plan to mitigate the effects of EMPs on the vulnerable priority-critical infrastructures.”
Rare Bipartisan Progress on EMP Preparedness
Getting an EMP preparedness executive order is one of those extraordinarily rare bipartisan successes on Capitol Hill. Republican and Democratic factions in Congress have emphasized for years how important EMP preparedness is, but past administrations were mostly indifferent.
Senators Ted Cruz (R-Texas), Edward Markey (D-Mass.), Ron Johnson (R-Wis.) and former Senator Jim Webb (D-Va.) have all led calls for EMP preparedness legislation. U.S. Representatives Michael McCaul (R-Texas) and Doug Lamborn (D-Colo.) also played a big part, as did many other current and former lawmakers at the state and federal level.
“It is way past time to stop admiring this problem,” Sen. Johnson told the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Operations Committee on Feb. 26, “and actually begin to do something concrete to protect our vulnerable electrical grid, control systems, and the ever- increasing array of electronic devices our society has become dependent upon.”
EMPs Explained
So, why all of the concern and the need for national preparedness? An EMP is an intense surge of energy that interrupts, damages, or destroys all electronic devices on and above our planet. There are natural and manmade EMPs, but each type poses a huge threat to America’s national security and way of life. There is a real possibility of deaths on a scale rarely observed in human history.
The bottom line is this: The United States is prepared to deal with hurricanes, earthquakes, fires and other natural disasters; it is prepared to deal with foreign invasions, terror attacks and cyber-attacks. However, it is not ready to handle an EMP event.
The natural type of EMP, solar superstorms, happen quite regularly. In fact, there is a 10 percent chance of one occurring during any given decade.
During a solar superstorm, the sun emits a solar coronal mass ejection (CME), which causes a geomagnetic storm when it hits the Earth's magnetosphere. These storms are usually weak and harmless, but stronger ones are a major concern.
Strongest EMP On Record
The strongest geomagnetic storm ever recorded occurred in 1859. Known as the Carrington Event (after one of the astronomers who first observed it), it took out primitive telegraph systems all over Europe and North America. Of course, there was zero reliance on electricity for anything in the mid-1800s.
If the same magnitude geomagnetic storm happened today, however, all electrically operated items would instantly stop working, and global positioning satellites and cell phone towers would fail. The internet would be down indefinitely, and the national electrical power grid would be gone for months. There is also a risk that without power to regulate essential functions, the nation’s nuclear power stations might suffer meltdowns.
No one can predict when the next strong geomagnetic storm will occur, but manmade EMPs are definitely avoidable and involve the possibility of a terror attack hundreds of miles above the United States. As recently as September, North Korea threatened such an attack.
North Korea Producing Super-EMP Weapon
“An EMP attack might be made by a North Korean satellite, right now. A Super-EMP weapon could be relatively small and lightweight, and could fit inside North Korea’s Kwangmyongsong-3 (KMS-3) and Kwangmyongsong-4 (KMS-4) satellites,” Congressional EMP Commission Chairman, Dr. William Graham, warned last year. “These two satellites presently orbit over the United States . . . The south polar trajectory of KMS-3 and KMS-4 evades U.S. Ballistic Missile Early Warning Radars and National Missile Defenses, resembling a Russian secret weapon developed during the Cold War, called the Fractional Orbital Bombardment System (FOBS) that would have used a nuclear-armed satellite to make a surprise EMP attack on the United States."
Another terror EMP attack scenario involves the detonation of a nuclear warhead above the U.S. at a very high altitude. A terror EMP attack of this kind is extremely unlikely. The United States ready for any nuclear threat and would retaliate in kind, destroying any entity who even tried.
An EMP and the Breakdown of Society
An EMP itself is not harmful to people, but its aftermath would cause devastating, long-lasting effects that could ultimately kill 90 percent of the U.S. population. Most deaths would be due to the shutting down of our entire essential infrastructure, including financial, medical, communication, transportation, food, water and sewer systems.
At first, the population would react as they do during any blackout. Soon, though, when it became apparent that the electricity would be out for ‘months,’ all hell would break loose. Oil refineries would shut down, gas stations would be gone, ATMs and bank cards would no longer work, phone communications would be out, the internet would be dead, water reservoirs would be contaminated, and the food and drugs supply chain would stop.
Emergency services, hospitals and law enforcement officials would become overwhelmed, and mob rule would ensue. The breakdown of society as we know it today would cause wide-scale death and destruction of biblical proportions.
Imagine a riot in a downtown city neighborhood, and then imagine that same riot taking over your entire city and state. It would look like ‘The Walking Dead’ without the zombies.
All of that is something that the United States should urgently take steps to avoid. President Trump’s executive EMP order is a good first action in preparing for one of today’s biggest threats to civilization.

Story 53
The Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) represents itself as independent, but is funded by the electric power industry. EPRI is actually a lobby producing often dubious "research" intended to promote the political and financial interests of electric utilities.
EPRI’s latest report dismissing the threat from nuclear electromagnetic pulse (EMP) attack "High-Altitude Electromagnetic Pulse and the Bulk Power System" repackages false arguments EPRI and other industry lobbies (the North American Electric Reliability Corporation and Edison Electric Institute, for example) have been making for years.
It is a last-ditch effort to derail President Trump’s "Executive Order on Coordinating National Resilience to Electromagnetic Pulses" (March 26, 2019) that would fast-track protecting the national electric grid and other life-sustaining critical infrastructures from EMP threats.
EPRI’s report is not a scientifically legitimate alternative view on EMP, is authored by non-experts who cook the books on EMP, and should be accorded no more credibility than the "independent laboratory analyses" funded by 1950s cigarette manufacturers falsely claiming no causal link between smoking and lung cancer.
EPRI implies their report is endorsed by the Department of Energy (DOE) and its national laboratories. But DOE told the Congressional EMP Commission, while individuals within DOE have cooperated with EPRI — DOE does not endorse EPRI’s EMP Reports.
EPRI is speaking for itself, not for DOE and its labs.
EPRI's preposterous bottom-line: Nuclear EMP attack will be no more consequential than other localized or regional blackouts with which utilities have experience — contradicting legitimate EMP studies by real experts including the Congressional EMP Commission, the U.S. Air Force Electromagnetic Defense Task Force, the Congressional Strategic Posture Commission, the U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the National Academy of Sciences, and every other major study by the Department of Defense and the U.S. Government over more than 50 years.
Contrary to EPRI, the EMP Commission warns a nuclear EMP attack would be an unprecedented catastrophe, potentially causing protracted nationwide blackout, killing millions. For the unclassified EMP Commission Reports see www.firstempcommission.org
EPRI's claim an E1 EMP field of 25,000 volts/meter will cause only minor damage is ridiculous, grossly underestimating the threat. Testing proves electronic systems can be damaged by field strengths below 1,000 volts/meter.
This is also common sense. In our electronic civilization, almost everything (including SCADAS vital to electric grid operations) operate on 120 volts or less.
EPRI implies damage inflicted on 15% of electric grid systems (transformers, SCADAS, generators, relays etc.) constitutes minor damage, and would be no more consequential than localized or regional blackouts with which the electric power industry has experience.
Yet the 10 greatest blackouts in world history started from single-point failures constituting far less than 1% of the electric grid. The Great Northeast Blackout of 2003 that put 50 million Americans in the dark, blacking-out New York City, was caused by single-point failure comprising less than 0.001% of the Ohio grid.
According to The Wall Street Journal, a classified U.S. FERC study concludes if just 9 of the 2,000 EHV transformers in the U.S. were damaged (0.0045% of all EHV transformers) a nationwide blackout would result, lasting 18 months.
EPRI is essentially claiming an EMP event inflicting damage over 15,000 times more severe than the ten greatest blackouts in world history would be no big deal, within the experience of the electric power industry and routinely manageable — untrue and dangerously irresponsible.
EPRI asserts no EHV transformers would be damaged by E3 EMP.
Yet geomagnetic storms, like the 1989 Hydro-Quebec Storm, have melted EHV transformers designed to carry 750,000 volts, in just 90 seconds. These natural EMP storms are far weaker than those generated by a nuclear EMP attack.
EPRI's recommended protection Standard for Geo-Magnetic Disturbance (GMD), equivalent to E3 EMP 8 volts/kilometer, is grossly inadequate for the nuclear EMP threat, which should be 85 volts/kilometer.
It is also inadequate for a natural EMP geomagnetic super-storm like the Carrington Event.
The EPRI GMD/EMP Standard is like preparing New Orleans for only a category one hurricane, when you know a category five will happen someday.
EPRI’s assertion that GMD protection for natural EMP from solar storms also protects against nuclear EMP attack is false, because nuclear EMP field strengths are much higher, and the E1 EMP component much more damaging than misrepresented by EPRI.
EPRI uses garbage-in, garbage-out computer modeling to make its bogus story.
You can prove anything with computer models.
EPRI is contradicted by over 50 years of EMP testing.
Why has the Department of Defense spent billions hardening U.S. C3I and military forces against EMP, including the NORAD Alternate Command Post inside Cheyenne Mountain?
How come non-nuclear EMP weapons, which generate much weaker fields than a nuclear EMP attack, can crash airplanes, blow-up natural gas pipelines, stop cars, damage SCADAS etc.?
Russia, China, North Korea and Iran (some of these are EPRI members) all know nuclear EMP attack would have catastrophic consequences, collapsing the U.S. electric grid and other critical infrastructures, offering the key to victory in war.
EPRI and electric utilities need to get out of the way, or better yet help support President Trump’s plan to protect our nation from the existential threat that is EMP.
Dr. Peter Vincent Pry is executive director of the Task Force on National and Homeland Security. He served on the Congressional EMP Commission as chief of staff, the Congressional Strategic Posture Commission, the House Armed Services Committee, and the CIA. He is author of "Blackout Wars." For more of his reports, Go Here Now.



Story 54
On Thursday, a US Navy ship in the Persian Gulf reportedly used a new, anti-drone system to take down an Iranian drone that came within a thousand yards, according to Military.com.
In a statement, the Department of Defense confirmed that the USS Boxer was moving through the Strait of Hormuz when it was approached by a fixed-wing drone which “closed within a threatening range,” which prompted the ship’s crew to take “defensive action.” Iran has denied the allegation.
According to C4ISRNET, the Marines aboard the USS Boxer used a new system called a MRZR LMADIS — a Light Marine Air Defense Integrated System. The system is mounted on a Polaris MRZR vehicle, which has appeared in DoD photos of the ship. USNI News says that it’s the “first known kill by a new generation of electronic warfare and directed energy weapons” by the US.
.@DeptofDefense photos of the USS Boxer's inbound transit through the Strait of Hormuz today. During the transit, Marines on board destroyed an Iranian drone that "closed within a threatening range" using counter-drone jamming equipment. pic.twitter.com/Fe0PEtPXFw — Elizabeth McLaughlin (@Elizabeth_McLau) July 18, 2019
The system is comprised of two vehicles — one a “command node,” and the other a “sensor node.” The vehicles are outfitted with radar sensors, cameras, and radio frequency detectors and jammers. Once the crew is able to detect a threat, they use the jammer to disrupt the signals from the drone. While the system has been tested out on land by ground forces, Military.com reports that the Navy and Marines began testing the system on ships earlier this year.
The incident comes a month after the Iranian military shot down a US spy drone in the same region. The US military has begun to take the threats posed by drones more seriously in recent years as cheap commercial devices have made their way onto the market, and as foreign militaries invest more in the technology.
a jamming system is a cost-effective means of defense
As USNI News points out, a jamming system is a cost-effective means of defense. A couple of years ago, a US ally used a $3 million Patriot missile to take down a $200 drone — an expensive proposition. In this instance, the USS Boxer had defensive missile systems in place, which it could have used to take down the UAV, or the 5-inch guns that are part of its Phalanx Close-in Weapons Systems. But those systems aren’t always effective: guns and missiles can miss. But directed-energy weapons are cheaper to operate and are a bit more effective, as this particular drone discovered.
The US military has launched numerous experiments when it comes to using directed-energy weapons against drones and missiles. The US Air Force unveiled a new system called THOR (Tactical High Power Microwave Operational Responder) in June, designed to take down swarms of drones, while the US Army began investing in high-powered microwave cannons to take down drones last year.

Story 55
When two U.S. Navy warships sailed through the Taiwan Strait on Thursday, a Navy spokesman said it was only “routine.” Besides, added U.S. Pacific Fleet spokesman Lt. Commander Tim Gorman, the operation was “in accordance with international law.” It “demonstrates the US commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific,” he added, explaining that “the US Navy will continue to fly, sail and operate anywhere international law allows.”
China has challenged that assessment for years, claiming that it has sovereignty over the island and that Taiwan’s status as a separate Republic of China isn’t legitimate. Accordingly, China sent several military jets near the southern tip of the island late Thursday to make the point.
When the Navy sent two “surface combatants” through the Strait in October and then again in November, China responded by sending multiple warships of its own into the area.
The only thing more dangerous than arrogance on the part of the U.S. Navy is the ignorance of just how China could turn off the lights in America if it wanted to retaliate with prejudice.
As far back as 1996, the communist Chinese government knew that the United States was vulnerable to a nuclear Electromagnetic Pulse (EMP) set off in the atmosphere above the country. An article published by the Peoples’ Liberation Army (PLA) — China’s military arm — exposed that vulnerability:
Some people might think that things similar to the “Pearl Harbor Incident” are unlikely to take place during the information age. Yet it could be regarded as the “Pearl Harbor Incident” of the 21st century if a surprise attack is conducted against the enemy’s [the United States] crucial information systems of command, control, and communications by such means as electronic warfare, electromagnetic pulse weapons, telecommunications interference and suppression, computer viruses, and if the enemy is deprived of the information it needs as a result.
Even a super military power like the United States, which possesses nuclear missiles and powerful armed forces, cannot guarantee its immunity….
In their own words, a highly computerized open society like the United States is extremely vulnerable to electronic attacks from all sides. This is because the U.S. economy, from banks to telephone systems and from power plants to iron and steel works, relies entirely on computer networks….
When a country grows increasingly powerful economically and technologically … it will become increasingly dependent on modern information systems….
The United States is more vulnerable to attacks than any other country in the world.”
Dr. Peter Vincent Pry, a former staff member of the House Armed Services Committee, reminded his readers in July 2017 that Russia was also aware of that vulnerability:
Russia made a thinly veiled EMP threat against the United States on May 2, 1999, in an apparent effort to blackmail the U.S. to stop the Balkans War.
During the spring of 1999, tensions between the United States and Russia rose sharply over Operation ALLIED FORCE, the North American Treaty Organization (NATO) bombing campaign against Yugoslavia. A bipartisan delegation from the House Armed Services Committee of the U.S. Congress met in Vienna with their Russian counterparts on the Duma International Affairs Committee, headed by Chairman Vladimir Lukin. The object of the meeting was to reduce U.S.-Russia tensions and seek Russian help in resolving the Balkans War.
On May 2, during the Vienna meeting, Chairman Lukin and Deputy Chairman Alexander Shabanov chastised the United States for military aggression in the Balkans, and warned that Russia was not helpless to oppose Operation ALLIED FORCE. [Said Lukin]: “Hypothetically, if Russia really wanted to hurt the United States in retaliation for NATO’s bombing of Yugoslavia, Russia could fire a submarine launched ballistic missile and detonate a single nuclear warhead at high altitude over the United States. The resulting electromagnetic pulse would massively disrupt U.S. communications and computer systems, shutting down everything. No internet. Nothing.”
[Added Shabanov]: “And if that didn’t work, we’d just launch another missile.”
Apparently frightened by the potential threat, Congress did what it usually does in the face of a crisis: It created a committee to study the matter and come up with recommendations. Called “The Commission to Assess the Threat to the United States from Electromagnetic Pulse (EMP) Attack,” it was created in 2001 to assess the following:
1. the nature and magnitude of potential high-altitude threats to the United States....
2. the vulnerability of the United States military and … civilian systems to an EMP attack;
3. the capability … to repair and recover from … an EMP attack; and
4. the feasibility and cost of hardening [those] systems against an EMP attack.
The committee studied the threat and made more than a hundred recommendations to Congress, which Congress ignored. Soon thereafter, the committee was shut down.
The committee was resurrected in 2015 and its results freshened. It issued a series of reports, the last one in July 2017. That last one didn’t see the light of day until Thursday, January 24. Bill Gertz, national security reporter, editor, and columnist for the Washington Times for 27 years before moving to the Washington Free Beacon, reviewed it and learned that those threats are real: China, Russia, North Korea, and Iran are already building such weapons. It’s been part of their military strategies for years:
“Nuclear EMP attack is part of the military doctrines, plans, and exercises of Russia, China, North Korea, and Iran for a revolutionary new way of warfare against military forces and civilian critical infrastructures by cyber, sabotage, and EMP,” the report states.
This new way of warfare is called many things by many nations: In Russia, China, and Iran it is called Sixth Generation Warfare, Non-Contact Warfare, Electronic Warfare, Total Information Warfare, and Cyber Warfare.
Nuclear-electronic warfare also is called “Blackout War” because of its effects on all electronic devices.
The report warned that millions of U.S. citizens could die if any of these countries did launch a nuclear weapon to create an EMP:
Potential adversaries [i.e., the United States] should understand that millions could die from the long-term collateral effects of EMP and cyber-attacks that cause protracted black-out of national electric grids and other life-sustaining critical infrastructures….
A single nuclear weapon can potentially make an EMP attack against a target the size of North America. Any nuclear weapon detonated at an altitude of 30 kilometers [18.6 miles] or higher will generate a potentially catastrophic EMP….
A super-EMP warhead, in the possession of Russia or North Korea, could put at risk the best protected U.S. assets, even threatening the survival of the U.S. nuclear deterrent.
If China, along with Russia, Iran, and other state and non-state actors (i.e., Islamic terrorists) has the capability to send the United States back into the 19th century with a nuclear EMP, a question for the Navy is: Why provoke it by sending warships into the Taiwan Strait?
Image: NicoElNino via iStock / Getty Images Plus
An Ivy League graduate and former investment advisor, Bob is a regular contributor to The New American magazine and blogs frequently at LightFromTheRight.com, primarily on economics and politics. He can be reached at This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. .
Related article:
Are Concerns Over EMP Attack From North Korea Overblown?

Story 56
As China Talks Peace in Space, Researcher Shows Secret Chinese Anti-Satellite, EMP Bases
News Analysis
Satellite imagery has revealed a secret anti-satellite weapons base in China, as well as electromagnetic pulse (EMP) weapons testing facilities. This news is making the rounds online even as the Chinese regime is criticizing India for its space weapons programs, and is calling for peace in space.
The discovery was made by retired Indian Army Col. Vinayak Bhat, who specializes in satellite image analysis focused on China. He noted in India’s The Print news website that the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) now has several of these facilities, including in Tibet and Xinjiang.
Bhat wrote that the facilities have tracking equipment, and it is believed the anti-satellite laser weapons stationed in buildings with sliding roofs can be used for varying purposes that include blinding or destroying satellites.
The EMP weapons facilities, meanwhile, appear to be for testing. They include some simulated electrical infrastructure and nearby facilities housing the weapons. Included in one image is what appears to be a mobile EMP generator.
These images are being circulated just after India tested an anti-satellite missile and destroyed a satellite March 27. The test sent debris hurtling through orbit.
After the recent test, the CCP came out playing the peacekeeper. According to The Times of India, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said at a press conference, “Outer space is shared by the entire mankind. Every country has the right to make peaceful exploration and use of outer space.”
In reality, the CCP has been highly aggressive with its military space programs. It tested its first anti-satellite weapon in May 2005, and shocked the space community in 2007 when it used a missile to destroy its Feng Yun 1-C weather satellite, and sent over 3,000 pieces of debris into low-earth orbit.
The CCP has continued testing its anti-satellite weapons since then, and the secret laser weapons facilities revealed by satellite imagery are just small pieces of the bigger picture.
In its 2015 Annual Report to the Congress, the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission warned that “China’s recent space activities indicate that it is developing co-orbital anti-satellite systems to target U.S. space assets.”
Militarily, space is regarded as the “ultimate high ground.” Weapons placed in orbit could allegedly target missiles on earth as they launch, nuclear weapons could be detonated in orbit for destructive EMP without the need for launch, and satellites crucial for military communications and targeting can be destroyed.
Under the CCP’s unconventional warfare programs designed to destroy the weakest links of the U.S. military, weapons of these types are regarded as highly valuable. CCP military doctrine such as its Assassin’s Mace or “Trump Card” program describe such weapons directly.
In 2014, Chinese Ret. Lt. Gen. Wang Hongguang threatened the United States with these weapons systems in the CCP’s state-run Global Times news outlet. Wang said that the CCP would use these weapons suddenly, and warned Americans in their “pride and arrogance” to “not get trampled beneath us.”
Public information on the CCP’s Assassin’s Mace weapons are thin, but a 2011 report from the National Ground Intelligence Center said, “These modern Trump Card and Assassin’s Mace weapons will permit China’s low-technology forces to prevail over U.S. high-technology forces in a localized conflict.”
According to a recent Government Accountability Office report, on April 3, little has changed. It says, “China and Russia in particular are developing a variety of means to exploit perceived U.S. reliance on space-based systems and challenge the U.S. position in space.”
It’s in this context that President Donald Trump signed an executive order on March 26 to harden U.S. critical infrastructure to protect against EMP attacks. It’s also in this context that Trump is pushing for a Space Force military branch that would consolidate U.S. military space programs.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.

Story 57
President Donald Trump signed an executive order Tuesday directing federal agencies to coordinate in order to protect critical U.S. infrastructure from EMPs. Photo by Kevin Dietsch/UPI | License Photo
March 26 (UPI) -- President Donald Trump signed an executive order Tuesday ordering federal agencies to take steps to protect the country from potential electromagnetic pulses.
The order calls on federal agencies to coordinate in preparations to prevent and react to an electronic pulse, or EMP, which is a blast of electromagnetic energy that can damage the U.S. electric grid and other infrastructure.
"Today's Executive Order -- the first ever to establish a comprehensive policy to improve resilience to EMPs -- is one more example of how the Administration is keeping its promise to always be vigilant against present dangers and future threats," White House press secretary Sarah Sanders said.
National security adviser John Bolton is tasked with overseeing the implementation of the order, which calls on agencies to identify critical infrastructure and establish ways to protect them from EMPs or help them quickly recover from potential EMP strikes.
RELATED Trump administration calls for complete invalidation of Obamacare
The order gives Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen 90 days to list pieces of critical infrastructure that, if disrupted by an EMP, could "reasonably result in catastrophic national or regional effects on public health or safety, economic security, or national security."
Nielsen is also required to compile a list of critical infrastructure systems that are most vulnerable to the effects of EMPs within a year.
The order directs the secretaries of the Homeland Security, Defense and Energy departments to submit an annual report to the president on how to best make critical infrastructure resilient to EMP attacks.
"EMPs are a threat to our national security and energy security. The Executive Order sends a clear message to adversaries that the United States takes this threat seriously," Energy Secretary Rick Perry said in a statement. "As the Sector-Specific Agency for the energy sector, the Department of Energy will work with our Federal and private sector partners to reduce the threats EMP events pose to the Nation."

Story 58
Clare Lopez’s excellent discussion of the consequences of the March 7, 2019, cascading collapse of Venezuela’s electric grid heralded the inevitable collapse of Venezuela’s disastrous socialist experiment and described how Venezuela’s long-suffering population is increasingly desperate for the most basic necessities of life, most especially water.
Given the loss of electricity in 22 of 23 Venezuelan states, she reports that, “people are jostling to fill containers from the filthy, contaminated water coming out of a leaking pipeline along the Guaire River. Those needing regular or urgent hospital or medical care are simply out of luck and dying. Food, what little of it there is, is spoiling. Cell phones don’t work. Vehicles sit where they ran out of gas, while others limp or are pushed into the few remaining gas stations with their own generators. Looting is widespread.”
Clare’s sobering report is complemented by Thomas Popik’s pithy assessment of the implications of the well-reported disastrous blackout, particularly its associated painfully slow restoration activities and continuing persistent blackout pockets. Moreover, he reports that this crisis is far from over and likely will cause further stress on Venezuela’s economic, social, and political systems.
There are lessons to be learned in considering the possible consequence of a major electric power grid loss in the United States. And it is well worth your time to read and contemplate the implications of both these reports.
Clare is an expert on worldwide intelligence matters and Tom is an expert on our vulnerabilities to various threats to our electric power grid from physical, cyber, and electromagnetic pulse (EMP) attack. And he has long labored to rectify the dysfunctional nature of the federal government in addressing these vulnerabilities, especially associated with the regulatory regime.
His analysis makes clear that we need to learn lessons from Venezuela before an even worse blackout hits the United States.
Consider the following implications from his analysis that are absolutely clear to me:
Nearly all of Venezuela’s electric power is generated by hydroelectric power plants — the most resilient sources of electricity and the easiest to restart on their own following a blackout. In contrast, the majority of large less resilient U.S. generation plants require outside power to restart.
In Venezuela, a localized failure cascaded into a nationwide blackout. Each of the three U.S. grid interconnection — Eastern, Western, and Texas — is vulnerable to cascading collapse as well. In fact, the U.S. Eastern Interconnection has already been hit by cascades in 1965 and 2003. The Western connection was hit by a cascade in 2011.
When electric grids collapse, critical equipment can be damaged — such as generator turbines and high voltage transformers. In Venezuela, transformers have been exploding, and there are multiple reports of damage to turbines at their largest hydroelectric dam. This damaged equipment will take months or years to replace. Ditto for the USA.
When grid equipment is damaged, power restoration is difficult; full power restoration in the near-term may be impossible. We see this happening in Venezuela and should expect the same or worse if a large blackout were to hit the United States.
Consequently, much of the population of Venezuela will likely be without electricity for many months to come. Because the U.S. has less resilient generation sources, our situation could, probably would, be even worse.
If current efforts to restart the Venezuelan grid fail, outside humanitarian support for Venezuela will probably be massive. But if the U.S. utilities fail to restart our grid, there likely would be little if any outside help and no practical way to support an American population ten times larger than Venezuela’s.
Just imagine what it would be like following a major EMP attack that shuts down the entire U.S. grid. Or a naturally-occurring solar storm, which could cause major unprotected grid shutdowns around the world? Or a combined cyber and physical attack? Any would be a human catastrophe of unprecedented proportion.
We should contemplate what has happened in Venezuela and take immediate action to prevent an even worse situation for the United States.
So . . . when will the President’s Executive Order on EMP direct the Federal Government to wake up?
As argued for over a year, that order should establish executive leadership in the White House with a mandate to rectify the current dysfunctional federal establishment, when it comes to rectifying the vulnerability of the nation’s electric power grid.
Stay tuned.
Ambassador Henry F. (Hank) Cooper, Chairman of High Frontier and an acknowledged expert on strategic and space national security issues, was President Ronald Reagan's Chief Negotiator at the Geneva Defense and Space Talks with the Soviet Union and Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI) Director during the George H.W. Bush administration. Previously, he served as the Assistant Director of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, Deputy Assistant USAF Secretary and Science Advisor to the Air Force Weapons Laboratory. In the private sector he was Chairman of Applied Research Associates, a high technology company; member of the technical staff of Jaycor, R&D Associates and Bell Telephone Laboratories; a Senior Associate of the National Institute for Public Policy; and Visiting Fellow at the Heritage Foundation. He received B.S. and M.S. degrees from Clemson and a PhD from New York University, all in Mechanical Engineering. To read more of his reports — Click Here Now.

Story 59
EMP Summer House has called it quits. The East Hamptons pop-up from the Eleven Madison Park team was open for two summers, but will not return for a third, 27 East reports.
The elite East Hamptons pet project had a good run. It sold out during most of its tenure, Leonardo DiCaprio stopped by, and it afforded owners Will Guidara and Daniel Humm many opportunities to stroll together barefoot on the beach. The seafood-focused restaurant was housed in a sprawling Hamptons home with a backyard for cornhole and other games.
Guidara and Humm initially opened the restaurant as a way to keep EMP staffers employed while the pair’s flagship three Michelin-starred tasting menu restaurant redesigned in summer 2017. The American Express-sponsored spot — diners could only reserve with an Amex credit card — proved to be such a hit that the guys returned in 2018.
But now Guidara and Humm are focusing on their ever-increasing empire. Here in NYC, Guidara and Humm have EMP, the NoMad restaurant and bar, and fast-casual spot Made Nice, with a Lower East Side events space and a two-story fine dining restaurant at 425 Park Ave. on the way. Further afield, there are two outposts of the NoMad in Los Angeles and Las Vegas, EMP Winter House in Aspen, and an upcoming London restaurant called Davies & Brook.
Sign up for the newsletter Eater NY Sign up for our newsletter. Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe

Story 60
The U.S. Air Force is testing two AUD (Anti UAV Defense) systems that use strong microwave electronic transmissions to disrupt the electronics in UAVs (Unmanned Aerial Vehicles) and cause them to crash. The air force has tested two such weapons which differ mainly in terms of range and price. The system closest to combat zone use is THOR (Tactical High Power Microwave Operational Responder), which is a $10 million system that is shipped in and used from a standard 40 foot shipping container. The container can be hauled around on a flatbed truck or placed on the ground. Inside the container is a microwave transmitter that looks like a large satellite dish mounted on a base that can quickly rotate the dish to face the threat and transmit a short burst of microwave energy. Range of THOR has not been revealed but based on work already done on “directed energy” systems and the fact that THOR is powered by a generator that is also in the shipping container, the effective range is probably not more than a few hundred meters. The microwave energy is sufficient to damage the electronics on commercial UAVs used by Islamic terrorists to carry “swarm attacks” on military bases in Syria. Such attacks have frequently been used against a Russian airbase in western Syria, near the Mediterranean coast. The U.S. Air Force fears its bases, especially temporary or permanent ones overseas, could be subject to similar attacks by commercial UAVs carrying small payloads of explosives and using GPS to guide the UAVs to a base where the explosives detonate and cause damage. Such attacks have been used successfully in Yemen by Shia rebels and in one case attacked a large military ceremony and caused a lot of casualties.
The air force also has a longer-range system called CHIMERA (Counter-Electronic High-Power Microwave Extended-Range Air Base Air Defense) that won’t be ready for realistic testing until 2020. THOR has already downed groups of UAVs in tests and the air force wants to buy many systems for base defense in areas threatened by swarm attacks.
The microwave energy systems used by THOR and CHIMERA are similar to the EMP (Electromagnetic Pulse) weapons developed since the 1990s to destroy electronics in general. Since the 1950s it was known that the powerful EMP put out by nuclear weapon detonations could damage or destroy solid-state (transistors and microelectronics) devices over a wide area. Since the 1990s, devices using high-powered microwave (HPM) devices have been developed to create focused EMP on demand without all the nuclear blast and radioactivity. The most commonly mentioned device to generate HPM is the AESA (Active Electronically Scanned Array) radars that are becoming standard equipment in modern warplanes. AESA is more reliable and, increasingly, no more expensive than the older mechanical (a small dish that moves around inside a dome) radar. AESA is also easier and cheaper to maintain, which makes a more expensive AESA cheaper, over its lifetime, than a cheaper (to buy) mechanically scanned radar. More and more nations (including China and Russia) are manufacturing AESA radars and equipping their ships and aircraft with this stuff. All these nations are also manufacturing or developing EMP “bombs” that could be used to sabotage military bases or civilian facilities. For a long time, EMP was believed to be an unlikely threat because you needed a nuclear war to create EMP. Naturally, the blast and radiation damage from the nukes was seen as more of a threat than EMP. But now that has changed.
There are other, cheaper and battle-tested AUD systems that will also deal with multiple UAV attacks. The Israeli Drone Dome systems cost $3.4 million each and consist of a 360 degree radar system, an electro-optical day/night surveillance unit and a wideband (most frequencies drones use) detector. With all this Drone Dome can reliably detect any small quadcopter or fixed-wing UAV within 3,500 meters. Most quadcopters and UAVs encountered are larger and these can be detected out to ten kilometers. Once spotted Drone Dome can use a focused jamming signal that will disrupt any radio control signals and force the drone to crash or operate erratically. Drone Dome has an optional laser gun that can be aimed by Drone Dome to destroy the drone at ranges up to 2,000 meters. In a combat zone, you can also employ machine-guns or snipers to bring down the drone. The same Israeli firm (Rafael) that developed the Iron Dome system (for effectively and economically destroying rockets and shells from mortar and artillery) in 2005 had, by 2017, developed a version optimized to detect and shoot down small UAVs. Drone Dome is a lot cheaper because it does not use $90,000 Tamir guided missiles to intercept rockets or shells headed for residential areas or military targets. Drone Dome uses a radar that can detect most small UAVs at ranges of up to 30 kilometers at altitudes of 10 meters (30 feet) to 10,000 meters. Drone Dome is not a radical development but part of a trend. Since 2010 Israeli firms have developed a growing number of AUD systems largely because Israel is a nation that is most often threatened by hostile use of UAVs, particularly small commercial ones increasingly used by Islamic terrorists and criminal gangs.
What makes Drone Dome different is its heavy use of electronic sensors to detect and jam the control signals used by UAVs, leaving the laser as a last resort. Several AUD systems are already in service and effective because they are good at detecting UAVs electronically and either jamming those control signals or taking over the control signals and capturing (by making it land) the UAV. Troops in Iraq and Syria were asking for AUD systems that used lasers and better UAV detection systems as well those with jammers to disable UAVs. There is a need for AUDs that can detect and destroy UAVs that do not use control signals and basically go on pre-programmed missions guided by GPS. This can be to take photos or deliver a small explosive. Usually, it is to take photos and return. Drone Dome is one of several AUD systems equipped to detect and locate UAVs operating in pre-programmed mode and destroy or disable them quietly with a vehicle-mounted laser.
AUDs similar to Drone Dome also use one or more radar systems and one or more sensor systems for detecting UAV control signals or visual images (that pattern recognition software can quickly identify what it is). While commercial UAVs are more common the basic design principles have not changed. AUDs are constantly evolving to better detect and disable or destroy unwanted UAVs. The best ones are recent models that tend to be very expensive and used only for extreme situations, like UAV defense in combat zones.
Airports, especially the large ones, will be driven by legal liability concerns to join the military is buying the latest AUDs, which at least lowers the AUD price and inspires even faster innovation and development. Commercial airports are increasingly having flight operations disrupted by the presence of commercial UAVs (usually cheap quadcopters). These UAVs are not terrorist weapons but used by someone making videos and unaware (or not caring) of the illegality of using a UAV close to an airport. AUDs for these situations must meet certain reliability, range and effectiveness goals in order to sell profitably. That is where military users will find another source for effective base defense systems.

Story 61
A view of a blackout which hit Caracas, capital of Venezuela (Image: AP Photo/ Ariana Cubillos)
Venezuela was plunged into darkness after a massive blackout last week, prompting to President Nicolas Maduro blame a huge power outage on an ‘electromagnetic attack’ carried out by the US.
But is he telling the truth or is the claim fake new set up to mask the socialist government’s failures?
Blackouts are a regrettably frequent part of life in Venezuela, where the electric grid has fallen into serious disrepair.
So far, Maduro’s administration provided no evidence of an electromagnetic attack, meaning his claims have been met with scepticism.
‘In Venezuela, it’s a lot easier for him to say we did something to him than he did it to himself,’ said Sharon Burke, senior adviser at New America, a nonpartisan think tank, and former assistant secretary of defence for operational energy at the Department of Defense.
Advertisement
Advertisement
‘Their grid, it’s decrepit. It’s been in very poor shape. They’ve been starving their infrastructure for years.’
Nevertheless, Maduro’s claim has raised questions over what exactly is an electromagnetic attack, how likely is it to occur and what impact could it have.
People sitting on a square during a blackout in Caracas on Monday, July 22, 2019 (Photo: AP)
What is an electromagnetic attack?
The phrase can refer to different things, but in this context most likely refers to a high-altitude electromagnetic pulse generated when a nuclear weapon is detonated in space, about 30 kilometres above the Earth’s surface.
Once the weapon is detonated, an electromagnetic pulse can travel to the Earth’s surface and disrupt a wide variety of technology systems from appliances to a nation’s electric grid. Some characteristics of an electromagnetic pulse are similar to disturbances caused by solar flares.
There are also smaller electromagnetic pulse weapons that are being developed, but they would be unlikely to cause a power outage as large as the one Venezuela experienced, experts said.
The term electromagnetic attack also can refer to cryptography or an attack where the perpetrator is seeking secret keys or passwords, but that’s more likely to be directed at portable electronic devices, not electric grids, said Shucheng Yu, an associate professor of electrical & computer engineering at Stevens Institute of Technology.
Has an electromagnetic pulse attack weapon ever been used?
In the 1962, during the Cold War, the U.S. detonated a nuclear weapon above the atmosphere over the Pacific Ocean, and the experiment – known as Starfish Prime – knocked out power to traffic lights and telecommunications in parts of Honolulu, illuminating the sky and even leading hotels to host viewing parties, according to news reports.
Advertisement
Advertisement
Russia conducted a series of ‘high-altitude nuclear bursts’ in 1961 and 1962 to test electromagnetic pulse impacts over Kazakhstan and destroyed that country’s electrical grid, according to testimony to Congress from the Commission to Assess the Threat to the United States from Electromagnetic Pulse Attack.
People use an electricity generator to charge their cell phones during a blackout (Image: Reuters)
Has Venezuela suffered an electromagnetic attack?
While several countries have capabilities to detonate a nuclear weapon and cause an electromagnetic pulse, it’s unlikely that such a manoeuvre would escape the world’s attention.
‘If he’s suggesting that the U.S. detonated a nuclear weapon above the atmosphere, you think that would happen without anyone noticing? I don’t think so,’ Burke said of Maduro’s claim.
‘You can’t secretly detonate a nuclear weapon.’
A senior US administration official said Maduro is to blame for the latest blackout because his government has mismanaged the economy and is responsible for the destruction of his country’s infrastructure. The official was not authorized to respond to questions about the blackout and spoke only on condition of anonymity.
Unlike a cyberattack, which can be carried out by a hacker in a basement, generating an electromagnetic pulse requires a state-sponsored weapon.
‘It’s hard to imagine that actor being incentivized to pull off and conduct such an attack. It would be pretty aggressive to do that,’ said David Weinstein, chief security officer at Claroty, a security company that specializes in protecting infrastructure.
‘Also, the power fails easily in Venezuela anyway, so it’s almost like a waste of the capability.’
Advertisement
How much of a threat do electromagnetic pulse weapons pose to civilisation?
It depends on who you ask. While the technology to launch an electromagnetic attack exists, and the impacts could cause widespread damage to electronics, some security experts believe the likelihood of such an attack is low and the threat is overstated.
‘If they want to knock out the grid, I was trying to think of 12 ways to do it, this wouldn’t be high on the list,’ said Bill Hogan, professor of global energy policy at Harvard University.
‘The (US) system is run very conservatively, there’s a lot of redundancy, and you’d have to be pretty sophisticated to knock out a lot of it.’
Others are convinced that an electromagnetic attack could wipe out vast swaths of the power grid for prolonged periods, potentially killing vast numbers of people.
The US Electric Power Research Institute, a think tank funded primarily by utilities, found in an April study that an electromagnetic pulse could trigger regional service interruptions but would not likely trigger a nationwide grid failure in the U.S.
But the Commission to Assess the Threat to the United States from Electromagnetic Pulse Attack, which has been sounding the alarm on the possibility of this type of attack for years, said in 2017 Congressional testimony that a nuclear electromagnetic pulse attack would inflict massive widespread damage to the electric grid. An attack on the U.S., it warned, would inevitably lead to a widespread protracted blackout and thousands of electronic systems could be destroyed, risking millions of lives.
Advertisement
President Donald Trump called on the Secretary of Defense to conduct research to understand the effects of EMPs in an executive order in March, and called on the Secretary of State to work with allies to boost resilience to potential impacts to EMPs.
‘I think it’s a good thing that awareness has grown, and the potential risks and consequences have captured people’s attention, but at the same time, the much more practical and frankly the threat that we’re facing on a day-to-day basis is the cyber threat,’ Weinstein said.

Story 62
High-Altitude Electromagnetic Pulse and the Bulk Power System: Potential Impacts and Mitigation Strategies
Details Published: Wednesday, 01 May 2019 08:34
A detailed report by the US Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) has been published which looks at the threat of the detonation of a nuclear weapon at high altitude or in space. The associated intense electromagnetic pulse (EMP) referred to as a high-altitude EMP, or HEMP, could result in widespread impacts on land-based technological systems such as the electric power grid.
There are extreme differences in views among experts regarding the potential impacts of a HEMP on the electric power grid and the potential societal implications, and the report presents the findings of a three-year research project to investigate the threat and to identify possible options for mitigating impacts.
The High-Altitude Electromagnetic Pulse and the Bulk Power System: Potential Impacts and Mitigation Strategies report is available after free registration at https://www.epri.com/#/pages/product/3002014979/

Story 63
Food companies should embrace the move to digital technologies. If not, the risk to their business and consumers may suffer.
Technology and automation for safety and surveillance have already impacted nearly every industry in the world. For example, in the United States and many other developed regions, we have just lived through the transformation to electronic health records within the healthcare industry. Prior to that, we lived through the digital transformation of all of our banking information to an online banking platform—now the norm across the world.
However, the food and beverage industry is still learning how technology can improve their organizations. The food safety segment of this market is particularly in need of a digital transformation, as the risk associated with foodborne illness is potentially catastrophic to food companies, and moreso, to the end consumers who are impacted by preventable pathogenic outbreaks.
Along with regulation advancements, such as the timed roll-out of FSMA, the industry continues to work towards a more effective approach to food safety. But most regulations, and advancements in the industry are pointed toward a reactive stance to food safety issues, rather than a preventive stance. For example, although traceability is important in leading investigations to the source and taking remediation steps sooner, a more proactive approach to prevention should be considered when investing in food safety programs.
This is where the importance of an automated environmental monitoring program comes in. To be proactive requires a commitment to embracing data and digital technology. Knowing where to start to effectively pivot your digital approach can be a challenge.
Understanding the following thought process can help you to recognize areas of potential improvement and growth within your environmental monitoring program.
Define Your Business Objectives. Ask how profitability and production uptime is connected to food safety issues.
Ask how profitability and production uptime is connected to food safety issues. Verify Suppliers. Establish protocols for incoming product from external suppliers and validate their food safety performance and ability to maintain a clean facility.
Establish protocols for incoming product from external suppliers and validate their food safety performance and ability to maintain a clean facility. Modernize Your Environmental Monitoring Program (EMP). Are you able to confirm that your EMP is being executed consistently? Across all facilities?
Are you able to confirm that your EMP is being executed consistently? Across all facilities? Understand Data Exhaust. See how your organization’s valuable data can be used to identify trends and accelerate root cause analysis that impact decision-making processes.
Food companies large and small are being challenged to implement required processes and procedures to meet the demands of FSMA, and ultimately achieve a more proactive and preventative food safety stance. Transformation in this arena, led by government regulation, and enhanced by standards certification requirements, has highlighted the responsibility of suppliers and manufacturers to protect consumers.
Many organizations are not aware that a single failure in their food safety program could actually be the most devastating profitability risk that the organization faces today. When your organization is focused on production uptime and profitability, it can be easy to overlook the details involved in maintaining a strong food safety program. In reality, though, food safety and profitability are inextricably linked due to the risk of production interruptions that can be caused by safety issues.
Whenever a food recall occurs, it has the potential to start the dominoes falling, with major implications regarding costs, reputational damage, compliance penalties, supply chain interruption, and sales declines. Worse yet, these impacts can last for years after the actual event. By delaying both the importance of recognizing the seriousness of this risk as well as taking necessary steps to prevent it, your organization’s reputation could be on the line.
Unfortunately, planning is often sacrificed when managers fail to implement the proper technological solutions. Fulfilling fundamental documentation requirements involves a smart, automated approach. This is the best way to optimize recall prevention. By incorporating an automated EMP process, a supplier management system, and other FSMA Preventive Controls measures, suppliers ultimately improve the strength of the entire chain for their partners, consumers and themselves.
There are many other facets to food safety, but the EMP is where inspectors and auditors will look to see the indicators of contamination and the efficacy of your sanitation controls. Therefore, it is critical that your organization exhibit not only that you are on top of things and are following your EMP procedures consistently, but that you can analyze and pinpoint issues as they arise, and that you have a track record of corrective actions in response to those issues. This, in-turn, allows you to see where your business objectives are most at-risk.
Regardless of which specific food industry segment your company operates in, or which governing body it reports to, it’s essential to stay informed and compliant with changing regulations in order to reduce the risk of experiencing a recall. In a strategic operational role, intelligent environmental monitoring allows companies to not only proactively work to avoid public health issues, but is vital to retaining a consistent bottom line.
Verify Suppliers
Earlier this year, the FDA heralded what they call a “New Era of Smarter Food Safety”. As technology becomes increasingly accessible, more and more companies are investigating how technology can be used to harness and control the growing complexity of supply chain implications.
The challenge of making sure your organization is doing its due diligence to prevent recalls is further complicated when incorporating outside suppliers. For example, 15% of the United State’s overall food supply is imported from more than 200 other countries, according to the FDA. Making sure the product coming into a facility is also meeting your standards is vital to preventing pathogens from entering your supply chain either through containers, people, or the incoming product itself.
The complexity grows exponentially when we contemplate what this means for tracking food safety across a supply chain of this scope. Generally suppliers are asked to provide verification for the cleanliness of the product they are bringing into your facility. However, by going a step further and establishing test points for the product when it comes in, you will be better equipped to catch pathogens before they can enter into your own supply chain and potentially contaminate other products. While you may already have a good relationship with your suppliers, being able to independently verify the safety of their products and that their own processes are working, creates a mutually beneficial relationship.
Modernize Your Environmental Monitoring Program
Food experts at the World Health Organization headquarters in Geneva discussed the critical nature of ensuring food safety across geographic boundaries, as it is an issue that affects everyone. Incidents of pathogen outbreaks around the world have a direct impact on the health of global citizens, with one in 10 people falling ill due to food contamination.
A traditional EMP allows organizations to continuously verify that their sanitation programs are working by scheduling testing, monitoring results for any signs of pathogens, and maintaining compliance with regulatory bodies. Historically, this type of program is documented in spreadsheets and three-ring binders, but today the acceptance of new tools being offered by vendors and labs are expanding offerings to modernize the monitoring process.
Food safety professionals, many of whom are trained microbiologists, should have better tools at their disposal than spreadsheets that force them to manually sift through data. All regulatory bodies in the food industry have guidelines when it comes to where, what, and when you should be testing in your facilities. Ensuring that this is happening is a basic requirement for meeting regulatory mandates.
By choosing an automated EMP, FSQA teams are able to schedule testing plans including randomization and test point coverage rules, see what testing is being performed when, and obtain all testing data in one system for ease of access before or during an audit. This offers an “always-on” source of audit data and more importantly, trending and root-cause analysis capabilities to find and define actions to remediate recurring problems.
Further, an automated EMP that is integrated with your food safety plan allows you to set up workflows and automatically notify appropriate team members according to your organization’s policies. Each remediation step can be recorded and time stamped as the corrective action moves towards completion.
Understand Data Exhaust
A dominant theme pushed forward by FSMA is the need to document all aspects of your food safety plan, from the written outline to the records indicating proper implementation. Today’s manufacturers face a time of heightened regulation, and with stricter enforcement comes greater requirements for documentation. Automated EMPs not only provide your organization insight into what is happening within your facilities for documentation, it also gives time back to your FSQA team who, instead of spending their days with three ring binders, can analyze and investigate recurring issues in your facility to look for new, innovative ways for the organization to maintain a high standard of quality.
However, effective testing also means reading, understanding and responding to results. It is not enough to simply meet the required volume and frequency of environmental testing metrics. You need to use the resulting information to effect change and improvements by lowering the likeliness of pathogens, allergens and contaminants from entering the food supply chain. The more data collected, the more it leads to true understandings. What testing might show is just the symptoms of the problem—not the root cause of a far bigger problem. As more data is available, it becomes more valuable through the insights that can be gained through trend analysis. This, in turn, moves the conversation to higher levels within the organization who care about ensuring productivity and reducing avoidable risk.
Incorporating your lab into the equation is essential. Find a lab partner that offers an automated testing program that is integrated with their LIMS. Your organization will then be in a better position to ensure results are being responded to in an appropriate time frame.
There are many diagnostic tools in use today, both in-plant and at the lab. Each of these tools generates “data exhaust” in the form of a diagnostic result. But are your data streams being integrated and analyzed to find correlations and potential cause/effect relationships? Or does your ATP device simply record its data to a dedicated laptop or spreadsheet?
Testing, combined with an automated EMP, can allow you to combine data from various diagnostic systems (on-premise or from your lab partner) to identify trends and therefore a more holistic path to remediation. For this to occur, data must be accessible, aggregated and actionable, which an automated EMP achieves.
Forward-thinking companies and facility managers are leveraging valuable software solutions to improve processes, protect reputations, minimize inefficiencies, and simplify multifaceted compliance and audit tasks. Over the next three to five years, numerous organizations will reduce their risk of food recalls by combining their EMPs with analytics capabilities to reduce food risk and improve quality using diagnostic solutions and data assets. This change will be arduous, as all digital transformations in other industries have shown. But, in the end, they have shown the value and long-term success that the food industry now needs to experience.

Story 64
Kaum ein Unternehmen ist in den letzten 10 Jahren so erfolgreich bei Rock Merchandise gewachsen wie EMP, aller Amazon Euphorie zum Trotz. Wie konnte ihnen das gelingen? Wie halten sie die 200m Euro Umsatz und was hat sich seit dem Verkauf an Warner verändert? All das erfahrt ihr im Gespräch mit dem EMP CEO Ernst Trapp. Auch dieser Podcast wurde im Rahmen der K5 Konferenz in Berlin aufgezeichnet. Mit Ernst habe ich seit einigen Jahren immer wieder lose Diskussionen darüber ob und wie EMP in einer Amazon Welt agieren kann und ggf. auch muss. Anders als die hier immer wieder genannten dominanten Nischenanbieter wie Thomann Musik, kann sich EMP nicht auf eine Genredominanz verlassen und deshalb die klassischen Handelsdisziplinen betonen. Das machen sie allerdings sehr gut.
To protect your personal data, your connection to YouTube has been blocked.
Click on Load video to unblock YouTube.
By loading the video you accept the privacy policy of YouTube.
More information about YouTube's privacy policy can be found here Google - Privacy & Terms. Do not block YouTube videos in the future anymore. Load video
Die Kassenzone Interviews sind verfügbar bei: Soundcloud, iTunes, Spotify, Youtube, Facebook, Google Podcasts oder per RSS-Feed
PODCAST & Interview Transkription – für alle Leser, die Audio & Video nicht so gerne konsumieren.
Loyalty Anbieter PAYBACK – Die Transkription wird gesponsert vom führenden hier mehr erfahren und App herunterladen.
Merchandise Online mit Ernst Trapp, CEO von EMP
Mit 200 Millionen Euro Umsatz ist EMP ist der europaweit größte Merchandise-Versandhändler, der seit 1986 von Lingen in Nordrhein-Westfalen aus Kunden überall auf dem Kontinent mit Fanartikeln zu Rock- und Metal-Bands, aber auch zu Pop-Sängern und neuerdings auch bekannten Netflix-Serien versorgt. Warum die mittlerweile 700-Mitarbeiter starke Mannschaft von EMP dabei keine Angst vor Amazon haben muss, sowie die anhaltende Vorliebe für Metallica-Hoodys auch unter Ärzten und Anwälten, erklärt CEO Ernst Trapp auf der K5 in Berlin, der seit 2013 die Geschicke des Händlers leitet.
Die Transkription wird gesponsert von PAYBACK – hier mehr erfahren und App herunterladen. Diese Folge wird von Marketinganalyseplattform Adverity gesponsert.
„Amazon Marktplatz ist ein Zusatzbusiness, kein essenzieller Pfeiler“
4:20
Alex: Bevor wir auf euer Geschäftsmodell zu sprechen kommen, kannst du zunächst mal was zur Historie von EMP sagen? Euch gibt es schon eine ganze Weile. Habt ihr schon immer T-Shirts von Rockbands verkauft?
Ernst: Das war immer die Idee, ganz vom Anfang an. Unser Gründer war ein fester Heavy-Metal-Fan, der nirgendwo Band-Shirts finden konnte – und dann auf die Idee kam, das selbst zu machen. Das fing ganz klassisch in einer Garage an und ist mit den Jahren zu dem geworden, was es heute ist. Dabei war es der Katalogversand, womit EMP groß wurde: Viele wissen heute noch, wie sie damals im Freundeskreis Sammelbestellungen über den Katalog abgegeben haben. Mittlerweile ist zwar die Transformation zu einem E-Commerce-Unternehmen gelungen, worüber wir uns sehr freuen. Der Katalog spielt aber nach wie vor eine Rolle.
Alex: Habt ihr nicht mal so einen Preis als Katalogversender des Jahres gewonnen…?
Ernst: Absolut richtig, „Versender des Jahres“ 2015! Wobei das schon damals in „Multichannel Award“ umbenannt worden war.
Alex: Und stimmt es, dass ihr ein Sortiment von über 30.000 Produkte habt?
Ernst: In Spitzenzeiten, ja.
(Alex sieht sich den Webshop an und liest ausgewählte Produktbeschreibungen laut, um das Publikum einen Eindruck vom Sortiment zu geben: Batman, Bands, die er nicht identifizieren kann, „I hate you“-Bomberjacke mit Einhorn darauf… Letztere seien „musikinspirierte Eigenmarken“ mit „rockigen Elementen“, klärt Ernst auf.)
7:35
Alex: Wie viel vom Sortiment habt ihr exklusiv beziehungsweise stellt ihr selber her?
Ernst: Genaue Quoten kann und will ich nicht öffentlich machen, wobei wir wie viele Händler bemüht sind, einen hohen Anteil an Eigenware anzubieten, um uns dem Wettbewerb zu entziehen. So fahren wir eine Dachmarkenstrategie und haben unter EMP fünf verschiedene Brands, die sich an verschiedene Zielgruppentypologien richten. Dabei legen wir keinen Wert darauf, mit H&M, Zara oder Zalando konkurrieren zu wollen. Wir wollen die Nummer Eins sein für music inspired apparel sowie für Lizenzprodukte und Merchandising. Das heißt: Sobald „Game of Thrones“, „Harry Potter“ oder „Star Wars“ rauskommen, wollen wir mit unserem Produkt da sein – auch mit Eigenentwicklungen.
Alex: Kauft ihr denn beispielsweise von „Game of Thrones“ so etwas wie eine DACH/Europa-Fashion-Lizenz?
Ernst: „Game of Thrones“ ist zwar ein schlechtes Beispiel, weil wir da keine solche Lizenz haben, aber sonst haben wir sogenannte direct to retail-Lizenzen – kurz DTR – mit der wir selbst Produkte entwickeln und sie uns nur noch freigeben lassen müssen. Von Warner Brothers und Disney haben wir Lizenzen, die es uns erlauben, über fast alle Warengruppen Produkte zu kreieren. Das ist unser Kerngeschäft und das was unsere Mitarbeiter und Produktmanager gut können. Nach vorne raus wollen wir das so weitermachen, um die Anlaufstelle für Merchandising in Europa zu werden – und später in aller Welt.
(Alex fragt, wie ein klassischer EMP Kunde aussieht. Was alle Kunden gemein hätten, so Ernst, sei die Liebe zu Bands, Heroes, oder Serien. Das ziehe sich durch alle Demografiken – weder alters- noch geschlechtsmäßige Schwerpunkte ließen sich ausmachen. Beliebte Bands seien Metallica, ACDC, Iron Maiden. An beliebte Marvel-Comichelden wie Punisher aus der Kindheit erinnert sich Alex zurück.)
12:45
Alex: Ist in der Kundengewinnung klassische SEO-SEA für euch bedeutend? Oder kommen die Kunden eher von sich aus auf die Website – zum Beispiel Stammkunden, die früher den Katalog bezogen?
Ernst: Das ist eine gute Frage! Wir haben viele Bestandskunden und somit hohe Direktabrufanteile. Der Katalog hat uns viele Jahre begleitet und hat uns eine sehr loyale Zielgruppe beschert. Diese Kunden sind unser Rückgrat – gerade in spezifischen Musikgenres wie Rock und Metal. Allerdings sind wir expansiv unterwegs und wollen neue Zielgruppen ansprechen, vor allem im Bereich Pop-Culture und Entertainment. Da kennen uns die Kunden noch nicht und da bespielen wir Kanäle wie SEA. Nach wie vor gibt es aber den Katalog und Bestandskundenmarketing ist wichtig: Wir denken da wie vermutlich alle E-Commerce-Player in welcome and retention cycles.
Alex: Bands heute haben alle mittlerweile eigene Instagram-Kanäle o. Ä., die zunehmend transaktional werden. Das gab es vor 30 Jahren nicht. Beobachtet ihr das mit Sorge? Die Plattformen versprechen ihren Influencern nämlich, näher an den Kunden ranzukommen. Merkt ihr da eine neue Konkurrenz in Form von direkten B2C-Ansätzen?
Ernst: Bislang nicht so stark. Ich glaube, wir sind sogar eher Profiteure insofern, als wir die Reichweite und den Kundenstamm haben. Wird also auf Social-Media von Bands oder Influencern was beworben, findet die Transaktion schon noch nach wie vor bei uns statt.
(Daraufhin versucht Alex mit Ernst die Größe des Marktes abzustecken: Hundertmillionen oder schon Milliarden? Letzteres, tippt Ernst. Dann geht es darum, wie neue Merchandising-Themen ausgewählt werden. Diese müssten im Ansatz zu den Bestandszielgruppen passen, was nicht jede neue Serie oder Band tut. So seien es eher die „dunklen Dinge“, die bei den EMP-Kunden funktionieren: Bei der Disney-Lizenz gehe es nicht um Donald-Duck und Micky-Maus, sondern beispielsweise um Alice-im-Wunderland-Kleider, die von jungen Frauen mit grüngefärbten Haaren und Nasenpiercings auf ironische Art getragen werden. Bei allen Wachstumsambitionen müsse man also aufpassen, das neue Themen nicht den treuen Stammkunden komplett vor den Kopf stoßen. „Edgy“ müsse EMP sein – mit Ecken und Kanten also. Alex erwähnt das Los Pollos Hermanos-T-Shirt von Breaking Bad, in dem wohl einige Drogendelinquenten schon festgenommen worden seien. „Hoffentlich alle bei uns gekauft!“, so Ernst. Andere Renner – die Ernst Alex dann erklären muss – seien Suicide Squad und Deadpool.)
22:10
Alex: Was gibt es denn für Wachstumsoptionen in eurem Geschäft? Geht es immer darum, das Sortiment zu erweitern, oder denkt ihr auch in neuen Märkten so à la „Im DACH sind wir stark, lass uns mal gucken, ob schwarze Kleidung auch in Russland so gut läuft…“? Oder konzentriert ihr euch darauf, möglichst viel aus Bestandmärkten zu holen, wo ihr eine hohe Markenbekanntheit genießt.
Ernst: Sowohl als auch. In angestammten Märkten gibt es noch erhebliche Wachstumspotenziale, auf die man sich naturgemäß erst einmal konzentriert, bevor es um neue Länder geht. Allerdings ergeben neue Märkte ebenfalls Sinn. So sehen wir das etwa im UK-Markt Entertainment-Themen wahnsinnig gut angenommen werden – alles was Serien sind. In Skandinavien, vor allem Finnland, ist es sehr Metal- und Rock-lastig, weshalb wir uns da ein bisschen schwerer tun, mit Entertainment durchzudringen. Dafür laufen die Musik-Themen dort einfach sehr, sehr gut. Und weil das unsere Wurzeln sind, werden wir die Musik immer hochhalten.
Alex: Ist eurer Webseite dabei eurer Hauptabsatzkanal? Oder müsst ihr auch stark auf Plattformen wie Amazon und Zalando aktiv sein, um Kunden zu erreichen?
Ernst: Wir sind auf dem Amazon-Marketplace, sind da aber… ‚halbherzig‘ wäre nicht das richtige Wort… Es ist für uns nicht das Hauptthema. Wir bespielen diesen Kanal auch nur in der Größe, in der es auch gesund ist. Es ist ein Zusatzbusiness, kein essenzieller Pfeiler, der, wenn er einmal wegbrechen würde, die Zukunft des Unternehmens gefährden würde. Wir begeben uns in kein Abhängigkeitsverhältnis. Einigen Unternehmen ist es so ergangen, dass sie sich erpressbar gemacht haben.
Alex: Spieltheoretisch gebe ich dir recht. Allerdings müsst ihr euch wahrscheinlich fragen, wo die Kunden zu finden sind, die ihr erreichen wollt: Wo suchen sie nach Produkten? Was passiert, wenn jemand auf Zalando nach „Breaking Bad T-Shirts“ sucht? Selbst wenn ihr was exklusiv habt, suchen sich die Kunden – die nun einmal dort sind – vielleicht einfach was anderes aus… So müsst ihr dort die Aktivität auf dem Schirm haben.
Ernst: Absolut. Deswegen sind wir auch auf Marktplätzen präsent, aber eben nur in der Größenordnung, die wir für gesund erachten. Denn unsere Produkte sind Lifestyle-Artikel – ‚von Fans für Fans‘ sagen wir immer – und müssen daher in einer entsprechenden Umgebung dargeboten werden. Es muss authentisch an die Kunden gebracht werden, denen es auch darauf ankommt, wo sie es erwerben. Es geht nicht darum, superschnell zu liefern oder sehr günstig zu sein. Einem Versandhändler, der zwar Reichweite, aber keine Spezialisierung hat, nehmen die Zielgruppe nicht ab, dass er über das Thema zu sprechen weiß. Gerade deswegen müssen wir auch immer darauf achten, dass uns dieser USP Authentizität nicht abhandenkommt.
(Was seien derzeitige Vorstandsprioritäten, will Alex wissen, und macht Vorschläge: Lieferantenmanagement? Vertikalisierung? Mobile? Alle Themen, antwortet Ernst – und führt beispielsweise auf, welche Fragestellungen das Thema Mobile Apps aufwirft. Auch UX und Online-Marketing seien derzeit aktuell sowie der Umgang mit Social Media. Dabei gehe immer Sortimentskompetenz vor allen Versuchen, mittels Technologie noch mehr Umsatz aus Kunden herauszupressen.)
30:30
Alex: Wie teilen sich eure 700 Mitarbeiter auf?
Ernst: Fast die Hälfte arbeitet in der Logistik: Die ist zentral organisiert und verschickt aus Lingen nach ganz Europa.
Alex: Wie groß ist denn eurer Lager? Momox , der gerade hier auf der Bühne saß, hat 70.000 Quadratmeter…
Ernst: Ganz so viel haben wir nicht – ungefähr die Hälfte, aber nagele mich da bitte nicht fest! Jedenfalls haben wir eine hohe Automatisierungsquote und haben letztes Jahr AutoStore bei uns eingeführt, was uns nicht nur schneller gemacht hat, sondern auch noch Kosten eingespart hat.
So sind das 300 Mitarbeiter in der Logistik. Marketing – zusammen mit der in-house Grafikagentur – beschäftigt rund 110 Mitarbeiter. Und dann haben wir 50-60 Leute im Einkauf, während sich der Rest auf HR, Finance, IT usw. aufteilt.
Alex: Hast du ein Gefühl für die Größe des IT-Teams? Das versuchen wir im Podcast bei Händlern immer als Vergleichsgröße herauszuarbeiten? Wie viele Leute braucht man in Suche, Produktdaten, Category-Management usw., um 200 Millionen Euro Umsatz zu verwalten.
Ernst: Da unterscheiden wir zwischen ITK für Infrastruktur einerseits und ERP andererseits sowie dem Team, dass sich schwerpunktmäßig um den Webshop kümmert. In Summe kommen wir da wahrscheinlich auf 50-60 Leute.
(Ob EMP nicht dank seinem beeindrucken Erfolg auch mal Anfragen von Bands oder Marken bekommt, Fan-Shops im Auftrag zu betreiben? Das komme hin und wieder vor: Letztens für Funko Pops, kleine stilisierte Figuren, die es mittlerweile von vielen Musikern und Entertainern gibt. Allerdings sei das eher ein Nebengeschäft und noch kein Schwerpunkt. Alex stimmt ein, dass den Aussichten, dadurch bestehende Infrastruktur besser auszulasten, mittlerweile größere Herausforderungen gegenüberstehen. Es sei fraglich, ob es sich im heutigen Wettbewerbsfeld noch lohne, dafür eigens ein Team aufzubauen.)
37:10
Alex: Gibt es Dinge, die du im Nachhinein froh bist, nicht umsetzt zu haben?
Ernst: Gott sei Dank haben wir den Katalog nicht eingestampft! Der geht noch in erheblichen Zahlen raus und funktioniert für bestimmte Zielgruppen nach wie vor sehr gut. Mittlerweile – und da bin ich mit meiner Meinung nicht allein – finde ich, dass der Katalog sogar ein Differenzierungsmerkmal darstellt. Gerade, wenn man ein großes Sortiment hat, unterstützt der Katalog einige Kunden dabei, sich zurechtzufinden. Es sind vor allem Bestandskunden, die den bekommen, aber eben auch einige Neukunden wünschen sich den. Bei Letzteren ist ein Gewöhnungseffekt gewesen und, bliebe der Katalog plötzlich aus, brächen uns Bestellungen weg.
Alex: Altern die Kunden euch weg? Wer mit 20 ein Metallica-Hoody getragen hat, merkt vielleicht, dass das mit 40 Jahren auf dem Buckel weniger sozial akzeptiert wird…
Ernst: Du wirst dich wundern, aber: Ärzte, Anwälte, was auch immer – wenn sie abends einen trinken gehen oder am Wochenende zum Fußball gehen, tragen sie Band-Shirts. Leute, die diese Art von Musik hören, bleiben ihr auch treu und identifizieren sich nach wie vor mit den Ikonen aus der Genre.
Alex: Wenn ihr ein neues Ländermarkt gehen, wie sorgt ihr für Markenbekanntheit? Oder macht ihr einfach SEO und wartet bis ihr rankt.
Ernst: Ganz wichtig ist für uns, die Nähe zur Zielgruppe zu suchen – und diese bekommen wir in erster Linie dadurch, dass wir auf Veranstaltungen und Events gehen. Es gibt kaum ein großes Festival in Europa, auf dem wir nicht präsent sind: Wacken zum Beispiel, wo wir nicht nur Adressen sammeln, sondern ein Customer-Loyalty-Programm namens „Backstage Club“ betreiben. Mitglieder haben Zugang zum Backstage-Club-Area auf dem Festivalgelände, in denen es saubere Toiletten und Freibier gibt. Da kommen Bands mal vorbei, um Autogrammstunden zu geben. Das ist EMP zum Anfassen und Erleben.
(Alex fragt Ernst, wie er persönlich zur Szene stehe: Ob er begeisterter Wacken-Gänger sei? Ernst sagt, er gehe nicht nur von Berufs wegen hin…)
41:40
Alex: Ist EMP im Jahr 2025 immer noch ein klassischer Händler mit E-Commerce-Infrastruktur? Oder werdet ihr euch bis dahin in eine neue Richtung entwickelt haben?
Ernst: Ich sehe uns in erster Linie nach wie vor als Händler aktiv, was aber nicht ausschließt, dass das eine oder andere neue Service-Produkt noch dazukommen könnte. Es kann auch vorkommen, dass wir bis dahin neue Spin-Offs entwickelt oder neue Genres und Länder entschlossen haben werden.
(Alex fasst zusammen: Es werde EMP solange gut gehen, wie es die Nähe zu den Zielgruppen hält und sich auf das Kerngeschäft konzentriert.)
Neue Beiträge abonnieren

Artikel teilen






Story 65
The United States is already trialing the technology against drones (Picture: US Army). By David Hambling, technology expert The Ministry of Defence recently announced plans to put £130 million into Directed Energy Weapons which strike at the speed of light. Two types of device are mentioned: lasers, universally familiar from science fiction, and radio frequency weapons. While lasers get most of the glamour, radio frequency weapons may turn out to be more important in the long run because of their ability to target electronics.
What are radio frequency weapons and how do they work? A radio frequency weapon uses radio waves at power levels high enough to cause electrical disruption. Microwaves (high-frequency radio waves) are usually preferred, so this type of device is sometimes called a High-Powered Microwave, or HPM weapon. Radio frequency weapons also overlap with Electromagnetic Pulse, or EMP weapons, which emit a powerful burst of radio waves in all directions. Unlike jammers, which just interfere with the signal received by radios or radar, radio frequency weapons do actual damage. They do this by two methods: 'front door coupling', where radio waves are picked by the antennas and aerials normally used for receiving, and in 'back door coupling', where wires inside the electronics act as receivers. Either way, the effect of an extremely powerful pulse is to put far more current through a component than it can handle.
The MOD has announced that £130 million will be invested into Direct Energy Weapons (Picture: MOD).
With front door coupling, this can be strong enough to permanently burn out components, while back door coupling is generally much weaker but will disrupt systems and cause them to malfunction. This may only be a temporary irritation if it puts a radio briefly out of action, but if flight controls are knocked out then an aircraft is likely to crash. The technology for radio frequency weapons has been around for decades - the Ministry of Defence has been researching this area for at least 30 years and tested a prototype weapon in 2002. There was little motivation to develop them into end products at the time, though, because they were competing with highly effective existing weapons - missiles and guns.
What issues do these weapons pose to the military forces using them? Radio frequency weapons also have several drawbacks. One problem is that, unlike a missile, the effects of a hit are highly unpredictable. What happens depends not just on the exact electronics on board the target, but also on which way it is facing – how strong a signal an antenna receives depends on which way it is pointing. In addition, radio frequency weapons do no external damage. Therefore, if an enemy tank has been hit with such a weapon, you cannot tell whether it has been effectively knocked out with the ignition, sensors, fire control and communications all out of action, or whether it is completely undamaged.
Commanders prefer to see a burning wreck to confirm the kill. Another issue is friendly fire - electronics vary hugely in how vulnerable they are. A radio blast powerful enough to guarantee destruction of a particular target may affect more sensitive electronics some distance away, including friendly forces.
The US Air Force has ruled that such weapons should only be mounted on unmanned aircraft, suggesting considerable danger from radio reflections and other unforeseen effects. However, a new threat has emerged in recent years which has proven highly challenging for existing weapons: small drones.
These are too numerous to be tackled by surface-to-air missiles, and too small and agile to be engaged with guns. Radio frequency weapons look like the ideal answer.
Small drones like these pose a new threat on the battlefield, potentially answered by radio frequency weapons (Picture: MOD).
They have an endless supply of ammunition as long as the power supply lasts. They move at the speed of light so aiming is easy and targets cannot evade and they can produce a fan of energy, not just a narrow beam, taking out an entire swarm in one go. The UK has invested £130m into Directed Energy Weapons, but who else is interested?
Other nations are already developing their own versions. The US military recently unveiled its Tactical High-power-microwave Operational Responder (THOR). It looks like a shipping container with a giant satellite dish on top with 360-degree coverage. It produces rapid pulses of energy which can reportedly disable small drones at ranges of up to 2,000 metres and is due to be tested in September. Work is currently focusing on how to integrate it with air defence radar systems.
A second American radio frequency weapon known as PHASER has been developed by Raytheon – the radar company that invented the microwave oven. In a demonstration last year, PHASER knocked a series of drones out of the sky, sometimes two at a time. "You can simultaneously track and immediately move to the next target to address not just a swarm, but multiple swarms," according to Raytheon’s Don Sullivan.
A third US system, known as 'Counter-Electronic High-Power Microwave Extended-Range Air Base Air Defense' (CHIMERA) project, will start testing in 2020. The German company Diehl have been working in a microwave weapon specifically for the counter-drone mission. This uses a sophisticated focusing method called time reversal to concentrate the microwave beam on the target. No details have been released so far, but it is at the stage of testing against airborne targets. Russia and China are also known to be working on competing, high-power radio frequency weapons, but the public statements on them have been vague and neither seem to be close to fielding a working system.
However, while radio frequency weapons may look like a magic wand to make drone swarms disappear, as usual every new weapon prompts the other side to develop countermeasures. In this case, protection is likely to take the form of a ‘Faraday Cage’ - a mesh of conductive material which can block even high-power radio waves.

Story 66
Judging by the participants and emotion from speakers at the ongoing sessions for public comment on the Energy Master Plan (EMP), the latest edition seems to have fallen short of expectations. While many of the activists who turn out in numbers at these events are there as a result of organized interests that may not represent views of the average New Jersey resident, climate change remains a serious problem that needs to be addressed with a “moonshot” effort. Yet there are many ways to skin a cat. Draconian measures suggested by special interests tend to desensitize and trivialize the general public to the urgency of the issue. The authors of the EMP have correctly surmised that 100 percent clean energy is neither achievable nor practical in 30 short years. They have proposed what some view as a compromise or hedge, but with reflection it seems to be a decent start, putting New Jersey on a better course. A few additional points may be worth further consideration.
Changing nature of energy master plans
I once saved a Dilbert cartoon where the boss announces to Dilbert that “I’m putting you on the strategic planning team, it’s like work but without the satisfaction of accomplishing anything.”
We have had three energy master plans that I am intimately familiar with, which were developed by the Corzine, Christie, and now the Murphy administrations. I’m sure there were similar efforts either completed or underway during the Kean, Florio, Whitman, and McGreevey administrations. These master plans changed significantly from governor to governor since they reflected both the preferences of whoever happened to be sitting in the governor’s chair and the state of technology at a given point in time. The stark differences between the visions of Govs. Christie and Murphy are illustrative. One promotes natural gas and the other de-emphasizes it. And I am certain that whoever is sitting in the governor’s chair in 2022, if it isn’t Murphy, will have their own vision for what the energy future of New Jersey should be. When issued we tend to look at these documents as if they were divinely inspired, with inflexible tenets reflecting values that don’t lend themselves to adulteration from fads, trends, changes in opinion or technology. That is our first mistake.
We should avoid proceeding with objectives and developed implementation programs that reflect idealistic, but premature, vision. Trying to do this in a two-year window before the next election cycle leads to corner-cutting and blind groping with decisions that will cost millions in ratepayer dollars. Funding the latest commercially underdeveloped technology whose longevity is dependent on the moods and opinion of the latest governor is troubling. Most people have no problem helping with paying utility bills for those in need, but when the Societal Benefits Charge (SBC) expands to fund development of commercially immature technology, that’s asking a bit much. The unpleasant reality is that EMP initiatives can often be a hidden tax. The funds collected in SBCs or other tariff-adders often have nothing to do with consideration for something received or used by the ratepayer (for example, BTUs of KWHs). Altruistic economic assistance is acceptable to most people but less so when SBCs go to fund the romantic musings of special interests.
Greenhouse-gas reduction figures prominently in the latest EMP, as it should; however, the suggested approach is simplistic. Many equate “electric and renewables” with “cleaner environment and GHG reduction.” GHG should be addressed on several fronts, including reforestation, efficiency, nuclear generation, and a strategic reduction in fossil-fuel usage, but the practicality of attaining environmental goals represented by strategic electrification, even over a period of 30 years, has not been adequately addressed.
Consumer economics and preferences are ignored
I’ve lived in over a dozen places, all with gas service, and during that time, I’ve never had a minute’s worth of interruption in gas service due to natural events or other causes. In contrast, during Hurricane Sandy, I was without electric service for 13 days and unlike my gas service, periodic electric interruptions, are a monthly event.
I heat my home with hot-water baseboard that is supplied from a gas boiler. Domestic hot water comes from a gas-fired heater, we cook in our kitchen and on our grill on the deck with gas, and we dry our laundry with gas. I even have a gas-fired fireplace which came in handy when my electrically controlled gas boiler didn’t work during Sandy. My next-door neighbor previously had electric heat and about 10 years ago his fellow ratepayers who had long been subsidizing his electric heating ultimately funded part of his switch to gas because his electric heat had become so expensive.
From one consumer’s perspective, if one of my appliances that converts energy to heat, hot water, cooking, or laundry functions were to need replacement tomorrow, I would replace it with natural gas regardless of what the EMP says, even though I consider myself a progressive environmentalist with almost 30 years in the energy-efficiency industry. Gas is indisputably cheaper and more reliable and provides better functionality. On our runaway train to electrification, how do we intend to deal with customer resistance and preferences?
The electric-vehicle myth
I am a self-employed consultant often on the road making sales calls or meeting with clients. I drive over 35,000 miles in an average year and last year I filled up around 80 times. I fill around the corner from my home about half the time, and the other half I fill elsewhere in New Jersey or anywhere between New Hampshire and Virginia. Each fill-up takes around 10 minutes. There are always dozens of gas stations within a few miles of wherever I am. I’m never in fear of running out of gas and when my car needs servicing, I have loads of options.
Regarding plans for electric vehicles, have we given any real thought to how people are going to charge (refuel), when and where? My guess is that only the wealthiest are going to install the infrastructure for fast charging at their home. The rest of us aren’t going to schedule our working day around a four-hour public charge for a hundred miles of driving range. Most will charge on Level 2 chargers at home between 4 p.m. and 12 midnight. The first five or six hours of this timeframe are the peak usage period for residential electric demand. The addition of a charging station at a single home will more the double the peak demand from that residence. As the homeowner or his neighbors add additional EVs and charging stations, the demands on the local distributions system will indisputably require upgrades. Have we considered that cost in our vision?
Effects on NJ jobs and businesses
How about our New Jersey local gas distribution companies (LDCs)? South Jersey Industries, Elizabethtown, New Jersey Natural, and PSE&G have at minimum six thousand people who work in well-paying jobs directly related to servicing their gas distribution businesses. Add indirect company staff, plus the thousands of people who work in gas stations or maintaining gasoline vehicles and it becomes clear that the natural gas and fossil-fueled transportation sectors in New Jersey are significant economic engines. Looking at the EMP’s Policy vision to 2050 with regard to fossil fuels, if you were to implement it as written one of its effects though not stated, or perhaps not even recognized, would be to put these LDCs out of business in 30 short years as well as the thousands of filling-station personnel and auto mechanics who would no longer be needed. Has this consequential economic transition been accounted for or even recognized in the EMP?
Reliability and resiliency ignored
The reliability of our electric grid presents perhaps the greatest shortcoming of our current energy policy, and the EMP does little to address it. Attaining 100 percent clean energy given the current state of battery technology and economics, and the variable generation characteristics of wind and solar, make fossil-fueled generation a necessary resiliency alternative for the foreseeable future. If anyone has experienced the hardship of an extended power outage, which has thankfully only occurred during summers or mild seasons, they can visualize the threat grid instability represents if it were to occur in more severe seasons. Fossil-fueled distributed generation offers improved resilience over generation that is exclusively grid-based. Indeed, even grid-based power needs a balance of renewables and nuclear/natural gas to provide needed power reliability.
A different approach?
My point is, the problem with building strategy on quixotic visions ignores practicality. We seem to assume that transitional items are trivial details that will work themselves out in time with the belief that “if you build it, they will come.” The reality is we are often putting the cart before the horse.
The EMP is a solid visioning document reflecting the admirable environmentalist values of Murphy, his very capable staff and the Board of Public Utilities. But, if we confuse vision with genuinely implementable strategic plans, we waste time and money before technology and market forces develop and converge to alleviate thorny implementation issues that lurk beneath good intentions.
Meaningful EMPs must include realistic external and internal analyses resulting in initiatives that are specific, measurable, attainable, realistic, and time related. They should contain benign, universally accepted goals that are easily transferable from governor to governor. They should be phased in with digestible bites starting with the low hanging fruit, building to an eventual outcome where desirable and needed environmental objectives blend seamlessly with technology development and consumer preferences.
Ratepayers shouldn’t feel that they are having someone’s pet project shoved down their throats when they have neither the desire nor budget for presumptive measures that will cause unidentified implementation issues that offset any hoped-for achievement of environmental functionality. Let’s dispense with the emotional rhetoric and embrace the practical. Whether the comments are in the form of droning repetitive hyperbole from idealists wearing sandals and tropical shirts or crisp PowerPoint presentations from buttoned-down lobbyists, ignoring marketplace reality in strategic planning assures failure and only serves to cultivate consumer resistance to measures that can eventually facilitate better environmental stewardship.

Story 67
Text Size: A- A+






327 Shares
New Delhi: China has made great advancements in future weapons systems, many of which suggest that the Asian giant is planning a lethal battle against its adversaries, especially when it comes to space denial and disabling or destroying satellites.
From directed energy weapons (DEW) to electromagnetic pulses (EMP) and mobile pulse generators, China has a plethora of options to choose from, most of which are difficult to get information on.
ThePrint takes an exclusive look at these systems through open source satellite imagery to understand the advances made by China.
DEW
In terms of satellite tracking, Chinese technology has grown in leaps and bounds. There are now many space tracking stations dotted all over the country — like one in Ngari, Tibet — which provide accurate data about satellites to be targeted.
Once the accurate satellite path and other data is known, directed energy weapons (DEW) located at five different places can take over the task. One such facility is located in Xinjiang.
The facility features four main buildings with sliding roofs. Three of these sheds are connected with two vacuum spheres. The shape and size indicate that possibly chemical lasers are being used with rare earth metals like neodymium.
It is theorised that the equipment under smaller sliding shed is used for tracking, while the other three are used individually or in conjunction with each other, depending on the effect desired on the target satellite — it can be dazzled, disabled or destroyed by high energy lasers from these ground-located DEWs.
EMP experiments
China has been observed undertaking some field experiments on EMPs deep in the mountains of Xinjiang.
The test location shows an EMP generator hanging on multiple bar poles — similar to structures observed at Naval Air Station Pax River in Maryland, USA.
A road leads in and out under the cylindrical EMP generator for equipment and vehicles to be placed exactly under the generator.
This facility is used for researching methods of hardening Chinese military equipment and reverse effects on adversaries’ equipment using electronic components.
Mobile pulse generators
Another facility in the vast arid land of Xinjiang is also seen experimenting on mobile pulse generators.
These types of non-nuclear pulse generators are used for creating electromagnetic interferences that can disable satellites in a very short span of time.
ThePrint is now on Telegram. For the best reports & opinion on politics, governance and more, subscribe to ThePrint on Telegram.






327 Shares
Show Full Article

Story 68
One simple way to benefit from the stock market is to buy an index fund. But if you choose individual stocks with prowess, you can make superior returns. For example, Empire Company Limited (TSE:EMP.A) shareholders have seen the share price rise 81% over three years, well in excess of the market return (6.5%, not including dividends). However, more recent returns haven't been as impressive as that, with the stock returning just 50% in the last year, including dividends.
Check out our latest analysis for Empire
While markets are a powerful pricing mechanism, share prices reflect investor sentiment, not just underlying business performance. One flawed but reasonable way to assess how sentiment around a company has changed is to compare the earnings per share (EPS) with the share price.
Empire became profitable within the last three years. So we would expect a higher share price over the period.
The image below shows how EPS has tracked over time (if you click on the image you can see greater detail).
TSX:EMP.A Past and Future Earnings, September 9th 2019 More
We consider it positive that insiders have made significant purchases in the last year. Even so, future earnings will be far more important to whether current shareholders make money. It might be well worthwhile taking a look at our free report on Empire's earnings, revenue and cash flow.
What About Dividends?
As well as measuring the share price return, investors should also consider the total shareholder return (TSR). The TSR incorporates the value of any spin-offs or discounted capital raisings, along with any dividends, based on the assumption that the dividends are reinvested. So for companies that pay a generous dividend, the TSR is often a lot higher than the share price return. As it happens, Empire's TSR for the last 3 years was 91%, which exceeds the share price return mentioned earlier. And there's no prize for guessing that the dividend payments largely explain the divergence!
A Different Perspective
It's nice to see that Empire shareholders have received a total shareholder return of 50% over the last year. And that does include the dividend. That gain is better than the annual TSR over five years, which is 9.7%. Therefore it seems like sentiment around the company has been positive lately. In the best case scenario, this may hint at some real business momentum, implying that now could be a great time to delve deeper. Investors who like to make money usually check up on insider purchases, such as the price paid, and total amount bought. You can find out about the insider purchases of Empire by clicking this link.
Empire is not the only stock that insiders are buying. For those who like to find winning investments this free list of growing companies with recent insider purchasing, could be just the ticket.
Please note, the market returns quoted in this article reflect the market weighted average returns of stocks that currently trade on CA exchanges.
We aim to bring you long-term focused research analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material.

If you spot an error that warrants correction, please contact the editor at editorial-team@simplywallst.com. This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. Simply Wall St has no position in the stocks mentioned. Thank you for reading.

Story 69
Map shows missile ranges of North Koreaâs arsena; 2c x 2 3/4 inches; 96.3 mm x 69 mm; (Photo: p.holm / AP)
Ask almost any American to name the most potentially devastating threats to our security, and the chances that “electromagnetic pulse” will come up are extremely slim. And yet an EMP is a frighteningly real possibility.
An EMP, simply put, is a burst of electromagnetic energy. It can be caused by the sun during solar storms — or by a nuclear weapon detonated at a high altitude.
The life-changing effects of such a pulse, which could ruin electronic devices in large sections of the country, are obvious. An electromagnetic pulse or a similar event would fry electric circuits and damage critical infrastructure, paralyzing the country.
Our life depends on a stable supply of electricity more now than at any other point in our history. Suddenly losing electricity would be truly devastating. Think “Jericho” or “The Walking Dead” (minus the zombies).
This is not pie-in-the-sky business. North Korea’s ballistic missiles are now capable of reaching the United States. It also possesses nuclear weapons, and its official documents talk about using an EMP against the United States.
Thankfully, the Trump administration is alert to this threat and is taking steps to confront it. The White House recently unveiled an executive order titled “Coordinating National Resilience to Electromagnetic Pulses.” This is a necessary first step in what will be a difficult road to creating full protection from an EMP.
The president’s executive order assigns Cabinet secretaries with electromagnetic pulse-related responsibilities. For example, the secretary of state is given the task of leading coordination efforts with U.S. allies and international partners. The secretary of defense is put in charge of improving and developing the ability to rapidly characterize, attribute and provide warning of an electromagnetic pulse.
More: OP-ED: Religion in the death chamber
More: OP-ED: U.S. engages in ‘citizenship apartheid’ regarding Puerto Rico
Other responsibilities are assigned to the secretaries of commerce, homeland security, energy, and the director of national intelligence.
The executive order mandates that the assistant to the president for national security affairs, through the National Security Council staff, be in charge of coordinating “the development and implementation of executive branch actions to assess, prioritize, and manage the risks of (electromagnetic pulses).”
Delegating this issue to the National Security Council staff carries a risk, given the council’s relatively high staff turnover rate. The administration will have to ensure that mandated action items are delivered according to the timelines outlined in the executive order.
While the U.S. military currently tests its equipment to withstand the effects of an electromagnetic pulse, no such comparable effort is ongoing in the civilian world. For the most part, the military depends on the civilian power grid to meet its own power needs, which makes it all the more puzzling that it doesn’t pay much attention to whether the civilian systems are secure. There are no easy ways to harden the grid and increase its resilience.
The most critical task is to increase the key stakeholders’ (e.g., electric companies and owners of the grid) access to information about electromagnetic pulses and align authority and responsibility in both the public and private sectors in order to prepare for and respond to an EMP attack.
The president’s executive order is a good first stepping stone. With the right amount of prevention, the effects of an EMP can remain the province of science-fiction shows – and not become a catastrophic reality.
— Michaela Dodge is a research fellow for missile defense and nuclear deterrence in the Davis Institute for National Security and Foreign Policy at The Heritage Foundation.
Read or Share this story: https://www.yorkdispatch.com/story/opinion/contributors/2019/04/04/op-ed-eliminating-threat-emp/39299755/

Story 70
In 2008, the statutory Commission to Assess the Threat to the United States from Electromagnetic Pulse (EMP) Attack delivered over 100 recommendations to Congress to protect the national electric grid and other life-sustaining critical infrastructures — including communications, transportation, energy, business and finance, food and water. We were hopeful the job would get done.
Following an EMP attack, 326 million Americans could not long survive bereft of the electronic civilization that sustains their lives. EMP would be a civilization killer.
ADVERTISEMENT
The EMP commission reports are “good news,” because they prove there is no excuse for the nation to be vulnerable. Electric grids and other life-sustaining critical infrastructures can be protected — affordably. For example, the 2008 report estimates that the electric grid’s bulk-power system can be hardened to survive for a few billion dollars.
So, in 2008, when the EMP Commission delivered what we thought then was our final report to Congress, we were hopeful America soon would be protected.
However, by 2015 — 20 years after the first open congressional EMP hearing in 1995 — the U.S. Government Accountability Office testified to Congress that not a single major recommendation of the EMP Commission had yet been implemented. Not one.
Consequently, Congress re-established the EMP Commission in 2015-2017 to re-examine the threat and to make further recommendations.
The commission concludes in its new reports that the threat to electric grids and other life-sustaining critical infrastructures is just as great, or greater, than in 2008. U.S. military power, the national economy and civil society are increasingly dependent upon electricity and electronics that are vulnerable to EMP.
And, now, North Korea has nuclear missiles and satellites that could execute an EMP attack on the United States.
Moreover, on July 23, 2012, a massive and energetic solar coronal mass ejection crossed the orbit of the Earth, narrowly missing our planet by a few days. NASA now estimates the likelihood of a solar superstorm, of worldwide magnitude like the 1859 Carrington Event, is 12 percent per decade.
Perhaps the most alarming conclusion of the new EMP Commission reports is that the U.S. government has been incapable of protecting our electronic civilization from EMP extinction.
The EMP commissioners mostly are from a generation accustomed to thinking of the U.S. government as having the wisdom, vision and competence to successfully accomplish great enterprises in the national interest and protect our nation from existential threats. For example:
During World War II, the U.S. government transformed its almost nonexistent U.S. Army into liberators of Western Europe and Asia and the “Arsenal of Democracy” that defeated Nazi Germany and Imperial Japan.
The Manhattan Project (1942-1945) invented the atomic bomb and built the scientific-industrial infrastructure that sustained nuclear deterrence, preserved peace and won the Cold War.
In 1954, with the launch of the USS Nautilus, the so-called U.S. Nuclear Navy soon included nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, cruisers, attack and ballistic missile submarines.
The 1956 Dwight D. Eisenhower National System of Interstate and Defense Highways launched construction of the world’s largest highway system, 50,000 road miles costing $120 billion, for commercial and defense purposes.
In 1958, President Eisenhower’s National Aeronautics and Space Act created NASA, responding to the USSR’s launch of a satellite causing the “Sputnik crisis.” NASA sent men to the moon in 1969 and won the space race.
Whatever happened to the U.S. government capable of such feats?
Bureaucratic politics, negligence and gross incompetence accounts for why the U.S. government has failed to protect Americans from the existential threat that is EMP. For example:
The U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) is a rotating door for lawyers and lobbyists serving electric utilities and has been “captured” by the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC), which is essentially a lobby for the electric power industry.
The Department of Defense (DOD) over-classifies data on the EMP threat and hardening techniques needed by electric utilities and private sectors to protect the critical infrastructures, indifferent to the fact that DOD cannot defend the nation without electricity from the national grids.
The Department of Homeland Security (DHS), bereft of data on the real EMP threat from DOD, relies for EMP expertise on novices working for the Department of Energy.
The Department of Energy (DOE) relies for EMP expertise on novices, bureaucrats and erroneous “junk science” studies by recent administrations and electric power industries.
The bureaucratic Gordian knot preventing national EMP preparedness appears to be a greater challenge than winning World War II, the invention of the atomic bomb, the development of the nuclear navy, building the national highway system or sending men to the moon.
What is needed, as recommended by the commission, is White House leadership, an executive agent appointed by the president — or, perhaps President Trump himself taking charge of national EMP preparedness — to plough through a resistant federal bureaucracy, the way that President Roosevelt did with the Manhattan Project or President Eisenhower with the national highway system. Protecting our electronic civilization is easy to do: A FERC regulation requiring utilities to protect the electric grid from 100 kilovolts/meter E1 EMP and 85 volts/kilometer E3 EMP would seriously address, and eventually solve, the problem.
Dr. William R. Graham served as President Ronald Reagan’s White House science adviser, led NASA and the Congressional EMP Commission, was on the defense science team that discovered the EMP phenomenon after the 1962 STARFISH PRIME nuclear test, and has played a leading role in protecting U.S. military systems from EMP since 1963.
Dr. Peter Vincent Pry was chief of staff of the Congressional EMP Commission. He served on the staff of the House Armed Service Committee and at the CIA. He is the author of a new book, “EMP Manhattan Project: Organizing For Survival Against An Electromagnetic Pulse Catastrophe.”

Story 71
FILE - In this Monday, July 22, 2019, file photo, people walk on a street during a blackout in Caracas, Venezuela. When much of Venezuela was plunged into darkness after a massive blackout earlier in the week, Maduro blamed the power outage on an “electromagnetic attack” carried out by the United States. (AP Photo/Ariana Cubillos, File)
FILE - In this Monday, July 22, 2019, file photo, people walk on a street during a blackout in Caracas, Venezuela. When much of Venezuela was plunged into darkness after a massive blackout earlier in the week, Maduro blamed the power outage on an “electromagnetic attack” carried out by the United States. (AP Photo/Ariana Cubillos, File)
NEW YORK (AP) — When much of Venezuela was plunged into darkness after a massive blackout this week, President Nicolás Maduro blamed the power outage on an “electromagnetic attack” carried out by the U.S.
The claim was met with skepticism. Blackouts are a regrettably frequent part of life in Venezuela, where the electric grid has fallen into serious disrepair. And Maduro’s administration provided no evidence of an electromagnetic attack.
“In Venezuela, it’s a lot easier for him to say we did something to him than he did it to himself,” said Sharon Burke, senior adviser at New America, a nonpartisan think tank, and former assistant secretary of defense for operational energy at the Department of Defense. “Their grid, it’s decrepit. It’s been in very poor shape. They’ve been starving their infrastructure for years.”
Nevertheless, Maduro’s claim has raised questions over what exactly is an electromagnetic attack, how likely is it to occur and what impact could it have.
WHAT IS AN ELECTROMAGNETIC ATTACK?
The phrase “electromagnetic attack” can refer to different things, but in this context most likely refers to a high-altitude electromagnetic pulse generated when a nuclear weapon is detonated in space, about 30 kilometers above the Earth’s surface. Once the weapon is detonated, an electromagnetic pulse can travel to the Earth’s surface and disrupt a wide variety of technology systems from appliances to a nation’s electric grid. Some characteristics of an electromagnetic pulse are similar to disturbances caused by solar flares.
There are also smaller electromagnetic pulse weapons that are being developed, but they would be unlikely to cause a power outage as large as the one Venezuela experienced, experts said.
The term electromagnetic attack also can refer cryptography, or an attack where the perpetrator is seeking secret keys or passwords, but that’s more likely to be directed at portable electronic devices, not electric grids, said Shucheng Yu, an associate professor of electrical & computer engineering at Stevens Institute of Technology.
HAS ELECTROMAGNETIC PULSE TECHONLOGY EVER BEEN USED?
In the 1962, during the Cold War, the U.S. detonated a nuclear weapon above the atmosphere over the Pacific Ocean, and the experiment — known as Starfish Prime — knocked out power to traffic lights and telecommunications in parts of Honolulu, illuminating the sky and even leading hotels to host viewing parties, according to news reports.
Russia conducted a series of “high-altitude nuclear bursts” in 1961 and 1962 to test electromagnetic pulse impacts over Kazakhstan and destroyed that country’s electrical grid, according to testimony to Congress from the Commission to Assess the Threat to the United States from Electromagnetic Pulse Attack.
COULD VENEZUELA HAVE SUFFERED FROM AN ELECTROMAGNETIC ATTACK?
While several countries have capabilities to detonate a nuclear weapon and cause an electromagnetic pulse, it’s unlikely that such a maneuver would escape the world’s attention.
“If he’s suggesting that the U.S. detonated a nuclear weapon above the atmosphere, you think that would happen without anyone noticing? I don’t think so,” Burke said of Maduro’s claim. “You can’t secretly detonate a nuclear weapon.”
A senior U.S. administration official said Maduro is to blame for the latest blackout because his government has mismanaged the economy and is responsible for the destruction of his country’s infrastructure. The official was not authorized to respond to questions about the blackout and spoke only on condition of anonymity.
Unlike a cyberattack, which can be carried out by a hacker in a basement, generating an electromagnetic pulse requires a state-sponsored weapon.
“It’s hard to imagine that actor being incentivized to pull off and conduct such an attack. It would be pretty aggressive to do that,” said David Weinstein, chief security officer at Claroty, a security company that specializes in protecting infrastructure. “Also, the power fails easily in Venezuela anyway, so it’s almost like a waste of the capability.”
HOW MUCH OF A THREAT DOES AN ELECTROMAGNETIC PULSE ATTACK POSE?
It depends on who you ask. While the technology to launch an electromagnetic attack exists, and the impacts could cause widespread damage to electronics, some security experts believe the likelihood of such an attack is low and the threat is overstated.
“If they want to knock out the grid, I was trying to think of 12 ways to do it, this wouldn’t be high on the list,” said Bill Hogan, professor of global energy policy at Harvard University. “The (U.S.) system is run very conservatively, there’s a lot of redundancy, and you’d have to be pretty sophisticated to knock out a lot of it.”
Others are convinced that an electromagnetic attack could wipe out vast swaths of the U.S. power grid for prolonged periods, potentially killing most Americans.
The Electric Power Research Institute, a think tank funded primarily by utilities, found in an April study that an electromagnetic pulse could trigger regional service interruptions but would not likely trigger a nationwide grid failure in the U.S.
But the Commission to Assess the Threat to the United States from Electromagnetic Pulse Attack, which has been sounding the alarm on the possibility of this type of attack for years, said in 2017 Congressional testimony that a nuclear electromagnetic pulse attack would inflict massive widespread damage to the electric grid. An attack on the U.S., it warned, would inevitably lead to a widespread protracted blackout and thousands of electronic systems could be destroyed, risking millions of lives.
President Donald Trump called on the Secretary of Defense to conduct research to understand the effects of EMPs in an executive order in March, and called on the Secretary of State to work with allies to boost resilience to potential impacts to EMPs.
“I think it’s a good thing that awareness has grown, and the potential risks and consequences have captured people’s attention, but at the same time, the much more practical and frankly the threat that we’re facing on a day-to-day basis is the cyber threat,” Weinstein said.
___
Deb Riechmann in Washington contributed to this report.

Story 72
(CNN) Large swathes of Venezuela remained without power on Tuesday, the day after the country suffered its fourth nationwide blackout this year.
The blackout, which officials blamed on a hostile "electromagnetic attack," affected almost the entire country, including the capital Caracas.
About 94% of Venezuela's telecommunications infrastructure was hit by the outage, and internet connectivity was only running at 10% nationwide, according to Netblocks , a non-profit organization dedicated to tracking outages.
As of Tuesday morning, power had been restored to Caracas, the government said in a statement.
The states of Mérida, Trujillo, Barinas and Aragua had seen a partial return of power, according to the statement, while the recovery was still in early stages elsewhere in the country.
Read More

Story 73
Company has pioneered faster radio frequency technology to take down dangerous drones
EL SEGUNDO, Calif., Sept. 23, 2019 /PRNewswire/ -- Epirus, the only U.S. company developing software-defined electromagnetic pulse (EMP) technology designed to take down dangerous drones, recently won a new type of Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) contract from the U.S. Air Force's Space and Missile Systems Center (SMC)—located at the Los Angeles Air Force Base in El Segundo—as part of its AFWERX technology accelerator program, empowering the company to engage aerospace industry stakeholders and fine-tune its technology at an earlier stage to streamline innovation to the warfighter.
Epirus was awarded the contract for its novel architecture that makes multi-beam phased array systems extremely affordable and scalable while greatly accelerating their development timeline and reducing development costs. That enables Air Force Special Operators and other satellite communication and phased array customers to be more lethal and survivable in any operational environment.
The Air Force established the AFWERX program in 2017 to develop cutting-edge solutions for dynamic security threats through partnerships with private companies and using a technology startup-inspired approach. Simply put, it helps companies working on some of the most critical national security technology get it to market without losing valuable time working through bureaucracy.
"The Air Force is rapidly changing the way it does business by increasing innovation and welcoming new ideas and new technologies. This SMC contract will help us better understand the needs of the warfighter and make our technology better able to fulfill those needs," said Epirus CEO Nathan Mintz. "Also, the opportunity to work with other industry stakeholders and seek their input as part of this contract is important and speaks to the Air Force's goal of breaking down barriers to provide the best thinking for the next generation of high-tech warfare."
Epirus, based in El Segundo, developed a novel architecture for using commercial off-the-shelf field programmable gate arrays (FPGA), semiconductor devices commonly used in electronic circuits, as ultra-wideband radio frequency (RF) transceivers. It's a significantly more resource-efficient approach than other FPGAs, while being much cheaper and faster than ASIC-based transceivers. Using this new architecture, it becomes much faster and more affordable to develop RF systems for digital beamforming and channelizing, which has multiple uses in communications, electronic warfare and even radar.
It is relevant to any RF application, including the company's technology designed to neutralize unmanned aerial vehicles, or drones. The company has been using this technology to develop the world's first solid-state, software-defined, phased array High Power Microwave directed energy system.
Hostile drones rank among the greatest national security threats going forward. Rogue drones have attacked Saudi Arabia's biggest oil field—cutting production by half—and it is not hard to envision the destructive potential of a swarm of them controlled by a terrorist organization or nation-state. Epirus' novel RF architecture can be used to further develop technology to combat drones and other electronic weapons, and bring it to market more quickly and affordably.
"This new contract type is a proactive approach that empowers Epirus and the U.S. government to work together and think holistically about drone defense—and not lose valuable time and ground to potential adversaries on this new battlefield like China and Russia," said Mintz.
About Epirus:
Epirus is the only U.S. developer of software-defined electromagnetic pulse (EMP) technology—a short burst of directed energy to take down unmanned aircraft systems (UAS), otherwise known as drones. The company is under contract with various U.S. Department of Defense agencies and has successfully tested its EMP systems under rigorous government oversight. Headquartered near the U.S. Air Force Space and Missile Systems Center in El Segundo, Calif., Epirus draws on the heritage that launched the Space Age combined with a culture of innovation driven by a leadership team that includes senior-level engineers, researchers, and scientists from Raytheon, Boeing, IBM, and Google. Collectively, they hold over 120 U.S. patents—more patents per employee than any of its closest competitors.
Story continues

Story 74
North Korea is educating its workforce, including industrial workers and farmers, about nuclear electromagnetic pulse (EMP) attacks. This further confirms warnings by the Congressional EMP Commission that North Korea has a sophisticated understanding of EMP and contingency plans to attack the U.S. and its allies.
Pyongyang’s Workers Party of Korea is circulating an official internal document on EMP, obtained and photographed by the Daily NK, as reported by Mun Dong Hui (Nov. 23, 2018):
"An internal document recently obtained by Daily NK has a section on the power of nuclear EMP attack. The notebook explains in detail what a nuclear EMP attack is and what kind of damage such an attack can do."
For example, the document accurately assesses, if a nuclear weapon “explodes 30-100 kilometers above the ground, electronic machines and devices are severely damaged or their electricity cables are destroyed beyond repair.”
"The notebook further states," according to Daily NK, "that nuclear EMP attacks are acknowledged widely as an important way to execute an attack against enemy forces."
This too is correct. The Congressional EMP Commission’s 2017 Executive Report "Assessing the Threat from EMP Attack" warns:
"Combined-arms cyber warfare, as described in the military doctrines of Russia, China, North Korea, and Iran, may use combinations of cyber, sabotage, and ultimately nuclear EMP attack to impair the United States quickly and decisively by blacking-out large portions of the electric grid and other critical infrastructures."
On Sept. 3, 2017, North Korean state news, KCNA, displayed photos of an alleged thermonuclear missile warhead, and apparently tested an H-bomb, described as capable of "super-powerful EMP attack":
"The H-bomb, the explosive power of which is adjustable from tens of kilotons to hundreds of kilotons, is a multifunctional thermonuclear nuke with great destructive power which can be detonated even at high altitudes for super-powerful EMP attack according to strategic goals."
Pyongyang published a technical report "The EMP Might of Nuclear Weapons" accurately describing Super-EMP weapons.
Recently, on Nov. 16, North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un reportedly inspected a "newly developed, ultra-modern" mystery weapon. South Korean analysts, anxious to keep on track negotiations to denuclearize North Korea, speculate the "mystery weapon" is merely a non-nuclear multiple rocket launcher.
But KCNA’s description sounds more worrisome, "The state-of-the-art weapon that has been long developed under the leadership of our party’s dynamic leadership has a meaning of completely safeguarding our territory and significantly improving the combat power of our people’s army."
On April 30, 2017, South Korean officials told Korea Times and YTN TV that North Korea’s test of a medium-range missile on April 29 — launched straight-up and deliberately detonated at 72 kilometers altitude above North Korea — might have been practicing fusing for a nuclear EMP attack by a new warhead designed to defeat an invasion of North Korea, "It’s believed the explosion was a test to develop a nuclear weapon different from existing ones."
Japan’s Tetsuro Kosaka wrote in Nikkei, "Pyongyang could be saying, 'We could launch an electromagnetic pulse (EMP) attack if things get really ugly.'"
North Korea’s April 29, 2017, missile was fired on a lofted trajectory, to maximize, not range, but climbing to high-altitude as quickly as possible, where it successfully fused at the optimum altitude for nuclear EMP attack — testing everything but an actual nuclear warhead.
At 72 kilometers altitude, the EMP field would cover all of North and South Korea and littoral waters, potentially paralyzing U.S. and South Korean ground, air, and naval forces.
North Korean military forces and civilian infrastructure mostly use old-fashioned electronics that are one million times less vulnerable to EMP than modern electronics used by U.S. and South Korean high-tech forces.
Moreover, since North Korea would know exactly when it will execute an EMP attack, they could shelter and turn-off their military and civilian electronic systems, making them even more survivable. Canceling the U.S. and allied advantage in battlefield electronics would almost certainly mean defeat in a new Korean War.
Pyongyang has also demonstrated the capability to detonate a nuclear warhead for EMP attack about 100 kilometers over Tokyo. The EMP field would cover all of Japan and most of South Korea, but not North Korea.
North Korea could be training workers to turn-off and shelter electric systems to protect them from an EMP attack initiated by North Korea, or a retaliatory EMP strike by the U.S.
The EMP Commission warns that North Korea has two satellites orbiting over North America that could be armed for surprise EMP attack.
In 2010, 2011, 2012, and 2016, North Korea used a non-nuclear “EMP cannon” to jam South Korean communications, cars, and over 2,000 aircraft.
South Korean experts warn, according to Daily NK:
"The widespread failure of South Korea’s mass communications system due to an EMP attack and its effect on national infrastructure and military command systems could lead to widespread chaos, experts warn, and they are calling on the government to take measures to prepare for such attacks."
The U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s recently published National EMP Strategy ignores the EMP Commission’s call for immediate action and would continue studying the EMP threat until 2026.
Dr. Peter Vincent Pry is executive director of the Task Force on National and Homeland Security. He served on the Congressional EMP Commission as chief of staff, the Congressional Strategic Posture Commission, the House Armed Services Committee, and the CIA. He is author of "Blackout Wars." For more of his reports, Go Here Now.

Story 75
President Donald J. Trump has taken decisive action to reinvigorate American space leadership and return our explorers to the Moon and beyond. With a renewed focus on space policy, the Administration is also enhancing America’s preparedness for space weather events, like solar storms and flares. Throughout history, we’ve seen the dangerous impact these storms can have on Earth.
In 1859, the largest solar storm on record created a dangerously powerful electromagnetic pulse event, or EMP, that short-circuited telegraph wires and started fires. In 1989, the Earth again experienced a major space weather event, resulting in a nine-hour power outage in Quebec and causing damage to power grid components in the United States. More recently, in Sweden, space weather events in 2003 and 2015 resulted in electric power blackouts, rerouting of commercial flights, and closure of Swedish airspace for more than an hour.
That’s why the Trump Administration released a new National Space Weather Strategy and Action Plan to better prepare our Nation’s critical infrastructure and security for the next space weather event.
This Plan will improve our Nation’s preparedness through targeted actions that support three main objectives:
Enhancing the Protection of National Security, Homeland Security, and Commercial Assets and Operations. In order to protect against space weather events, we must first understand how these events might affect critical infrastructure and national security assets. This understanding can inform the development and deployment of technologies and other approaches to limit the consequences of these events. Activities to increase the resilience of homeland and national security critical assets and systems are key to protecting the Nation from the most potentially devastating effects of space weather.
In order to protect against space weather events, we must first understand how these events might affect critical infrastructure and national security assets. This understanding can inform the development and deployment of technologies and other approaches to limit the consequences of these events. Activities to increase the resilience of homeland and national security critical assets and systems are key to protecting the Nation from the most potentially devastating effects of space weather. Developing and Disseminating Accurate and Timely Space Weather Characterization and Forecasts. Improving the ability to forecast and characterize space weather events is another important way of enabling an effective response. Forecasting includes the ability to provide advanced warning of impending events, and characterization means describing the event’s location, intensity, and other key characteristics. It is essential that those who collect and produce this information are prepared to convey it in ways that allow owners and operators of critical infrastructure and national security assets to understand its meaning and take appropriate action. Timely and accurate characterization and forecasting of space weather events will help enhance the security and resilience of critical infrastructure and improve our ability to protect national security assets.
Improving the ability to forecast and characterize space weather events is another important way of enabling an effective response. Forecasting includes the ability to provide advanced warning of impending events, and characterization means describing the event’s location, intensity, and other key characteristics. It is essential that those who collect and produce this information are prepared to convey it in ways that allow owners and operators of critical infrastructure and national security assets to understand its meaning and take appropriate action. Timely and accurate characterization and forecasting of space weather events will help enhance the security and resilience of critical infrastructure and improve our ability to protect national security assets. Establishing Procedures for Responding to and Recovering from Space Weather Events. Much like the response plans for hurricanes or tornados, establishing, exercising, and improving operational space weather plans and procedures will help to mitigate the worst effects and save lives.
Thanks to coordination across the Federal Government, academia, the private sector, and international partners, the United States has made significant progress in predicting and preparing for space weather events. The Administration’s new plan builds upon these efforts and reflects the whole of government commitment to enhancing our Nation’s resiliency. In particular, earlier this week the President signed an Executive Order on Coordinating National Resilience to Electromagnetic Pulses, including those created by space weather.
The National Space Weather Strategy and Action Plan provides a collaborative and coordinated roadmap for ensuring a space weather-ready Nation. Implementing this plan, in concert with the new Executive Order on EMP, will help the United States to better prepare for, predict, and deal with space weather hazards, and in so doing will contribute to America’s overall resilience and leadership in space.

Story 76
When you hear about the potential risk of an electromagnetic pulse (EMP) disabling virtually every electronic device within a country, there’s a good chance you think, “Hey, I remember that James Bond movie plot.”
But just because the threat of an EMP emitted by a nuclear weapon exploded in the skies above us isn’t on the radar for most people doesn’t mean it’s not a real risk. With that in mind, researchers at Sandia National Laboratories have installed a new “friendly” EMP emitter called the ElectroMagnetic Environment Simulator.
No, it’s not a movie-style, magical undo button that would reverse the damage caused by an actual EMP blast, but rather a machine capable of simulating a similarly intense effect without having to explode a nuke to do so. Described as a “hippopotamus-sized” Marx generator, the large capacitor bank stores up electrical energy and can then direct it at a target inside of a test chamber.
The reason for doing that? To use the chamber as a testing ground for electronics components to see if they could survive an actual hostile EMP pulse. Since it’s possible for devices to be modified to survive such a blast, this could prove a useful test to put gadgets through. Although military devices use special EMP shields to protect against this possibility, most consumer electronics do not. That could change if manufacturers discover the extent to which, say, the power grid could be knocked out of action in the event of such an attack.
Ultimately, carrying out such modifications on everyday electronics may, paradoxically, decrease the likelihood that they would ever need to use such modifications. As a Sandia National Laboratories spokesperson told Digital Trends, that’s because showing this kind of planning might be enough to encourage “a possible opponent to hesitate releasing such a pulse because its effect would not be significant enough to offset a U.S. response.”
This isn’t the first time that the U.S. has used a pulse-producing machine for training for an EMP attack. Earlier versions of this machine date back as far as 1978. The current test facility was largely unused from 1994 through 2001, when it was brought back following the 9/11 attacks. This machine represents the latest iteration of that tech.
Editors' Recommendations

Story 77
Electromagnetic pulse (EMP) weapons might be a staple of movies and video games, but they pose a very real threat. With just about every facet of modern society reliant on electronic devices, Sandia National Laboratories has developed a "friendly" EMP generator to make sure military and civilian equipment can withstand such potentially devastating bursts of electromagnetic energy.
First studied in earnest during the early US atomic weapon tests in the 1940s and '50s, an EMP is one weapon of mass destruction that, fortunately, has yet to be used in war or by terrorists. The principle is that detonating a nuclear weapon high in the atmosphere can generate a massive burst of radio energy that can overload electricity grids, and electric and electronic circuits and burn them out.
Over the decades, a lot of research has gone into EMPs and it makes for very unpleasant reading. A single EMP attack against even a country the size of the United States would have a devastating effect. The explosion itself might not pose much danger to those below, but the EMP would damage or destroy phones, power grids, communications networks, computers, laptops, smart cards, vehicle electronics, fuel pumps, medical equipment, industrial robots, and just about anything else that has a microchip or even a slightly advanced electrical circuit.
Worse, large H-bombs aren't needed to create the pulse. Using magnetic coils, it's possible to produce EMP effects with tactical nuclear warheads or even conventional explosives that could be fabricated by non-nuclear nations or even non-state hostiles. Microwave devices can also generate similar effects and a large solar flare aimed at the Earth can produce the worst EMP effects of all.
The ElectroMagnetic Environment Simulator (EMES) recently installed at Sandia National Laboratories is designed to deliver variable energy pulses to provide engineers with a better understanding of how EMP damages circuits. As a matter of routine, military-grade equipment is shielded against EMPs, but most civilian equipment up to and including power grids aren't similarly protected, so devices like Sandia's EMES are very important in making sure that our bank accounts don't vanish in a blast of electrons.
According to Sandia, EMES is made up of a "hippopotamus-sized" Marx generator that generates a high-energy pulse from a low-energy DC power source, allowing it to simulate lightning and run high-energy physics experiments. EMES is connected to a large capacitor bank that provides a high-voltage blast every 15 minutes, creating the EMP effect. Meanwhile, absorbers behind the target zone soak up any stray energy from the pulse.
The EMES can produce its pulses within a microsecond of a command. This allows the research team to not just test the hardiness of a device against an EMP, they can also see how the pulse affects the device at any particular moment as it carries out its functions. This will help engineers in building stronger, more sophisticated safeguards.
In addition, the EMES can test a large number of components in a single session as one device can quickly be replaced by another as the generator recharges. If a device passes the EMES tests, it can then be sent on for testing against more aggressive EMP threats and its design improved incrementally.
"The builders or owners generally solicit help from my group when it comes to additional shielding designs," says Leonard Martinez, the Sandia researcher in charge of the timing and firing control system. "The design focus can range from protecting tiny electronic parts to shielding larger subsystems of military equipment. Our customers may decide to implement additional shielding to their device in between tests, or even take the device back to their lab to design and add additional shielding. Then they would bring it back for retesting."
EMES is located in a renovated test facility that operated earlier versions of the pulse-producing machine from 1978 to 1994, and was rekindled in the wake of the 9/11 terrorist attacks. In addition to testing both military and civilian devices, researchers at Sandia are looking to integrate the machine into a national testing center that would focus on improving the resilience of the national electricity grid.
Source: Sandia National Laboratories

Story 78
WASHINGTON – In the past eight months, federal authorities have issued public warnings about foreign hackers penetrating the US power grid and other critical infrastructure. Cybersecurity experts say the intent is to plant digital grenades in those systems until they decide to pull the pin.
These attacks are from an enemy who may never step on US soil. But they could cripple vital systems like electricity, food, water, and manufacturing.
"Right now we are tracking about eight different teams that specifically target industrial networks," said Robert Lee, Founder, and CEO of Dragos, Inc.

Lee spent five years working at the National Security Agency and Pentagon Cyber Command before forming Dragos, Inc.
Lee and his crew protect industrial control systems by acting like detectives investigating a crime scene.
Tracking the Enemy in Cyber Space
Marc Seitz is a threat analyst for Dragos.
"They're leaving breadcrumbs the entire way through," Seitz said of the foreign hackers he's tracking. "They are giving us pieces to find their behaviors until they get to that impact."
Working from a warehouse in Hanover, Maryland, Dragos employees track foreign hacking groups in real time, then hunt them down to prevent damage to facilities that produce oil, gas, and other energy.
"We've seen these are not theoretical attacks," Lee told CBN News. "My team was involved in the two different Ukraine attacks. Ukraine 2015 and 2016, a national level adversary compromised a portion of their power grid and were able to turn off the lights in those regions."
The Potential: Casualties on a Massive Scale
Lee says these cyber enemies are now going way beyond controlling light switches.
"Now we are starting to see really aggressive behavior," Lee said
An attack on the United States could create casualties on a massive scale. Research shows a cyber attack on the power grid that shuts off electricity would potentially leave millions of Americans without food, clean water, access to money, health care and more.

"Frankly, the United States is under attack. Under attack by entities that are using cyber to penetrate virtually every major action that takes place in the United States," said Dan Coats, Director of National Intelligence at a Congressional hearing on national security threats.
Multi-Pronged Threats to US Security
Coats also told Congress that cyber weapons exist in the hands of not only countries but also terrorists and other activists.
"While Russia, China, Iran, and North Korea pose the greatest cyber threats, other nation-states, terrorist organizations, trans-national criminal organizations and other more capable groups and individuals use cyber operations to achieve strategic and objectives," he said.

Dr. Peter Pry, Executive Director for the Task Force on National and Homeland Security agrees.
"This isn't a sideshow," he said. "This is the way the primary way our enemies would come after us in a future war, cyber, physical sabotage and nuclear EMP attack."
Pry worked on the US commission assessing the threat of an electromagnetic pulse (EMP) attack, which would wipe out electrical systems.
EMP Could Kill 90% of Americans Within One Year
As an example, he says a country like North Korea could target the US by transporting a nuclear weapon over the south polar region, then detonating it to create a high-altitude EMP.
A Congressional report shows such an attack could shut down the US power grid indefinitely. That could lead to the deaths of up to 90 percent of all Americans within a year.
How much would it cost to secure our power grids? In 2008, the EMP Commission estimated it would cost around two billion dollars. But former CIA Director James Woolsey says the amount to strengthen the grid would likely be in the tens of billions of dollars.
Still, Pry says the DC bureaucracy and political influence prevents that from happening.
"The electric power industry doesn't want to do it. They have vast lobbying resources on K Street. They own basically the US Federal Regulatory Commission, which recently defied Secretary of Energy, Perry and his effort to come up with a more secure power grid. They actually defied the Secretary of Energy," Pry told CBN News.
Another major issue: While larger utilities have beefed up cyber defense, smaller regional companies often overlook the need for such security.

"Anywhere between 80 to 90 percent of the critical infrastructure in this country is held in private hands. Other than the regulators, there is no real control over doing the things that you need to do. Doing the basic blocking and tackling of cyber hygiene and so forth," said John Felker, DHS Director of National Cybersecurity.
Since our critical infrastructures depend on each other, Homeland Security holds exercises like Cyber Storm 6.
It simulates various cyber attacks simultaneously on a variety of facilities forcing federal, state and local agencies to work with private companies to quickly find solutions.

"The ability to exercise how we coordinate, how we collaborate, how we share information," Jeanette Manfra, the Assistant Secretary of National Cybersecurity said. "Because that is just as important as we've seen in real life situations, as the technical means of identifying whose doing it and get them off the computers."
Bottom line, enemies both big and small want to plant cyber sleeper weapons within our infrastructure so they can eventually use them to destroy our way of life. The challenge will be ensuring a full team effort between government and private enterprise to fully protect us.



Story 79
During a hearing on October 12th, experts warned the U.S. House of Representatives that an EMP bomb, likely from North Korea, could kill as many as 90% of all Americans within a year. But what is an EMP bomb? And could such a weapon really be that devastating?
Advertisement
What Is EMP?
EMP stands for electromagnetic pulse, which is considered a short burst of electromagnetic radiation. This kind of burst can come from a variety of sources, including our own sun, but in this case we’re talking about a pulse from a nuclear detonation that occurs at an extremely high altitude.
When a nuclear explosion occurs in space above a target, three types of electromagnetic pulses follow: E1, E2, and E3. An E1 pulse involves high-energy gamma rays colliding with air molecules nearly 20 miles above, then raining down electrons that get pulled in by Earth’s natural magnetic field. An E2 pulse comes from high-energy neutrons that get fired in every direction, and an E3 pulse occurs due to the size of the nuclear fireball itself affecting the Earth’s magnetic field. As nuclear physicist Dr. Yousaf Butt explains, these pulses affect everything in line of sight of the nuclear blast. For example, a blast at 60 miles up can affect a 700-mile radius on Earth. However, there is a “safe space” that is unaffected by all three pulses almost directly below the blast thanks to the Earth’s magnetic field.
Advertisement
What Can It Do?
EMP bombs do not cause casualties directly. The blast happens much too far away from people. Their power comes from interfering, disrupting, or damaging electronic equipment. That could mean power grids going down, cars and planes losing power, computer systems going berserk, and possibly even losing emergency backup power at facilities like hospitals. It sounds pretty scary, and EMP blasts are a significant threat, but the effects are largely untested and exaggerated through pop culture and inflammatory claims by politicians.
Advertisement
Still, we are certain about some aspects of nuclear-based EMP detonations. According to Butt, each of the three different types of pulse—E1, E2, and E3—affect various types of electrical systems in different ways. E1 affects local antennas, short cable runs, equipment inside buildings, integrated circuits, sensors, communication systems, protective systems, and computers; E2 is similar to a lightning strike (so not as damaging since we know how to deal with it), and affects longer conductive lines, vertical antenna towers, and aircraft with trailing wire antennas; and E3 affects power lines and long communications lines like undersea and underground cables, which could wreak havoc on commercial power and landlines. Overall, most of the damage would come from E1 and E3 pulses disrupting the technology we’ve come to rely on. Post-blast, generators may be able to still provide power, but for the most part, people would not have access to electricity. This could be devastating, or it could be extremely inconvenient until it’s fixed—it’s all speculation.
Advertisement
Should You Be Worried?
An EMP attack on the U.S. by North Korea is probably more likely than a direct nuclear ICBM attack. Why? An EMP bomb requires a heck of a lot less accuracy to be effective. As long as it goes off somewhere above us they’ve sunk our battleship, so to speak. And high-altitude ICBMs are difficult to stop compared to those that come in lower, like ground-based nuclear attacks. Our Ground-based Midcourse Defense missile system (GMD) is capable of reaching into space, but other systems like THAAD or Aegis would have a much harder time.
Advertisement
But again, the specifics of EMP bombs and what would happen post-blast are still up in the air, and, for the most part, exaggerated. In 1962, the STARFISH PRIME weapons test—which involved firing a 1.4 megaton nuke 250 miles above the Pacific—caused quite a commotion. Electromagnetic surges traveled as far as Hawaii, around 900 miles away, causing damage to some telephone company equipment, making streetlights flicker, and even messing with people’s garage doors (they started to open and close by themselves). But there were no power outages, the phone lines stayed up, and there was no radio interference throughout the entire event.
In another example, the EMP Commission tested the effects of electromagnetic pulses on 37 cars and 18 trucks in a laboratory environment. Jeffrey Lewis at Foreign Policy explains:
While EMP advocates claim the results of an EMP attack would be “planes falling from the sky, cars stalling on the roadways, electrical networks failing, food rotting,” the actual results were much more modest. Of the 55 vehicles exposed to EMP, six at the highest levels of exposure needed to be restarted. A few more showed “nuisance” damage to electronics, such as blinking dashboard displays.
Advertisement
So, that claim that an EMP bomb would kill off 90% of Americans is almost certainly total bullshit. For one, Kyle Mizokami at Popular Mechanics points out that the source of that information is a quote from Congressman Roscoe Bartlett describing a science-fiction novel he had read called One Second After—not real data of any kind. Also, Bartlett was so freaked out by the idea of the nation’s power grid going down, he went off the grid to live off the land. Not exactly a reliable source of information to say the least. The truth is, nobody really knows if an EMP bomb could take out the nation’s power grid, or how large of a bomb would be necessary to accomplish such a feat, and at what altitude. Even if North Korea were to strike, it’s unlikely they’d have a weapon large enough to send us back to the stone age. And they’d most certainly only get one shot to do so...
How to Survive Nuclear Fallout It happened. Bright, white light flashed before your eyes, the power of the sun licked your skin,… Read more
Advertisement
That said, we are still somewhat vulnerable, and we now lack an official way to prepare for such an attack. On September 30th of this year, the Trump administration shut down the Congressional Commission to Assess the Threat to the United States from Electromagnetic Pulse after it had been in operation for over 16 years. Members of the former commission, including Dr. William R. Graham and Dr. Peter Vincent Pry, have been trying to appeal to the administration to get things back on track. They suggest the U.S.’s infrastructure is not prepared for an EMP attack, and believe U.S. intelligence has been underestimating North Korea’s nuclear capabilities. After all, it is possible to protect against such attacks, but the costs for such a shield would be in the billions and likely take years to implement. For now, rest easy knowing an EMP strike would not kill 90% of the people in the country.

Story 80
In recent years, small drones have made their way onto battlefields where they’ve been used to surveil US forces or drop bombs on them, prompting the US military to develop new ways to take them down. This week, the US Air Force unveiled a new tool that can be stationed at bases around the world: a high-powered microwave system called Tactical High Power Microwave Operational Responder (THOR), which is designed to protect bases against swarms of drones.
The Air Force Research Laboratory at the Kirtland Air Force Base in Albuquerque, New Mexico, developed the system, which uses short bursts of high-powered microwaves to disable unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs). According to local TV station KRQE, the system was developed quickly (18 months) for about $15 million. It runs off of a generator and is stored in a shipping container, meaning it can be transported almost anywhere and set up within a couple of hours.
The Air Force began testing THOR against short-range targets earlier this spring, while another system, the Counter-Electronic High-Power Microwave Extended-Range Air Base Air Defense (CHIMERA) is designed to hit things at medium to long ranges. That system is expected to be delivered sometime next year.
The military predicts that a major problem will be swarms of drones operating in concert when it wouldn’t matter if one or two are taken down. This system is effectively designed to take out a large number of drones all at once and has a further range than bullets or nets. THOR program manager Amber Anderson says that the system “operates like a flashlight,” and that anything caught in the beam “will be taken down ... in the blink of an eye.”
Taking out a drone is a difficult proposition: they’re small and difficult to hit with a gun, and if they’re flying over people, there’s a risk that they could be injured by falling debris or pieces of drone. That hasn’t stopped people from trying a variety of methods for taking them down, from conventional defensive systems to nets, eagles, and even shotgun-wielding drones. The US Army has begun looking for similar systems. It invested in a microwave weapon built by Lockheed Martin back in August 2018, while other parts of the Department of Defense have been testing other defensive systems, like lasers, which could be used against drones or missiles.

Story 81
Washington officialdom believes Iran does not yet have nuclear weapons based on little more than wishful thinking.
Two years ago, senior Reagan and Clinton administration officials warned that Iran probably already has nuclear weapons. As they wrote in “Underestimating Nuclear Missile Threats from North Korea and Iran” in the National Review on Feb. 12, 2016:
ADVERTISEMENT
“Iran is following North Korea’s example — as a strategic partner allied by treaty and pledged to share scientific and military technology. Iran sacrificed its overt civilian nuclear program to deceive the Obama administration, to lift international sanctions, to prevent Western military action, while a clandestine military nuclear program no doubt continues underground. That is why Iran, under the nuclear deal, will not allow inspection of its military facilities and prohibits interviewing scientists — it is concealing the dimensions and status of Iran’s nuclear-weapons program.
“We assess, from U.N. International Atomic Energy Agency reports and other sources, that Iran probably already has nuclear weapons. Over 13 years ago, prior to 2003, Iran was manufacturing nuclear-weapon components, like bridge-wire detonators and neutron initiators, performing non-fissile explosive experiments of an implosion nuclear device, and working on the design of a nuclear warhead for the Shahab-III missile.
“Thirteen years ago Iran was already a threshold nuclear-missile state. It is implausible that Iran suspended its program for over a decade for a nuclear deal with President Obama.”
The above assessment is by Ambassador R. James Woolsey, President Clinton’s director of Central Intelligence; Dr. William Graham, President Reagan’s White House science adviser, leader of NASA and recently chairman of the Congressional EMP Commission; Fritz Ermarth, a national security adviser to President Reagan and chairman of the National Intelligence Council, and Ambassador Henry Cooper, former director of the Strategic Defense Initiative.
These stellar intelligence officers, strategic thinkers and scientists played major roles in helping to win the Cold War. Perhaps we should listen to them now about Iran:
“Iran probably has nuclear warheads for the Shahab-III medium-range missile, which they tested for making EMP attacks. … Iran already has the largest medium-range ballistic-missile force in the Middle East.
ADVERTISEMENT
“Iran could be building a nuclear-capable missile force, partly hidden in tunnels, as suggested by its dramatic revelation of a vast underground missile-basing system last year. Iran is building toward a large, deployable, survivable, war-fighting missile force — to which nuclear weapons can be swiftly added as they are manufactured.
“And at a time of its choosing, Iran could launch a surprise EMP (electromagnetic pulse) attack against the United States by satellite, as they have apparently practiced with help from North Korea.”
Recently, David Albright, former nuclear inspector for the U.N.’s International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), and Olli Heinonen, former IAEA deputy director general, published an Institute for Science and International Security report based on Iran’s secret nuclear-weapon archives clandestinely obtained by Israel’s Mossad:
“The archive shows that the AMAD program intended to build five nuclear warhead systems for missile delivery and possible use in preparation for an underground nuclear test; an actual test would require a decision to proceed. The program was also partially designed to have its own independent uranium mining, conversion, and enrichment resources. The documentation indicates that Iran's nuclear weaponization efforts did not stop after 2003 … .
“The United States incorrectly assessed with high confidence in a 2007 declassified National Intelligence Estimate (NIE) that ‘in fall 2003, Tehran halted its nuclear weapons program.’ Based on the information in the archives, Iran's nuclear weapons program continued after 2003. … Moreover, the 2007 NIE also incorrectly asserted that Iran had not re-started its nuclear weapons program as of mid-2007. … However, there is no evidence that the program was ever fully halted, even up to today.
“The information in the archive evaluated so far does not answer the question of what the current status of Iran’s nuclear weapons program is … .”
Assessments that Iran does not yet have nuclear weapons assume, erroneously, that our intelligence is perfect; that Iran’s civilian nuclear program is all there is; that no clandestine nuclear weapons program exists in Iran’s numerous underground military facilities — including unaccounted-for uranium and plutonium facilities to fuel nuclear weapons, as in North Korea.
Where Iran is concerned, our intelligence community appears to have learned nothing from its spectacular failures that grossly underestimated the nuclear threat from North Korea. Does the intelligence community even want to know the truth about Iran’s Islamic bomb?
Senate Republicans and House Democrats soon will argue over modernization of U.S. strategic nuclear forces to deter Russia and China. But Iran and North Korea may not be deterrable, and may sell nuclear weapons to terrorists.
And a catastrophic EMP attack can be made against the United States with a single nuclear weapon delivered by balloon, or launched off a freighter, or by satellite — anonymously. Deterrence is no defense against such threats.
The Department of Homeland Security’s so-called National EMP Strategy appears to be little more than a box-checking exercise to minimally comply with the Critical Infrastructure Protection Act and urgent demands by Congress and the public for national EMP preparedness. Alarmed by the lack of progress, the U.S. Air Force has formed an Electromagnetic Defense Task Force, that convened in August and recently published a report — warning that nuclear and natural EMP pose an existential threat, and calling for immediate and highest-priority action from the White House to protect the nation.
Our divided house must at least agree to harden — against EMP and cyber warfare — the national electric grid that sustains the lives of 327 million Americans.
Dr. Peter Vincent Pry was chief of staff of the Congressional EMP Commission. He served on the staff of the House Armed Service Committee and at the CIA. He is the author of a new book, “EMP Manhattan Project: Organizing For Survival Against An Electromagnetic Pulse Catastrophe.”

Story 82
×
You must be a full digital subscriber to read this article You must be a digital subscriber to view this article. We hope that you continue to enjoy our free content.

Story 83
A new military study provides an ominous warning: America's enemies have not given up on the devastating effects of an EMP on a woefully unprepared United States.
An EMP attack on the United States has been the subject of nightmare scenarios for years, since scientists and Pentagon analysts warn of mass starvation if the electric grid --- in a moment --- ceases to operate and the refrigerator, for example, is rendered useless.
Such an attack was imagined in the novel "One Second After," a New York Times bestseller that described a surprise attack by missiles fired above the United States from container ships parked off our coasts.
Hardening military systems against an EMP has been a top priority of the Pentagon for decades, but the executive director of the EMP Task Force says the civilian grid has been ignored.
Dr. Peter Pry describes an EMP to OneNewsNow as “a super energetic radio wave that can destroy electronics,” which can be initiated by the sun, nuclear weapons, and non-nuclear weapons.
Meanwhile, he warns, the “head-in-the-sand posture” of the United States has kept America at risk, says Pry. In one example, the military doctrines of Russia, China, North Korea, and Iran, the countries that have called for “making EMP attacks against the United States.”
In the case of Iran, Pry hopes the State Department has noted their desire to wreak havoc in America, but “they seemed to have been ignoring [it].”
“Isn’t Iran supposed to not have nuclear weapons?” he asks. “Then why does their military doctrine call for making a nuclear EMP attack on the United States?”
The problem with being unprepared, Pry tells OneNewsNow, is there is no "second chance" against such an attack.
The "good news" is that the U.S. knows how to protect itself from an EMP attack after the commission published a plan in 2008. But the problem, he adds, is the civilian grid has not been hardened.
“Why haven't we done that?” Pry asks. “It's been 10 years since the EMP commission delivered its report and provided a plan for doing this.”
As former chief of staff of the commission, Pry say the team of experts worked for 17 years to create a plan in 2008, but to date that plan has been ignored, and no federal agency is in charge and no agency wants to be in charge of the problem, he complains.
“Not a single implement recommendation of the EMP commission has been implemented in 10 years," he warns, "and we remain as vulnerable today” as we ever have been.
Pry feels there is "hope," however, because President Donald Trump is listening to the commission and taking the concern seriously.
"And [Trump] is the first president to include in his national security strategy a directive for the federal government [to] protect the electric grid and the other life-sustaining critical infrastructures from EMP," Pry advises.
He adds, however, that federal bureaucracy is not cooperating and is ignoring the EMP commission.
Meanwhile, says Pry, the EMP threat has increased since 2008 because of technology: microelectronics have become faster, and operate on smaller voltage, making them more vulnerable to an EMP burst.
Consequently, Pry says, “it takes less and less energy to destroy them, so the very thing that makes us a high-tech society” is also “our technological Achilles' heel."

Story 84
EMP Shield Home Model EMP Protection EMP protection that will revolutionize how we defend against an electromagnetic pulse event.
What started as an attempt to design a surge protector for a solar electrostatic wave project by Tim Carty in 2017 has now grown to become a disruptor in the surge protection industry. EMP Shield provides the first technology of its kind for the protection of electrical devices in homes, vehicles, business, and the electrical grid. EMP Shield is an EMP protection technology that has been built to surpass military standards MIL-STD-188-125-1, MIL-STD-464C, and MIL-STD-461G. It is also one of the world’s fastest whole home surge protectors that operates in less than 1 billionth of a second.
There are many different brands and models of surge protectors as manufacturers continue to develop products to protect electrical appliances. Unfortunately, most of the available products do not provide adequate EMP protection for consumers. Even previous military standard surge protectors were only good for one high altitude nuclear EMP (HEMP). This is in addition to their high costs and inability to protect against all three phases of an EMP. EMP Shield has changed this narrative with the introduction of their Home and Vehicle EMP Protection Devices. These devices also provide a 100% lightning protection guarantee that is backed by $25,000 of insurance and a 10 year industry leading warranty.
The EMP Shield is designed to protect an entire home from lightning, solar flares (coronal mass ejection), power surges, and an EMP (electromagnetic pulse). This family of products has been tested at Keystone Compliance, in accordance with all military standards and is UL 1449 Certified.
This unique EMP technology works by shunting (shorting) the over voltage coming in from the grid, and also any electricity collected within the home through the structure of the house. Regardless of the electrical point of entry, the EMP Shield reacts in less than 1 billionth of a second. Ultimately, the over voltage is pulled away from the equipment before charge can build high enough to damage any equipment. This innovation that has been coined SightSpeed™ technology.
In recognition of the technology’s amazing features and benefits, EMP Shield was listed by the Department of Homeland Security in their February 5th EMP Resilience Report. EMP Shield is also working to assist the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Defense to protect the country’s most valuable assets. EMP Shield will also be working to support the Department of Homeland Security in their mission to raise awareness about the threat and impact of EMP’s and to protect America from this threat. This has led to the creation of the American EMP awareness Campaign by EMP Shield.
Some best-selling products from EMP Shield include the Vehicle EMP Protection 12 Volt DC model for vehicles of all types, the Home EMP Protection model for homes up to 10,000 square feet, the EMP Shield Portable for RV’s, and the Ham Radio EMP Shield. EMP Shield offers 42 models to the general public as well as several EMP protection and detection systems for the United States Government.
The innovative solutions offered by EMP Shield make this company an ideal surge protection partner for government agencies, businesses, and individuals in need of EMP protection and future EMP defense technology.
EMP Shield LLC is a provider of innovative surge protectors that are 100% Sourced and Hand Built in America. The company is comprised of a team of talented members including Tim Carty, Founder and Executive Engineer; Pete Keegan, General Manager; and Andrew Bucchin, Marketing Director. More information about EMP Shield and the Solutions offered can be found on their website, https://www.empshield.com

Story 85
One of the pillars of New Jersey’s transition to clean energy and the best way to keep energy affordable is energy efficiency. Attention being devoted to the new Energy Master Plan (EMP) should not prevent state government from acting decisively this year to gain benefits worth billions of dollars from energy efficiency between 2020 and 2029. However, to incentivize the electric and gas utilities to create aggressive new programs to save energy, including in periods of peak demand, as required by the 2018 Clean Energy Act, the Board of Public Utilities (BPU) must first rule on how it will implement energy efficiency provisions in the new law. As summer months have passed with no related announcements from the BPU, prospects for decisive action are unclear.
New Jersey has struggled with questions of how to deliver energy efficiency programs for decades. Despite the Clean Energy Act’s mandate for utility-run programs, and a recent, intensely debated study by the BPU’s consultant Optimal Energy, BPU chose to make only slight changes to state-run programs on June 21, which blocks the path for robust, large-scale planning by the state’s investor-owned utilities. Incrementalism has guided recent BPU decisions on energy efficiency, partly due to the programs’ complexity, BPU senior staff’s limited availability and old administrative habits. Fortunately, the Energy Master Plan’s importance can end these incremental changes.
Often, engineers, environmentalists and academics push for so-called best practices in energy efficiency, copying successful efforts from other parts of the country. New Jersey went all in for best practices 11 years ago during the Corzine administration. In 2008, the BPU hired a team of expert consultants, including Optimal Energy. However, their 2009 report’s recommendations could not have been implemented even if Corzine had won re-election. Energy experts’ advice was unsuited to solving organizational, funding and staffing problems, among others. If real progress is the goal, then supporters of best practices need to consider practical constraints on the BPU and state agencies. What I have noticed is that the label “best practices” tends to stop smart people from critical thinking.
Can stakeholders agree?
The criteria for determining what is best should be explicit. In my view, what New Jersey needs is a set of reliable energy-efficiency practices that work well together, fit New Jersey’s utilities and institutions, and deliver verified energy savings while avoiding more delays. Those criteria lead me to support what is known as revenue decoupling, for those readers who are familiar with utility ratemaking. Decoupling deserves a separate discussion beyond the scope of this op-ed.
Efforts to interpret the Clean Energy Act’s energy-efficiency provisions were contentious in initial stakeholder meetings. A new Energy Efficiency Advisory Group to advise BPU commissioners offers hope of creating more consensus and fewer disputes. As of this writing, no public announcement about the advisory group has been made since the group was authorized on May 28.
It would be a poor start for the new EMP if energy efficiency, a key to decarbonizing our energy system, was not deployed due to an impasse among New Jersey stakeholders, because the stakes are enormous. Optimal Energy’s May report estimated that the present value of net benefits to New Jersey from maximizing energy efficiency across the state in 2020 through 2029 (a hypothetical scenario) is $14 billion. That amount is reasonably consistent with previous studies, even though critics have concerns with how energy savings and costs were estimated for Optimal’s work. In this calculation, the costs are associated with all-out, new efficiency programs during 2020-2029, but benefits continue to be produced after 2029, throughout the lifetime of energy-efficient equipment or a building shell’s life. Net benefits include but undervalue emissions reductions by using a 7 percent discount rate. Even more benefits are available through demand-response programs and CHP in New Jersey, but that research required speculative assumptions and Optimal could not provide dollar estimates.
Dividing the costs and benefits
Under the Clean Energy Act, with benefits that large, all parties can come out ahead of where they would be under the status quo. That includes households, businesses, utilities, the environment, labor and the overall economy. One reason for contentiousness is that regulations will influence how these benefits and costs will be divided among stakeholders. Some stakeholder representatives do not see energy efficiency as a cooperative venture but see establishing new rules as a zero-sum negotiation. From that perspective, if you win, I lose, and compromise will not occur.
A significant portion of the $14 billion in benefits would be lost if New Jersey is slow to ramp up its energy-efficiency programs. Two economic models are being used in the EMP process that could provide a more detailed estimate of what the consequences would be of failing to accelerate energy efficiency promptly. It is already evident what some of the impacts would be. In the electric sector, energy users denied participation in energy efficiency programs would face bigger bills to pay for a mix of conventional power and small amount of renewable energy, some coming from outside New Jersey. Natural gas consumption would be higher, and fossil fuel emissions would remain higher for as long as it took efficiency programs to catch up on the energy savings they should have (many years). In addition, economic activity in clean-energy sectors that would boost New Jersey’s economy would be reduced. Since the Murphy administration is sponsoring economic analysis for the EMP, in particular an Integrated Energy Plan, it should be willing to examine that scenario, and see what is at stake.
Following a Draft Energy Master Plan report filled with many strategies but few specifics, this year’s plans should be capped off with decisive actions to advance energy efficiency. If consensus cannot be created among stakeholders, then BPU commissioners or the governor’s office should step in to avoid gridlock on progress towards EMP goals. The stakes are too big and too much effort has been put into the EMP to fail to make progress now.

Story 86
Through a series of incentives and mandates, New Jersey is planning to produce 100% of its power from carbon-neutral sources, electrify its vehicle fleet and building sectors, and set mandatory efficiency standards for electric utilities by 2050, an energy blueprint released by the Board of Public Utilities (BPU) suggests.
The June 10-released “Draft 2019 Energy Master Plan” (EMP) provides a preliminary roadmap and outlines seven strategies for how the state will transform its energy sector. The draft, which was required by an executive order signed by Gov. Phil Murphy (D) in May 2018, is markedly broader than previous EMPs. It was developed as an inter-agency collaboration through a lengthy process, which included six public hearings and deliberations by several working groups, the plan notes.
The reason the state has embarked on the transformation is stated starkly in the plan’s opening sentences: “There is near unanimous scientific consensus that the global threat of climate change is grave and that it demands swift local action and focused state leadership. However, there is also evidence that New Jersey’s current trajectory and efforts will be insufficient to reach the goals we have established to address climate change, including Governor Murphy’s goal of 100% clean energy by 2050 and the Global Warming Response Act (GWRA) state greenhouse gas emissions reductions of 80% below 2006 levels by 2050. Despite the state’s successes since 2006 in reducing its carbon emissions, this is our current reality and our challenge.”
The BPU plans to issue the final 2019 EMP in December 2019, but first it must complete an integrated energy plan study that will model several scenarios and identify the “least-cost” pathways to achieve the goals. The final EMP—which the plan notes is a “living document that will guide New Jersey through the next 30 years”—will also specify dates and metrics to reach its goals.
Incentives and Mandates on the Horizon
The strategies outlined in the draft EMP are ambitious, and though they suggest the state will use several incentives to encourage rapid adoption of clean energy technologies, they also clearly note it will employ a number of mandates to achieve its goals. The draft EMP’s strategies include:
1. Slashing energy consumption and emissions from the transportation sector. The state’s transportation sector currently accounts for 46% of its net greenhouse gas (GHGs) emissions—more than the power sector. This strategy urges entirely electrifying its vehicle fleet, with an “early focus” on passenger vehicles. The state will encourage deployment of electric vehicle (EV) charging infrastructure, but it will also explore alternative fuel technologies.
2. Accelerating deployment of renewables and distributed energy resources (DERs). The state wants to “maximize” development of offshore wind, distributed energy, and energy storage, and it calls for a transition to a “successor solar incentive program,” which would encourage development of renewables in low-income communities. The state has already established carve-outs for in-state solar and offshore wind through 2030, but it now wants to develop an “incentive delivery system … using a competitive approach to simulating competition and investment.”
Notably, it also calls for a “non-wires” approach, which involves mandating that state-funded projects use more anaerobic digestion for power or for natural gas pipeline injections. As significantly, BPU will also work “to open” electric distribution circuits that are now restricted from accepting new requests for DER interconnection.
3. Energy efficiency mandates and reducing peak demand. Among other things, the state calls for requiring that electric and gas utilities reduce consumption by at least 2% and 0.75% respectively.
4. Reducing energy use and emissions from the building sector. Buildings, which are responsible for 61.7% of the state’s total end-use energy consumption, “should be largely decarbonized and electrified by 2050.”
5. Modernizing the grid and utility infrastructure. To handle increased electrification and DER integration, and to support bi-directional power flows, the grid must be upgraded. The state also said it would “assess” integration of voltage optimization (or Volt/Var Control) and actively engage in transmission planning and siting. To do this, it will require utilities to establish Integrated Distribution Plans (IDPs) to allow for DER growth on the distributed grid. “Utilities will act as the ‘air traffic controllers’ in this new distributed marketplace, and should propose and adopt tariffs to implement a distributed marketplace that encourages non-wires solutions using private sector investment,” it says.
6. Supporting community energy planning and action in low- and moderate-income and environmental justice communities. “We will support and incentivize local, clean power generation, especially rooftop solar and community solar, and prioritize clean transportation options in low-and moderate-income and environmental justice communities,” it says.
7. Expanding the “clean energy innovation economy.” Jobs will be a major focus, and New Jersey will work to expand its existing 52,000 clean energy jobs. It will also explore establishing a New Jersey Green Bank.
Doom for Natural Gas Power?
The state’s 100% clean energy goals are notable because in 2016 it produced 43.6% of its primary energy from petroleum, mostly for transportation fuel, and 35.8% from natural gas, primarily for building heat and power generation. However, New Jersey already has one of the lowest carbon generating power fleets in the U.S. In 2018, the state generated 75.3 TWh, the bulk which was produced by a combination of natural gas (51.6%) and nuclear (42.5%) power sources, with renewable energy generation approaching 5%, and coal taking a 1.6% share. The state’s last two coal plants are combined heat and power industrial plants that have power purchase agreements through 2024, it noted.
In May 2018, meanwhile, Gov. Murphy signed a bill that establishes a zero-emissions certificate (ZEC) program aimed at keeping Public Service Enterprise Group’s Salem and Hope Creek nuclear plants online over the long term, despite stiff opposition from independent power producers that operate in PJM Interconnect, the competitive wholesale electricity market that serves New Jersey. On April 18, the BPU awarded ZECs to the two nuclear plants. As the draft EMP noted that “with the recent closing of New Jersey’s oldest nuclear plant [Oyster Creek], the state has lost over 600 MW of zero-emission generation capacity,” and that means nuclear’s share has now fallen to about 32%.
The draft EMP also seems comfortable with natural gas’s current dominant share of its power portfolio. It suggests that the recent proliferation of new natural gas plants in the state both nudged coal out of the market and made it a net exporter of electricity; in 2004, by comparison, the state imported about 40% of its power from PJM. “New generation capacity coming online in New Jersey … is more efficient and economic than older simple cycle turbines and coal boilers,” it adds.
The “hard-fought” transition from coal to natural gas over the past few decades and made possible was made possible through the work of [BPU] and the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection’s (NJDEP) authority under the Federal Clean Air Act and the New Jersey Air Pollution Control Act,” it says. “In 2005 NJDEP classified carbon dioxide (CO2) as an air contaminant, which encouraged the state to look critically at the harmful effects that polluting coal was having on air quality. Further driving the shift away from coal, market economics and the fracking boom drove more of the state’s electricity fuel mix to natural gas.”
But now, gas power may have a limited future under the state’s plan. New Jersey’s power sector accounts for 20% of state net GHGs—“which is almost entirely attributable to natural gas. It is also a significant source of local air pollution,” the plan says.
“Given current economic conditions, natural gas is expected to remain the predominant electricity fuel source in the near future without a change in state, regional, or federal policies. In order to achieve a 100% clean energy future and reach the 80×50 target, the state must also model, assess, and implement ways to minimize reliance on natural gas as the state transitions to a clean energy economy.”
—Sonal Patel is a POWER associate editor (@sonalcpatel, @POWERmagazine)

Story 87
Remember Rezvani Tank from 2017? The tough looking SUV with bulletproofing and a massive V8 is now all set to receive an upgrade. And how? It’ll now have 1000 bhp and protection from a nuclear explosion, lightning strike and solar flares. If this sounds far-fetched, you’re forgiven but Rezvani says the Tank will get military grade EMP protection. The new Tank looks rather similar to the previous one but look closer and you’ll see the roofline is now more angular and the bonnet has a more complex design as well. The new 2020 Rezvani Tank will debut this summer and sales will begin by this year end.
Rezvani says that the new Tank is completely new and shares now parts with the outgoing vehicle. Thanks to a body on steel frame design, a world-class suspension system designed in partnership with FOX racing suspensions, and massive off-road tyres, the Rezvani Tank will come with a serious off-road capability.
The optional TANK X will offer a 6.2L Supercharged V8 sourced from the Dodge Demon and further tuned to over 1,000 Horsepower. In addition to the list of standard features in the previous generation, Tank Military Edition will feature standard military grade EMP (Electromagnetic Pulse) protection covering E1, E2 and E3 electromagnetic pulses to protect critical electronic systems.
For those not in the know, E1 blast of electromagnetic radiation can occur during an extreme event like a nuclear blast; the E2 pulse, which is similar to what takes place from a lightning strike, and E3 pulse, which is what happens during solar flares.
“The vision was to offer a fresh design for a purpose-built, rugged, off-road capable vehicle that was muscular, well proportioned, and brand new; as exciting to the eyes as it is to drive ” says CEO Ferris Rezvani. “The design was inspired by extreme off-road concepts typcially never seen on the road, but is completely street legal and ready for production to be able to be driven and enjoyed as a daily driver."
Rezvani is taking a deposit of $2500 (approximately Rs 1.75 lakh) if you wish to book a Tank for yourself but it is refundable.

Story 88
Unsurprisingly, Murphy administration’s EMP reverses many of the policies of its predecessor, but some environmentalists are calling for even more
The Murphy administration yesterday unveiled its draft Energy Master Plan, a long-awaited roadmap detailing how the state will transition to a clean-energy economy and achieve steep reductions in global-warming pollution within three decades.
The 107-page document signals a significant reversal of energy policies promoted by the prior Christie administration, which sought to expand the state’s natural-gas infrastructure, a strategy that led to lower heating and electricity costs for consumers but increased New Jersey’s reliance on fossil fuels.
Instead, the draft plan calls for shifting away from gas and other fossil fuels, primarily by maximum electrification of the transportation and building sectors, the biggest source of greenhouse-gas emissions in New Jersey. The draft plan essentially incorporates the state’s Global Warming Response Act, a law that mandates 80 percent reductions in carbon pollution below 2006 levels by 2050.
In a statement, Gov. Phil Murphy said the strategies set forth in the plan will foster economic growth by creating thousands of jobs. “Today’s draft plan is a critical step forward in reducing the effects of climate change and securing our state’s clean-energy future.’’
No bottom line on clean energy
By and large, the draft plan avoids calculating the costs of transforming the state from an economy heavily dependent on natural gas to one that relies on newer, less conventional sources like offshore wind. The plan does note those technologies are becoming more competitive with traditional sources but makes no attempt to calculate impact on customers’ utility bills.
The successful implementation of these strategies “within the draft EMP will result in drastically reducing fossil fuels,’’ according to the plan.
But some argue the draft does not go far enough in reducing reliance on fossil fuels. Environmental groups have called on the Murphy administration to issue a moratorium on all new fossil-fuel projects, a call endorsed by seven bipartisan legislators yesterday, including Senate Majority Leader Loretta Weinberg.
“There is no excuse to build new fossil-fuel projects,’’ Weinberg said, an opponent of a proposed gas plant in the Meadowlands to supply electricity to New York City. It is one of four new gas-fired plants opposed by environmentalists, along with nine new gas-pipeline projects.
The draft plan makes no mention of a moratorium on fossil-fuel projects but notes it “can and should strengthen existing mechanisms and rapidly implement new strategies to increase renewable energy production, accelerate energy efficiency incentives, and reduce reliance on fossil fuels.’’
NJ, the natural-gas state
Renewable energy accounts today for only 5 percent of New Jersey’s energy mix, and energy savings account for under 1 percent of the overall blend. Natural gas heats 75 percent of homes and provides more than half of electricity in New Jersey.
In that respect, the draft recognizes the difficulties in achieving those goals, acknowledging the significant gap between the governor’s 2050 target of 100 percent clean energy and today’s energy systems. But some are encouraged by the dramatic shift in focus.
“All the right pieces are there,’’ said Tom Gilbert, campaign director of ReThink Energy NJ, citing the focus on transportation and building sectors, as well as on becoming carbon-neutral by 2050. “They’ve got the right targets, but there’s a lot of details to work out.’’
While some may criticize the lack of a moratorium on new fossil-fuel projects, there are provisions in the plan that might spur concerns from the state’s electric and gas utilities.
For instance, the plan suggests the state ramp down any new subsidies to retrofit homes and businesses from oil heating to natural gas. “Beyond 2030, New Jersey will have to aggressively target existing natural-gas heated buildings,’’ it stated.
Curbing utility transmission projects
The draft plan also aims to increase scrutiny of new transmission projects and upgrades by utilities, which have significantly increased costs for consumers. Public Service Electric & Gas, the state’s largest utility, has seen transmission grow to more than 40 percent of its rate base in recent years. Utilities earn a higher rate of return on transmission projects than when they upgrade poles and wires on their distribution system.
“It’s a comprehensive document with a number of new proposals,’’ said Thomas Churchelow of the New Jersey Utilities Association, a trade group. “Given the utility’s obligation to provide service, we have an eye on affordability and the ability to maintain reliable service.’’
The draft noted the state Board of Public Utilities is developing what it calls an Integrated Energy Plan that will model scenarios to identify lowest-cost ways to achieve clean energy by 2050. The final EMP, expected by the end of the year, will include that modeling.
Besides reducing energy consumption and emissions from the transportation sector (by moving primarily to electric cars) and the building sector (through using less fossil fuels and improvements in building codes), the plan identifies five other strategies to guide the state.
They include accelerating deployment of renewable energy, primarily offshore wind and solar; maximizing energy efficiency and conservation; modernizing the grid and utility infrastructure (including advanced metering infrastructure); supporting underserved communities; and expanding the clean-energy innovation economy.

Story 89
The Iranian Showdown
Commentary
The tension between the United States and Iran escalated dramatically in June when Iran’s Revolutionary Guard shot down a U.S. RQ-4A Global Hawk military drone.
The United States said that the incident occurred in international airspace over the Strait of Hormuz, one of the world’s most vital shipping routes. In claiming responsibility, the Revolutionary Guard said it shot down an “intruding American spy drone” after it entered Iranian airspace.
To be clear, this wasn’t the kind of drone that people fly in the park on a Sunday. It had almost the same wingspan as a Boeing 737, could hit speeds of about 400 miles per hour, and carried a $110 million price tag. This was a significant attack.
According to President Donald Trump, he came very close to ordering a retaliatory strike, but he had a change of heart. “When I asked, how many will die. 150 people, sir, was the answer from a General. 10 minutes before the strike, I stopped it,” he said in a tweet.
He later explained that there was no rush to strike Iran. He even offered up the possibility that shooting down the drone could have been an accident carried out by a general acting “loose and stupid.”
Some were critical of the president for coming so close to ordering a military attack. Others criticized him for calling off the strike. The drone situation, after all, came on the heels of attacks on four merchant tankers in May (two Saudi-flagged, one Norwegian-flagged, and one Emirati-flagged) and two tankers in June (Japanese- and Norwegian-owned) in the Gulf of Oman, not far from the Strait of Hormuz. There were no injuries or deaths in those attacks, but explosions crippled the ships, caused structural damage, and forced their crews to abandon ship. Although Iran denied responsibility, most of the rest of the world has identified it as being responsible.
The Negotiator
The political debate within the United States has focused on the thought that the military was on the brink of an attack before the president called it off. Most commentators (many of whom never believe anything else he says) have taken the president at his word on this point. It should be remembered, however, that he wrote “The Art of the Deal.”
Trump is a negotiator. It serves his purposes to let Tehran leadership believe that the United States was on the brink of military action, regardless of whether it actually was. In reality, he’s not in a hurry to respond to the attack. He is exploring other options. He has imposed new sanctions on Iran but has also invited its representatives to further talks. He has not, however, taken the possibility of a military response off the table.
As negotiations are explored, Trump has been moving the United States into a position of strength vis-à-vis Iran. According to CNN, he gave acting Secretary of Defense Patrick Shanahan the authority to deploy additional military resources to the Middle East. “[W]e’re going to be sending a relatively small number of troops—mostly protective. Some very talented people are going to the Middle East right now and we’ll see what happens,” the president told the press.
According to Shanahan, the deployment includes “approximately 1,500 US military personnel and consists of a Patriot battalion to defend against missile threats; additional intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance aircraft; an engineer element to provide force protection improvements throughout the region; and a fighter aircraft squadron to provide additional deterrence and depth to our aviation response options.”
Already, the U.S. Navy has more personnel deployed to the Middle East than anywhere else in the world.
Overdue Preparation
There is another thing that Trump did to prepare for confrontation, and it was probably overdue. On March 26, he signed an executive order to prepare the United States’ critical infrastructure for an electromagnetic pulse (EMP) attack. An EMP is an intense burst of energy that could be released by a nuclear weapon detonated high in the atmosphere or even by a geomagnetic disturbance caused by natural phenomena such as solar flares.
If such a burst were to hit the nation’s electric grid, power could go out across a large swath of the country, communication systems and other critical infrastructure would be disrupted, military readiness degraded, and it could take a long time to get back up and running. According to a Heritage Foundation policy paper, if an EMP caused widespread failure of the electric grids, “almost nothing will work, which means that millions of people will die as a result of not being able to refill medical prescriptions, millions more will be without food, and predictable rioting and looting can quickly create a state of anarchy.”
In 2001, Congress created the EMP Commission, which brought together notable scientists and technologists to study the risks associated with EMPs. In 2008, it delivered its final report, which detailed over 100 recommendations to protect critical infrastructure, including communications, transportation, energy, business, finance, food, and water. As of 2015, none of those recommendations had been implemented. As such, Congress re-established the EMP Commission in 2015–2017 to again examine the threats and to make further recommendations. The new commission found that the threat to electric grids and other life-sustaining infrastructures was just as great, or greater, than it had been in 2008.
Even if these commissions overstated the threat, the studies reveal a kind of vulnerability that Iran (or its allies) might at some point try to exploit. President Trump’s executive order is the first serious attempt to undertake concrete action to harden critical infrastructure (items “so vital to the United States that the incapacity or destruction of such systems and assets would have a debilitating impact on security, national economic security, national public health or safety”) and lessen the risks.
The executive order directs the secretary of Homeland Security to “develop a plan to mitigate the effects of EMPs on the vulnerable priority critical infrastructure.” It also instructs the Department of Defense to focus on ways to prevent EMP attacks and to include the possibility of them in defense planning scenarios. Importantly, it sets several deadlines for action within the next year.
So, putting this all together, the president is positioning himself to negotiate with Iran from a position of strength. That’s his style. He creates an advantage, then exploits it. You might not want to be on the other side of the table from him, but so far he has had more success with international negotiations than many expected. Here’s hoping that he can keep having success with negotiations and that military action never becomes necessary.
Ronald J. Rychlak is the Jamie L. Whitten chair in law and government at the University of Mississippi. He is the author of several books, including “Hitler, the War, and the Pope,” “Disinformation” (co-authored with Ion Mihai Pacepa), and “The Persecution and Genocide of Christians in the Middle East” (co-edited with Jane Adolphe).
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.

Story 90
Last year, Bedrock Automation announced that its industrial control system (ICS) was the first ICS to meet the Military Standard 461 and International Electrical Commission 61000 standard for electromagnetic pulse (EMP) resistance.
Watch a video of the ICS withstanding shocks from a Tesla coil.
While reviewing that release from Bedrock Automation last year, I asked Albert Rooyakkers (founder and CEO of Bedrock Automation) what good it was to the user if the controller was EMP protected, but not the rest of the system it relies on for power. At the time, Rooyakkers answered: “The immediate issue for an owner/operator is to assure a safer and more orderly shutdown of a process in the event of an accidental or intentional EMP strike, and this is what an EMP-hardened control and safety system can provide. Plus, since ICSs are typically installed with an expected service life of 20 to 40 years, the automation technology event horizon should anticipate as much as possible as far into the future as possible. Solving EMP now puts an owner/operator ahead of a likely curve of cyber defense issues.”
One year later, Bedrock Automation announced that it has now extended its controller EMP resistance to both its secure power supply (SPS.500) and lithium uninterruptible power supply (UPS.500). As with the controller announcement last year, the power supply and UPS have achieved compliance with Military Standard 461 and International Electrical Commission 61000 for EMP resistance.
“As the threat of an EMP event becomes increasingly understood, our users can have greater confidence that their operations will not be interrupted. This is the kind of comprehensive cyber protection that is essential for both performance and safety as global industry becomes increasingly digitized,” said Rooyakers in the announcement.
National Technical Systems, an independent military and industrial testing firm, conducted test RS105 for radiated susceptibility to a transient electromagnetic field. The power supplies were tested separately, each receiving repeated 50,000 V/m nanosecond EMP strikes that emulate the energy of a high altitude electromagnetic pulse (HEMP), as would be created by an atmospheric nuclear detonation. The Bedrock power supplies performed without error and without consequential damage during and after the test.
Like Bedrock Automation’s controller, the SPS.500 Secure Power Supply features Bedrock’s deep trust cyber security authentication and onboard intelligence for diagnostics and secure Ethernet communications. Encased in a NEMA 4X sealed aluminum enclosure, it provides single or redundant power, using 90-264 V AC main voltage 50/60 Hz input. Its output of up to 500 watts is software configurable, between 21 to 28 volts. According to the company, users of any PLC, SCADA RTU, PAC or DCS can retrofit to the new SPS.500 inside or outside enclosures, anywhere in a plant and in harsh environments.
The UPS.500 uninterruptible power supply is designed to be the battery backup for the Bedrock OSA (Open Secure Automation) platform, but can be used to supply 24 V DC 12Ah of power to any industrial control system. An onboard secure microcontroller controls the Li-ion polymer battery cell-by-cell, augmenting the high density, rapid charging, extreme temperature tolerance and extended life that characterizes Li-Ion technology. It is also protected by a sealed aluminum enclosure rated for IP66/67.
For more information about how Bedrock Automation has incorporated EMP protection into its intrinsic cyber defense, download the OSA whitepapers titled: “Chapter Two: Empowering Power" and "Chapter Three: Intrinsic Cyber Security Fundamentals” at www.bedrockautomation.com/revolution.

Story 91
On Monday, NBC Nightly News broadcast a report claiming that White House officials had discussed using an experimental weapon to disrupt or disable a North Korean missile launch. The weapon in question, the product of the US Air Force's Counter-electronics High-powered Microwave Advanced Missile Project (CHAMP), uses bursts of microwave energy to disable electronic devices such as computers, communications and air defense radar systems.
Officials from Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) suggested CHAMP could be fully weaponized in a matter of weeks. But almost as a footnote, the NBC report noted that the weapon would have to pass very close to an ICBM before launch to affect it—which, despite CHAMP's classification as a non-lethal weapon, might be considered an act of war.
The Air Force has conducted tests of CHAMP, a system designed to selectively beam high-energy microwaves to cause damage to electronic systems. AFRL, Raytheon, and Boeing's Phantom Works development team tested the CHAMP concept aboard a Conventional Air Launched Cruise Missile (CALCM) in 2012 at a Utah test range. In the 2012 test, pulses from the CHAMP cruise missile disabled computers and even the video cameras monitoring them as the missile flew over them.
Raytheon and Boeing have continued development under an AFRL contract. Cecelia Fresh, a spokesperson for Raytheon, confirmed Raytheon is still the lead contractor on CHAMP. She said "Raytheon is executing on time and ahead of schedule on this contract."
CHAMP remains a research project and has not been fielded yet by the Air Force or Navy as an actual weapon—at least not yet. But the US may not be the only country developing such a weapon, since the science behind CHAMP is fairly well-known.
The science behind the frying
Researchers at Seoul National University and Yonsei University in the Republic of Korea released a paper in July documenting the effects of high-power X-band microwave beams on electronic devices, finding that "devices containing semiconductors can undergo serious failures and breakdowns due to the thermal secondary breakdown caused by the high-output transient electromagnetic waves"—in other words, the pulse can heat up some transistors in chips on a device to the point where they short out.
The researchers also theorized that "reverse voltage occurs due to the generation of surge current when caught in the PN-junction region"—the point of interface between two types of semiconductor materials. Inducing any kind of unexpected voltage in integrated circuits is not a good thing regardless of how it happens, as anyone who has had voltage induced in their network wires by a nearby lightning strike can tell you. (It's happened to me twice.)
In theory, the microwave pulses from CHAMP or a similar weapon would not harm humans or cause physical damage to vehicles and buildings. And systems properly shielded from microwaves—such as through the use of a Faraday cage or protected by reflectors—would also be unaffected by the pulses directed at them.
The problem is, in order to not harm people, the microwave pulse has to be in a "three-bears" range—it has to be just powerful enough to cause the semiconductor secondary breakdowns, but not powerful enough to cause thermal effects on humans that could cause burns or cataracts. And the range of a high-power pulse's effects are small enough that pulses need to be fired off in relatively close proximity to the targeted electronics—such as from a very low-flying cruise missile or potentially from a low-flying uncrewed aircraft.
Close air tech support
And that's where the idea of using CHAMP against North Korean ICBMs gets dicey. If the US fired any sort of missile into North Korea, regardless of its lethality to humans, that would almost certainly be considered an act of war. The CALCM used in current configurations would, if detected by North Korean sensors, look a lot like any other cruise missile, and the sound of a turbofan flying overhead within North Korean borders just before launch systems for an ICBM failed would likely be met with the same sort of reaction as a conventional weapons strike.
In a wartime situation, targeting ballistic missiles with CHAMP-type weapons would be even more difficult. North Korea's mobile launchers could be hidden in tunnels across the country or in shielded shelters, and targeting them would require rapid collection of intelligence and prompt attack—probably not a task for a missile designed to take out electronics. But CHAMP could be used against known air defense and communication facilities and "soft" targets with some effect in support of more unconventional operations. It could also be used to knock down swarms of drones.
In a February 2016 interview with the Armed Forces Communications and Electronics Association's (AFCEA's) SIGNAL magazine, Air Force chief scientist Greg Zacharias explained:
One of the big advantages would be taking out an integrated air defense system temporarily, where you could blind them for the amount of time you might need to do an ingress without actually having to do kinetic damage to these sites... You could also go after command and control systems and anything that is dependent on the bits and bytes of adversary systems.
So, the odds of the US actually using CHAMP to fry a North Korean missile on the ground are extremely low—especially now that the news media have discussed the possibility. The announcement that discussions of doing so had happened were likely just to let North Korea know that the US has the capability to do so—to add uncertainty to future tests. The next time a launch fails, Kim Jong Un's regime will be left asking if the failure was caused by a supply chain problem or by US microwave weapons.

Story 92
About six years ago, when I told people I was writing a novel about a group of activists destroying the internet, they would always ask me two questions. The first was always “why?”
Tellingly, that’s not a question I get asked anymore. More often than not I’m met with a “nice,” a “right on,” or just a knowing, appreciative nod. It seems like everybody has their own reasons for destroying the internet: Trump, gamergate, Brexit, Facebook, the alt-right, revenge porn. Take your pick, it’s been a wild six years.
The second question remains the same though: “how?”
It’s a valid one, if only because for decades we’ve been told the internet is basically indestructible, that its core foundation was ARPANET, the military computer network originally designed to survive a nuclear war. And it’s a question I was deliberately vague about answering in my book Infinite Detail; ultimately the internet is wiped out by a kind of uber-virus, a cyber weapon that’s somewhere between the Stuxnet worm and the WannaCry ransomware, that infects everything connected to the net, bricking it as it goes.
But before—and after—this happens, various characters and groups in the book are using more physical methods to attack and disrupt the internet. Electromagnetic pulse (EMP) devices are used to disrupt technology at protests, a revolutionary group sets out to wipe clean entire data centers, and an urban community cuts itself off completely from the internet by jamming wireless and cellphone connections. It’s both an exciting and frightening idea, that activists and protest groups—rather than military, paramilitary, or nation state forces—might be able to cause disruption and chaos via DIY methods of attacking internet infrastructure, but how realistic is it really?
Attacking the physical internet itself—the actual network cables, the data centers, and internet exchanges—is probably the hardest strategy of all. Unsurprisingly, they’re pretty secure sites. If, for argument's sake, you wanted to heavily disrupt internet usage in New York City, your best bet would be to target Internet Exchanges, which wouldn’t be easy. Internet Exchanges (known as IXs or IXPs) are physical locations where internet infrastructure companies like Internet Service Providers (ISPs) and Content Delivery Networks (CDNs) come together. While most people have some idea what ISPs like Comcast and AT&T do, CDNs are less familiar. By combining strategically placed proxy servers and data centers, CDNs like CloudFlare and Amazon CloudFront are designed to deliver content as smoothly and efficiently as possible, whether that’s your Facebook feed, your Spotify stream, or whatever you’re binge watching on Netflix this weekend.
NYC has a few major and important IXs. For example, there’s one in the sprawling, city block-sized Google building in Chelsea.
Façade of the Google building, New York City, USA. Image: Donatingpictures /Wikimedia Commons
But the most familiar one to New Yorkers , even though most of them probably don’t realize it, is at 33 Thomas Street. It’s a huge, windowless building that dominates the skyline between the landing points of the Brooklyn and Manhattan bridges. Originally an AT&T telephone exchange, it was designed to be self-sufficient with its own electricity generators, gas, and water supplies and to be able to survive fallout for up to two weeks after a nuclear blast. It is also, according to a 2016 investigation by The Intercept, home to a secret NSA surveillance facility.
The former AT&T Long Lines Building at 33 Thomas Street, Manhattan, New York, December 1991. Image: Lars Plougmann /Wikimedia Commons
“If you actually wanted to really take out the Eastern seaboard’s communication systems, you would have to be hitting four or five internet exchanges, three of which are in Manhattan, simultaneously,” Ingrid Burrington, a journalist, artist, and author of Networks of New York: An Illustrated Field Guide To Urban Internet Infrastructure, told me over Skype. “If you just hit one, all you're going to do is slow some [internet traffic] down in some places. It would be bad but it wouldn't be devastating.”

Burrington said this would be beyond the scope of your average protest group because “it requires a level of coordination and resources that [means] you're probably dealing with a nation state actor. Or if you have a terrorist organization that has the resources of a nation state actor, you have bigger problems.”
What about hitting data centers? If IXs and CDNs deliver internet content and services, data centers are where that content is stored or generated. Couldn’t a group just force their way into one, and set fire to the servers or something?

“Again, it might slow things down for a bit,” Burrington said. “Whether it actually destroyed or erased any information seems pretty unlikely because there are enough data centers—and data is distributed enough and backed up enough—that in theory that probably would not be a major concern.”
It would however make for an audacious stunt, Burrington said, especially if you’re trying to target or protest against individual companies rather than the internet as a whole.
“On a symbolic, sort of optics level it might be compelling,” she said, “because data centers have become this fetishized, lionized, architectural artifact by companies, right? Like Facebook publishes glamor shots of their data centers and Google gets artists to paint murals on them.”
The other problem with data centers and internet exchanges is getting access to them. “They're large, very well-constructed buildings. They have security. They're not necessarily bomb-proof or entirely fireproof but they are designed to withstand harm,” she said. In fact, data center marketing campaigns regularly boast about how tough they are to get into. Google produced a slick video about its data center security, and even published a white paper on data center security that describes how it “conduct[s] disaster recovery drills in which we assume that individual data centers—including our corporate headquarters—won’t be available for 30 days. We regularly test our readiness for plausible scenarios as well as more imaginative crises, like alien and zombie invasions.”
I reached out to the usual large tech and hosting companies to get their viewpoints on data centre security and physical threats to the internet, but perhaps unsurprisingly they were a little reluctant to talk. Most of them, like Google, just pointed me towards their brochures, marketing materials, and corporate videos. I also tried to contact the FCC, but didn't hear back. The most willing to talk was Amazon Web Services (AWS), the infrastructure and hosting arm of Jeff Bezos’ online empire. After a brief chat they also pointed me towards its marketing materials, including this page on how its global infrastructure is organised in ‘zones’ and ‘regions’ to ensure multiple levels of back-ups and redundancy.
As I talk to Burrington I’m reminded of the first time we met, on a tour of data centers in New Jersey back in 2014, which felt like it involved as much time going through security checkpoints and waiting for background checks as it did looking at server racks. When visiting corporate hosting service Io’s (now known as Iron Mountain) intimidating corporate data centre the whole group had to agree to having their individual photos taken for the company’s records. Then we were led through a series of airlock style ‘man-traps’—choke points in the building’s corridors where invading forces could be sealed between two heavily armored doors. It’s clear if you wanted to do harm to a data center or it’s contents you’d need to get past all this first, and that would involve much more social engineering than brute force. You’d really have to get your cover story together.
“I think generally the way it seems to work well with data centers is posing as a potential client,” Burrington explained. “Going in as press means that they're going to be more attentive to what you're doing and what questions you're asking. Going in as a potential client means they're going to want to please you. They’ll defer to things that you do. If you're like, 'Excuse me. I'm going to go to the restroom,' they probably won't follow you in and will still be waiting as you [sneak] down another corridor.”
Okay, so breaking into data centers might make for an interesting political stunt or protest, but isn’t going to do a lot of long term damage. What about cutting undersea fibre optic cables, thousands of miles of which link the world together? There’s been plenty of rumours and reports about Russian plans to attack these if a major war were to break out, but Burrington said the logistics involved with doing this would, again, be out of the reach of most protest groups. That said, she does point to how Houthi rebels in Yemen allegedly managed to do enough damage to internet cables in 2018 that 80 percent of the country lost internet access. While the Houthis have seized control of the country’s ISPs in the past and enforced censorship, it’s not clear exactly what happened but it appears that this was unintentional, and may have just happened while they were digging defensive trenches.
"On a symbolic, sort of optics level it might be compelling.”
What about more immediate, direct action approaches? Protests themselves are obvious targets for digital surveillance and data collection by law enforcement agencies, is there anything activists could do to disrupt these technologies?
According to AKA, an MIT alum and artist-technologist from New York City, jamming technologies are actually pretty “easy to make from available supplies—to jam something, all you need to do is decide what channel (a range of the RF spectrum) and then do whatever it takes to be the loudest transmitter (transmitting noise, or whatever else you want) on that channel,” they tell me over email.
“That's for narrow-band jammers—basically, things you can point at a very specific channel of communications and then say ‘suppress communications on this channel’—usually the objective there is for the jammer to be able to use those same frequencies (or functionally equivalent ones, like switching Wi-Fi channels to reduce neighbors' interference). Many open-source boards are available that would facilitate this on various bands,” they said.
They point me to a handful of projects detailing how to do this, including one that comes with its own smartphone app, as well as this wonderful art project called Log Jammer by Allison Burtch—literally a wooden log with a jammer installed—which she designed to jam cell phone signals and “provides a safe space in the woods, a right to be alone.”
“People at a site of protest would probably select which channels they would like to disrupt and carry small, hobby-level devices concealed on their person,” AKA tells me over email. “This is real and happens now.”
According to AKA it’s even easier to disrupt communication channels in general by blacking out all Wi-Fi and cell signals at an event. “[If you want] to make sure no comms at all can take place, more simple techniques and setups will do the trick, with the caveat that they will suppress friendly comms as well,”—which of course would be fine if we’re on a mission to cause as much disruption as possible.
“Spark plugs (which are electrically equivalent to spark-gap transmitters) emit very powerful, wide-band noise and, if operated continually (at, say, 2Hz), will fuck up most communications that carry any data.” AKA explained. “A walkie-talkie - would still work, but you'd hear a loud pop every time the spark fired. Try it sometime! That's ostensibly why only diesel vehicles, which use glow plugs and don't emit a spark, are allowed inside the US National Radio Quiet Zone.”
All of this sounded a little too good or easy to be true, so I wanted to run it past another expert. Jeremy Hong is a defence contractor in Dayton, OH specialising in RF technologies, and who also gives talks at hacker conferences on electronic warfare. “Yes, in 2019, it is definitely possible to block all frequencies operating from DC (0 Hz) - 6 GHz inexpensively and thus blocking out basically all frequencies that consumer devices use,” he told me over email. He points me to the Wave Bubble Jammer, a DIY system, saying that it’s “possible to expand that design to cover all consumer cell, Wi-Fi, GPS, two-way radio, L-Band Satellite phones (Ex. Iridium), and other forms of communications under 6 GHz."
Generally speaking, most consumer devices that people have operate anywhere from DC - 6 GHz, so using a combination of SDRs and Wave Bubble-like jammers over these frequencies should cover pretty much everything.
"Communications beyond 6 GHz may be out of scope, because the communications equipment gets exorbitantly and exponentially more expensive beyond this frequency (Relative to the consumer)," Hong said. "It is highly unlikely that someone in this event of interest would have a satellite phone or radios capable of working above 6 GHz or have access to military/high-end research communications equipment to transmit on those frequencies.”
“A cyber attack is much easier in the sense of potential collateral and cost.”
So DIY jamming technologies can be effective. But what about the improvised Electromagnetic Pulse (EMP) grenades, designed to wreak more permanent and physical damage by overwhelming electrical circuits? EMP weapons have been a standard device in science fiction since the beginning of the Cold War, when testing showed that nuclear bombs could release an EMP big enough to disrupt and even permanently damage electrical systems on a city wide scale. Last month, they re-entered the public consciousness in a big way when President Trump signed an executive order aimed at preparing the US to withstand an EMP attack. This folllows a congressional report claiming that North Korea could detonate them over America, and the resulting chaos would lead to the death of 90 percent of the US population. It’s a bold claim that was dismissed as alarmist propaganda by some defense experts, who don’t see North Korea having anywhere near that capability at present—and say that if they did we should be more worried about a conventional nuclear attack—but the science seems sound.
The theory, known as the Compton effect after physicist Arthur Compton, is that photons of electromagnetic energy from something like the gamma blast from a nuclear bomb can knock loose electrons from oxygen and nitrogen atoms in the atmosphere. When these interact with the Earth’s magnetic field they create a fluctuating electromagnetic pulse that can induce electrical currents strong enough to overwhelm and burn out electrical circuits. It does, however, need access to a nuclear weapon for it to work, something that’s luckily out of the reach of most political protest groups.
Not that a nuclear bomb is the only way of creating an EMP. Go and search YouTube and you’ll easily find dozens of videos like this one showing you how to, apparently, make a small EMP device from off the shelf components that will disrupt something like a smartphone. How easy would it be to scale something like this up to cause more widespread damage?
Not so easy, according to AKA, as the amount of power required would be huge. “For a jerry-rigged EMP to even approach the power needed to take out, say, the hardware on a phone pole or switch box, you'd need a really large and noticeable apparatus—like a cyclotron [a kind of large, powerful particle accelerator] or an industrial transformer or smelter.”
There are other options though, they suggest, but most of them are too dangerous to be realistic. “[You could use] an extremely dangerous radiation source, like a cathode-ray tube or x-ray tube (very easily available on eBay, unregulated). [Or the] the guts of a microwave, which just emits microwave radiation everywhere—this will also start an exciting fire and hurt everyone very badly, and will destroy itself pretty quickly.”
So it seems that while temporarily jamming Wi-Fi, radio, and cell signals might be easily within the reach of protest groups, doing more long term damage and physical destruction to the internet itself seems to be something only nation states—or incredibly powerful terrorist organizations would have the power to do. And if you’re one of them, why would you bother? What would you hope to achieve that you couldn’t do with cyber warfare? Or even just conventional attacks on major infrastructure?
“[If] you're at the point where you need to do physical attacks you've also just kind of portrayed that you don't have the capability to just do a cyber attack.” Burrington said. “A cyber attack is much easier in the sense of potential collateral and cost.”
“Also at a certain point with that you probably might also just create a condition where you create a power outage, which achieves your ends in the same way. There’s [little] difference between knocking out the internet and just like knocking out the power grid, they do the same thing.”

Story 93
- hide
JD Supra Privacy Policy
Updated: May 25, 2018:
JD Supra is a legal publishing service that connects experts and their content with broader audiences of professionals, journalists and associations.
This Privacy Policy describes how JD Supra, LLC ("JD Supra" or "we," "us," or "our") collects, uses and shares personal data collected from visitors to our website (located at www.jdsupra.com) (our "Website") who view only publicly-available content as well as subscribers to our services (such as our email digests or author tools)(our "Services"). By using our Website and registering for one of our Services, you are agreeing to the terms of this Privacy Policy.
Please note that if you subscribe to one of our Services, you can make choices about how we collect, use and share your information through our Privacy Center under the "My Account" dashboard (available if you are logged into your JD Supra account).
Collection of Information
Registration Information. When you register with JD Supra for our Website and Services, either as an author or as a subscriber, you will be asked to provide identifying information to create your JD Supra account ("Registration Data"), such as your:
Email
First Name
Last Name
Company Name
Company Industry
Title
Country
Other Information: We also collect other information you may voluntarily provide. This may include content you provide for publication. We may also receive your communications with others through our Website and Services (such as contacting an author through our Website) or communications directly with us (such as through email, feedback or other forms or social media). If you are a subscribed user, we will also collect your user preferences, such as the types of articles you would like to read.
Information from third parties (such as, from your employer or LinkedIn): We may also receive information about you from third party sources. For example, your employer may provide your information to us, such as in connection with an article submitted by your employer for publication. If you choose to use LinkedIn to subscribe to our Website and Services, we also collect information related to your LinkedIn account and profile.
Your interactions with our Website and Services: As is true of most websites, we gather certain information automatically. This information includes IP addresses, browser type, Internet service provider (ISP), referring/exit pages, operating system, date/time stamp and clickstream data. We use this information to analyze trends, to administer the Website and our Services, to improve the content and performance of our Website and Services, and to track users' movements around the site. We may also link this automatically-collected data to personal information, for example, to inform authors about who has read their articles. Some of this data is collected through information sent by your web browser. We also use cookies and other tracking technologies to collect this information. To learn more about cookies and other tracking technologies that JD Supra may use on our Website and Services please see our "Cookies Guide" page.
How do we use this information?
We use the information and data we collect principally in order to provide our Website and Services. More specifically, we may use your personal information to:
Operate our Website and Services and publish content;
Distribute content to you in accordance with your preferences as well as to provide other notifications to you (for example, updates about our policies and terms);
Measure readership and usage of the Website and Services;
Communicate with you regarding your questions and requests;
Authenticate users and to provide for the safety and security of our Website and Services;
Conduct research and similar activities to improve our Website and Services; and
Comply with our legal and regulatory responsibilities and to enforce our rights.
How is your information shared?
Content and other public information (such as an author profile) is shared on our Website and Services, including via email digests and social media feeds, and is accessible to the general public.
If you choose to use our Website and Services to communicate directly with a company or individual, such communication may be shared accordingly.
Readership information is provided to publishing law firms and authors of content to give them insight into their readership and to help them to improve their content.
Our Website may offer you the opportunity to share information through our Website, such as through Facebook's "Like" or Twitter's "Tweet" button. We offer this functionality to help generate interest in our Website and content and to permit you to recommend content to your contacts. You should be aware that sharing through such functionality may result in information being collected by the applicable social media network and possibly being made publicly available (for example, through a search engine). Any such information collection would be subject to such third party social media network's privacy policy.
Your information may also be shared to parties who support our business, such as professional advisors as well as web-hosting providers, analytics providers and other information technology providers.
Any court, governmental authority, law enforcement agency or other third party where we believe disclosure is necessary to comply with a legal or regulatory obligation, or otherwise to protect our rights, the rights of any third party or individuals' personal safety, or to detect, prevent, or otherwise address fraud, security or safety issues.
To our affiliated entities and in connection with the sale, assignment or other transfer of our company or our business.
How We Protect Your Information
JD Supra takes reasonable and appropriate precautions to insure that user information is protected from loss, misuse and unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration and destruction. We restrict access to user information to those individuals who reasonably need access to perform their job functions, such as our third party email service, customer service personnel and technical staff. You should keep in mind that no Internet transmission is ever 100% secure or error-free. Where you use log-in credentials (usernames, passwords) on our Website, please remember that it is your responsibility to safeguard them. If you believe that your log-in credentials have been compromised, please contact us at privacy@jdsupra.com.
Children's Information
Our Website and Services are not directed at children under the age of 16 and we do not knowingly collect personal information from children under the age of 16 through our Website and/or Services. If you have reason to believe that a child under the age of 16 has provided personal information to us, please contact us, and we will endeavor to delete that information from our databases.
Links to Other Websites
Our Website and Services may contain links to other websites. The operators of such other websites may collect information about you, including through cookies or other technologies. If you are using our Website or Services and click a link to another site, you will leave our Website and this Policy will not apply to your use of and activity on those other sites. We encourage you to read the legal notices posted on those sites, including their privacy policies. We are not responsible for the data collection and use practices of such other sites. This Policy applies solely to the information collected in connection with your use of our Website and Services and does not apply to any practices conducted offline or in connection with any other websites.
Information for EU and Swiss Residents
JD Supra's principal place of business is in the United States. By subscribing to our website, you expressly consent to your information being processed in the United States.
Our Legal Basis for Processing: Generally, we rely on our legitimate interests in order to process your personal information. For example, we rely on this legal ground if we use your personal information to manage your Registration Data and administer our relationship with you; to deliver our Website and Services; understand and improve our Website and Services; report reader analytics to our authors; to personalize your experience on our Website and Services; and where necessary to protect or defend our or another's rights or property, or to detect, prevent, or otherwise address fraud, security, safety or privacy issues. Please see Article 6(1)(f) of the E.U. General Data Protection Regulation ("GDPR") In addition, there may be other situations where other grounds for processing may exist, such as where processing is a result of legal requirements (GDPR Article 6(1)(c)) or for reasons of public interest (GDPR Article 6(1)(e)). Please see the "Your Rights" section of this Privacy Policy immediately below for more information about how you may request that we limit or refrain from processing your personal information.
Generally, we rely on our legitimate interests in order to process your personal information. For example, we rely on this legal ground if we use your personal information to manage your Registration Data and administer our relationship with you; to deliver our Website and Services; understand and improve our Website and Services; report reader analytics to our authors; to personalize your experience on our Website and Services; and where necessary to protect or defend our or another's rights or property, or to detect, prevent, or otherwise address fraud, security, safety or privacy issues. Please see Article 6(1)(f) of the E.U. General Data Protection Regulation ("GDPR") In addition, there may be other situations where other grounds for processing may exist, such as where processing is a result of legal requirements (GDPR Article 6(1)(c)) or for reasons of public interest (GDPR Article 6(1)(e)). Please see the "Your Rights" section of this Privacy Policy immediately below for more information about how you may request that we limit or refrain from processing your personal information. Your Rights Right of Access/Portability : You can ask to review details about the information we hold about you and how that information has been used and disclosed. Note that we may request to verify your identification before fulfilling your request. You can also request that your personal information is provided to you in a commonly used electronic format so that you can share it with other organizations. Right to Correct Information : You may ask that we make corrections to any information we hold, if you believe such correction to be necessary. Right to Restrict Our Processing or Erasure of Information : You also have the right in certain circumstances to ask us to restrict processing of your personal information or to erase your personal information. Where you have consented to our use of your personal information, you can withdraw your consent at any time.

You can make a request to exercise any of these rights by emailing us at privacy@jdsupra.com or by writing to us at:
Privacy Officer
JD Supra, LLC
10 Liberty Ship Way, Suite 300
Sausalito, California 94965

You can also manage your profile and subscriptions through our Privacy Center under the "My Account" dashboard.
We will make all practical efforts to respect your wishes. There may be times, however, where we are not able to fulfill your request, for example, if applicable law prohibits our compliance. Please note that JD Supra does not use "automatic decision making" or "profiling" as those terms are defined in the GDPR.
Timeframe for retaining your personal information : We will retain your personal information in a form that identifies you only for as long as it serves the purpose(s) for which it was initially collected as stated in this Privacy Policy, or subsequently authorized. We may continue processing your personal information for longer periods, but only for the time and to the extent such processing reasonably serves the purposes of archiving in the public interest, journalism, literature and art, scientific or historical research and statistical analysis, and subject to the protection of this Privacy Policy. For example, if you are an author, your personal information may continue to be published in connection with your article indefinitely. When we have no ongoing legitimate business need to process your personal information, we will either delete or anonymize it, or, if this is not possible (for example, because your personal information has been stored in backup archives), then we will securely store your personal information and isolate it from any further processing until deletion is possible.
: We will retain your personal information in a form that identifies you only for as long as it serves the purpose(s) for which it was initially collected as stated in this Privacy Policy, or subsequently authorized. We may continue processing your personal information for longer periods, but only for the time and to the extent such processing reasonably serves the purposes of archiving in the public interest, journalism, literature and art, scientific or historical research and statistical analysis, and subject to the protection of this Privacy Policy. For example, if you are an author, your personal information may continue to be published in connection with your article indefinitely. When we have no ongoing legitimate business need to process your personal information, we will either delete or anonymize it, or, if this is not possible (for example, because your personal information has been stored in backup archives), then we will securely store your personal information and isolate it from any further processing until deletion is possible. Onward Transfer to Third Parties: As noted in the "How We Share Your Data" Section above, JD Supra may share your information with third parties. When JD Supra discloses your personal information to third parties, we have ensured that such third parties have either certified under the EU-U.S. or Swiss Privacy Shield Framework and will process all personal data received from EU member states/Switzerland in reliance on the applicable Privacy Shield Framework or that they have been subjected to strict contractual provisions in their contract with us to guarantee an adequate level of data protection for your data.
California Privacy Rights
Pursuant to Section 1798.83 of the California Civil Code, our customers who are California residents have the right to request certain information regarding our disclosure of personal information to third parties for their direct marketing purposes.
You can make a request for this information by emailing us at privacy@jdsupra.com or by writing to us at:
Privacy Officer
JD Supra, LLC
10 Liberty Ship Way, Suite 300
Sausalito, California 94965

Some browsers have incorporated a Do Not Track (DNT) feature. These features, when turned on, send a signal that you prefer that the website you are visiting not collect and use data regarding your online searching and browsing activities. As there is not yet a common understanding on how to interpret the DNT signal, we currently do not respond to DNT signals on our site.
Access/Correct/Update/Delete Personal Information
For non-EU/Swiss residents, if you would like to know what personal information we have about you, you can send an e-mail to privacy@jdsupra.com. We will be in contact with you (by mail or otherwise) to verify your identity and provide you the information you request. We will respond within 30 days to your request for access to your personal information. In some cases, we may not be able to remove your personal information, in which case we will let you know if we are unable to do so and why. If you would like to correct or update your personal information, you can manage your profile and subscriptions through our Privacy Center under the "My Account" dashboard. If you would like to delete your account or remove your information from our Website and Services, send an e-mail to privacy@jdsupra.com.
Changes in Our Privacy Policy
We reserve the right to change this Privacy Policy at any time. Please refer to the date at the top of this page to determine when this Policy was last revised. Any changes to our Privacy Policy will become effective upon posting of the revised policy on the Website. By continuing to use our Website and Services following such changes, you will be deemed to have agreed to such changes.
Contacting JD Supra
If you have any questions about this Privacy Policy, the practices of this site, your dealings with our Website or Services, or if you would like to change any of the information you have provided to us, please contact us at: privacy@jdsupra.com.
JD Supra Cookie Guide
As with many websites, JD Supra's website (located at www.jdsupra.com) (our "Website") and our services (such as our email article digests)(our "Services") use a standard technology called a "cookie" and other similar technologies (such as, pixels and web beacons), which are small data files that are transferred to your computer when you use our Website and Services. These technologies automatically identify your browser whenever you interact with our Website and Services.
How We Use Cookies and Other Tracking Technologies
We use cookies and other tracking technologies to:
Improve the user experience on our Website and Services; Store the authorization token that users receive when they login to the private areas of our Website. This token is specific to a user's login session and requires a valid username and password to obtain. It is required to access the user's profile information, subscriptions, and analytics; Track anonymous site usage; and Permit connectivity with social media networks to permit content sharing.
There are different types of cookies and other technologies used our Website, notably:
" Session cookies " - These cookies only last as long as your online session, and disappear from your computer or device when you close your browser (like Internet Explorer, Google Chrome or Safari).
" - These cookies only last as long as your online session, and disappear from your computer or device when you close your browser (like Internet Explorer, Google Chrome or Safari). " Persistent cookies " - These cookies stay on your computer or device after your browser has been closed and last for a time specified in the cookie. We use persistent cookies when we need to know who you are for more than one browsing session. For example, we use them to remember your preferences for the next time you visit.
" - These cookies stay on your computer or device after your browser has been closed and last for a time specified in the cookie. We use persistent cookies when we need to know who you are for more than one browsing session. For example, we use them to remember your preferences for the next time you visit. " Web Beacons/Pixels " - Some of our web pages and emails may also contain small electronic images known as web beacons, clear GIFs or single-pixel GIFs. These images are placed on a web page or email and typically work in conjunction with cookies to collect data. We use these images to identify our users and user behavior, such as counting the number of users who have visited a web page or acted upon one of our email digests.
JD Supra Cookies. We place our own cookies on your computer to track certain information about you while you are using our Website and Services. For example, we place a session cookie on your computer each time you visit our Website. We use these cookies to allow you to log-in to your subscriber account. In addition, through these cookies we are able to collect information about how you use the Website, including what browser you may be using, your IP address, and the URL address you came from upon visiting our Website and the URL you next visit (even if those URLs are not on our Website). We also utilize email web beacons to monitor whether our emails are being delivered and read. We also use these tools to help deliver reader analytics to our authors to give them insight into their readership and help them to improve their content, so that it is most useful for our users.
Analytics/Performance Cookies. JD Supra also uses the following analytic tools to help us analyze the performance of our Website and Services as well as how visitors use our Website and Services:
HubSpot - For more information about HubSpot cookies, please visit legal.hubspot.com/privacy-policy.
- For more information about HubSpot cookies, please visit legal.hubspot.com/privacy-policy. New Relic - For more information on New Relic cookies, please visit www.newrelic.com/privacy.
- For more information on New Relic cookies, please visit www.newrelic.com/privacy. Google Analytics - For more information on Google Analytics cookies, visit www.google.com/policies. To opt-out of being tracked by Google Analytics across all websites visit http://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout. This will allow you to download and install a Google Analytics cookie-free web browser.
Facebook, Twitter and other Social Network Cookies. Our content pages allow you to share content appearing on our Website and Services to your social media accounts through the "Like," "Tweet," or similar buttons displayed on such pages. To accomplish this Service, we embed code that such third party social networks provide and that we do not control. These buttons know that you are logged in to your social network account and therefore such social networks could also know that you are viewing the JD Supra Website.
Controlling and Deleting Cookies
If you would like to change how a browser uses cookies, including blocking or deleting cookies from the JD Supra Website and Services you can do so by changing the settings in your web browser. To control cookies, most browsers allow you to either accept or reject all cookies, only accept certain types of cookies, or prompt you every time a site wishes to save a cookie. It's also easy to delete cookies that are already saved on your device by a browser.
The processes for controlling and deleting cookies vary depending on which browser you use. To find out how to do so with a particular browser, you can use your browser's "Help" function or alternatively, you can visit http://www.aboutcookies.org which explains, step-by-step, how to control and delete cookies in most browsers.
Updates to This Policy
We may update this cookie policy and our Privacy Policy from time-to-time, particularly as technology changes. You can always check this page for the latest version. We may also notify you of changes to our privacy policy by email.
Contacting JD Supra
If you have any questions about how we use cookies and other tracking technologies, please contact us at: privacy@jdsupra.com.

Story 94
Angry Engineer
Robert Hranek
The following was written for the “Mad Scientist Science Fiction Writing Contest 2019.”
The text that follows is solely my invention to explore and expand upon the scenario as given. Enjoy!
First things first: I am not a Mad Scientist - I am an Angry Engineer! I’ve been in the business of analyzing systems for decades, as active duty military, DoD systems engineer, intelligence analyst, and more. And yes, I’ve been a REMF (look it up if you don’t already know it, please refer to pages 9-11 for explanation of all the other acronyms and terms used in this report) the entire time because I enjoy not being shot at while I work. Enough of my background, my task here is to provide an End-To-End Analysis and lessons learned from the April Fools’ Day battle for Otso fought mainly between Donovia and the United States.
Background: Donovia Precipitates a Crisis
2030 started with continually escalating pressure from Donovia to get Otso under its control. The US pledge to support Otso’s independence kept most of Donovia’s aggression hidden until the most fateful St. Patrick’s Day of our generation. Automated US NTM systems watched the buildup of Donovian air, sea, and land units in what its algorithms determined to be just a show of force. On March 17 that belief was shattered with a demonstration of how effective a 21st century Blitzkrieg can be when overwhelming a less capable defense. Donovia’s assault started with a cyber-attack that either took control of or disabled Otso’s command & communications systems. At the same time, multiple ‘news’ reports were spread over public media regarding chaos in Otso’s streets and the slaughter of ethnic Donovians. Critical Otso defenders were then destroyed during Donovia’s first strike of hypersonic precision-guided weapons, with many of those remaining captured in place by the time they figured out they were surrounded by Donovian invaders. Donovia’s public statement was that they were forced to occupy Otso for humanitarian reasons to prevent further killings and restore public order. Their ‘humanitarian’ propaganda was made much weaker when live social-media feeds were broadcast showing the brutal effectiveness of Donovian crowd control using microwave projectors to disperse civilian Otso protesters. These did not actually kill, but the pain was so intense that few people ever protested more than once.
US Reaction
For the US, March 18 began with debate about what to do about the one-day occupation of Otso. No US forces had been in Otso, so the discussion became just how far we were willing to go to protect an ally. The repeated US assurances in the months prior made this situation critical to the President and Congress regarding US world standing. Most UN members condemned Donovia’s violation of Otso but were unwilling to take the lead in opposition to it. It was decided to mobilize the US military immediately in order to keep all options open even as the public political debate went on, and countries bordering Otso were more than willing to allow US forces to deploy within their borders to deter further Donovian aggression.
The US military has been the unmatched master of logistics ever since WW2, and it lived up to its reputation again with the rapid deployment of air, sea, and land assets within striking range of Otso.
US politics concluded with an ultimatum levied by the US on March 24 upon Donovia to remove its illegal occupying forces by March 31. Donovia vetoed a similar resolution from the UN two days later, but condemnation of Donovia’s illegal invasion and blatant distortion of the facts was worldwide.
The Combat Forces
By March 30 almost all the US rapid positioning assets were in place, including the USS Ronald Reagan carrier Task Force that sailed to the very edge of Otso’s territorial waters, which were being garrisoned by a Donovian flotilla of 3 cruisers, 7 destroyers, and an unknown number of submarines. On the ground, Donovia had an entrenched division, including an extra artillery battalion, plus several reinforcement divisions available within adjacent Donovia itself. The US and its allies had put together the equivalent of three divisions worth of land forces, including the 82nd Airborne and several SOF units. The number of fighters, bombers, helicopters, and support aircraft were roughly equal, but the US believed it had the upper hand due to its superior 5th-generation F-22 and F-35 aircraft. There was no sign of Donovian retreat, and it was time to choose which of the myriad operational alternatives to put into action. No one was looking to start a world war, but a fine line would have to be walked to not stumble into one.
First Moves
Since Donovia had already initiated combat cyber warfare on Otso, the US decided to start by giving them a taste of their own medicine. Predawn on April 1, US cyber and electronic warfare assets started by jamming, infecting, and even taking control of some of Donovia’s battlefield electronics. Near-simultaneous airstrikes were coordinated to take full advantage of the planned disruption and destroy as much of Donovia’s anti-aircraft capability within Otso as possible while minimizing casualties. The plan was to paralyze Donovia’s command & control, give them a bloody nose, and gain air superiority to give the US the upper hand.
US cyber weapons proved more capable than Donovia’s, but the effectiveness of US ECM and communications disruptions had some unexpected consequences. One of which was Donovian loss of control of their Lurker UUVs. Four of these stealth underwater drones were within range of US ships when their AIs incorrectly determined their parent vessels had been destroyed. Then they started to maneuver into position to take their robotic revenge.
The US used hypersonic missiles and naval railgun fire to effectively destroy about half of Donovia’s anti-aircraft capability within Otso before dawn. A squadron of UCAV-controlling F-35s was sent in to finish the job and establish air supremacy over Otso. They received a nasty surprise with 3 of the F-35s and 5 of their UCAVs being shot down by Donovian lasers before the rest disengaged. The Donovian investment in quantum radar had paid off by being unjammable and proving it could defeat conventional stealth techniques by integrating offset radar sources. Once this was realized, the US prioritized the destruction of any radar source as rapidly as possible. Equally disturbing was the crash of an AWACS aircraft, killing its entire crew, but no immediate cause could be determined. F-22s were on patrol, but never needed to enter Otso’s airspace since manned Donovian aircraft never challenged them. F-22 combat time was mostly spent tracking down and destroying Donovian drones, which proved more numerous, stealthy, and dangerous than had been anticipated.
One of the three F-35 pilots shot down died instantly, but the other two were able to eject and land between US and Donovian ground troops. The decision to retrieve them was immediate, despite the proximity of the enemy. An 82nd Airborne recon unit outfitted with Lockheed Martin’s latest full-body ONYX Exoskeletons was almost to the first pilot’s position when the situation escalated rapidly.
Escalation
The first Lurker successfully evaded detection and fired its 200-knot torpedo at the US Carrier. These supercavitating torpedoes were initially mocked because they were straight-line unguidable weapons, but no countermeasure had been developed, and for a target as large as a carrier a straight-line trajectory was all that was needed. The Reagan was struck amidships and badly damaged. This attack was immediately answered by the rest of the US task force, which fired on all ten Donovian warships in Otso’s waters. The Donovian ships destroyed most of the incoming missiles, but it only took a few to get through combined with unstoppable hypervelocity US naval railgun fire to sink 1 cruiser and 2 destroyers. The rest of the Donovian warships sustained enough damage to make them disengage. On the US side their laser point defense systems were more effective, with only one destroyer being disabled by incoming Donovian missiles. Another US destroyer was cut in two by another lurker’s torpedo before their stealth profiles were identified and the remaining two UUVs destroyed before they could attack. The US admiral broke off the pursuit once the Donovians retreated out of Otso’s waters.
The communications confusion caused by this sea battle heightened the tensions on land considerably. The regular army Donovian commanders did not have expensive quantum communications gear like their integrated air defense and strategic nuclear forces, so the information they received from their HQ was spotty at best. The brigade commander nearest to the first pilot did not know that a rescue operation was in progress but could see a US force advancing on his position, knew of an active sea battle in progress, had no clear orders from HQ, and could only surmise the Americans were hell bent on starting a war. He was a product of his training and responded in kind by directing his command to fire on the Americans as soon as they came in optimal range. Following the sequence of events in order is nearly impossible at this point because so many actions occurred nearly simultaneously. What started on the ground as an American pilot rescue attempt quickly escalated into a full-frontal firefight, with no winners.
The modern weaponry on both sides of the battlefield proved very lethal. This was the first combat debut of Lockheed Martin’s matter laser air defense network, and it proved to be much more effective than Donovia’s laser battery based anti-artillery defenses. US staging areas were practically invulnerable to Donovian long-range artillery and mortars, but that protection did not extend all the way to the troops advancing towards the Donovian lines. Those recon units took heavy casualties before they reached the pilots they were trying to rescue, were pinned in place, and radioed for reinforcements. A company of 12 US M-1 tanks was the next to engage, with their upgraded reactive armor providing an effective defense at first, but they could only deflect so many shots before getting overwhelmed. They were only in combat for a few minutes, but the surviving crew reported that it felt like hours, as it became a battle of attrition between them and their more numerous Donovian counterparts. Five of those crews were KIA while providing cover for the recon group to reach the downed pilot and retreat towards the relative safety of the US lines. The second downed pilot was not as fortunate and was killed in the crossfire during a ground battle that continued to escalate for hours.
Donovian strategic planners were well-aware of US dependence on GPS guidance, both for targeting weapons and battlefield maneuver. From their POV, they surmised the best way to lessen US combat power was to rapidly take out as much GPS capability as they could. They had prepared for this possibility by prepositioning fragmentation kamikaze satellites into orbits that could rapidly intersect parts of the GPS constellation. Donovian ground-based strategic lasers were also tasked to take out as many US military satellites as quickly as possible.
Donovian killer satellites were commanded to start their maneuvers shortly after the naval battle broke out, were immediately detected by NORAD, and threats were levied by both sides for escalating a situation that they could see was spiraling out of control. By noon in Otso the battle had engaged most of the forces on both sides and the Donovian generals gave the order to take out US space assets to attempt to blind the forces and weapons that depended upon it for navigation and precision strikes. Over the course of the next two hours about half the GPS satellites and several communications satellites were either disabled or destroyed. The Donovian generals were dismayed that for every US satellite they attacked, they lost one of their own, even the satellites they thought the US did not know contained military capabilities.
Donovia decided to hit the US where they believed it to be weakest, attacking the US infrastructure that Americans are so dependent upon for their daily routine. The US power grid, financial system, and civilian communications were much less protected from cyber warfare than the US military, and by the afternoon of the battle much of it was shut down and would not recover for weeks. Donovia had thought their country was not as vulnerable due to its state-controlled internet, but they learned just as quickly that US cyber warfare had advanced since the days of Stuxnet. Cyber weapons are notoriously hard to control once released however, and power grids, banking systems, and communications networks for most of the world were affected by the end of the day.
The leaders of both sides realized they were rapidly heading toward a nuclear exchange and urgent communications were sent from their respective commands to take a strictly defensive posture immediately. Unfortunately, some of the commanders in Otso (on both sides) had broader definitions of ‘defense’ including “a good offense” and it wasn’t until dusk that combat operations finally ceased.
Results
Thousands of combatants died on both sides, mostly on ships, hundreds more were wounded, primarily from the land battle, and an unverifiable number of casualties occurred worldwide due to the sabotage of power grids and other infrastructure. An accurate civilian count was impossible in the chaos of reestablishing power, computer, and financial systems worldwide. No determination will ever be made of each death that was due to a hospital being without power, each injury that would not have otherwise happened, or which people would not have starved if their flow of food had not been cut off.
Although US forces were considered to have ‘won’ tactically, no significant change in control of territory resulted from the battle. Both sides’ weaponry was very lethal and very fast. Overall this worked in the defender’s favor because attacking forces were too exposed, detectable, and vulnerable to last very long on today’s battlefield. Stealth AI drones (both airborne and undersea) were the only systems that lasted very long in combat, and only as long as they remained undetected. Even an airborne drone with the signature of a small bird would be shot down quickly if it could be tracked long enough by speed-of-light energy weapons. With no strategic victor and government leadership on both sides accurately fearful of starting World War 3, an uneasy military standoff continued for several weeks.
Post-combat analysis provided another surprise. Autopsies of the AWACS pilots concluded they had been permanently blinded by lasers, which were later determined to have come from Donovian drones. This violation of the United Nations Convention on Certain Conventional Weapons was made public and added to the fury of the international community against Donovia.
In space, a mini Kessler Syndrome took place, with over a dozen more commercial and scientific satellites being destroyed by the growing amount of debris spreading from the destruction of the targeted satellites. Space analysts counted us lucky that it did not keep on propagating to destroy more than it did, but it will take many years before those orbits will be considered safe to launch into again.
The world is still recovering from the financial toll of this conflict. The billions of dollars destroyed on the battlefield were overshadowed by the trillions lost globally. The inadvertent spread of the 2017 NOTPETYA malware was estimated to have cost $10 Billion globally. The cyber weapons of 2030 destroyed hard to replace infrastructure like transformers, pipelines, and port facilities. There were hundreds of deaths at sea before AI-controlled commercial and civilian ships could be brought back under manual control. Dozens of more deaths were blamed on ship operators that were too inexperienced in using manual control during the emergency as well. There may never be an accurate tally of how many road accident deaths were caused by the indiscriminate hacking of AI-controlled vehicles. The disruption of global commerce was staggering. Several famines resulted from the reduced flow of food. Not since the great depression of the 1930s had the world suffered so great an economic impact, which was generally agreed to tally into the hundreds of trillions of dollars.
The Otso incident was an international wake-up call of unprecedented scale, and the reaction was angry and swift. Donovia was accurately depicted as creating this crisis that brought the world to edge of Armageddon. Condemnation was universal, even from Donovia’s usual allies. The reckless disregard with which Donovia inflicted death, destruction, and disruption upon the world demanded a determined response. As expected, Donovia used its UN Veto power to prevent that organization from taking effective action, but it could not prevent all those nations from signing a treaty imposing an embargo on all Donovian trade until Otso’s independence was reestablished. Not since the Paris Agreement to mitigate human-caused climate change had there been such strong international unity.
Donovia thought that winning on the ground was worth any cost, but they could not withstand the cost of the world’s combined economic pressure. Globalism proved stronger than nationalism when Donovia was compelled to retreat from Otso in June. Donovia’s strategic blunder also had another effect that its leaders did not want, in that the world once again looked to the US for global leadership.
24 Lessons Learned (LL)
LL1: History repeated itself in that no battle plan ever survives contact with the enemy. The unforeseen consequences of reliance on automation and the resulting escalations almost lead to World War 3. No matter how sophisticated our systems become, it will always be important to keep human decision making in the OODA (Observe, Orient, Decide, Act) loop.
LL2: Donovia was able to launch a ‘surprise’ attack on Otso because US human intelligence analysis grew too dependent on their automated tools. The NTM software identified the Donovia troop movements as something it had seen many times before, labelled them as routine, and therefore the analysts reported them as routine as well.
LL3: Directed microwave and other EMP weapons performed within accepted parameters. The 20th century legacy electronic systems were rendered completely useless when overwhelmed with more energy than they could handle.
LL4: Differences in assumptions is what lead to the escalations on April 1st. The US model of AI weaponry was to always require human authorization before firing a weapon. Donovia’s paradigm was that if an AI had its ‘secure’ communications severed, then that meant engage the enemy ASAP. Donovia’s Lurker UUVs had their communications severed with their parent vessels in a way that was interpreted by its on-board AI as the destruction of its parent vessel. At that point it located the highest value target in range, maneuvered into position, and fired its supercavitating torpedo into the USS Ronald Reagan, inflicting crippling damage leading to the deaths of over 1,000 of its crew.
LL5: There is still no effective defense versus a supercavitating torpedo once launched. Any platform capable of carrying one must be considered a threat and dealt with accordingly. Therefore, research into better detection of all stealth platforms is critical to the future of US Naval dominance.
LL6: Stealth technology cannot be relied upon to keep pilots safe. Modern stealth aircraft are very effective at diverting radar energy away from its source, but that same aircraft becomes very detectable when a radar source is synchronized with a separately located radar receiver. All that is required is a significant offset angle between the radar source, the target aircraft, and the radar-receiving sensor.
LL7: The “Four-ship” concept of each F-35 controlling three UCAVs in combat is still considered the most effective way to employ these aircraft, but the piloted F-35 may need to control its UCAVs without coming into LOS of sophisticated enemy air defenses. The alternatives are to allow the UCAVs to perform combat missions completely independently once in flight, accept the risks of controlling UCAVs remotely with the possibility of communications loss, or even to risk those UCAVs being taken over by the enemy.
LL8: Evaluation of Donovia’s long-range stealth UCAV’s capabilities were incomplete. They were correctly analyzed to be too small to deliver a significant missile or bomb load, so they were incorrectly surmised to be of little threat as just another reconnaissance drone. US intelligence intercepts of incorporating low power lasers on them assumed that this would be used for designation of targets for separately launched laser-guided weaponry. The truth that they were designed to blind the pilots of aircraft deep within enemy airspace was not realized until after the loss of an AWACS aircraft. The only current defense against this is to wear headgear designed to instantly darken when encountering a nuclear flash, which many pilots did not wear, until now.
LL9: Stealth UCAVs proved to dominate the airspace, unless they could be shot down with energy weapons. Their combat capabilities were superior to much larger piloted vehicles due to not being hampered by human limitations. They instantly followed their programming regardless of how long they were airborne, could maneuver at much higher gees than piloted fighters, and cost less to deploy.
LL10: Lockheed Martin’s Matter Lasers were much more effective at destroying incoming artillery and mortar shells than Donovia’s more conventional laser defenses. It vindicated all the effort and expense that was undertaken to transform Patent US9502202 from a research project into the most effective air defense system on Earth. By delivering an energy density thousands of times stronger than conventional lasers, it destroyed each incoming round hundreds of times faster.
LL11: Donovia’s standard laser point defenses also proved capable of destroying incoming missiles and artillery, but they were relatively easy to overwhelm since they took much longer to eliminate each incoming threat. Their lasers proved to be useless at intercepting US naval hypervelocity railgun rounds.
LL12: The US was not as reliant of GPS guidance as Donovia assumed. The deployment of advanced inertial guidance systems rivalling GPS accuracy had come just in time to prevent the loss of high-precision GPS from being a crippling blow to US combat capabilities.
LL13: The Expanded Advanced Battle Management System (EABMS) multi-service network was critical to the US forces being able to effectively coordinate their efforts even while exposed to Donovian electronic warfare. EABMS proved that integrated warfighters can still perform their missions even after several parts of the network were destroyed or disabled.
LL14: The Exoskeleton enhancements of the first pilot’s rescue team were deemed to be crucial to his successful retrieval. Their greater strength, endurance, and body armor helped them to safely return to US lines. Perhaps even more valuable than the physical aspects of their equipment were their augmented reality displays that allowed them superior battlefield awareness and the ability to see through camouflage as if it was not even there. It is recommended that the US continue development of the next generation of Lockheed Martin’s military ONYX full-body powered exoskeletons.
LL15: The performance of US fast-attack hovercraft was disappointing. Their battlefield speed advantage was offset by their vulnerability. Even minor damage to their air-cushion skirts would degrade their maneuverability so much that they suffered twice the casualty rate as their wheeled and tracked counterparts.
LL16: Most of US wounded soldiers (WIA) from the battlefield suffered from burn-like damage. The same Donovian non-lethal microwave projectors used for crowd control had a high-power capability to inflict severe skin damage through cloth armor.
LL17: US medical triage was greatly aided by medical sensors woven directly into its soldiers’ uniforms. This led to faster diagnosis, treatment, and recovery of casualties than in any previous conflict.
LL18: Mines remain the scourge of the battlefield, with AI-controlled mines being particularly insidious. Some were even programmed to let several combatants pass by before detonating in the middle of a formation of troops that thought the area had already been cleared.
LL19: The fledgling industry of orbital cleanup services (satellites designed to collect and/or dispose of other inactive satellites) received a major inadvertent boost from renewed concerns over orbital debris.
LL20: The chaos of the space battle allowed X-37 capture and return to Earth of a few chosen Donovian high-interest military satellites. US analysts were surprised by several aspects of Donovian design, but those results have no further need for discussion in this review of the conflict over Otso.
LL21: There was speculation of possible Donovian deployment of tailored genetically engineered bioweapons, but these were not supported by any confirmable evidence. On tactical timescales, bioweapons are still deemed ineffective. The ability to inflict casualties on an enemy with bioweapons while trying to limit the damage to your own personnel is still an unresolved strategic issue.
LL22: The reports of Donovia having anti-personnel weapons that used nanites were also unsupported. This technology is just starting to be used industrially, and nanite-based weapons are considered to be at least a decade away from being ready for battlefield use.
LL23: There were also reports on social media of Donovian atrocities towards Otso’s civilians, but no supporting evidence has been found for these numerous dubious claims.
LL24: This conflict resulted in most nations looking back to the US in a leadership role in a way that completely healed the damage to US prestige that occurred from its involvement in decades of middle-eastern warfare.
Acronyms & Terms
AI = Artificial Intelligence . The use of sophisticated computer programming to control technology without the need for direct human intervention. Donovian AI-controlled weapons were much more independent than the relatively conservative US designs, which required human authorization before an AI-controlled device could deliver lethal force.
AWACS = Airborne Early Warning and Control . Aircraft used to coordinate military operations.
DARPA = Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency . US organization capable of funding high-risk research until it’s ready for use.
DoD = Department of Defense . The HQ organization with primary responsibility for preparing US military forces to meet and defeat all potential threats to US national interests.
Donovia = A wealthy nation that is a near-peer competitor to the US.
EABMS = Expanded Advanced Battle Management System . A US systems-of-systems concept that distributes surveillance and battle management command and control roles among all combatants in the battlespace to help speed decisions and enable our warfighters to quickly act on them. Developed by integrating Lockheed Martin’s Silent Crow™ DoD open architecture with the USAF’s already mature Advanced Battle Management System (ABMS).
ECM = Electronic Counter Measures . A catch-all term referring to the ability to blind, deceive, or otherwise defeat the ability of enemy systems from performing their functions.
EMP = Electromagnetic Pulse . Induced electrical energy which can overwhelm electronic components. It’s relatively easy to temporarily incapacitate or permanently destroy civilian equipment, usually requiring larger amounts of power and/or more sophisticated delivery to do the same to ‘hardened’ military equipment.
GPS = Global Positioning System . Generically used to refer to any such navigation or precision guidance system, not just the US constellation which utilizes over 30 satellites in various orbits.
HARM = High-speed Anti-Radiation Missile . These weapons are specially designed to home in on radar-emitting threats as rapidly as possible but are themselves vulnerable to directed energy defenses.
HQ = Headquarters . Any group of people and/or equipment that controls the decisions of several other military units.
KIA = Killed In Action . Term used to refer to all combatant deaths, regardless of cause.
LL# = Lessons Learned . Analysis which tries to prevent future mistakes by explaining why and how the observed results occurred, such as inadequate long-term thinking.
LOS = Line of Sight . Usually referenced because most sensors and directed energy weapons must have no obstructions between them and their target(s).
Lurker = Code name given to Donovian UUVs which are stealthy slow-moving mines armed with a one-shot supercavitating torpedo. Very difficult to detect with passive sonar techniques.
Nanites = Generic term referring to nanorobotic machines. The context used here refers to machines too small to be seen, but capable of harming living things and/or being able to damage machinery. These are just starting to be utilized for medical and industrial purposes and are not believed to be ready for tactical or strategic military deployment, yet.
NORAD = North American Aerospace Defense Command . The HQ organization with primary responsibility for securing US space assets & capabilities and tracking potential threats to those.
NTM = National Technical Means . Any of the many systems used to gather imagery, signals, and other information for analysis and possible use by US warfighters and our allies.
OODA = Observe, Orient, Decide, Act . Shortening this timeline is one of the highest priorities for all military actions, since intelligent rapid response is the best means to defeat adversaries.
Otso = A close ally of the US which neighbors Donovia.
SOF = Special Operating Forces . A term usually reserved for SEAL Teams, Rangers, and other elite units given the best equipment, training, and support possible.
Stuxnet = An extremely sophisticated computer worm that exploited multiple previously unknown Windows zero-day vulnerabilities in 2010 to infect computers and spread. Its purpose was not just to infect computers but to cause real-world physical damage.
TBD = To Be Determined . A catch-all phase for when an issue has no solution and there’s no clear path to resolve it.
TBR = To Be Resolved . An issue that is better understood than a TBD, usually with a number that just needs to be refined from a placeholder value, such as in a system requirement.
UCAV = Unmanned Combat Air Vehicle . Donovian designs were considered slightly inferior to US models, but both are capable of performing various air missions either independently using advanced AI or being remotely controlled by a human.
US//MS = United States//Mad Scientist . The ‘Classification’ used to label this fictional account.
UUV = Unmanned Underwater Vehicle . These robotic subs can perform most of the functions that a crewed submarine can, usually with a much smaller vehicle.
WIA = Wounded In Action . Term used to refer to all wounded combatants, regardless of cause.
WW2 = World War Two . The second “war to end all wars”, which set the standard by which all wars since have been judged. The US emerged from it as the world’s leading superpower.
X-37 = US spaceplane-like asset.

Story 95
On Tuesday Shares of Empire Company Limited,(TSX:EMP-A) is an exciting player in the Consumer Staples, generated a change of 0.00% and closed at $34.56.
Market Updates Of The Empire Company Limited:
The market price of a stock is the price that it sells for on the open market at a given point in time. The market price will usually fluctuate throughout the trading day as investors buy and sell stocks. The Empire Company Limited (TSX : EMP-A) started at $34.65 and closed at $34.56 in the latest trading session on marking the change of 0.00% from the preceding day.
Trading Price (High & Low):
The high trading price was $34.76 at which a stock traded during the course of the day and low trading price remained $34.5.
Technical Indicator:
Volume is an important technical indicator for investors, which gives the idea of the price action of a stock and whether he should buy or sell the security. If trading volume increases, prices usually move in the same direction. The EMP-A exchanged hands with current Volume 551950, while precious’s day the Volume 326291.00.
Technical Analysis Of Moving Average (MA):
A Moving Average (MA) is an extensively indicator in technical analysis that facilitate smooth-out price action by filtering out the “Noise” from random short-term price fluctuations. It is a trend-following, or lagging, indicator because it is based on past prices. The following Moving Averages values of the company, Empire Company Limited:
05 Days Moving Average (MA): 34.58%
20 Days Moving Average (MA) & Signals: 35.42%
50 Days Moving Average (MA) & Signals: 35.96%
Weighted Alpha:
Weighted Alpha tells that how much a stock has risen or fallen over an one-year period with a higher weighting for recent price activity. The company’s Empire Company Limited, TSX have a Weighted Aplha 38.80. A positive weighted alpha indicates that the stock has risen over the past year. A negative indicates that the stock is down over that same time period.
Price Opinion Signals (Buy / Sell / Hold):
Buy Signals: An event or condition that alerts a person to place a purchase order for an investment. Buy signals can be either observed by analyzing chart patterns or calculated by trading systems.
Hold Signals: An analyst’s recommendation to neither buy nor sell a security. A company with a hold recommendation generally is expected to perform with the market or at the same pace as comparable companies.
Sell Signals: A condition or measurable level at which an investor is alerted to sell a specified investment. Sell signals can be generated through a variety of methods. They are also observed and utilized by different types of investors. The Current Price Signals & Last Month Prices Signals are hereunder:
Current Price Signals “Buy”
Last Month Price Signals “Buy”
Trend Analysis of the Empire Company Limited:
The Trend analysis of the Empire Company Limited shows that the Company Sell the Trend Signal & having Trend Strength Minimum with the Trend Direction of the Weakest.
Trend Signals indicates that uses wave theory, market momentum and volatility in an attempt to find a general trend, while Trend Strength of the signal compared to its historical performance where max the strongest this signal has been is and minimum is the weakest. Trend Direction indicating whether the Buy or Sell signal is strengthening or weakening or whether a Hold signal is heading towards a buy or sell signal.
Market Cap:
Market Cap is determined by doubling a company’s shares outstanding by the current market price of one share $9431531065.
ROE%:
Looking into the profitability ratios of EMP-A stock, an investor will find its ROE i.e; 0.11%. A performance measure used to estimate the efficiency of an investment or to compare the ability of some different investments.
Growth Rates (Return / Revenue):
The 01-Year Return of the company Empire Company Limited 0.49%, while the revenue growth percent over a 5-years period is 0.33%.

Story 96
Choi Moon-kyu, Co-Chief Executive Officer of Hanshin Engineering & Construction and Bill Giacone, Senior Vice President of ETS-LINDGREN pose for a photo after signing their MOU. [Photo by Hanshin Engineering & Construction]
Hanshin Engineering & Construction, a mid-sized Korean builder, said Sunday it will work together with U.S. ETS-LINDGREN to venture into the construction of electromagnetic pulse (EMP) protection facilities as part of its business diversification strategy.Hanshin said it signed a memorandum of understanding with the Texas-headquartered company dedicated to production, engineering and construction for EMP-shielded environments to seek joint participation in Korea¡¯s private sector EMP protection market.An electromagnetic pulse is an intense burst of electromagnetic energy from lightening, solar geo-magnetic storms, nuclear explosions or non-nuclear radio frequency weapons. It can cause disturbances on the radio, current damages and voltage surges in electrical/electronic systems, burning out their sensitive components such as semiconductors.An enhanced EMP bomb detonated 30 km above ground could disrupt nearly all types of electronics within the 400 km range, including computers, power grids and communication systems, experts say.The modern society which heavily relies on digital systems is vulnerable to EMP-related attacks or terrorism, raising the voices for EMP protection of major facilities especially from the private sector.Hanshin was already involved in EMP shield projects worth 151 billion won ($141.4 million) in Korea last year. Apart from the MOU, the company is working with state-run Korea Research Institute of Standards and Science (KRISS) to receive technology consulting.
By Kim Kang-rae and Minu Kim
[¨Ï Pulse by Maeil Business News Korea & mk.co.kr, All rights reserved]

Story 97

Production/manufacturing equipment suppliers & service providers
BGA optical joint inspection criteria and test methods
EMP 2019 Electronics Manufacturing & Production Handbook, Manufacturing / Production Technology, Hardware & Services
Visual examination of ball grid array (BGA) solder joints is best achieved using an endoscope system, which are available from a number of suppliers worldwide. These systems have been specifically designed to allow solder joints to be examined between the base of the device and the printed circuit board (PCB). Figure 1. One of the biggest challenges to inspection and process improvement has been head-in-pillow defects. This type of defect is intermittent so finding it in the first place is a challenge. Often there are limited stand-off heights and overhang restrictions due to the body of the package. The close proximity of components to the body of the device to be examined may also limit the opportunity for inspection, particularly when scanning along the sides of devices. With care, design engineers can always leave areas free of parts, particularly on the corners of adjacent sides of a device. Although not covered in this article, X-ray criteria are available, and this is the popular alternative to optical inspection. X-ray was of course the first choice for BGA inspection when area array devices were first introduced, and is commonly used in industry. The author has conducted many hands-on training courses on inspection criteria for both optical and X-ray inspection, and produced the first training videos and interactive CD-ROM on area array inspection It is possible to examine the outer row of ball terminations with traditional inspection equipment, depending on stand-off height and the overhang on the side of the BGA. However, this is not feasible to use on inner ball terminations or where the overhang obscures the terminations when tilting the board assembly. Both X-ray and these specialist inspection systems have limitations on the process issues and defects they can detect. If the budget is available, the ideal situation is to have both methods of controlling and defining the manufacturing process, or to have samples from production examined by an external source. Figure 2. Example of high-temperature ceramic package satisfactorily soldered to the pad surface. Ideally some visual standards should be provided for operator reference during final inspection or during process monitoring. This is true for both X-ray and optical inspection, as assessing joints can be daunting for staff members new to these techniques. Criteria should include conventional BGA, chip scale package (CSP), package on package (POP) and flip chip terminations with tin/lead or lead-free eutectic and high-temperature ball terminations. Solder joints to high temperature terminations do look different! – see Figure 2. Examples of the soldering quality on high-temperature balls often featured on ceramic ball grid arrays (CBGA) should be included due to the difference in surface appearance. With balls that become liquid with the paste, there is little evidence of any demarcation between the two solder surfaces. With high-temperature balls like 90%lead/10%tin there will be a demarcation line between the solder alloy and the ball. This is because the ball does not reflow but the paste does. There can be differences in the height the solder rises up the ball due to the paste volume and the wettability of the terminations. The line formed at this point has often been referred to as the waist line and mistakenly referred to in some specifications as defective. In cases where lead-free termination BGAs are used with tin/lead paste, the ball may not completely reflow at 210°C – 225°C. These temperatures are quite normal for a surface mount assembly with tin/lead. Tin/silver/copper (Sn/Ag/Cu) or SAC balls will have a reflow temperature of approximately 217°C. As new alloys are used on area array packages to improve shock and drop performance the problems can become more complex. Figure 3. Chip resistor not where it was designed to be? If measurements are to be taken during inspection then the following can be used as a guide. It is good practice to take some measurements on typical BGA devices during early production runs or the first new product introduction (NPI) build against specific devices and their locations. If problems do arise in future production these measurements can be very useful for reference and for comparing reworked devices. Remember that the measurements here are only a reference, as the final dimensions will depend on the original ball size on the device, the paste thickness and pad surface on the board. In the case of reworked devices, it matters whether paste was used for replacement, or flux-only reflow. Size of ball terminations Ball diameter should be equal to or larger than the original ball diameter on the BGA prior to reflow, due to the addition of paste. In the case of high-temperature lead/tin ball terminations which do not reflow, there should be no change in ball size. The ball size does define the stand-off height of the package. Stand-off height of BGA package Measure the difference in height between the board and the base of the BGA laminate on a minimum of two of the four corners. Compare the variation in height of the BGA by scanning along the length of the BGA on two sides. The height will be equal to or less than the original ball height. The stand-off height will reduce due to the size of the device and its weight. Variations in height between the centre and the edges of the BGA may indicate warpage of the fibre glass device or PCB. It can also indicate voiding in the ball terminations. This is more commonly noted if all termination measurements are taken. Warpage can occur up or down in the centre area of the part, although uncommon warpage can even be seen on ceramic packages. Check for solder shorts Scan along two adjacent sides of a BGA using light from the opposite side of the devices. There should be no restrictions to viewing each of the termination outlines. If light is restricted, short circuits may be visible under the device. Viewing two sides makes sure that shorts can be seen, whereas shorts can be missed when viewing one side only. Also look for chip components under packages due to poor placement control. Check for complete reflow of solder paste and ball terminations on tin/lead or lead-free joints. In the case of high-temperature balls on ceramic parts, the ball will not become liquid. During soldering the paste will reflow and allow wetting to take place between the high-temperature ball and the pad surface. There will be a distinct line between the ball and the solder at the interface. This is due to the different metal surfaces being joined. Summary BGA failures do occur for a variety of reasons; they may be component, printed board, process or design related. On some occasions, both X-ray and optical inspection cannot easily provide the answer and that is when other techniques must be used. Microsections, dye penetrant and acoustic scans may assist is pinpointing the root cause. The essential aspect in all analysis is the experience of the engineer who is tasked with finding the root cause of the failures. There is no substitute for practical experience. For more information visit www.bobwillis.co.uk

Further reading: Things are tough for electronics contract manufacturers in SA
23 October 2019, Barracuda Holdings, Leratadima Tellumat Manufacturing, Manufacturing / Production Technology, Hardware & Services
The contract manufacturing side of the South African electronics industry has been under enormous pressure for some time now, with some high-profile manufacturers having closed their doors or suffering serious financial trouble in recent years.

Quality management based on quality assurance
23 October 2019, Quamba Technologies, Manufacturing / Production Technology, Hardware & Services
To ensure consistently high product quality and ultimately achieve a zero-fault production stage, it is necessary to control all process steps.

3D printing and electronics manufacturing
23 October 2019, Omnigo, Manufacturing / Production Technology, Hardware & Services
“The opportunities are endless and we are excited to see what the future holds for 3D printing and the electronics manufacturing industry.” – Christine Brindle, Omnigo

3D printer for rapid prototyping
23 October 2019, RS Components (SA), Manufacturing / Production Technology, Hardware & Services
RS Components is shipping the latest version of the MakerBot 3D printer – the MakerBot Method – which has been designed to bridge the gap between industrial and desktop 3D printing. The unit targets engineers ...

Versatile conformal coating applicators
23 October 2019, Techmet , Manufacturing / Production Technology, Hardware & Services
The Select Coat applicator series from Nordson Asymtek – which includes the SC-350 Select Spray and the SC-300 Multi-Mode – is a highly versatile conformal coating applicator that supports a wide range ...

High-accuracy fluid dispenser
23 October 2019, Techmet , Manufacturing / Production Technology, Hardware & Services
Nordson Asymtek recently introduced the Forte fluid dispensing system. The Forte series combines high-accuracy fluid dispensing with increased throughput and productivity in a narrow footprint to handle ...

Conformal coating cleaning agent
23 October 2019, Techmet , Manufacturing / Production Technology, Hardware & Services
Coating carriers and frames offer important advantages within the conformal coating process regarding handling, process reliability and output, but they also require very extensive cleaning afterwards. ...

Company profile: Etion Create
23 October 2019, ETION Create, Manufacturing / Production Technology, Hardware & Services
Etion Create is an original design manufacturer (ODM) that has been in operation for more than 25 years. Originally known as Parsec, the company was founded in 1993, focusing on the design, development ...

Cleaning machines and agents on show at Productronica
23 October 2019, Electronic Industry Supplies, Manufacturing / Production Technology, Hardware & Services
Using the motto ‘Make the Cleaning Check’, Zestron will be exhibiting a selection of state-of-the-art cleaning machines from leading international manufacturers. Visitors who are looking for a new cleaning ...

Application centres for dispensing and coating
23 October 2019, MyKay Tronics, Manufacturing / Production Technology, Hardware & Services
With a larger global installed base of MYSmart and MY700 jet printing and dispensing systems, Mycronic is taking the next step in bringing its hands-on expertise closer to customers by establishing multiple ...

Hybrid surface mounters
28 August 2019, Zetech, Manufacturing / Production Technology, Hardware & Services
Yamaha’s S10 and S20 i-Pulse 3D hybrid surface mounters, featuring enhanced support for MIDs (moulded interconnect devices), were developed under the concept of a single-unit manufacturing centre designed ...

Dual-syringe dispenser
28 August 2019, Test & Rework Solutions, Manufacturing / Production Technology, Hardware & Services
Techcon announced the release of its new 50 ml dual-syringe dispenser designed for hassle-free dispensing of 50 ml dual syringes. The system can accommodate conveniently packaged 50 ml side-by-side ...


Story 98
The US Department of Defense is developing a powerful new weapon that could cripple an entire city without directly hurting anyone.
A recent solicitation from the Pentagon calls for a non-explosive electromagnetic pulse artillery shell capable of wiping out ‘a wide range of electronics, critical infrastructure, and computer-based systems.’
The non-kinetic system would first be incorporated into a 155mm projectile and later scaled down to enable the use of multiple shells, allowing for devastating electronic attacks that are delivered by standard munition but cause no physical damage.
A solicitation from the Pentagon calls for a non-explosive electromagnetic pulse artillery shell capable of wiping out ‘a wide range of electronics, critical infrastructure, and computer-based systems.’ It would fit into a 155mm artillery piece, like the M777 Howitzer, pictured
HOW EMP WORKS EMP, or electromagnetic pulse weapons use missiles equipped with an electromagnetic pulse cannon. This uses a super-powerful microwave oven to generate a concentrated beam of energy. The energy causes voltage surges in electronic equipment, rendering them useless before surge protectors have the chance to react. The aim is to destroy an enemy's command, control, communication and computing, surveillance and intelligence capabilities without hurting people or infrastructure.
According to the solicitation, the weapon will be designed to be cost-effective and precise, launching the non-kinetic effects (NKE) from a close range to limit the affected area.
Essentially, such a weapon would render the target’s entire electronic infrastructure useless.
The DoD will first develop a prototype weapon for the 155mm projectile, with the ultimate plan to create a ‘ruggedized, hardened electronics subsystem.’
During the development process, the report says they’ll also be exploring and demonstrating different ways to carry out non-kinetic attacks, and testing the system’s capabilities in the field.
‘Extensive use of wireless RF networking for critical infrastructure and communications systems provides an alternative attack vector for the neutralization of an adversary’s underlying industrial, civil, and communications infrastructure without the destruction of the hardware associated with those systems,’ the solicitation states.
According to the solicitation , the weapon will be designed to be cost-effective and precise, launching the non-kinetic effects (NKE) from a close range to limit the affected area. Essentially, such a weapon would render the target’s entire electronic infrastructure useless
‘Advances in munitions-based microelectronics and power technologies make possible the implementation of non-kinetic cyber and electromagnetic ‘or electronic warfare (EW)’ attacks that could be delivered via artillery launched munitions.
‘The precision delivery of the non-kinetic effects (NKE) electronics payload close to the target allows low power operation which limits the geographical extent of impacted systems, and reduces the overall impact on the electromagnetic spectrum.’
The new development comes more than a year after a report warned that America is falling behind in the development of critical electromagnetic weapons that some say could wipe out 90 percent of its population.
BOEING'S 'CHAMP' WEAPON In 2012, aircraft manufacturer Boeing successfully tested the weapon on a one-hour flight during which it knocked out the computers of an entire military compound. During Boeing's experiment, the missile flew low over the Utah Test and Training Range, discharging electromagnetic pulses on to seven targets, permanently shutting down their electronics. Boeing said that the test was so successful even the camera recording it was disabled. Pictured is Boeing's Champ, or Counter-electronics High-powered microwave Advanced Missile Project, one of the EMP weapons that is under construction Although the project is shrouded in secrecy, experts believe the missile is equipped with an electromagnetic pulse cannon. This uses a super-powerful microwave oven to generate a concentrated beam of energy which causes voltage surges in electronic equipment, rendering them useless before surge protectors have the chance to react. Boeing's CHAMP takes out enemy electronics with pulse.
The Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments says the technology is 'one of the most critical operational domains in modern warfare.'
However, it concluded 'unfortunately, 'failed to keep pace' is an appropriate description of the Department of Defense's (DoD) investments in EMS warfare capabilities over the last generation.'
The report, 'Winning the Airwaves: Regaining America's Dominance in the Electromagnetic Spectrum', added the technology will become as revolutionary as smartphones.
'In the same way that smartphones and the Internet are redefining how the world shares, shops, learns, and works, the development and fielding of advanced sensors and networking technologies will enable militaries to gain significant new advantages over competitors that fail to keep pace,' it says.

Story 99
Things are getting meta at Eleven Madison Park’s EMP Winter House pop-up in Aspen, where, from 12 to 4 p.m. January 24 to 26, diners at the St. Regis Resort’s yurt village can order Shake Shack instead of EMP’s $125 fondue pots.
For three days, the brand with three Michelin stars will sell fast-food burgers and fries, with crinkle cuts starting at just $3.49 or priced up to $24.49 when topped with shaved black truffles. The two seemingly opposite New York restaurants share their founder, Danny Meyer, and have a long and intertwined history together.
About their pop-up within a pop-up, it takes place in the romantic EMP Winter House yurt village, a courtyard at the St. Regis Aspen covered with twinkle lights and fir trees and dotted with heated tents, each holding a private dinner table and decorated with somebody’s ski memorabilia.
Normally diners here would be served a big spread of “alpine” meats and melted cheeses ($98 to $135 per person), but Shake Shack is just offering three types of burgers and fries and also hot beverages — no milkshakes — for the afternoon service. The new Alpine Swiss burger is a ShackBurger topped in applewood smoked bacon and Jasper Hill cheese sauce ($10.69). The gravy fries have that cheese sauce plus truffle gravy on top of them ($9.49).
To eat Shake Shack in a fancy yurt, diners don’t need a reservation, but they do still have to pay with American Express, EMP’s partner in these events.

Story 100
On July 9, 1962, Hawaii was hit by a massive electromagnetic pulse (EMP) attack, which within minutes took down the state’s communications systems and traffic lights — virtually everything that ran on electricity.
The EMP wasn’t an attack by a foreign government; rather the U.S. government had set off a 1.4-megaton nuclear warhead at a height of 248 miles above Johnston Atoll in an operation the military named “Starfish Prime.” The test caused radio disruptions in Hawaii, California, and Alaska, and knocked out six satellites above the Pacific.
“No one expected the test to impact Hawaii, because it was 850 miles away,” said Toby Clairmont, deputy administrator for the Hawaii Emergency Management Agency, which is located within one of Hawaii’s most recognizable landmarks, Diamond Head. “This kind of blast does not hurt people, but as we’ve seen, it shuts down power and phones and goes after infrastructure and could cause problems at medical facilities.”
With North Korea developing its nuclear and intercontinental ballistic missile capabilities, Hawaii defense experts are concerned North Korea could target the 50th state with an EMP attack. Such an explosion, if executed high enough in the atmosphere, could be hundreds of miles from Hawaii and still damage its operations and communications.
“This is not theoretical. It has already happened,” said Clairmont, noting significant damage was done to both civilian and military electrical and communications systems.
The concern regarding the threat of an EMP attack on Hawaii’s electrical grid and communications systems “is real and must be taken seriously,” U.S. Rep. Tulsi Gabbard, D-Hawaii, told Fox News.
“Almost every aspect of our lives is reliant on electricity, much more so than in 1962 — everything from banking to health care to communications to automobiles — so you can imagine the devastating impact such an attack could have,” Gabbard said.
In Hawaii, there is an added layer of risk even if the attack were not directed at Hawaii, Gabbard said.
“If an attack occurred on the mainland and the electric grid were shut down on the West Coast, it would create a crisis in Hawaii through the total disruption of our food and energy supply chain,” Gabbard said.
Hawaii is possibly a more desirable target than other states, warned Dean Cheng, senior research fellow with the Asian Studies Center at the Heritage Foundation, in part because the headquarters for the United States Pacific Command at Camp Smith is on Oahu, and the state has 11 military bases, including Pearl Harbor.
Dave Benham, spokesman for the U.S. Pacific Command, said his agency is ready to counter any threat to U.S. interests in an area of responsibility that spans half the globe.
“The No. 1 threat in the region continues to be North Korea, due to its reckless, irresponsible and destabilizing program of missile tests and pursuit of a nuclear weapons capability,” Benham said.
While some experts claim an EMP attack isn’t a likely concern, National Geographic notes a Congressional commission of scientific and military experts warned in 2004 that an EMP attack could cause a massive blackout and damage financial and power networks.
“Depending on the specific characteristics of the attacks, unprecedented cascading failures of our major infrastructures could result,” the 2004 commission warned in a statement. “In that event, a regional or national recovery would be long and difficult and would seriously degrade the safety and overall viability of our Nation.”
A later report in 2008 by the Congressional Research Service confirmed that an EMP attack could cause substantial damage.
One solution Gabbard is advocating for is utility companies upping their security in preparation for any kind of attack.
“I’ve long advocated for investing in hardening our core infrastructure and electrical grid against the threats of today and tomorrow, whether it be an EMP attack or a cyberattack,” she said.

Story 101
According to the Department of Energy, severe weather accounts for the majority of power outages. Josemaria Toscano/Shutterstock
Update, Nov. 3, 2017: Sharon Burke addresses conspiracy theories about a “national power outage” and the danger of electro-magnetic pulse weapons.
This piece was adapted from an article that originally appeared in the SAIS Review of International Affairs.
While testifying before Congress in May, Peter Pry warned that a rogue state or terrorist could attack the United States with a weapon that would kill 9 out of 10 Americans “through starvation, disease, and societal collapse.”
That fearsome weapon? An electromagnetic pulse. Pry, executive director of the EMP Task Force on National and Homeland Security, a congressional advisory board, described a scenario in which an adversary could detonate a nuclear device in the atmosphere over the United States, which would in turn generate an EMP that would cause catastrophic damage to the nation’s electricity grid, resulting in long-term, national power outages.
It is, indeed, a frightening scenario—and it isn’t the only threat to the nation’s electricity grid. U.S. critical infrastructure is also vulnerable to cyber and physical attacks. The risk of such attacks is real, and, in some cases, growing. But don’t run out and stock your bomb shelter with whale oil just yet. In fact, odds are you have far more to fear from nut-obsessed squirrels than nutty extremists when it comes to the reliability of your electricity.
That doesn’t mean there’s no cause for concern. Infrastructure has always been a target in a time of war, both to erode military capabilities and to bring political pressure to bear. The United States is fairly transparent about the locations of some major military and intelligence facilities, and key economic nodes are easy to pinpoint as well. The Sept. 11 attackers, after all, went after a military target (the Pentagon) and an economic one (the World Trade Center). In addition, most U.S. military bases are connected to civilian electricity grids, as are any economic targets, an interdependency that is well known. In this age of electricity, the grid is what the military calls a “center of gravity.”
So, how worried should Americans be about such attacks? As with most things, it depends—specifically, it depends on the threat.
First, there’s Pry’s scenario. An EMP attack resulting from a high-altitude nuclear detonation seems a possible but not very plausible scenario. An adversary looking to carry out such an attack on the United States would need ballistic missiles and nuclear weapons. The missiles either need to be capable of an intercontinental launch or have a platform that can both move within range of the U.S. homeland undetected and launch a missile.
There are actors that either have or are seeking to acquire the capability to launch such a weapon (for instance, North Korea), but it is important to consider this threat in the context of the likelihood of an attack. The consequences of launching a nuclear strike on the United States would be severe, to say the least, so the motives of a potential adversary would be a key question.
Moreover, if an adversary did want to start World War III and was not deterred by the formidable U.S. capability to respond to such an attack, the grid might not be the best target. It is not a certainty that such a detonation would cause a prolonged, widespread, and devastating power outage; indeed, some manufacturers of industrial control systems and transformers report that their equipment has been tested and proven robust to such an electromagnetic pulse. Nor is it clear that the electric grid would be the ideal target for such weapons. And for that matter, there are other, easier ways to attack the grid. Frankly, the development of more discrete EMP weapons that can be used against specific military targets is probably more worrisome from a national security point of view.
Second, there’s the possibility of a remote cyber attack, which is uncomfortably easy to carry out if the target is a website or business software. Those types of attacks can cause significant damage to a company or even a country, but are less likely to result in physical damage to equipment in the grid. In part, this is mechanical equipment that has been engineered to withstand physical challenges, partly just because of the inherent danger of dealing with high voltage electricity. Furthermore, although these systems do generally have communications links, they do not tend to be outward facing—in other words, they’re not connected to the Internet. It may be possible to breach these communications links into physical equipment, but it is not easy and often requires both knowledge of the system and physical access. Even Stuxnet, a very sophisticated computer worm, required someone at the Iranian facility to plug in an infected flash drive, according to Symantec.
If neither EMPs nor cyber weapons are the clear and present danger for the electric grid, who or what is the biggest threat?
National outage reporting data suggests that enemy No. 1 is Mother Nature. According to the Department of Energy, severe weather accounts for the majority of outages; in 2014 there were 87 outages resulting from weather-related issues. Most of these hazards are what the national security world calls “low-consequence, high-probability” events, meaning that they occur frequently but generally cause little damage on a case-by-case basis. The effects tend to be fairly short in duration and limited in the number of customers affected. A number of weather events in recent years—hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico, storms on the eastern seaboard, tornadoes in the Midwest and Southwest, and wildfires in the West and Southwest—have caused higher-consequence electricity outage events. While such high-consequence weather events—in terms of lives lost, economic costs, and duration—may not be as frequent, they are not unheard of, either. In 2012, for example, Superstorm Sandy resulted in more than $50 billion in damage, 147 deaths, and knocked out power to more than 8 million people—in a few cases, for months.
Moreover, given the changing climate, such severe weather events are expected to increase—indeed, 10 of the most destructive hurricanes on record occurred in the last 10 years. A November 2014 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report confirmed that effects from climate change have been rising since the 1950s and are being observed worldwide. In addition to the direct effects of climate change, such as severe storms, secondary effects could have an impact on the electric grid, such as major droughts that may affect the availability of water for thermal power plants. Further, the report noted that climate change-related weather disasters will disproportionately affect the poor; this is especially true in countries with immature energy infrastructure where natural hazards are already causing multiday outages to an already unreliable power supply. Countries that are at a higher risk for climate change damage are often those with insecure energy infrastructure, which means that when additional and more severe weather events occur in these countries, the results are likely to be more catastrophic and long-lasting.
A different kind of weather, space weather, also gets some attention as a hazard to the grid. Geomagnetic events have the potential to be high consequence, and although the last major event occurred in 1921, such flare-ups could happen at any time. In 1989, for example, 6 million residents of Quebec lost power for nine hours following a geomagnetic disturbance from a solar storm. The Federal Energy Regulation Commission recently released new reliability standards to address this risk.
Weather is not the only natural hazard, either: Last year, a flock of renegade parrots reportedly caused a power outage for thousands of Californians, though squirrels are the more frequent cause of animal outages. These occurrences tend to be inherently low-consequence. Human beings also cause many outages, from car accidents that take down utility poles to deliberate acts of sabotage. Most of these incidents are either low-consequence vandalism or not deliberate, according to DOE annual reporting. In 2014, for example, a Google Loon balloon fell off course, crashing into power lines and causing a five-hour power outage for some households in Lower Yakima Valley, Washington.
Not all human-induced outages are mistakes, and there is potential for high-consequence events. In April 2013, one or more gunmen attacked Pacific Gas and Electric’s Metcalf transmission substation near San Jose, California. The assailants cut communications links around the substation and fired more than 100 rounds from a high-powered rifle, damaging 17 transformers. Remote operators were able to detect the leak and shut the transformers down before there was long-term damage to the transformers or a power loss to Pacific Gas and Electric customers, but it was a near miss. The Federal Bureau of Investigation is still investigating the incident.
This is all very worrisome, but it would frankly be prohibitively expensive to make the grid robust to every possible threat. Nonetheless, making the electric grid more reliable and more resilient to natural hazards would be an important first step. Indeed, such challenges are increasing in frequency and severity due to climate change, aging infrastructure, and a changing supply and demand landscape, a case that is made convincingly in the Obama administration’s new Quadrennial Energy Review. After all, if the grid is not robust to natural hazards then it is not robust to the more exotic events that have a low risk of happening in any given year. Mundane resilience to Mother Nature is the first line of defense for the electric grid.
Future Tense is a collaboration among Arizona State University, New America, and Slate. Future Tense explores the ways emerging technologies affect society, policy, and culture. To read more, visit the Future Tense blog and the Future Tense home page. You can also follow us on Twitter.
Read more on Slate:

Story 102
Space weather isn’t much connected with terrestrial weather. Despite that, it’s the National Weather Service’s Space Weather Prediction Center/SWPC in Boulder, Colorado which is the nation’s and the world’s leading clearinghouse for fast-developing space weather phenomena. Some of that space weather could eventually prove deadly.
SWPC is headed by Dr. Tom Bogdan, who grew up here in WNY with an undergraduate physics degree from SUNY Buffalo, before he went on to earn a physics Ph.D. from the elite University of Chicago. Most of the working scientists at SWPC are astrophysicists, not meteorologists. As many of you know, our sun shoots out many solar flares and occasional powerful coronal mass ejections/CMEs, some of which target earth. Here is what Bogdan has said on the rare most powerful CMEs and our planet.
"What's at stake are the advanced technologies that underlie virtually every aspect of our lives."
CMEs are different from solar flares in that they contain more energy and travel more slowly.
A truly large CME can be a 10 billion-ton ball of solar plasma made up of charged particles which travels at about 6 to 10 million mph. If aimed at the earth, a CME would take about 18 to 36 hours to reach us. That theoretically would afford utilities, if they act promptly, some lead time to shut down systems and lessen the amount of devastation a worst-case CME would bring to power grids and electrical equipment. There also is some more resistant engineering now being employed in newer systems in the grid.
It would be difficult to gauge the probability and timing of such a cataclysm, except to say it has happened in the past and will, at some unknown time in the future, happen again.
The “Carrington Event” occurred in 1859. The only electrical grid in existence then was the burgeoning telegraph system. Calculations on the power of the Carrington Event can be extrapolated from its observed effects. It caused numerous fires at telegraph stations in the United States and gave operators shocks. Telegraph paper burst into flames. Telegraphs continued to transmit gibberish for hours even after they were disconnected.
Physicists and engineers calculate from those effects that such a powerful CME, if it occurred today, would be a large-scale disaster in its target region and beyond. Even a lesser but still very powerful CME in 1921 knocked out most radio along the east coast and telephone service in most of Europe. A 2008 National Academy of Science study estimates a CME of this 1921 event magnitude today would take power out for 130 million Americans and destroy up to 350 utility transformers. New transformers in such numbers can take up to two years to manufacture and replace. Power outages would not be a short-lived inconvenience.
What historical evidence exists seems to suggest a period of about 150 years between Carrington Event-scale CMEs striking earth when our magnetic field is properly aligned to allow the full impact to reach our lower atmosphere and surface, though that estimate is based on pretty sketchy data. Overall, though, probabilities on this type of CME event with its electromagnetic pulse/EMP seem to make its rarity clear.
Sidebar: EMPs from the sun are one thing. The impact of an EMP would be even worse if an enemy detonated a thermonuclear weapon at high altitude over the central United States. The EMP from an H -bomb would occur in a brief instant and essentially destroy nearly all unshielded modern electronics, including auto ignitions, the grid and most of what’s connected to the grid. It has been speculated a rogue nation such as North Korea could inflict unimaginable damage with a single well-placed nuclear EMP. (In my view, the problem with that scenario is such an attack would be instantly traceable to North Korea, leaving it wide open to nuclear retaliation from ICBMs in shielded Navy missile subs. It would be an act of suicide. Terrorists would have to be able to launch such a weapon to a higher altitude to make such an attack, as well.)
So, the worst case scenario remains unlikely at any given time.
But what would occur if a Carrington-scale calamity actually occurred with so much of the grid inadequately shielded? Sources I’ve researched paint a very grim picture. Besides lights going out, foods requiring refrigeration would quickly spoil. Transportation would be largely shut down because truck ignitions would be inoperative. Planting and harvesting would grind down to very low levels without operating farm machinery, and harvested crops would be impossible to transport in adequate quantities. Medicines couldn’t be manufactured without electricity, nor could existing stocks be transported.
Backup generators at nuclear power plants would run out of fuel after about 30 days, and cooling for the fuel rods would cease. Meltdowns would follow. Millions would die of starvation and millions would die of disease.
However, we are not entirely defenseless against this worst-case scenario. We now have solar observations from deep-space satellites, which would give utilities around 12 hours to prepare to reduce damage with shutdowns (which would, admittedly, cause billions in damages).
Both of our two newest GOES geostationary weather satellites have sensors facing the sun and tracking solar activity. The modeling for impact times and scale, of course, is predicated upon the accuracy of space weather forecasts. As you might have guessed, space weather presents its own difficulties in forecasting accuracy.
The Department of Homeland Security has been working with private industry to develop new types of quick-manufacture transformers which can be transported by truck (seemingly after ignition repairs are completed) to replace the older 50-100 ton destroyed transformers. We’ve got some years to go on this research, but at least it’s in the works.
In the meantime, our vast grid remains vulnerable to this low-frequency, rare space weather event.
In fact, the threat of cyberattacks against utilities and the grid has already been demonstrated to be feasible with today’s technology. Cyberattacks, statistically, may well be a more likely threat to the grid. Utilities are scrambling to improve cybersecurity. How far along they’ve come is, at least to me, an unknown.

Story 103
Two members of the now disbanded congressional Electromagnetic Pulse (EMP) commission told a recent House Homeland Security subcommittee hearing that a nuclear EMP attack remained the "biggest threat" facing the US today.
The powerful weapon has the potential to shut down America's power grid and kill millions of people.
North Korea has tested several intercontinental ballistic missiles this year and claimed to have successfully tested a miniaturised hydrogen bomb on September 3.
The secretive state claimed such a bomb could be detonated at high altitudes for "super-powerful EMP attack according to strategic goals".
Advertisement
Chairman of the now defended EMP commission William Graham and its former chief of staff Peter Vincent Pry told the hearing an EMP attack would be devastating.
"The result could be to shut down the US electric power grid for an indefinite period, leading to the death within a year of up to 90 per cent of all Americans," they warned.
A nuclear EMP attack destroys electronics and blackout supplies, meaning everyday modern day activities would grind to a standstill.
The hearing also heard how the US missile defence system may not adequately protect the country from a North Korean missile.
"Current US BMD systems are not arranged to defend against even a single ICBM that approaches the United States from over the South Polar region, which is the direction toward which North Korea launches its satellites," the committee was told.
Nuclear disarmament campaigner John Hallam said the EMP threat is real and is more or less as bad as it's said to be.
Mr Hallam said it was clear the DPRK has at least one sufficiently large thermonuclear warhead and that the country has been given a design for an EMP-enhanced warhead.
"Whereas the DPRK will have one or two EMP-enhanced thermonuclear warheads, China and Russia will have had them for decades," he said.
Advertisement
"EMP is hardly new - in the 80s, the US (and Russia and China) went to considerable expense to EMP-Harden their communication systems, especially military ones."
Mr Hallam said Russia and China also went to a great deal of trouble to EMP-proof their communication systems.
He said use of such a weapon remained incredibly dangerous.
"In the years since the cold war, the US has farmed out even its most critical military communications systems to private enterprise, who obviously don't EMP-proof things," he said.
"Also our entire society has become much more dependent on microchips, and on electronic transactions.
"Notably the financial system, where for example, stocks and shares are apparently traded electronically by algorithms that do it thousands or at least hundreds of times a minute."
Mr Hallam added EMP remains a real and potentially fatal technical vulnerability for all wired societies.
"Not just because of the DPRK, but because it's part of a trend in which fatal technical flaws are ignored until disaster strikes because it's convenient in the short term to do so," he said.
"EMP is real. Every government with a highly developed nuclear weapons program plans to use it, including the US itself.
"The DPRK may well be able to explode an EMP weapon and take the US back to the 18th century in a few milliseconds.
"It's going to be ugly and messy and lots of people are going to starve to death if they leave it too late to loot the supermarket across the road, whose just-in-time ordering system has not simply broken down but vanished along with my bank account, gas, electricity, water, petrol, smartphone etc," he said.
BLACKOUT BOMBS
Just last week, South Korea announced it is building graphite bombs which could paralyse North Korea's power grid in the event of a nuclear war.
Also known as "blackout bombs" they work by spreading chemically-treated carbon graphite filaments over electric facilities to short-circuit and disrupt the electricity grid.
The weapons have been developed by South Korea's Agency for Defence Development, as one element of the Kill Chain pre-emptive strike programme.
The programme is designed to detect, identify and intercept incoming missiles in the shortest possible time.
It works with Korea's Air and Missile Defence system and only affects targeted electrical power systems.
According to Fox News, North Korea would be paralysed by such a bomb.
Kim would be cut off from his population since communication would be offline while its government and military would be instantly crippled.
Mr Hallam said there were differences between a graphite and EMP bomb.
"A graphite bomb simply sprays graphite, which is a form of carbon, everywhere and it creates short-circuits," he said.
"Whereas an EMP is an electromagnetic pulse, which creates an electrical potential across things, burning them out permanently."
Mr Hallam said you would need a lot of graphite bombs to attack North Korea, which was nowhere near as dependent on electronics as the South or the US.
HOW DO GRAPHITE BOMBS WORK?
The bombs rely on the same ingredient as the humble, everyday, ordinary pencil - graphite.
Inside the bomb is graphite filament and graphite is a highly efficient electricity conductor.
Unlike conventional explosives, graphite bombs do not strike the target and blow up. The graphite bomb instead explodes in the air above a power plant.
When it explodes, the graphite filaments are so fine that they seem like a cloud. The bomb unleashes this cloud of graphite particles across the electricity system.
The graphite causes short circuits and electrical discharges, blowing safety devices and burning out essential parts in the electrical supply. The blackout graphite cloud can hit power plants, transformer stations, power lines and more.
The result is darkness. A nation's electricity suddenly stops without warning.
NORTH KOREAN CYBER POWER
Bombs that target electricity supplies aren't the threats the west faces.
Western nations also face increasing cyber attack from North Korean hackers whose abilities are improving, the New York Times reported.
According to The Times, Pyongyang has been developing a cyberprogram that is capable of unleashing global havoc.
Chris Inglis, a former deputy director of the National Security Agency, said Cyber is a tailor-made instrument of power.
"There's a low cost of entry, it's largely asymmetric, there's some degree of anonymity and stealth in its use," he said.
"It can hold large swathes of nation state infrastructure and private-sector infrastructure at risk. It's a source of income."
NUCLEAR FOOTBALL
Despite North Korea's array of powerful weaponry, the rogue nation is still focusing on nuclear power.
On Friday, a North Korean diplomat, who Russian news reported as a member of North Korea's US Studies Department, said Pyongyang would continue nuclear testing in the interest of self-defence.
"The Democratic People's Republic of Korea is constantly being convinced that developing nuclear weapons is the right choice. And we are strengthening our intention to conduct tests in order to offset the nuclear threat from the US."
The Russian report also quoted him as telling the same event that Trump had "thousands" of nuclear weapons at his disposal and that the US leader was playing "nuclear football".
- with Fox News

Story 104
The Air Force released its 2018 Electromagnetic Defense Task Force report last week, which concluded that an electromagnetic pulse—generated either by a nuclear weapon or solar flare—could cripple systems that rely on the electromagnetic spectrum.
The report echoes a recent Heritage Foundation assessment that warns the United States is ill-prepared for such an event.
Solar flares are eruptions of intense high-energy radiation that take place every day on the surface of the sun. Lower-intensity flares regularly hit the earth, affecting radio communications and power line transmissions—but the magnitude, intensity, and duration of some solar flares (storms) can be devastating. In 1859, one such event literally set telegraph machines ablaze and knocked their operators unconscious.
Over time, telegraphs gave way to radios built around vacuum tubes, and the associated technology began to improve and become inseparable from every aspect of American society. In the early 1900s, radio receivers were common in many households and two-way radio communications became a military necessity.
When nuclear weapons were developed, the U.S. government became concerned about the effect an electromagnetic pulse generated by a nuclear weapon might have on those systems. To test those effects, in 1962 it detonated a weapon at high altitude, and the ensuing pulse went off the scales of the array of scientific sensors. The pulse was so strong that it blew out street lights and caused phone outages more than 800 miles away in Hawaii. And over time, the blast destroyed several U.S., British, and Russian satellites.
Electronics of that era were much more resilient to electromagnetic pulses than those of today. Smartphones, computers, ATMs, nuclear power facilities, and virtually every other facet of our day-to-day lives now rely on electromagnetically sensitive circuit cards.
Nowadays, even a relatively small electromagnetic pulse can cripple everything from personal electronics to those in tactical vehicles, command and control nodes, and the drones that have been so effective for our military.
Our adversaries know how to exploit these critical vulnerabilities, and several have the capability to do it.
A high-altitude detonation of a nuclear weapon over the U.S. would incapacitate power grids for weeks if not months. While the ensuing power outage would bring chaos to major metropolitan areas, it would have catastrophic effects on our nuclear power plants. The report states that without near-immediate restoration of power to the pumps that cool the nuclear rods at those facilities, we could suffer meltdowns in reactors at 60 different locations.
There is currently no civil or military plan to restore power to these facilities. And while the military has standards meant to protect key components from the effects of an electromagnetic pulse, there are many areas where those standards don’t apply or where uncertainties remain.
The integration of digital systems—from flight controls to fuel injection—is now part and parcel to military and commercial aviation. The report framed this vulnerability with the loss of a helicopter shortly after it had flown over a high-powered antenna array. The electromagnetic interference caused the helicopter’s digital carburetor to shut off fuel for the engine.
The crash highlights the potential impact an electromagnetic pulse could have on all critical digital components and sensitive receivers like the radar arrays on our aircraft. While most fighter and airlift aircraft incorporate shielding and system backups that would allow for their safe recovery following an electromagnetic pulse, their military utility would, at best, be in question.
In order to protect our infrastructure, the report provides three major recommendations:
First, we must build stronger alliances that can rapidly attribute and then deliver a credible response to deter an aggressor from attempting such an attack. We must motivate state regulators and power companies to secure our electrical grid now, in order to mitigate the severity and duration of the effects of an electromagnetic pulse. Finally, we need to encourage civil-military relationships that can quickly recover the critical components of our infrastructure.
The threat of an electromagnetic pulse generated by a solar storm or nuclear device is real, and the impact it would have on our nation with its current level of readiness is nothing short of disastrous. The steps required to minimize this threat are expensive, but we need to absorb those costs now, as the cost of trying to recover after the fact may prove to be insurmountable.

Story 105
There is growing support for the idea that the short-range ballistic missiles fired by North Korea recently are copies of Russia’s Iskander missile system, otherwise known as the 9K720 or SS-26.Â The Iskander is a highly accurate short-range ballistic missile system that is designed to evade current-day air defense systems and accurately hit its targets.
Experts are studying the trajectory of the recent North Korean launches to see if the ballistic trajectory of the unnamed North Korean missile parallels the performance of the Iskander.
Iskander was designed to evade Western air defense, especially the US Patriot system. Patriot is deployed in South Korea alongside the US THAAD missile defense system, that is primarily designed to counter heavier and longer-range ballistic missiles. Both Patriot and THAAD operate against ballistic missiles mainly in the terminal phase â the last seconds before the incoming missile impacts its target. Most modern missiles at the end-phase of their flight are flying primarily on kinetic energy, with their rocket motors previously expended.
‘Too fast’ for Patriot system
What appears to make the Iskander different is that it operates at relatively high altitude, around 25 miles (40 km) above ground level and then dives to its target, suggesting that it is under power through most of its flight trajectory, if not all. It is flying at Mach 6 to Mach 7 in its terminal phase, making it for all practical purposes a hypersonic weapon, generally defined as above Mach 5. This is much faster than Patriot was designed for, and it likely means that the Patriot system would have difficulty getting a fix on and destroying an incoming Iskander-type weapon.
The Russian Iskander is a nuclear-capable missile, but it comes in two basic types and can support a wide range of warheads.
The two basic types are the Iskander M, which is probably what the North Koreans launched, and the Iskander K, which launches rockets that carry cruise missiles of different types, such as the Kaliber-NK, which is also deployed on Russian submarines and ships and can now apparently be launched by an Iskander rocket, and the KH-101, which is a longer range nuclear-capable cruise missile (some think with a range up to 4,500 km). Both cruise missiles, if launched by an Iskander missile, would penetrate enemy airspace and then drop down to a tree-top level to evade radar tracking, making cruise missiles very difficult to track and kill.
The Iskander M development started in the late 1990s and the missiles were first deployed with Russia’s armed forces in 2006. In 2016 the Iskander was “modernized.” The Iskander-M has an electro-optical terminal guidance system and can be controlled from land or by aircraft or drones. It is said the missile’s trajectory can be modified in flight and some report that the Iskander may be able to hit moving targets as well as fixed sites and locations.
Iskander-M is widely deployed with Russia’s military forces, especially in Crimea and the Kaliningrad Oblast (administrative region) which is Russian territory, and an enclave between Poland and Lithuania on the Baltic Sea. It features an ice-free year-around port at Balitysk for Russia’s Baltic fleet.
Iskander was used in the Georgia war in August 2008, although it is not clear how effectively it performed. Russia also used the Iskander in Syria where the missiles are at the Khmeimim Air Base and may have been used in the battle around Idlib in February 2017, apparently aimed at rebel forces and fired along with less accurate SS-21 Grau (Tochka) missiles, a system that will be phased out by 2020.
Wide range of warheads
The Iskander can be equipped with a wide range of lethal warheads aside from nuclear and cruise missile variants. It can have a cluster munition warhead, principally aimed at tearing up troop formations, a fuel-air explosive, a fragmentation warhead to cause maximum damage to equipment such as radar sites, a bunker buster warhead which attacks underground fortifications or hardened aircraft structures at airfields, and even an Electromagnetic Pulse (EMP) warhead that can knock out radars and other communications.
What types of warheads Russia could have supplied to its export customers isn’t clear. To date, Iskander missiles and systems have been sold to Armenia and Algeria.
South Korea itself has a short-range missile that looks quite a lot like the Iskander called the Hyunmoo-2 (“Black Warrior”).Â There are two variants, the Hyunmoo-2B and Hyunmoo-2C, which have a range of roughly 800 km at the price of a reduced size warhead. Hyunmoo-2 can be equipped with a bunker buster warhead, which appears to be its main purpose. Some experts believe that Russia and South Korea cooperated on the Hyunmoo design, just as Russian fingerprints appear to also be on the North Korean missile. The Chinese DF-12 [M-20] also seems to be a copy of the Russian Iskander.
What is the significance of North Korea’s new Iskander-type missiles?
The missiles could be used against US forces in South Korea, or against South Korea’s airfields, radar sites and other military bases and installations. It would seem they would be effective against the existing missile defense provided that North Korea has enough of an arsenal to carry out a significant attack.
But right now these are just the first tests and a demonstration of the North Korean missile system and it would appear that the main North Korean objective is to show it can take out very high-value military installations in the South in the near future.
Food crisis
North Korea is not only pressuring the United States with its missile tests but trying, in fact, to convince South Korea to separate itself from US policy and proceed toward economic and political cooperation with the North, and to disregard the current sanctions.
It is not very likely this North Korean strategy will achieve a positive result, as the missiles are the only pressure point open to the North.
But the West will have trouble maintaining its economic sanctions with North Korea on the cusp of a major food crisis. The food crisis could topple the Kim regime or at least force him back to the bargaining table fairly quickly, simply to preserve his regime and assure his survival.
Given the food crisis in North Korea, the missile launch seems a furtive and dysfunctional â if not quite foolish â ploy to try to get President Trump’s attention, or at least convince Moon Jae-in to cooperate with the North independently of the United States.

Story 106
StackPath
Sorry, you have been blocked.
This website is using a security service to protect itself from online attacks. You performed an action that triggered the service and blocked your request.

Story 107
ON MARCH 13th 1989 a surge of energy from the sun, from a “coronal mass ejection”, had a startling impact on Canada. Within 92 seconds, the resulting geomagnetic storm took down Quebec’s electricity grid for nine hours. It could have been worse. On July 23rd 2012 particles from a much larger solar ejection blew across the orbital path of Earth, missing it by days. Had it hit America, the resulting geomagnetic storm would have destroyed perhaps a quarter of high-voltage transformers, according to Storm Analysis Consultants in Duluth, Minnesota. Future geomagnetic storms are inevitable.
And that is not the only threat to the grid. A transformer-wrecking electromagnetic pulse (EMP) would be produced by a nuclear bomb, designed to maximise its yield of gamma rays, if detonated high up, be it tethered to a big cluster of weather balloons or carried on a satellite or missile. A midrange missile tested by North Korea on April 29th 2017 exploded 71 kilometres (44 miles) up, well above the 40km or so needed to generate an EMP.
Get our daily newsletter Upgrade your inbox and get our Daily Dispatch and Editor's Picks.
Imagine a nuclear blast occurring somewhere above eastern Nebraska. Radiating outwards, the EMP fries electronics in southern Canada and almost all of the United States save Alaska and Hawaii, both safe below the horizon. It permanently damages the grid’s multimillion-dollar high-voltage transformers. Many are old (their average age is about 40). Some burst into flame, further damaging substations.
America runs on roughly 2,500 large transformers, most with unique designs. But only 500 or so can be built per year around the world. It typically takes a year or more to receive an ordered transformer, and that is when cranes work and lorries and locomotives can be fuelled up. Some transformers exceed 400 tonnes.
After the surge, telecom switches and internet routers are dead. Air-traffic control is down. Within a day, some shoppers in supermarkets turn to looting (many, unable to use credit and debit cards, cannot pay even if they wanted to). After two days, market shelves are bare. On the third day, backup diesel generators begin to sputter out. Though fuel cannot be pumped, siphoning from vehicles, authorised by martial law, keeps most prisons, police stations and hospitals running for another week.
With many troops overseas or tasked with deterring land grabs from opportunist foreign powers, there is only one American “peacekeeper” soldier for every 360 or so civilians. Pillaging accelerates. This leads many with needed skills to stay home to protect their families. Many of the rock climbers who help overwhelmed fire departments free tens of thousands from lifts begin to give up on day four despite the heart-wrenching banging that continues to echo through some elevator shafts.
Utilities can neither treat nor pump water or sewage. Raids on homes thought to have water become frequent and often bloody. Militias soon form to defend or seize control of swimming pools and other water sources. Streams and shovelled-out pits provide water in some areas, but sooner or later rain sweeps in faeces-ridden mud. Deaths from cholera and other diseases multiply.
As relief ships arrive, food, water filters and fuel are offloaded by hand amid chaos, but demand cannot be met even in port cities, much less inland. Where food can be grown without pumped irrigation, rural militias cluster into “aggie alliances” not keen to share with the hordes streaming out of cities. Some aggie alliances hole up in newly abandoned prisons, the better to defend scavenged crops and farm animals. The value of cash collapses along with faith in government.
The death rate picks up. Eventually, months later, about three quarters of the benighted area has power for at least ten hours a day. It would have been worse had 41 countries not dismantled transformers for reassembly in North America. (The most generous donors have to accept rolling blackouts.) Martial law ends six months after the original energy surge. Roughly 350,000 Canadians and 7m Americans have died.
A similar nightmare could happen in any rich country—grids outside America are vulnerable too. Such scenarios necessarily dip into “uncharted territory for an industrialised society”, as Thomas Popik, head of the Foundation for Resilient Societies, a think-tank in New Hampshire, puts it. But shorter blackouts suggest that things can get bad fast. Just three hours after Chile’s grid-collapsing earthquake on February 27th 2010, even relatively wealthy people began looting stuff they did not need. With electricity gone, normal rules had suddenly vanished and “out of control” emotions took over, says Roberto Machiavello, then rear-admiral and top martial-law official in Chile’s Concepción area.
Without soldiers at hospitals, Admiral Machiavello says, doctors would have stayed at home. Less than a week after Hurricane Katrina struck New Orleans in 2005, many police officers opted to protect their families rather than work. Chris Ipsen, spokesman for the Emergency Management Department of Los Angeles, estimates that, with the grid down, Angelenos would be foodless in less than ten days. In poor areas, he reckons, groups would quickly form and say, “Hey, let’s go over to the mansions in Bel Air.”
Insurance, anyone?
In the aftermath of Haiti’s earthquake in January 2010, cholera alone killed at least 10,000. Jacques Boncy, head of Haiti’s National Laboratory of Public Health, reckons that, in three months of blackout in America, faecal contamination of water would kill several million. That might be optimistic. The EMP Commission, an expert group set up by America’s Congress to study the threat, reckoned in 2008 that the first year of societal breakdown could finish off two-thirds of Americans.
A country’s electricity grid can be knocked out in other ways. One is cyber-attack. Hackers cut power to 230,000 Ukrainians in December 2015—but only for hours. Long-term damage from cyber-assaults is unlikely, says Kenneth Geers, a security expert who studied the attack.
What about terrorism? Shooting up transformers at just nine critical substations could bring down America’s grid for months, according to an analysis performed in 2013 by the Department of Energy’s Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), says its then-chairman, Jon Wellinghoff. Others think more transformers would need to be taken out. At any rate, information on which substations are critical is secret. In 2013 gunmen knocked out 17 of 21 transformers at a substation in San Jose. It was not a critical one.
The sun probably poses a greater risk of a sustained outage than hackers or saboteurs. That is one reason the EMP Commission reconvened in January 2017. Kit that protects transformers from EMP also saves them from geomagnetic storms, though the reverse is not true. George Baker, a staffer on the commission and a former boss of EMP research at the Pentagon’s Defence Threat Reduction Agency, says that critical military systems have been EMP-proofed. But other agencies, he says, have done “precious little” to safeguard civilian infrastructure. The commission will issue an updated report in September. It will be as grim as the assessment in 2008, he says.
The expense of installing surge-blockers and other EMP-proofing kit on America’s big transformers is debated. The EMP Commission’s report in 2008 reckoned $3.95bn or less would do it. Others advance higher figures. But a complete collapse of the grid could probably be prevented by protecting several hundred critical transformers for perhaps $1m each.
Yet not much is being done. Barack Obama ordered EMP protection for White House systems, but FERC, the utilities regulator, has not required EMP-proofing. Nor has the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) pushed for a solution or even included EMP in official planning scenarios. (The Pentagon should handle that, DHS officials say; the Pentagon notes that civilian infrastructure is the DHS’s responsibility.) As for exactly what safeguards are or are not needed, the utilities themselves are best equipped to decide, says Brandon Wales, the DHS’s head of infrastructure analysis.
But the utilities’ industry group, the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC), argues that, because EMP is a matter of national security, it is the government’s job. NERC may anyway be in no rush. It took a decade to devise a vegetation-management plan after, in 2003, an Ohio power line sagged into branches and cut power to 50m north-easterners at a cost of roughly $6bn. NERC has repeatedly and successfully lobbied Congress to prevent legislation that would require EMP-proofing. That is something America, and the world, could one day regret.

Story 108
StackPath
Sorry, you have been blocked.
This website is using a security service to protect itself from online attacks. You performed an action that triggered the service and blocked your request.

Story 109
While some of the world’s prestige luxury brands cut prices on their signature products — Apple and Tesla come to mind — eating out at New York’s most heralded high end establishments is only getting spendier.
As of the new year, a dinner for two at Thomas Keller’s Per Se costs more than $700 before wine, tax, or supplements. And a wine-paired dinner date at Daniel Humm and Will Guidara’s Eleven Madison Park will top $1,100 — about as much as last minute tickets to Hamilton.
Last year, both restaurants hiked their prices around the same time.
High labor costs are likely to blame. The city’s minimum wage for most businesses creeped up $1.50 to $15 per hour at the end of December. And the state exemption rates — the minimum salaries businesses can compensate workers without having to pay overtime — jumped up to $58,500, nearly $16,000 higher than it was just over a year ago.
Staffers at both Per Se and Eleven Madison likely earn well above that, but rising labor costs trickle throughout the workforce, prompting better-paid workers to ask for raises as well.
The price of the tasting at Eleven Madison, specifically, has risen by $20 to $335 in the new year. That modest 6 percent increase is confined to the dinner menu. Reservations are fully prepaid via Tock, which means a party of two must put down a nonrefundable deposit of $729 at the time of booking. The wine pairing for the longer menu remains $175, and the shorter bar menu, available for walk-ins, and which I praised last year, is also still $175.
A spokesperson for Eleven Madison attributed the hikes to the rising minimum wage.
Per Se did not respond to a request for comment. Keller’s restaurant, located on the fourth floor of the Time Warner Center, raised the price of its nine-course dinner menu by $15 to $355 in 2019, making it the city’s third most expensive restaurant after Masa ($595), and Brooklyn Fare (~$363). Per Se, like Eleven Madison, holds three Michelin stars, but has faced tougher words from local critics in years past, including this one.
Value can be tough to come by at Per Se. Unlike Eleven Madison or Brooklyn Fare, Keller’s restaurant levies supplemental fees for many of its luxury ingredients. If a solo diner adds on foie gras ($30), high-end caviar ($60), wagyu ($100) and white truffles ($175), the price of dinner can hop to $720, or easily $900 after wine and tax per person. An ultra-luxurious meal for two, with all the supplements and wine, would cost about $1,800. The shorter five-course salon menu, priced at $195 last year, is now $225 per person.
It’s unclear what marginal effect, if any, the price hikes might have on Per Se’s ability to attract diners or private events. The restaurant reportedly pulls in $24 million in revenue per year. Indeed, the city’s larger hospitality industry remains strong; with employment near a 10-year-high, more restaurants may be able to raise prices as well.
That all said, reservations at Per Se, available via Tock for a refundable deposit of $95 per person, are not currently hard to come by. And at the time of publication, tables at Eleven Madison are readily available for most days in February.
Incidentally, the prices at both venues aren’t far removed from those at the city’s burgeoning class of sushi at omakase spots. Uchu, Amane, Noz, and Onodera all ask $300 plus for dinner.

Story 110
Electromagnetic pulse [EMP] devices could be used by terrorists to fry life support machines Horrific new weapons which can destroy hospital life support machines or bring down airliners can easily be made by terrorists, a former government spy warned.
Ex-secret service operative consultant Cosmo Clark said the Electro-Magnetic Pulse [EMP] devices can be made from common items, including camera flashes, for as little as $5.
They unleash a huge wave of invisible energy, destroying anything electronic in their immediate vicinity, and are totally undetectable to security scanners.
Cosmo fears the weapons could be used to mount outrages on hospitals – killing any patients on life support machines or undergoing surgery.
They could easily be sneaked onto an airliner and used by a suicidal terrorist to make it crash, or spark widespread anarchy if used to destroy vital banking systems.
Cosmo, who is now an author and hides his real identity behind a pen name told Metro.co.uk: ‘An EMP uses electricity to generate a massive, very fast magnetic field, which shoots out and completely destroys the circuitry of anything electronic in its path.
Hospital patients could be targets by terrorists using low-tech devices to destroy life-support machines
An EMP device could also be let off on a plane by a suicide attacker (Picture: Getty Images) ‘What you’re doing is getting electricity and ramping it up to create as many volts as you can from it, before setting them off in one go, in a tiny fraction of time.
Advertisement
Advertisement
‘If used near a hospital they could destroy life support machines keeping sick patients alive, or kill anyone undergoing surgery.
‘A suicide attacker could use one on a plane to fry its wiring and make it crash – or even get in a lift with a top politician and send it plummeting to the ground.’
‘There are instructions on how to build these devices online.
‘There’s no preparation or expense, and there’s a lot more opportunity to go after smaller targets, like high value individuals.
‘You could potentially use an EMP to destroy the economy by taking down the banking system and stock exchange.
‘Most of the money in our world is virtual and doesn’t actually exist.’
Expert Cosmo Clark warned EMP devices are currently untracable, meaning they will evade airport scanners
Cosmo said the government is now taking the threat posed by EMP devices seriously, and ‘rapidly expanding’ research and monitoring.
He said simple ‘Faraday Cages’ can be used to shield electronics from EMP attacks – but also warned it would cost billions to protect all electronics in this way.
Cosmo’s novel Blue Eyed Infidel is available on Amazon now

Story 111
PARAMUS, N.J., June 17, 2019 /PRNewswire/ -- Advanced Data Systems Corp. (substance abuse billing), a leading national provider of facility-based clinical substance abuse revenue cycle management, and patient workflow solutions for behavioral health and addiction treatment centers, participated and presented in panel discussions at Behavioral Health Resources' EMP Series on the real world challenges faced by addiction disorder treatment organizations. The conference was held at the Riviera Beach Events Center in Riviera Beach, FL.
Organized by Charles Davis and Behavioral Health Network Resources, a drug rehab SEO marketing agency, the conference brought together leading executives from addiction treatment centers in an interesting forum of meetings, presentations, and panel discussions devoted to the tribulations treatment centers face today from clinical workflow design, to utilizing disparate systems, to the importance of having a tracking tool for outcomes.
Jim Woods, ADS Vice President of Behavioral Health Services participated in two of the conference's discussion groups. Mr. Woods noted, "Addiction treatment facilities are such high priority, critically needed organizations for supporting people struggling with addictions, and their families. Today, these organizations and providers are depended upon to develop individualized treatment plans and appropriate medical care that will guide people on a path to sobriety. Yet, it's those very organizations that find themselves utilizing numerous disconnected pre-admission, clinical, and financial applications. The treatment center industry is struggling to streamline processes and to get improved access to data leading to staff efficiency. Unfortunately, these organizations just aren't there yet."
Mr. Woods continued, "That's why leveraging single platform technologies that manage every aspect of your facility are vitally important. Tightening insurance reimbursements, growing wait lists for admissions, and steadily-increasing insurance and government oversight are driving healthcare organizations to overhaul their current infrastructures. Anything less means operating at a disadvantage. It's really the driving force behind the new vision of healthcare excellence."
The MedicsCloud Suite from ADS includes comprehensive registration, CRM, a certified EHR and billing platform, and wide-ranging financial and management dashboards designed to provide real world solutions to the real world challenges being faced by addiction treatment and behavioral health organizations today.
Mr. Woods ended by saying, "ADS strives to help addiction disorder and behavioral health organizations overcome these challenges with intelligent technology for all levels of care."
Contact ADS at 800-899-4237, Ext. 2264 or email info@adsc.com for more information on the MedicsCloud Suite and/or for a MedicsRCM assessment on how your revenue can be increased, typically by 10% - 20%.
Media Contact: Marc E. Klar, Vice President, Marketing; 216449@email4pr.com, 800-899-4237, Ext. 2061.
SOURCE Advanced Data Systems Corp.
Related Links
https://www.adsc.com


Story 112
Audacious times generate audacious efforts, especially when national pride and security are perceived to be at stake. Such was the case in the 1950s and 1960s, with the Space Race that started with a Russian sphere whizzing around the planet and ended with Neil Armstrong’s footprint on the Moon. But at the same time, other efforts were underway to answer big questions of national import, such as determining how durable the United States’ strategic assets were, and whether they could withstand the known effects of electromagnetic pulse (EMP), a high-intensity burst of electromagnetic energy that could potentially disable a plane in flight. Finding out just what an EMP could do to a plane would take big engineering and a large forest’s worth of trees.
Planes and Pulses
Like most Cold War projects, the Air Force Weapons Lab Transmission-line Aircraft Simulator, or ATLAS-1, was enormous in every way. As much a work of deterrence theatre as it was a serious project to measure hardening of strategic assets, ATLAS-1 had to be big. By the time it was conceived in the late 1960s, much was known about the effects of EMP on civilian and military hardware. Having been somewhat accidentally discovered in 1962 during the Starfish Prime atmospheric nuclear tests in the Marshall Islands, which produced an EMP strong enough to disrupt electrical systems in Hawaii, EMPs were instantly recognized as a threat to military hardware that had to be dealt with.
Testing on EMP hardening of military hardware, primarily aircraft, was conducted at a feverish pace throughout the 1960s, mainly at Kirtland Air Force Base outside of Albuquerque, New Mexico. The basics of testing were simple enough — build an electrical pulse generator big enough to simulate an EMP, aim it at an aircraft, and see what happens. At least 18 separate EMP test facilities were built, each designed to test different parameters as aircraft systems became more complicated with the introduction of avionics and flight computers.
But almost all of these test stands suffered from a basic flaw — the aircraft under test was parked on the ground. This subjected them to a rapid double pulse of EMP, one incident from the pulse generator and another an instant later as the primary pulse was reflected by the tarmac. It could be possible that the double whammy would look powerful enough to kill an aircraft, while the same pulse in free space would leave the plane unharmed.
Short of detonating a nuke in the atmosphere and watching what happens to planes, there are only two ways to test EMP on aircraft in flight: move the plane away from the ground, or move the ground away from the plane. Dr. Charles Baum, at the time a captain in the Air Force, was in charge of development of ATLAS-1, and he realized that the latter option was the more practical. He envisioned a large platform built entirely of dielectric material so as not to couple with incident EMP. The platform would be built to take advantage of natural features of the landscape so that the ground would be as far below the aircraft as possible, making it look electrically as if the plane were in flight.
As simple as it sounds, the engineering behind ATLAS-1 was challenging, to say the least. Considering that the primary goal of the project was to test strategic assets like the B-52 Stratofortress and the E-4 National Emergency Airborne Command Post (NEACP), the modified Boeing 747 that serves as the “Flying White House” in times of emergency, the platform would have to be enormous. Given the weight of aircraft like these, the structure would also have to be enormously strong. Add in the fact that the supporting structure could contain no pieces of metal more than a few inches long, and some creative thinking was going to be necessary.
While surveying potential sites at Kirtland for ATLAS-1, Dr. Baum’s team identified a natural arroyo near the end of one of the runways. The site reminded Dr. Baum of pictures of the old West, with railroads flying across sagebrush-covered valleys on sturdy trestles built of massive timbers. He reasoned that if a wooden trestle could be built to support a loaded train, certainly one could support a B-52. Thus was born the Trestle.
The Trestle
The Trestle would take years to design and build. Everything about it was enormous — 200 feet (61 m) square, 120 feet (37 m) off the floor of the excavated arroyo, with a ramp 50 feet (15 m) wide and 400 feet (122 m) long to wheel planes onto it. Built almost entirely of Douglas Fir and Southern Yellow Pine, the lumber used in the Trestle and associated structures totaled 6.5 million board feet (154,000 cubic meters), consuming a sizable fraction of the output of the sawmills of the Pacific Northwest and Georgia for many months.
The timbers specified by the structural engineers were often far too large to be milled from a single tree — some were as thick as 40 inches (1 m). These timbers were produced by glue-lamination, where thinner boards are glued up under heat and pressure to form massive elements. Some were so large that they took three railroad cars to transport and were placed with 20-ton cranes.
Assembling these massive timbers into a structure that would be essentially transparent to radio frequency waves required innovative joinery. We’re all used to seeing wooden roller coasters, with thousands of timbers bolted together with galvanized bolts that are inspected and tightened regularly. But the Trestle needed to have no parts that could reflect the EMP back toward the plane, so huge bolts were out. Instead, dielectric fasteners on wood and fiberglass were used, in addition to small steel split rings set into joints to reinforce them.
Even though the highly combustible structure was engineered to stand with a plane on it for four hours after catching fire, there was a suppression system laced throughout the timbers, which was, of course, entirely non-metallic. The result of all this engineering was a platform strong enough to park a B-52 on with its engines running, large enough to allow the plane to be positioned at multiple angles to the EMP, and still be electrically invisible.
Something in the Gigawatt Range
But the Trestle itself was not the only huge aspect of ATLAS-1. The whole point of the thing was to bathe aircraft in extremely high powered EMP, and the generators, or pulsers, used to accomplish that earned superlatives of their own. Housed in fiberglass structures filled with sulfur hexafluoride and sitting high above the end of the platform on their own wooden trestles, the dual EMP generators flanked a wedge-shaped steel structure that pointed directly at the platform.
The Wedge was the only conductive structure near the test area and served as a ground plane for the Marx generators, which used banks of capacitors to discharge up to 10 megavolts into transmission lines strung above and to the sides of the platform. The transmission lines were connected to yet another wooden structure at the far end of the ramp that housed an enormous resistive load with a 50-ohm nominal impedance. The termination was considerably larger than the dummy load a ham might use to tune an antenna, though; the generators were capable of producing 200-gigawatt pulses lasting as little as 100 nanoseconds, which was perfect for simulating the effects of a nuclear-initiated EMP.
Simulations Always Win
Testing on planes began in 1980. Loading the enormous warbirds onto the platform was the most dangerous part of testing, especially for the B-52; while it’s belly landing gear was narrow enough to fit on the ramp, the outrigger wheels near the ends of the 185 foot (56 m) wingspan dangled over the arroyo, giving no support to the plane if it was to suddenly roll. Despite the dangers, no serious injuries were ever reported during the life of ATLAS-1. The facility conducted hundreds of tests on dozens of aircraft, including the B1B Lancer, every jet fighter from the F-14 to the F/A-18, and most of the aircraft of the Presidential Airlift Group.
Progress would catch up with the Trestle, both in terms of politics and technology. By 1991, with the Cold War over and improvements in computers allowing better simulations, the need for destructive EMP testing was gone. The Trestle still stands in the arroyo to this day, baking in the high New Mexico desert. Efforts are afoot to preserve it as a national monument, which only seems fitting given how much engineering went into it.

Story 113
StackPath
Sorry, you have been blocked.
This website is using a security service to protect itself from online attacks. You performed an action that triggered the service and blocked your request.

Story 114
Directory of Suppliers 2019
EMP 2019 Electronics Manufacturing & Production Handbook, Manufacturing / Production Technology, Hardware & Services
AAW Electronic Enterprises Brands: Alpha, Blaster, Caterpillar, Cramolin, Fluke, Jet-Lube, Kester, KillStat/Bondline, Knipex, Loctite, Magnum, Plato, Siglent, Tech-Spray, Weller, Wiha Tool, equipment and consumables supplier AAW Electronic Enterprises is an importer and distributor of ESD equipment, solder wire, bar and paste, soldering and rework equipment, precision and general tools, bench top and field test equipment to the electronics manufacturing and electrical industries. 392 Umbilo Road, Durban, KwaZulu-Natal Contact: Bradley Baillache Tel: +27 31 205 0036 aaw@intekom.co.za www.aawelectronics.co.za Advanced Digital Devices Tool, equipment and consumables supplier Unit 17, Bond Street Business Park, Corner Bond and Kent Streets, Randburg, Gauteng Tel: +27 11 789 4420 sales@addvid.co.za www.addvid.co.za Allan McKinnon & Associates Brands: Heller Reflow, ITW/Cramolin, JUKI SMD Placement, Kester, Kolb PCB Cleaning Technology, Weller Tools Tool, equipment and consumables supplier/Productivity & manufacturability solutions/software Allan McKinnon & Associates has been serving the electronics industry for over 40 years through the sale and rental of high-technology SMT production equipment and the distribution of European-made production consumables. Its mission is to remain a major supplier of production equipment, related consumables and technical information for the companies operating within the industry. 467 Felstead Road, North Riding, Randburg, Gauteng Contact: Vangeli Glyptis Tel: +27 11 704 3020 info@testerion.co.za www.ama-sa.co.za Allbro Enclosure manufacturer/Tool, equipment and consumables supplier Corner 13th Avenue and Dormehl Street, Anderbolt, Boksburg North, Gauteng Tel: +27 11 894 8341 sales@allbro.com www.allbro.com Altico Static Control Solutions Johannesburg, Cape Town, Port Elizabeth, Richards Bay, Durban Brands: ACL Staticide, Cleantex, UTZ, Hans Kolb, IDI, Laja Pro, Polyflor, Simco-Ion, Levosil Tool, equipment and consumables supplier/Training & certification Core business offering in electronics manufacturing and production sector Altico Static Control Solutions, a division of Actum Electronics, is the only business in southern Africa focusing exclusively on ESD control. It is the exclusive representative of many of the world’s leading suppliers of ESD products, and offers complete ESD audits and a range of products for static control. Unit A8, The Stables Business Park, 13 3rd Road, Linbro Park, Johannesburg, Gauteng Contact: Kevin Klaff Tel: +27 11 608 3001 sales@actum.co.za www.actum.co.za AREI Electronic component distributors and manufacturers association Association of Representatives for the Electronics industry. Contact: Jenny Gooding Tel: +27 11 462 3256 info@arei.co.za www.arei.co.za ASIC Design Services Productivity & manufacturability solutions/software/Training & certification Thandanani Office Park, Invicta Road, Midrand, Gauteng Tel: +27 11 315 8316 info@asic.co.za www.asic.co.za Automated Electromechanical Production Cable assembly/Enclosure manufacturer/Service provider/contract manufacturer Core business offering in electronics manufacturing and production sector Automated Electromechanical Production provides a fully integrated electronic solution, taking innovative projects and ideas to new heights. Its in-house offering covers plastic and metal enclosure design and manufacturing, complete PCB assembly and product integration, and finishing products off with custom stickers or laser engraving, according to customers’ needs. 510 Jasmyn Avenue, Silverton, Gauteng Contact: Leon Vos Tel: +27 12 804 0019 info@electronicproduction.co.za www.electronicproduction.co.za Barracuda Holdings Service provider/contract manufacturer Barracuda Holdings is a privately owned and dedicated high-technology contract electronics manufacturer (CEM), offering a complete service from materials procurement to final product assembly and packaging. The company is ISO 9001:2015 certified, and boasts a passionate and highly experienced team spanning all disciplines. Unit1, Bataleur Park, Olive Grove Industrial Estate, Somerset West, Western Cape Contact: Ryan Webb Tel: +27 21 851 3357 ryan@ivorygroup.co.za www.barracudaholdings.co.za Battery Guys Cape Town, Durban Brands: Minamoto, Dyno, SAFT, Forbatt, Panasonic, Energizer Battery pack design Battery Guys specialises in the design and manufacture of battery packs, and offers turnkey solutions to its customers in the electronics market. Through its experience in the industry, the company has formed strong working relationships with its overseas factories and local customers to ensure the highest-quality solution is offered. 130 Seventh Avenue, Edenvale, Gauteng Contact: Troy Browne Tel: +27 11 452 3914 sales@batteryguys.co.za www.batteryguys.co.za Bosco Printed Circuits PCB supplier/manufacturer 1 Terrace Road, Eastleigh, Edenvale, Gauteng Tel: +27 11 452 1413 peter@bosco.co.za www.bosco.co.za Cadshop Laser de-panelling 211A Valyland Office Suites, Upper Recreation Road, Fish Hoek, Western Cape Tel: +27 82 377 0052 cadshop@vodamail.co.za www.cadshop.co.za Centurion Systems Security/access control OEM Unit 13 Northlands Production Park, Corner Epsom Avenue and Newmarket Road, North Riding, Gauteng Tel: +27 11 699 2400 charl.mijnhardt@centurionsystems.co.za www.centsys.com CET Manufacturing PCB supplier/manufacturer CET is a manufacturer and importer of printed circuit boards – single sided, double sided and multilayer, and 100% netlist tested. It supplies defence and aerospace spec multilayers, flex and flex-rigid, aluminium and heatsink/thermal PCBs. Any PCB requirements can be met, including blind and buried vias, copper and resin filled vias, HDI and quick-turn prototypes. 19 Pieter Street, Highveld Technopark, Centurion, Gauteng Contact: Rudi Koekemoer Tel: +27 12 665 4860 circuits@ccza.com www.ccza.com ChipOnBoard Service provider/contract manufacturer 10 Kinsman Road, Unit 9, Kinsman Industrial Park, New Germany, KwaZulu-Natal Tel: +27 31 811 4626 info@chiponboard.co.za Christensen Tools Tool and test equipment supplier 11 Jules Street, Jeppestown, Johannesburg, Gauteng Tel: +27 11 618 3200 sales@christensen.co.za www.christensen.co.za Circuitboard Manufacturing PCB supplier/manufacturer/Service provider/contract manufacturer Unit 7, Hennops Industrial Park, 167 Edison Crescent, Centurion, Gauteng Tel: +27 11 653 0055 sales@circuitboard.co.za www.circuitboard.co.za Circuit Board Technology PCB supplier/manufacturer 59 Derby Road, Lorentzville, Johannesburg, Gauteng Tel: +27 11 618 3025 faroukv@worldonline.co.za Cirtech Electronics PCB supplier/manufacturer Cirtech House, Unit A 12 Stibitz Road, Westlake Business Park, 2 Tokai, Cape Town, Western Cape Tel: +27 21 700 4910 info@cirtech-electronics.com www.cirtech-electronics.com Clearline Protection Systems Lightning & surge protection manufacturer Corporate Park North, Clearline House, Roan Crescent, Midrand, Gauteng Tel: +27 11 848 1100 tanya@clearline.co.za www.clearline.co.za CORDS Cable assembly Unit 6, Hyde Park A, 362 Ottery Road, Ottery, Western Cape Tel: +27 21 703 5836 sales@cords.co.za www.cords.co.za DDZ Technologies Service provider/contract manufacturer 93 Adriana Crescent, Gateway Industrial Park, Centurion, Gauteng Tel: +27 12 661 0728 info@ddztech.co.za www.ddztech.co.za Deman Manufacturing Service provider/contract manufacturer 10 Steenbok Street, Koedoespoort, Pretoria, Gauteng Tel: +27 12 403 8000 sales@deman.co.za www.deman-mfg.co.za Designium Service provider/contract manufacturer 34 High Street, Deneysville, Free State Tel: +27 16 371 2238 info@designium.co.za www.designium.co.za Diel Manufacturing Service provider/contract manufacturer Diel Manufacturing offers full turnkey electronic contract manufacturing from prototypes right through to high-volume production. Services include part procurement and management, assembly, testing, mechanical integration through to packaging and shipping. The company has a comprehensive ISO 9001:2015 management system that ensures that top quality is maintained at all times. 33 Estmil Road, Diep River, Cape Town, Western Cape Contact: Brandon Weavind Tel: +27 21 715 1120 manufacturing@diel.co.za www.dielmanufacturing.co.za Eagle Micro Systems OEM/Service provider/contract manufacturer Shop 29 Kilburn Shopping Centre, 117 Kilburn Street, Discovery, Roodepoort, Gauteng Tel: 086 111 1660 info@eaglemicro.co.za www.eaglemicro.co.za Edge Assembly Service provider/contract manufacturer Edge Assembly is owner-managed and focused on providing its customers with not only price competitiveness and strict quality requirements, but the personal service that makes its customers feel like partners in the business. Edge Assembly’s flexibility enables it to meet its customers’ priorities, expectations and challenges more easily. 9B Laurel Crescent, Merrivale Industrial, Howick, KwaZulu-Natal Contact: Alan Robertson Tel: +27 82 806 4069 alan@edgeassembly.co.za www.edgeassembly.co.za Electronic Industry Supplies Brands: Ingun, Heraeus, pbt Works, Spectrum Control, ECD, Batten & Allen, API Technologies, Vliesstoff Kasper, Zestron, Connec, ASMETEC, Haldemann & Porret, Haver & Boecker, Holders Technology, Holland Shielding Systems, JBC, Metro, Mekki Technologies, Weetech Tool, equipment and consumables supplier Electronic Industry Supplies has been in existence since 12 July 1988 and in that time has moved from strength to strength. The main thrust of the business is the supplying of imported electronic and electrical components and related materials. 25 Loch Avenue, Parktown, Johannesburg, Gauteng Contact: Helmut Reussenzehn Tel: +27 11 726 6758 hreispty@iafrica.com www.eispty.co.za Electronic Touch Systems Touch systems manufacturer Local design and manufacture of high-quality membrane switches, fibre-optic backlit membrane switches and overlays, tactile key embossing, electroluminescent backlit membrane switches, panels and labels. 165 Beyers Naude Drive, Northcliff, Johannesburg, Gauteng Contact: Patrick Thomas Tel: +27 11 782 3346 touch@global.co.za www.electouch.co.za Elmatica AS PCB supplier/manufacturer Grensen 12, N-0159, Oslo, Norway Tel: +27 60 656 4484 sebastian.ndlovu@elmatica.com www.elmatica.com ExecuKit Service provider/contract manufacturer ExecuKit offers a different and more cost-effective approach to electronic component procurement and kitting. ExecuKit’s goal is to provide its customers with a seamless chain of kit supply. Quality and on-time delivery are a given. 48 Richard Road, Stuart House Industria North, Randburg, Gauteng Contact: Renita Fleischer Tel: +27 11 477 4760 renita.fleischer@execukit.co.za www.execukit.co.za Gihon Cables Wire extrusion 128 Seilskip Road, Laser Park, Honeydew, Gauteng Tel: +27 11 795 2222 ray@macrowatt.co.za www.macrowatt.co.za Hiconnex Cable assembly/Tool, equipment and consumables supplier 20 Adriana Crescent, Gateway Industrial Park, Centurion, Gauteng Tel: +27 11 661 6779 sales@hiconnex.co.za www.hiconnex.co.za Impro Technologies Security/access control OEM 47B Gillitts Road, Surprise Farm, Pinetown, KwaZulu-Natal Tel: +27 31 717 0700 info@impro.net www.impro.net Inhep Electronics Holdings Security/access control OEM 91 Escom Road, New Germany, Durban, KwaZulu-Natal Tel: +27 31 705 1373 info@idsprotect.com www.idsprotect.com IPD Electronics Brands: America II, Amtek, Treston Tool, equipment and consumables supplier IPD Electronics represents America II, Amtek and Treston in South Africa. The company has established itself as a reliable supplier of electronic components, as well as industrial furniture/workstations suitable for use in ESD protected areas (EPA). It provides solutions to specific production needs, cost saving, kitting and AS6081 military-grade testing. 118 Bavaria Road, Louwlardia, Centurion, Gauteng Contact: Giuseppe Schito Tel: +27 71 355 7208 giuseppe@ipdelectronics.com www.ipdelectronics.com/ JDK Harnessing Cable assembly 25B Railway Avenue, Benoni, Gauteng Tel: +27 84 704 1570 donald@jdkharnessing.co.za www.jdkharnessing.co.za Jemstech Service provider/contract manufacturer Jemstech’s business as a turnkey electronics manufacturing services (EMS) provider is to partner with original equipment manufacturers (OEM) to accurately manufacture their electronic products with reliability and punctuality. Jemstech’s purpose is clear – converting clients’ innovative product technology into engineered products, and connecting clients with the most capable supply base. 118 Bavaria Road, Louwlardia, Centurion, Gauteng Contact: Gerrie Jansen Tel: +27 12 349 2492 gpjansen@jemstech.co.za www.jemstech.co.za Keystone Electronic Solutions Research and development 469 Julius Jeppe Street, Waterkloof, Pretoria, Gauteng Tel: +27 12 460 4135 info@kses.net www.kses.net Kreon Technology OEM/Service provider/contract manufacturer Suite U12, The Enterprise Building, The Innovation Hub, Hotel Street, Persequor, Gauteng Tel: +27 12 844 0930 info@kreon.co.za www.kreon.co.za Laser Stencil Technology Brands: DEK Pneumatic Frames, SAWA Ultrasonic Cleaners, Zelflex Pneumatic Frames, Superlabels (Polyimide labels) Stencil and precision metal parts manufacturer Laser Stencil Technology is a manufacturer and supplier of solder paste stencils and precision metal parts to the local electronics manufacturing industry. Laser Stencil Technology recently added Superlabels (Polyimide high-temperature labels) to its product range. 2 Naaf Street, Strijdompark, Randburg, Gauteng Contact: Donovan Jeffery Tel: +27 11 793 1318 stencils@lstec.co.za www.lstec.co.za Lauren Manufacturing Tool, equipment and consumables supplier 1 Caroline Street, Eastgate Gardens, Commerical Park, Marlboro, Gauteng Tel: +27 11 444 9009 sales@magnumproducts.co.za www.magnumproducts.co.za Leratadima Tellumat Manufacturing Cable assembly/Service provider/contract manufacturer 64 - 74 White Road, Retreat, Cape Town, Western Cape Tel: +27 21 710 2765 jvantoorn@ltmanufacturing.com www.ltmanufacturing.com Macrowatt Cable assembly Stand 128, Seilskip Road, Laser Park, Honeydew, Gauteng Tel: +27 11 795 2222 terry@macrowatt.co.za www.macrowatt.co.za Martin Electronics Security/access control OEM 26 Kindon Road, Robertsham, Johannesburg, Gauteng Tel: +27 11 433 4084 orders@martin-electronics.co.za www.martin-electronics.co.za Mateq Systems Brands: MultiMac, National Instruments PXI, LabView, TestStand Automated test solutions provider Mateq Systems provides off-the-shelf and custom test solutions. 7 Ermelo Street, Wierda Park X2, Gauteng Contact: Hennie Bosch Tel: +27 12 665 1770 sales@mateq.co.za www.mateq.co.za Membrane Switch Technologies Membrane switch manufacturer Manufacturer and supplier of membrane switches, polycarbonate facias, vinyl labels, flexible copper circuitry and laser cutting of plastics. Block H, Georgian Place, 18 Southway Road, Kelvin, Sandton, Gauteng Contact: Colin Jennings Tel: +27 11 887 1227 info@membraneswitch.co.za www.membraneswitch.co.za Microtronix Manufacturing Brands: Insele Solar Chargers, Kivah AudiBible Service provider/contract manufacturer Microtronix specialises in PC board assembly for the mining, military, automotive, security and various other commercial industries. It is able to provide turnkey manufacturing services including, but not limited to, SMD placements, conventional placement, testing and programming, full product assembly, conformal coating, PCB washing and component procurement. 67 CR Swart Drive, StrijdomPark, Randburg, Johannesburg, Gauteng Contact: Rebecca Elsey Tel: +27 11 792 5322 info@microtronix.co.za www.microtronix.co.za Montar Manufacturing Service provider/contract manufacturer 7 Gert Kotze Street, Brackenfell, Cape Town, Western Cape Tel: +27 21 981 5682 montar@montar.co.za www.montar.co.za Mykay Tronics Brands: Aqueous Technologies, Asscon Vapour Phase Technology, Axxon Automation, BP Microsystems, BTU Reflow Ovens, Charles Water, Conceptronic, Desco, DIMA, Ebso, EMS Technologies, Folungwin, Goepel Electronic, Henkel, Kyzen, LPMS International, Menda, Multicore, Mydata, Mycronic, Nordson DAGE, PACE Worldwide, Pillarhouse International, Protektive Pak, Right, SPEA, Statguard Flooring, Suit in, V-TEK International Tool, equipment and consumables supplier MyKay Tronics is the sole agency for a number of market leaders in SA for electronic production equipment and consumables. The company is the local distributor for pick-and-place machines, reflow ovens, selective wave soldering, rework stations, solder wire/paste, solder bar, flux, PCB washing machines, component counters, tools, cutters and more. 27 Newquay Road, New Redruth, Alberton, Gauteng Contact: Dean Rodger Tel: +27 11 869 0049 mykay@iafrica.com www.mykaytronics.com Nordson EFD Fluid dispensing solutions Nordson EFD precision dispensing systems deliver consistent and reliable deposits that improve yields and reduce costs in the electronics assembly process. From benchtop dispensers to multiple axis robots and valve systems, the company provides the best solutions for the dispensing of solder paste, flux, UV adhesives, silicone, cyanoacrylates, epoxies and more. Unit 40 Northgate Business Park, Block A, Gold Street, Northgate Estate, Brooklyn, Western Cape Contact: Preston Bowman Tel: +27 79 693 5572 preston.bowman@nordson.com www.nordsonefd.com North Bridge Technologies Service provider/contract manufacturer 84 Jean Avenue, Doringkloof, Centurion, Gauteng Tel: +27 12 667 4655 wynand@northbridge.co.za www.northbridge.co.za Omnigo Service provider/contract manufacturer 320 Kuit Street, Waltloo, Pretoria, Gauteng Contact: Pieter de Nysschen Tel: +27 12 803 8218 sales@omnigo.co.za www.omnigo.co.za Otto Wireless Solutions Brands: MC Technologies, Chang Hong, Beyondoor Cable assembly Besides its full support of RF and wireless products, Otto Wireless Solutions manufactures a variety of cost-effective and reliable RF cable assemblies, with customised lengths and connector types to choose from. It also lists a number of standard length cables which cover a wide market demand. 58 Wakis Avenue, Strijdompark, Randburg, Gauteng Contact: Chris Viveiros Tel: +27 11 791 1033 wireless@otto.co.za www.otto.co.za P24 Interconnect Cable assembly 137 Rover Road, Rustivia, Germiston, Gauteng Tel: +27 87 808 1652 sales@projects24.net www.projects24.net P. Beulich Sheet Metal Manufacturers Enclosure manufacture 46 Lower Germiston Road, Heriotdale, Johannesburg, Gauteng Tel: +27 83 270 3255 garthbeulich@gmail.com www.pbeulich.co.za Pam Landman (t/a IJ-CCAL) Service provider/contract manufacturer/CAD PCB layout designer Zandspruit Road, Farmall, Chartwell, Johannesburg, Gauteng Tel: +27 82 894 4145 pam@ij-ccal.co.za www.ij-ccal.co.za Phahama Systems Development Service provider/contract manufacturer 19 Pieter Street, Highveld Technopark, Centurion, Gauteng Tel: +27 12 665 4750 hosiam@phahama.com www.phahama.com Priben Distribution Tool, equipment and consumables supplier Unit 2, Motor City, 26 Main Reef Road, Langlaagte, Johannesburg, Gauteng Tel: +27 11 473 2149 info@priben.co.za www.priben.co.za Projects Concern Manufacturing Service provider/contract manufacturer 2 Friesland Drive, Longmeadow Business Estate, Edenvale, Gauteng Tel: +27 11 608 5210 sean@projectsconcern.co.za www.projectsconcern.co.za Quamba Technologies Brands: MBTech, Hanwha Precision Machinery, ESE, Seho, TTnS Inc., TWS Automation, Carton Optical Industries, Fonton, Gen 3, Mechatronic Systems, Surclean, Taiwan Drytech Tool, equipment and consumables supplier Quamba Technologies is a supplier of production equipment from leading global manufacturers, providing excellent local technical and after-sales support. 32A Kloof Road, Bedfordview, Johannesburg, Gauteng Contact: Igmar Grewar Tel: +27 83 417 4294 igmar@quamba.co.za www.quamba.co.za Radel Cable assembly/OEM Box 4364, Cresta, 2118, Johannesburg, Gauteng Tel: +27 72 061 7315 mabitje@radel.co.za www.radel.co.za Robert Bosch South Africa Brands: Bosch, SEG Automotive, Chassis Brakes International, other non-automotive brands OEM Bosch offers a world-class manufacturing facility based in Brits, specialising in electronic printed circuit board assembly for both automotive and non-automotive use where quality is key. 33 Riet Rautenbach Street, Brits Industrial, Brits, North West Province Contact: Maritz Botha Tel: +27 12 381 3446 maritz.botha@za.bosch.com www.bosch.co.za RS Components Brands: RS Pro, Electronic Assembly, Weller, Stannol, Multicore, Ersa, 3M, Ansell Additive manufacturing (3D printing)/Tool, equipment and consumables supplier RS Components is a global e-commerce distributor of electronic components and industrial products from prototyping to production, offering over 500 000 products across 2500 global brands, delivered within 4-6 working days. Its offering covers electronics bench test and measurement, soldering/desoldering, ESD control and cleanroom, tools and consumables, and 3D printing. 20 Indianapolis Street, Kyalami Business Park, Midrand, Gauteng Tel: +27 11 691 9300 sales.za@rs-components.com www.rsonline.co.za Sabertek Cable assembly/OEM/Service provider/contract manufacturer 77 Adriana Crescent, Gateway Industrial Park, Rooihuiskraal, Centurion, Gauteng Tel: +27 12 653 0008 info@sabertek.co.za www.sabertek.co.za Scanditron SA Tool, equipment and consumables supplier Unit 1, Motor City, 26 Main Reef Road, Langlaagte, Johannesburg, Gauteng Tel: +27 11 473 2149 stencildata@priben.co.za www.priben.co.za SM Tech Service provider/contract manufacturer Unit 18 Miracle Retail Park, Corner Lenchen and Old Johannesburg Road, Centurion, Gauteng Tel: +27 12 030 0316 engineering@smtech.co.za www.smtech.co.za StarTech Industrial Cable assembly/Tool, equipment and consumables supplier 20 Adriana Crescent, Gateway Industrial Park, Centurion, Gauteng Tel: +27 11 823 1520 sales@startech.co.za www.startech.co.za Tau di a Rora Technologies Service provider/contract manufacturer 8 Myrna Street, Chrisville, Johanneburg, Gauteng Tel: +27 83 314 6541 tau@diaroratech.co.za Techmet Brands: AAT, Bakon, Data I/O, EKRA SMTA printers, ERSA, Eunil PCB handling systems, GKG, Grohmann, Indium, Inventec, JT Universal, KHJ Dekwin Ltd, KIC, Kiheung, Mirae Corp, Mirtec, MOA, Nordson-Asymtek, Panasonic Factory Solutions, Panasonic Pick and Place, Pemtron, Permali, Peters Conformal Coatings, QA Technologies, Ren Thang Crop & Form, S.A. Day, Saki Corporation, Seamark rework systems, Viscom Vision Technology, X&Y International Tool, equipment and consumables supplier/Productivity & manufacturability solutions/software Techmet Equipment is an integral part of the Techmet group of companies, dedicated to providing sales and service to the electronics manufacturing industry. The company is proud of its qualified and experienced engineering staff, providing professional technical support to the industry which includes installation, maintenance and process optimisation. 402 Murray Road, Wadeville, Germiston, Gauteng Contact: Grant Langley Tel: +27 11 824 1427 smt@techmet.co.za www.techmet.co.za Technology Station in Electronics Additive manufacturing (3D printing)/Service provider/contract manufacturer/Training & certification CSIR, Building 14D, Meiring Naude Road, Brummeria, Pretoria, Gauteng Tel: +27 12 382 5039 vanderpoela@tut.ac.za www.tselectronics.co.za Test and Rework Solutions Tool, equipment and consumables supplier/Productivity & manufacturability solutions/software 100 Pritchard Street, Johannesburg North, Randburg, Gauteng Tel: +27 82 553 0787 sales@testandrework.co.za www.testandrework.co.za Testerion Brands: Fuji Pick-and-Place, Nutek, Plato, Speedline, Techspray, TRI Equipment/accessories/consumables/Productivity & manufacturability, solutions/software Established in October 2000, Testerion specialises in the sale of high-technology SMT production equipment and the distribution of European and USA made production consumables. Its mission is to continue growing as a profitable company, with a focus on providing its customers with the very best service and highest quality equipment. 467 Felstead Avenue, North Riding, Randburg, Gauteng Contact: Vangeli Glyptis Tel: +27 11 704 3020 info@testerion.co.za www.testerion.co.za Test Fixture Technologies Brands: TFT, Everett Charles Technologies, ST Robotics Enclosure manufacture/Equipment/accessories/consumables/Custom automated test equipment Test Fixture Technologies provides specialist design and manufacture of automated test equipment for board-level and final product testing, calibration, programming and quality assurance. In addition, it offers custom, automated handling solutions, CNC machining, custom enclosures and prototype product manufacturing, and supply of test probes. 32 Liner Avenue, Laser Park, Johannesburg, Gauteng Contact: Adrian Storie Tel: +27 11 791 5879 info@testfixtures.co.za www.testfixtures.co.za Theta Electronics Tool, equipment and consumables supplier Cirtech House, Unit A 12 Stibitz Road, Westlake Business Park, 2 Tokai, Cape Town, Western Cape Tel: +27 21 700 4910 info@theta-electronics.co.za www.theta-electronics.co.za TOA Electronics Southern Africa Audio equipment OEM High Street, Moddercrest Office Park, Modderfontein, Gauteng Tel: +27 11 608 1477 marketing@toasa.co.za www.toa.co.za TraX Interconnect Johannesburg (sales office), Cape Town (factory and sales) Brands: Neltec N4000-29, Neltec Mercurywave 9350, Rogers Corporation, Taconic PCB supplier/manufacturer Manufacturer of single sided, PTH and multilayer printed circuit boards for quick turn delivery, as well as offshore manufacture of volume requirements. 2 Estmil Road, Diep River, Cape Town, Western Cape Contact: Anton Tait Tel: +27 21 712 5011 sales@trax.co.za www.trax.co.za Truth Electronic Manufacturing Brands: AIM, Cyberoptics, Desen, DR Storage, Edysn, EPS, Europlacer, EVS International, FS Inspection, HEDA, Leenol, Microcare, Optika, Osai, Polar, Quick, Rehm Thermal Systems, Seetrax, Solder Star, Sonictron, Sonotek, Speedprint, Takaya Corp, WEC, Yamaha Tool, equipment and consumables supplier Truth Electronic Manufacturing prides itself on associating with leading global manufacturers in their respective fields. The company commits itself to working closely with its valued customers and suppliers to provide leading-edge products, systems and solutions. T.E.M. offers a wealth of experience from its past 19 years in the electronics industry. 49 Enforce Park, 43 Seacowlake Road, Springfield Park, Durban, KwaZulu-Natal Contact: Terence Ruthnam Tel: +27 31 822 8555 terence@truthelectronics.co.za www.truthelectronics.co.za TVV Electronics Tool, equipment and consumables supplier 191 Bekker Road, Unit 207B, The Workspace Flexioffice, Midrand, Gauteng Tel: +27 11 075 5440 virginia@tvvelectronics.co.za www.tvv-electronics.co.za Vepac Electronics Brands: Hakko, Electrolube Tool, equipment and consumables supplier Vepac Electronics is a local supplier of a variety of products for the assembly and manufacture of electronic products, including soldering/desoldering stations, chemicals for the cleaning and conformal coating of printed circuit boards, thermal pastes and wire strippers. 1 - 7 Electron Street, Linbro Business Park, Marlboro, Frankenwald, Gauteng Contact: Brian Howson Tel: +27 11 454 8053 sales@vepac.co.za www.vepac.co.za Würth Elektronik eiSos Tool, equipment and consumables supplier/PCB supplier/manufacturer Max-Eyth Straße 1, Waldenburg, Germany Tel: +27 71 259 9381 jason.page@we-online.com www.we-online.com X-Sight X-ray Services X-ray CT specialist Unit 2, 10 Derrick Drive, Somerset West Business Park, Cape Town, Western Cape Tel: +27 21 852 6642 insight@x-sight.co.za www.x-sight.co.za Zetech Brands: Universal Instruments, Yamaha I-Pulse, ASM PT (DEK), Vitronics Soltec, Koh Young Europe, Thermaltronics, BHGE Phoenix X-Ray, YJ LInk, SEICA, ESSEGI, Martin-SMT GmbH, Vision Engineering, Tagarno, Amada Miyachi, PVA, Bejing Hanson, Circuitmaster, Fancort, IEMME, Nortec, Imo GmbH, APT GmbH, GPD, Fritsch-SMT, Piergiacomi, HIOS, KOKI, HUMISEAL, ELSOLD, ADT (Advanced Dicing Technology), Hengli Eletek, Questar, Micro-Point Pro, K&S Consumables, TWM Technology Tool, equipment and consumables supplier Zetech offers not only equipment, materials and technical support to the South African electronics manufacturing industry, but also a laser cut stencil manufacturing service. 53 Plantation Road, Eastleigh, Edenvale, Gauteng Contact: Ina Orlianski Tel: +27 11 609 1244 orliain@icon.co.za, zetech@zetech.co.za www.zetech.co.za


Story 115
The current standoff between the U.S. and North Korea has seen many threats, televised and Tweeted. The U.S. has sent F-35s and carried outsimulated attacks with B-1s,while North Korea threatened to shoot down U.S. planes and South Korea prepares for an EMP attack of its own.
What would an actual North Korean attack look like? Chances are, it's not what you're thinking. Instead of unleashing the traditional nuclear nightmare, North Korea could go another route—an EMP. An electromagnetic pulse could take down an electrical power grid, causing economic chaos rather than human casualties.
Back in March, a bogus claim circulated that 90 percent of Americans would die in such an attack, a figure also regurgitated by a former director of the CIA. That simply is not the case. But North Koreadid describe its latest test as "a multifunctional thermonuclear nuke with great destructive power which can be detonated even at high altitudes for super-powerful EMP attack."
Brinkmanship or not, this is a threat worth taking seriously.
Understanding EMPs
Monitoring director points to seismic activity recorded in North Korea at the National Earthquake and Volcano Center in Seoul on September 3, 2017. Chung Sung-Jun Getty Images
Nuclear weapons do damage in three ways: blast, heat, and radiation. For terrestrial explosions, the first two are what you need to worry, about as radiation is mostly absorbed by the air. But things are different when the explosion occurs in space. High-energy gamma rays collide with air molecules at around 15-20 miles altitude, producing a cascade of electrons which spin down through the Earth's magnetic field, producing an electromagnetic pulse known as E1.
The intensity of this pulse depends on the size and type of bomb, the altitude of the detonation, and the latitude. Bombs typically only emit 0.1 percent to 0.5 percent of their energy as gamma radiation, though exotic designs may increase this output. While there is no indication that North Korea could increase this number, even 0.1 percent is effective when power is measured in megatons.
Why this tactic could be appealing for the reclusive regime is that it requires less accuracy.
A nuke also produces two other types of pulses. One called E2 is an EMP that comes from high-energy neutrons, and the much slower E3 is produced by the expansion of the nuclear fireball itself as it pushes against the Earth's magnetic field. A weapon of more than 100 kilotons affects everything within line of sight. That means a blast at 60 miles will affect a 700-mile radius. The only spot not affected will be a small area close to ground zero, almost vertically below the explosion, where the Earth's magnetic field creates an "eye of the storm."
The reason this tactic could be appealing for the reclusive North Korean regime is that it requires less accuracy. While North Korean ICBMs may not have guidance good enough to hit a target the size of city, an EMP only needs to hit a general area.
Lights Out
Jung Yeon-Je
So, what would be the effects on the ground from a high-altitude nuclear blast? The short E1 pulse induces strong, transient electrical currents in conductors, and the longer the conductor, the more voltage it experiences. Small devices like smartphones and laptops may be unscathed, but the real problems happen in long cables that would experience surges of 10,000 volts or more.
That's not going to harm a power line, but, as a 2010 report on EMP effects for Oak Ridge National Laboratory points out, it will affect the low voltage sensor and control lines connected to relays and control electronics. These lines usually only carry a few volts, and the surge will destroy computers, communication devices like routers, and safety relays.
The E2 pulse presents little danger, because it resembles lightning and most systems already have protection for this sort of surge. The long, slow E3 pulse is a threat, though, and may be strong enough to burn out transformers attached to long power cables.
While the generators themselves may be left intact, the damage inflicted by E1 and E3 pulses mean no electricity can reach people, so the lights will go out. What happens after that is speculation. The most extreme suggestion is that, pushed back to 19th century technology, America would starve, but likely it the situation wouldn't be quite so dire.
On the Defense
U.S. missiles arrive in South Korea for installation as part of the THAAD missile defense system. NurPhoto
Stopping an EMP attack isn't easy. A high-altitude nuke is harder to stop than one coming down to low level. While the U.S. Ground-Based Midcourse Defense missiles can reach into space, shorter-range missile defenses like THAAD and Aegis may not be able to hit an ICBM at such high altitude.
Hardening electrical infrastructure against EMP is possible—in fact, some states have toyed with the idea of testing out such defenses. But an adequate EMP shield would cost billions and take years to implement. More than likely, it will likely take a major incident to convince people to make that kind of investment in the grid.
Deterrence has been the usual U.S. defense against nuclear attack, but that generally means retaliating in kind. Striking North Korea would be impossible to do without harming our ally South Korea, and in any case, the effects would hardly be equivalent. North Korea has one of the world's most unreliable electricity supplies already. Even when it is working, it has less than one-tenth the capacity per capita of its southern neighbor. Power cuts are common, and many homes rely on batteries or cheap Chinese solar cells to power their few small appliances.
If Kim Jong-un chooses to fire a nuclear warning shot which causes damage but no direct loss of life, will the U.S. have an effective response? Of course, nobody wants to fire the first shot which might start a spiral of destruction, but a non-lethal attack that takes out electricity supplies would be a way of escalating without killing anyone.
Some have suggested that North Korea's next move may be a massive cyberattack. But a nuclear EMP would prove North Korea's nuclear capability and also cause billions of dollars of damage. The U.S. might shrug off yet another cyberattack, but an EMP is impossible to ignore.

Story 116
This article is more than 7 months old
This article is more than 7 months old
Venezuela blackout: what caused it and what happens next? Read more
Power has been restored to much of Venezuela, a week after a devastating blackout struck across the country, crippling water supplies, and cutting off telephone and internet services for millions.
But swaths of the country remain without electricity, and experts have warned that normal services may not resume for weeks – or even months.
A new report from the Central University of Venezuela’s faculty of engineering confirmed that the blackout was caused when a bush fire near the Malena substation in eastern Venezuela took out a vital section of the country’s power grid.
The report offered two possible explanations for why the fire had such a devastating impact – both of which imply full supply will not be restored any time soon.
The first is that the fire took out part of the transmission network, which could take up to 60 days to repair.
The second scenario, would be even more severe. It posits that the fire led to a turbine failure at the El Guri hydroelectric dam, which powers 80% of the country’s electric grid. In that case, repairs could take up to three years and will depend on Venezuela’s embattled government obtaining replacement parts and qualified technicians – both long absent from Venezuela’s electrical infrastructure.
One of the worst-hit areas was Venezuela’s second largest city, Maracaibo, where the blackouts triggered a spate of violent looting in which hundreds of stores were ransacked. Electricity had still not returned to much of the city on Thursday – a week after the power was cut.
In Caracas, people were starting to count the cost of the blackout, described as the worst in Venezuela’s history. More than 300 people were detained in association with protests and looting that broke out during the outage, according to the rights group Foro Penal.
The blackout also hit the supply of drinking water across much of the country, although the water pumping systems are beginning to operate in many regions again.
The government of Nicolás Maduro has offered various explanations for the power outage – including internal sabotage, an electromagnetic pulse weapon and a cyber-attack led by the US.
On Wednesday, the communications minister, Jorge Rodríguez, said that the worst was over. “At this time, almost all the electric energy supply has been restored throughout the national territory,” he said in a televised address.
But the following day, some neighbourhoods in Caracas – which had previously been spared the worst of Venezuela’s blackouts – were still without electricity as were swaths of western Venezuela.
The nation has been mired in political crisis since January, when the opposition leader Juan Guaidó declared himself interim president, forming a parallel government backed by the US and 50 other democracies, while a coalition led by Russia, China, Turkey and Cuba supports Maduro.
For locals in the impoverished Pinto Salinas neighbourhood in central Caracas, the political crisis was academic. “It doesn’t matter who the president is,” said Leonardo Antonio, 50, a resident of the area who had just filled jugs of water from a nearby swimming pool. “We solve our problems ourselves, just like we always have.”
The US withdrew the last of its diplomats on Thursday, and the Stars and Stripes flag over the embassy in Caracas was taken down.
Barter and dollars the new reality as Venezuela battles hyperinflation Read more
The US has also been revoking hundreds of visas from Venezuelans since Monday, many of them belonging to former diplomats and their families. On Tuesday night the state department advised US citizens residing or traveling in the country to depart. “Commercial flights remain available,” a statement read.
Washington is reportedly considering fresh financial sanctions that could prohibit Visa, Mastercard and other financial institutions from processing transactions in Venezuela.
The restrictions have been described as a way to pile pressure on the embattled president, Nicolás Maduro, but if introduced, they will inevitably create more problems for citizens who are struggling with hyper-inflation and chronic shortages of food and medicine.

Story 117
Your access to this site has been limited
Your access to this service has been temporarily limited. Please try again in a few minutes. (HTTP response code 503)
Reason: Access from your area has been temporarily limited for security reasons.
If you are a WordPress user with administrative privileges on this site please enter your email in the box below and click "Send". You will then receive an email that helps you regain access.
Click here to learn more: Documentation
Generated by Wordfence at Thu, 31 Oct 2019 11:49:14 GMT.
Your computer's time: .

Story 118
Requested Range Not Satisfiable
None of the range-specifier values in the Range request-header field overlap the current extent of the selected resource.
Additionally, a 416 Requested Range Not Satisfiable error was encountered while trying to use an ErrorDocument to handle the request.
Apache/2.4.41 (cPanel) OpenSSL/1.0.2t mod_bwlimited/1.4 Server at incompliancemag.com Port 443

Story 119
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 120
The first shots of World War III will almost certainly be digital
(Air Force photo by J.M. Eddins Jr.)

Story 121
China's new microwave weapon can disable missiles and paralyze tanks
An electronics-killing ray has a variety of uses in war.

Story 122
Dragan Nikolic, Getty Images/iStockphoto
Electromagnetic pulses, or EMPs, can be caused by an atomic bomb exploding in the atmosphere. Or by a solar flare which can fry electrical systems as well.
Either can fry disk drives or SSDs, our most common digital media today. According to a physicist referenced by NASA, earth has a 12 percent chance of being hit by a major solar flare in the next 10 years. The biggest solar flare hit earth in 1859, causing telegraph lines to spark, setting some telegraph offices on fire. Will SSDs survive that?
A similar-sized flare just missed the earth back in 2012. So, yeah, a powerful solar flare could fry your drives.
Protection
The obvious answer is to put critical data on EMP-resistant media. Most options are limited to gigabytes of capacity though, so even after compression, it would require dozens of DVDs - and maybe 5-10 Blu-ray discs, to store a couple of hundred GB of data.
You can use M-discs, which many optical disc writers support, that offer a 1,000 year life. Writeable Blu-ray disks have shorter lives, but still respectable 50-100 year terms.
That assumes your data is already digital. What if you have paper? Or you don't want to count on fancy electrical devices being immediately available after a serious EMP event?
That's where microfilm makes sense for deep archive storage. Modern polyester-based microfilm has a 500 year spec. Which may sound optimistic, but remember, we have century old photographs, using century old technology, that are well preserved today.
Film may be analog technology, but it's proven.
How much paranoia can you afford?
Survivalists and preppers worry about EMP. This is one case where you should follow their lead.
I keep several copies on different media of my vital business and personal data. I run a nightly local backup of my desktop system, as well as backing it up to the cloud. That may not survive an unforecasted solar flare - we typically have a few days warning - but I like my chances.
Like much else in storage, scale matters. If I had 1,000,000 pages of must-save documents, I would definitely look at microfilm. For 1,000, I'd scan them and burn to Blu-ray.
The Storage Bits take
If the 1859 event were repeated today, I think that we'd be looking at a total system collapse, with massive knowledge loss, widespread electrical grid destruction (millions of blown transformers), and obliteration of financial and other vital records. Our digital civilization is nowhere near as robust as it should be.
As long as we know how to fabricate magnifying lenses, microfilm will be readable. Microfilm isn't cool, but it is much easier to read by candlelight than DVDs.
Courteous comments welcome, of course. Some preppers recommend wrapping a disk drive in three layers of heavy aluminum foil. It might even work.
RELATED AND PREVIOUS COVERAGE
Backup best practices: A NAS is not enough
Losing your data can suck. If you have the right backup strategy, though, recovery of lost data can be nearly painless. You do have the right backup strategy, right?
Cloud backup: What does 11 9s durability really mean?
Cloud vendors need trust. So they claim 99.999999999 percent availability. Huh? Why not 15 or 17 9s? Because after nine 9s, it really doesn't matter. Here's why.
Cloud sync vs backup: Which disaster recovery works better for business continuity?
David Gewirtz shares a real-world example of how a cloud-based disaster recovery strategy can help sustain business continuity, even for small businesses and families.

Story 123
As the congressional August recess begins, President Trump’s Space Force Initiative awaits urgently needed decisions.
At one end of the spectrum of outstanding issues is whether the U.S. House or U.S. Senate will prevail in even its name: The Space Force or The Space Corps.
For what it’s worth, I joined 43 other former senior Defense and National Security Officials in a May 20, 2019 open letter supporting the Space Force to counter China and Russia that "are developing, testing, and fielding space and counterspace weapon systems that threaten our ability to use space for national security and economic purposes, jeopardize U.S. and allied military forces, and put the U.S. homeland at risk.
America’s long-standing strategic advantage in space is eroding."
Thus, we need a Space Force to "develop military space culture and ethos; recruit, train, educate, promote, and retain scientists, engineers, and warriors with world-class space skills and talent; advocate for space requirements and resources; develop space doctrine and operational art; develop, field, and deliver advanced space capabilities; and steward resources to sustain America’s strategic advantage and preeminence in national security space activities."
Unstated but apparent from these comments is that the Air Force has failed to provide the nation with the strategy, technology and systems needed to confront today’s growing threat. And it is clear that just talks and studies won’t produce needed Space Force capabilities.
At the other end of the spectrum of today’s undecided issues are:
1) Who is to lead whatever the president’s initiative is to be called and 2) The charter and viability of the Space Development Agency (SDA) to develop needed space systems more rapidly than has previously been demonstrated by the Pentagon, particular Air Force, bureaucracy.
The future is uncertain, whatever Congress decides to call the president’s initiative (regrettably in my view, within the Air Force), for reasons traced in particular to Air Force reluctance and opposition.
This opposition is prominent in the public discourse, reflecting hostile positions taken by then Secretary of the Air Force Heather Wilson when the president first signaled his initiative.
Now as president of the University of Texas in El Paso, she continues her opposition.
At a recent Aspin Conference, she emphasized her continuing opposition to the SDA —claiming the Air Force already has the SDA mission, in spite of its lethargic acquisition record — especially in exploiting innovative technologies made evident by private sector advances.
This situation reminds me of the Air Force reluctance to employ "commercial-off-the -shelf" (COTS) technology to build at an accelerated pace the most innovative and cost-effective product of President Reagan’s Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI) — the Brilliant Pebbles space-based interceptor system.
Consequently, a separate Brilliant Pebbles Task Force working directly for the SDI Director was assigned that mission. Success was within reach when the Clinton administration gutted the SDI program, especially such advanced technology programs.
No administration has since reversed this course, until now. Meanwhile, others — especially China — have exploited key SDI-initiated technology we have ignored and now pose a growing threat of major concern.
There was no apparent reversal of this misdirection within the Air Force during Secretary Wilson’s watch. We are playing "catch up" in recognizing and responding to these threats— as has been noted for some cases by Undersecretary of Defense for Research and Engineering Michael Griffin.
Former Secretary Wilson has opposed Undersecretary Griffin since the get go — and also a key Air Force leader, who has advocated needed innovation to recognize the existential threat posed by foreign exploitation of rapidly advancing technologies.
Lt. Gen. Steven Kwast recognized this condition and sought to lead a revolution within the Air Force, as Commander of the Air Force Education and Training Command.
While personally speaking out on this emerging threat, including in two important the Electromagnetic Defense Task Force (EDTF) conferences that can help frame future programs needed to counter these threats.
These conferences involved a number of national security leaders who were and are actively involved in developing the strategy and systems to counter the nation’s threats —and who recognize our current and growing vulnerabilities to existential threats from Russia, China, North Korea, Iran and even terrorists who can exploit the means to deliver them.
They also made clear that we need a revolution of U.S. space capabilities to prevail against growing threats in an increasingly dangerous world. And the need for a Space Force is evident, at least to me.
The 2018 EDTF report, was published by Air University as Lemay Paper Number 2 and the report from the second EDTF conference should be published in the near future.
The second EDTF conference dealt in considerable specific detail with the electromagnetic pulse (EMP) threat, and I believe General Kwast’s associated efforts can be very helpful in framing the nation’s response to President Trump’s March 26, 2019 Executive Order on Coordinating National Resilience to Electromagnetic Pulses.
That’s the good news. But there is also bad news.
To demonstrate that "No good deed goes unpunished," General Kwast was recently prematurely relieved from his command — after only half of the usual tour for this important position responsible for educating and training future Air Force leaders.
Consider the message being sent to the next generation of aspiring Air Force leaders.
Frankly, I believe former Secretary Wilson contributed to this sad situation that I doubt would have been countenanced by Acting Air Force Secretary Matthew Donovan. He spoke out early in favor of President Trump’s separate Space Force initiative and recently spelled out his support in detail in an August 1, 2019 article, “Unleashing the Power of Space: The Case for a Separate Space Force.”
Acting USAF Secretary Donovan noted Gen. Billy Mitchell’s visionary role — court marshalled as an Army Air Corps general — for championing Air Power against the "powers that be" of his time; ultimately leading to today’s separate Air Force after that need was made clear by World War II.
Donovan’s article concluded, "I feel his impassioned plea to see past the limits of today’s policies and constrained thought, and strive confidently into the bright future of the United States Space Force."
Today, we cannot survive a "Pearl Harbor" attack that shuts down our electric power grid. We delay chartering a Space Force to help counter that all too real threat at our national peril.
President Trump should rectify this situation with an unmistakable message to the Pentagon and future Air and Space Force leaders.
As commander in chief, he should derail the planned early retirement of General Kwast and bring him into the White House to lead an effort to give the nation the future Space Force it so clearly needs to address this existential threat.
Ambassador Henry F. (Hank) Cooper, Chairman of High Frontier and an acknowledged expert on strategic and space national security issues, was President Ronald Reagan's Chief Negotiator at the Geneva Defense and Space Talks with the Soviet Union and Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI) Director during the George H.W. Bush administration. Previously, he served as the Assistant Director of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, Deputy Assistant USAF Secretary, Science Adviser to the Air Force Weapons Laboratory and a USAF Reserve Captain. In the private sector he was Chairman of Applied Research Associates, a high technology company; member of the technical staff of Jaycor, R&D Associates and Bell Telephone Laboratories; a Senior Associate of the National Institute for Public Policy; and Visiting Fellow at the Heritage Foundation. He received B.S. and M.S. degrees from Clemson and a PhD from New York University, all in Mechanical Engineering. To read more of his reports — Click Here Now.

Story 124
Getty
This article was updated to remove a reference to 1859's 'Carington Event' possibly damaging the telephone network. Telephones were not invented until 1876.
Earth is under attack. Constantly. A stream of high-energy particles comes our way every day and night from the Sun, whose solar flares and coronal mass ejections are unpredictable but common. Mostly, Earth’s magnetic field protects us and displays beautiful aurora around the Arctic and Antarctic circles, but just occasionally, it’s just too much.
It the past, a massive once-a-century solar storm could pass without incident, but now it could knock out the electrical grid, communication systems and satellites. A 2013 study by Lloyd's of London and Atmospheric and Environmental Research concluded that a massive solar storm could cost US$2.5 trillion dollars, and its effects could last for over a year.
How common are severe solar storms? We know about a few; the most famous is the ‘Carrington Event’ of late August and early September 1859, when astronomer Richard C. Carrington observed the most powerful geomagnetic storm known up to date. Nowadays, a storm of similar intensity could have catastrophic effects. Solar storms in Quebec, Canada in 1989 and in and Malmö, Sweden in 2003 knocked-out electricity grids.
Getty
Trouble is, we’ve not been monitoring this stuff for long, so long-term trends are a mystery. Exactly what’s happening on the sun’s solar surface, and therefore what might be headed our way, has been measured since 1957 using the ‘Dst’ index, which is fed data every hour from stations across the globe. The value of this parameter ranges from -20 to +20 nanoteslas; it’s estimated that the Carrington Event was around -850 nT.
However, geologists at Lund University in Sweden have uncovered more evidence for a massive solar storm in the distant past. Using drilled samples of ice cores from Greenland formed over 100,000 years they have detected evidence of a very powerful solar storm that occurred in 660 BCE. “If that solar storm had occurred today, it could have had severe effects on our high-tech society", says Raimund Muscheler, professor of geology at Lund University, who previously detected evidence of massive solar storms in 775 and 994 CE.
Muscheler says that the research proves that massive solar storms are rare, but a naturally recurring effect of solar activity, and that the direct observations made over the past 70 years are insufficient.
Muscheler insists we’re more vulnerable than we think. “That's why we must increase society's protection again solar storms", he says. "Our research suggests that the risks are currently underestimated. We need to be better prepared”.
ASSOCIATED PRESS
In separate research, mathematicians think they’ve proved that massive solar storms are more unlikely than previously thought. Three mathematicians and a physicist from the Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona (UAB), the Mathematics Research Centre (CRM) and the Barcelona Graduate School of Mathematics (BGSMath) calculated that the probability in the next decade of a potentially catastrophic event for the Earth's telecommunications, of ‘Carrington Event’ proportions, is between 0.46% and 1.88%.
That’s far less than estimated before. "In 2012, the results reported in scientific literature estimated the probability to be around 12%, ten times more than our more pessimistic estimation,” says David Moriña, first author of the study and postdoctoral researcher explains.
However, they still warn about its potentially devastating consequences. "A probability close to 2%, which is what we have calculated for a highly intense storm, should not be looked over if we take into account the consequences of such an event,” says Professor Pere Puig, one of the authors of the paper.
"Governments should have action protocols to react to such disasters, in order to inform and calm the population left without electrical energy and no way to communicate … there will be very little time of reaction before the unforeseen arrival of this type of storm".
Wishing you clear skies and wide eyes
--
Follow me on Twitter @jamieacarter, @TheNextEclipse or read my other Forbes articles via my profile page.

Story 125
EMP, Debunked: The Jolt That Could Fry The Cloud
An electromagnetic pulse (EMP) from the sun or a high-altitude nuclear blast could change life as we know it, but how worried should you really be? Here's a primer.
1 of 9
In July, NASA confirmed that a "Carrington Event Class" coronal mass ejection (CME) had occurred on the sun in July 2012. A billion tons of highly charged solar atmosphere had erupted off the face of the Sun and out into space at millions of miles per hour. Luckily, the center of that mighty solar belch crossed Earth's orbit well behind us. If that Carrington Class CME had occurred one week earlier, it would have struck the Earth like its namesake in 1859.
Back then, the telegraph was just a few years old, and the telegraph operators -- the only people really affected -- didn't total even 1% of 1% of the workforce. They put out the fire, fixed the gear as best they could, and were back up and running within two weeks. As recently as 1989, when a much smaller CME took down Hydro Quebec and turned off the electricity in the province for most of a week, people came to work during daylight hours and caught up on typing and filing.
How about now, in the era of the cloud?
Imagine yourself with no power and no communications links for weeks or months. Even if your emergency backup power gets your computers running, you can't access remote data and cloud applications. Your smartphone is a paperweight. People in your organization can't work together, or work at all. Your bank can't tell you how much money you have and, anyway, where would you spend it? The inventory in many stores is another process that's been moved to the cloud. In the second week of the crisis, you get snail mail from your employer telling you not to come into work until the network starts working again.
Terrified yet? Well, calm down. Our cloud-crazy culture could indeed take a jolt, but probably not as big a one as these scenarios suggest.
Since the NASA story came out in the summer news slump, the gee-whiz cohort of science reporters and headline writers had a fine old time scaring people with tales of a CME-caused electromagnetic pulse (EMP) that would fry all modern technology, plunging us back to the nineteenth century, or maybe the ninth. Pop science reporting conjured visions of cellphones up in flames, plummeting airliners, patients electrocuted by their pacemakers, and the total collapse of modern civilization.
Absent from the reporting: In a week, the Earth travels about 45 times the Earth-Moon distance. Reporting that the July 2012 CME missed Earth by 45 times as far as the moon is not quite so dramatic.
While we're at it, EMP has less effect on shorter wires -- in microcircuitry, by definition, wires are very short. EMP is greatly diminished inside cars or steel-framed buildings or underground. It self-cancels in the increasingly common coaxial cables, and doesn't touch fiber optics at all.
But though EMP damage is not the end of the world, it's still a genuine risk today -- and not just from CMEs. Natural and manmade EMPs have done real, serious damage and potentially could do much worse. The perils, the probabilities, and the precautions, like EMPs themselves, come in many sizes from many causes.
Though the July 2012 CME was overhyped, there are real EMP risks to consider. You'll be better prepared if you understand the real odds of the real dangers. Therefore, so that you and your team can be only as scared as you actually need to be, here's a little primer on EMPs.
(Image: NASA Goddard Space Flight Center via Wikipedia)
John Barnes has 31 commercially published and 2 self-published novels, along with hundreds of magazine articles, short stories, blog posts, and encyclopedia articles. Most of his life he has written professionally; his day jobs have included teaching at every ... View Full Bio
We welcome your comments on this topic on our social media channels, or [contact us directly] with questions about the site.
1 of 9

Story 126
Completing the CAPTCHA proves you are a human and gives you temporary access to the web property.
What can I do to prevent this in the future?
If you are on a personal connection, like at home, you can run an anti-virus scan on your device to make sure it is not infected with malware.
If you are at an office or shared network, you can ask the network administrator to run a scan across the network looking for misconfigured or infected devices.

Story 127
The duo’s eight-year business partnership comes to an end later this summer
Share All sharing options for: The End of Will Guidara and Daniel Humm’s Eleven Madison Park Reign
Restaurateurs Will Guidara and Daniel Humm plan to end their eight-year business partnership later this summer.
Together, the duo has an empire of restaurants and bars spanning multiple cities — including their best-known restaurant, Michelin-starred (and “World’s Best” restaurant winner) Eleven Madison Park in New York, as well as branches of the NoMad in New York, Los Angeles, and Las Vegas; multiple NoMad Bars; pop-ups in Aspen and the Hamptons; the fast-casual Made Nice restaurant; and a couple yet-to-open places.
Eater NY reports that there are are no plans to cease operations in any of the open or in-the-works restaurants; they are stepping away from a Lower East Side events space, but that appears to be unrelated to the break up.
When the front-of-house star and chef call it quits, they’ll be breaking up one of the most impactful partnerships in modern restaurant history. Follow along:

Story 128
A cafe whose kitchen is led by an Eleven Madison Park alum and dedicated to all-things caviar has opened on the Upper East Side.
Marky’s on Madison is a luxury retail store — with a restaurant included — from Florida-based Marky’s Group, a 35-year-old business the specializes in gourmet products like caviar that it grows in its own own aqua farm. The group’s new caviar shop at 1067 Madison Ave., near East 81st Street, is divided into two sections: a retail portion in the front and an upscale cafe called HŪSO in the back, the latter of which is helmed by chef Buddha Lo, who previously worked at EMP.
The 12-seat cafe has an a la carte menu during the day and switches to a $200 tasting menu in the evening, at which point dishes like wagyu beef with celery root sour cream, black truffle, and caviar will appear. Daytime a la carte dishes are priced from $20 to $45, including beef tartare paired with the company’s Russian osetra caviar and an Alaskan King crab roll topped with sour cream, pickled mustard, and, of course, caviar.
Caviar flights, including highly sought-after international breeds, will be priced up to $640. As for drinks, coffee is on tap during the day, though the cafe goes hard on the preferred caviar pairing of Champagne, with brands like Dom Pérignon, Veuve Clicquot, and Cristal on offer. See menu examples below, though the tasting menu — arriving in two weeks — will change frequently.
Meanwhile, the retail portion of the space is now selling caviar, foie gras, Italian cheeses, and other gourmet items.
The cafe is named after the scientific name of the European sturgeon known as beluga, or “huso huso.” Marky’s began in Miami as a gourmet food store in 1983, and after noticing a decline in wild beluga caviar, it founded Sturgeon Aquafarms in 2001. The sturgeon is considered critically endangered, and the U.S. banned the importation of its caviar in 2005. But Marky’s aqua farm became the only aquaculture facility farming the fish here in the U.S., and the company has retained the exclusive right to distribute it domestically.
Its new Manhattan retail store and cafe is open daily from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m., and the tasting menu will be available Tuesday to Saturday from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m., starting in about two weeks, through reservations only.

Story 129
Overwatch will play very differently in the future. Now, every team will be made up of two tanks, two supports, and two damage. (The original queue system will remain in the Arcade section of the Overwatch client.)
Because this is such a big change, we’re seeing a sweeping set of nerfs and buffs across the board to heroes like Brigitte, Wrecking Ball, Ashe, and Tracer. We’ve highlighted the biggest changes to characters you should know about, as well as the full patch notes.
These changes are available on the PTR for PC players. Patch 1.39 is expected to hit Sept. 1, with all of these changes included.
Ultimates are slowing down
Right now, characters can charge their ultimates quickly, and Blizzard is tuning that back by 12%. In addition, slowing effects are changing for heroes like Reinhardt and Widowmaker, who can alter their own speed. When you’re in a speed-changing ultimate and affected by a slow affect of your own, like Widowmaker’s scoped movement, you’ll be moving at the slower speed of the two effects. In short, you’ll be popping ultimates less often, and slowing from effects like Mei’s Blizzard will work more consistently across the board.
Brigitte’s less tank, more support
Here’s the problem with Brigitte: in a world where there’s now a clear definition between tanks and supports, and you can’t switcharoo between roles anymore, a hybrid hero doesn’t work nearly as well. Brigitte was meant to be a mini tank who dished out some healing, or a limited healer with a ton of survivability.
Now, her passive heals the rest of the party more (from 100 to 130), but the self healing from Inspire is cut in half. Repair pack, her primary heal, has three charges and heals more (from 150 to 120). Repair pack now heals over a two second duration instead of an instant buff, and players can stack multiple packs on the same ally to extend the duration of the heal by two seconds.
Whip Shot and Shield Bash, Brigitte’s two stuns, now work a little differently. Whip Shot’s outgoing velocity and retracting time are both reduced, meaning she can snap it off much faster ... but it’s still a skillshot. Meanwhile, Shield Bash, her point and click stun, has the duration reduced from .9 seconds to .75 seconds.
Finally, Rally, her ultimate, now takes 10% more charge to fill — that’s on top of the global changes to ultimates listed above.
These changes push her far more into the support zone and remove her tankiness. She’s still tougher than a Mercy, but she’s going to be far less frustrating as a brick wall for her opponents.
Moira can Fade when stunned
This change looks small, but don’t be fooled — Moira is going to become a much stronger healer. Her AOE healing and reliance on staying juiced up means she has never been as reliable as a Mercy, but now she’s going to be the slipperiest support in the game. Fade is a very powerful ability, and if this change goes through, there’ll be no way to stop her from pulling it off.
Read on for the full set of patch notes, including a buff to Tracer’s pulse bomb, a set of quality of life changes for Symmetra’s teleporter, and Wrecking Ball buffs.
Overwatch PTR Patch 1.39 Notes – July 18, 2019
A new Overwatch patch is currently in development and now available for testing! To share your feedback or report and issue, please post in the PTR Feedback 126 or PTR Bug Report forums 37.
Please note that the below patch notes only include changes currently available for testing on the PTR. While many of these changes will also be available on PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in a future patch, the PTR is PC-only and only reflects changes coming specifically to that platform.
PATCH HIGHLIGHTS
New Feature: Role Queue
Role Queue is an update to Overwatch’s matchmaking and queuing system that gives players the power to choose which role they play in their games. In Competitive Play and Quick Play, players choose their role before finding a game. The matchmaking system will create a team that is comprised of two tanks, two supports, and two damage heroes. Upon entering the match, players select desired heroes to play within their chosen roles. At the end of a match, players will return to the main menu and select their role before queuing into the next game. For more information about Role Queue, read the detailed blog post 2.5k.
For the time being, we’ve only enabled Competitive Play for 1.39 PTR. Stay tuned for updates.
HERO UPDATES
General
Global ultimate cost increased 12%
Slowing Effects: Instead of stacking together, friendly and enemy slowing effects are now separate and movement speed will be reduced by whichever is slower.
Developer Comment: Ultimates are coming up too often considering how high impact they are. We are reducing how quickly they are built so less fights will be determined by ultimate usage. The slows change will mostly impact heroes which can slow themselves, such as Widowmaker while scoping, or Reinhardt while holding his shield. In these cases, enemy slows such as Symmetra turrets or Mei’s freeze will not hinder these heroes unless they stop slowing themselves or the enemy slow value passes their own slow value.
Ashe
Reload Time per round decreased from 0.3 seconds to 0.25
Developer Comment: Ashe’s time to fully reload felt overly restrictive. However, a long reload time is an intended downside to balance out the power of her gun so we want to be careful not to eliminate that completely.
Brigitte
Inspire (Passive)
Healing amount increased from 100 to 130
Self-healing from Inspire is now halved
Repair Pack
Now has 3 charges
Healing amount changed from 150 to 120
Now heals over 2 seconds instead of instantly
If you throw multiple packs at the same person, the current duration will be extended by 2 seconds
Whip Shot
Out-going velocity increased from 60 to 80
Retracting time reduced from 0.6 seconds to 0.3
Barrier Shield
Barrier health reduced from 500 to 200
Shield Bash
Stun duration reduced from 0.9 seconds to 0.75
Rally
Ultimate cost increased 10%
Doomfist
Melee
Quick melee no longer pauses ammo reload.
Hanzo
Storm Arrows
Storm Arrows ammo reduced from 6 to 5
Developer Comment: The overall damage output of Storm Arrows was too high so we’re reducing the maximum number of shots.
Moira
Fade
Can now be used while stunned.
Developer Comment: Moira has always been good at healing and dealing damage, but she offers very little utility compared to the other healers. This change reinforces her evasive nature and allows her potentially save her team from area stuns such as Reinhardt’s Earthshatter.
Orisa
Protective Barrier
Cooldown increased from 8 seconds to 9
Developer Comment: A common point of feedback for playing against Orisa was that it doesn’t feel useful to shoot the barrier as it comes back so quickly. Increasing the cooldown of Protective Barrier will make destroying it more rewarding.
Reinhardt
New Passive: “Steadfast”
Reduces knock back effects by 30%
Developer Comment: As a frontline, melee-range tank Reinhardt was more adversely affected by knock back abilities than most heroes. To reduce some of this frustration and enable Reinhardt to more easily fulfill his role, he is now more resistant to being knocked back.
Sombra
Hack
Duration on enemy players reduced from 6 seconds to 5
EMP
Activation time increased from 0.5 seconds to 0.65
Developer Comment: Hack is a potent disable with a long duration. Reducing the duration slightly will make it feel less oppressive as the hacked player without reducing its effectiveness too greatly. The increased cast time on EMP allows for more time to react and opens up more counterplay for the opposing team.
Symmetra
Teleporter
Now lasts an infinite duration until destroyed
Players can destroy their Teleporter with the ability 2 input
Cooldown now starts when Teleporter is destroyed
Cooldown increased from 12 seconds to 15
Maximum range increased from 25 meters to 30
Teleporter breaks if the entrance is more than 40 meters from the exit.
Teleport re-use time increased from 1 second to 1.5
Developer Comment: Symmetra’s Teleporter is an interesting tool but often felt too restricting to use. Making the Teleporter last forever opens up new opportunities for how Symmetra is used in various maps and group compositions.
Tracer
Pulse Bomb
Damage increased from 300 to 350
Developer Comment: Pulse Bomb was reduced in power some time ago to make sure it was not overly punishing to Tanks, which are much easier to stick the bomb to. While this is still a goal, we’re restoring some of this lost power to help deal with other hefty targets such as Bastion, or enemies with bonus armor from Brigitte.
Wrecking Ball
Minefield
Increased projectile speed from 10 to 13, causing the mines to spread out more. This makes it easier to create a wider minefield, especially from the high in the air.
Reduced the activation time from 0.25 seconds to 0.1
Developer Comment: Wrecking Ball has a very active playstyle, but often it felt difficult to make good use out of his ultimate. This change allows him to spread out his Minefield further if he wants, while still allowing for a tighter cluster if he activates it near the ground.
BUG FIXES
General
Subtitles: Subtitles now display when spectating while waiting to respawn.
Fixed a bug that could cause damage to not be dealt if a damage dealing ability was rapidly gaining/losing targets, like a Zarya trying to track a fast moving hero.
Charging heroes (Reinhardt, Doomfist, Brigitte) should more consistently knock each other down when colliding.
Some abilities will now appear smoother during slowed down time (end of round or custom game), notably Dragon Strike and Roadhog Hook
Heroes
Doomfist
Improved ability for Doomfist to get through doorways while using Rocket Punch and clipping the corner.
Rocket Punch will now consistently destroy translocator and not be stopped by it, similar to Symmetra turrets.
Targets hit by Rocket Punch will now go directly backwards, instead of maintaining any lateral momentum they had.
Targets that are stun immune but not knockback immune (Zarya’s Particle Barrier, Zen during Transcendence ) are no longer able to affect knockback trajectory.
Fixed a bug where if Doomfist used Meteor Strike while crouched he would move slowly for the entirely of the ultimate.
Fixed a bug where Doomfist would move backwards slightly slower during Meteor Strike
D.Va
Fixed a bug that prevented D.Va’s Defense Matrix from pointing down when D.Va was aiming downward while moving.
Lucio
Fixed some false positives with Lucio’s animation land prediction when wallriding.
Zarya

Story 130
Every measure possible
“In early April of 2015 our owners Rich and Alex were at a convention where they spoke about something called EMP, which stands for electro-magnetic pulse,” VP of Business Development Nicholas Rudicle said.
“We decided that because we’re building a new facility anyway, we might as well incorporate some EMP shielding into our design.”
Co-owner Rich Banta told The Journal Gazette: “There was an awful lot of additional engineering and research to be done. That fully accounts for the delay.”
The company says it sought advice from physicists who had previously consulted for the US military.
In 2015, co-owner Alex Carroll explained in a video the reasoning behind the move: “There’s a lot of solar radiation that bombards the Earth every single day, but it doesn’t overpower the natural gravitational shield of Earth. Every now and then, every hundred years or so you have a very strong solar radiation shock that creates electromagnetic interference. It can be strong enough to burn out electronics and things of that nature.”
“The other thing that everybody’s generally familiar with [regarding] the EMP is a rogue entity launching a small nuclear warhead about twenty miles over Earth, and exploding it. That creates a pretty strong EMP. Also, local electromagnetic pulses can be generated via local terrorism or corporate espionage.”
The largest recorded geomagnetic solar storm in history occurred in 1859, bringing down telegraph systems across Europe and North America. The Carrington Event gave some telegraph operators electric shocks, while others were able to continue to send and receive messages even though the power supply was turned off.
A smaller geomagnetic event in 1989 caused a nine-hour outage of Hydro-Québec’s electricity transmission system and caused some satellites to lose control for several hours.
“A Carrington-level, extreme geomagnetic storm is almost inevitable in the future,” a 2013 report from Lloyd’s of London and Atmospheric and Environmental Research (AER) writes.
“Historical auroral records suggest a return period of 50 years for Quebec-level storms and 150 years for very extreme storms, such as the Carrington Event that occurred 154 years ago.”
The insurance company estimated the cost of a Carrington-level event to the US alone at between $0.6–$2.6 trillion.
How to destroy a data center
Various governments have experimented with the use of EMP as a weapon, with perhaps the most notable program being the US/Boeing defense project called CHAMP (Counter-electronics High Power Microwave Advanced Missile Project).
In a 2012 test, CHAMP successfully flew over and knocked out seven electronic targets with “little to no” collateral damage before intentionally exploding.

Story 131
File this under “just in case you were running out of things to worry about.”
According to a former CIA agent who specializes in high tech terror threats, the United States is not at all prepared for a significant Electromagnetic Pulse (EMP) which could come from either a terrorist attack, a first strike from another nuclear power or even a completely natural blast coming at us from the sun or another star. Should it happen with sufficient magnitude, we aren’t just talking about the lights going out or your cellphone ceasing to work. Pretty much all infrastructure would shut down, possibly for years on end. And if it hits a densely populated area like the east coast of the United States, the death toll will likely be in the millions. (Free Beacon)
The United States is vulnerable to a devastating electromagnetic pulse event caused by a high-altitude nuclear blast or solar superstorm, according to a recently published book. Peter Pry, a former CIA analyst and author of the book EMP Manhattan Project, is urging the government to rapidly harden the U.S. electric power system against EMP similar to the three-year crash program to build the first atomic bomb in 1942. “Today the United States and the world faces another existential threat—from an electromagnetic pulse (EMP) catastrophe that can be caused by nature or man, and topple the technological pillars of modern electronic civilization,” said Pry, who served on a congressional EMP commission in the early 2000s.
I’ve been doing some research on this subject myself this year and Pry isn’t the first one to point this out. While a sufficiently large EMP would wipe out virtually everything with wires, transistors or motors in it, the biggest driver of catastrophe would be our nation’s aging power grid. We haven’t even been able to significantly “smarten” our grid, to say nothing of “hardening” it. Any of you who were alive and living in parts of the northeast on August 14th, 2003 probably remember the great blackout/brownout. It struck in midafternoon, and where I live the power didn’t come back on for more than two days. Our grid isn’t even able to protect itself from rolling brownouts by isolating the bad sectors. That was only a small taste of what would happen after a massive EMP.
In the event of a huge EMP burst, it wouldn’t just be the power stations going down. Huge transformers that take months to manufacture would blow up from the current surge. Portable generators not stored in hardened shelters would burn out. All vehicles would stop operating and need their entire electrical systems replaced. Moving people, supplies, food and even water would become impossible on large scales. In and around the major cities the food would be gone in less than a week. People would begin to starve and then you’re into Mad Max territory.
But this “EMP Manhattan Project” Pry is talking about is a daunting challenge. The amount of manpower and materials alone required to make the grid secure would be staggering. Some of the technology required is still in its nascent stages of development. And who is going to pay for all of this? We’re talking about literally trillions of dollars and years – more likely decades – of effort.
But what if we don’t do it? Well… maybe we can keep track of the terrorists well enough. If our missile defense systems are as good as we think, perhaps nobody could sneak a weapon up above our nation and trigger a burst. And the odds of a superstorm from the sun or massive Gamma Ray Burst from a nearby exploding star or other phenomena actually striking us may be fairly low. After all, there hasn’t been a truly massive solar flare aimed right at our planet since 1859. (And that one just fried all the telegraph lines in the country since we didn’t have all that many wires up yet.)
Here’s the part of the article where I offer my sage advice and suggest reasonable solutions to pressing challenges. Stock up on plenty of dried food, potable water and ammunition. And try to have a defensible basement with thick walls.

Story 132
The Air Force is working with the Pentagon’s operational test and evaluation office to reconcile concerns raised in a January report about the KC-46 Pegasus, but the service isn’t planning to change the tanker program or test timelines.
The Director of Operational Test and Evaluation said the KC-46 refueling tanker may not have met the office’s standards for electromagnetic pulse testing because not all of the systems were online during the tests.
The goal was to assess whether the aircraft could safely operate when confronted by electromagnetic fields generated by equipment like radar.
The test showed that the tanker’s flight-critical and boom-refueling systems could withstand a 6-decibel electromagnetic pulse, but certain systems were uninstalled or deactivated before testing, according to the report.
“The configuration of the KC-46A used for EMP testing was intended to test the mission-critical functions of the aircraft to ensure it can continue to operate in an EMP environment,” Air Force Materiel Command officials told Air Force Times.
The mission-critical functions include safe taxi, takeoff, flight, landing, control of the aircraft, life support, refueling operations (using the boom and centerline drogue system only), and voice communications.
“The systems that were uninstalled or deactivated were not flight critical or required for aerial refueling operations,” the command said.
× Fear of missing out? Sign up for the Air Force Times Daily News Roundup to receive the top Air Force stories every afternoon. Thanks for signing up. By giving us your email, you are opting in to the Air Force Times Daily News Roundup.
The KC-46A Pegasus deploys the centerline boom for the first time Oct. 9, 2015. The boom is the fastest way to refuel aircraft at 1,200 gallons per minute. (Boeing photo/John D. Parker)
After the KC-46 was exposed to electromagnetic pulses, the results showed that these critical systems retained their functionality, according to AFMC.
“During a post-test functional flight, the boom operated successfully throughout its operating range (full telescope and movement) while the pumps filled the boom with fuel,” the command said. “The [refueling system] was also successfully trailed to full trail, filled with fuel, and fully rewound. The wing-mounted refueling pods were installed on the aircraft during the EMP test but were not tested during the post-test functional flight.”
The electromagnetic testing took place in July at Naval Air Station Patuxent River, Maryland, and Edwards Air Force Base, California.
KC-46 tanker completes electromagnetic tests The U.S. Air Force’s newest tanker, the KC-46A, recently wrapped up electromagnetic testing, putting Boeing one step closer to delivering the first aircraft, the company said Thursday.
AFMC said that as of now, there are no additional EMP tests scheduled for the KC-46.
One of the next steps is to assess how the tanker performs during nuclear threat-related tests. This includes an inherent hardness assessment and base escape study.
The inherent hardness assessment considers the KC-46’s inherent hardness to nuclear weapon effects, AFMC said. A test of the aircraft’s thermal curtains, which protect aircrew from some of these effects, will be assessed.
The base escape study is an analysis of the time required for a KC-46 to launch and fly a safe distance from a simulated nuclear attack.
The IHA and BES tests are scheduled for the second half of fiscal 2018.
Gen. Carlton Everhart, head of Air Mobility Command, told Air Force Times in January that the KC-46 is almost done with tests needed for the tanker’s second — and final — Federal Aviation Administration certification.
KC-46 refueling tanker receives one of two FAA certifications The aircraft has been deemed safe and reliable but still needs a military-specific certification.
In December, the FAA certified the 767-2C, which is the modified 767 commercial plane that forms the basis of the KC-46.
This Amended Type Certificate verifies that the fundamental design of the tanker is safe, and it’s one of two FAA certifications required for the tanker program. The Supplemental Type Certificate focuses on the military-specific equipment that’s installed on the 767-2C aircraft to make it a tanker.
In addition to the two FAA certifications, the KC-46 requires an Air Force-issued Military Type Certification that validates the airworthiness and safety of the military systems and equipment installed on the new tanker, AMC officials said.
The Air Force plans to buy 179 of the aircraft, and Boeing is contractually obligated to deliver the first 18 certified tankers by October.

Story 133
The most recent iteration of the New Jersey Energy Master Plan (EMP) includes provisions that could boost the development of microgrids in the state.
The draft plan also calls for a microgrid feasibility study to determine if microgrid projects should be expanded.
On June 10, New Jersey’s Board of Public Utilities (BPU) released the 2019 draft EMP. As directed by Democratic Gov. Phil Murphy’s Executive Order 28, the plan calls for the conversion of the state’s energy profile to 100% clean energy by 2050.
Currently, New Jersey derives about 5% of its energy from renewable sources, with the rest coming from natural gas and nuclear power.
To reach the governor’s goal, the draft plan proposes seven major “strategies,” including switching to electric cars and charging stations, fast-track support for the development of offshore wind and for solar power resources, converting to electrically heated homes and businesses, maximizing energy efficiency, growing the state’s clean energy innovation economy, providing support for community energy planning for low and moderate income communities, and grid modernization.
Grid modernization central to energy master plan
Regarding Strategy 5 — modernizing the grid — the draft plan says, “Grid modernization will provide the backbone on which all other efforts to transition to a clean energy economy will rely.”
This encompasses the finance and implementation of distribution system upgrades necessary to handle increased electrification and integration of distributed energy resources, including support for bi-directional power flows for applications such as microgrids.
The plan recommends that utilities establish Integrated Distribution Plans (IDPs) within one year to expand and enhance the location and amount of distributed energy and electric vehicles on the distribution system. The goal is to “optimally and most cost effectively” accommodate increased electricity demand that would result from electrification and higher penetration of distributed energy resources.
Calls for non-wires alternatives
In addition, utilities would propose and adopt non-wires solutions (also known as non-wires alternatives) under the plan, encouraging private investments in lieu of expansion or upgrade to the distribution and transmission system. The non-wires solutions could include energy efficiency, demand response, load shifting, microgrids, storage, renewable generation and grid modernization.
The grid modernization effort also focuses on revamping how the state handles transmission by recommending more state control over projects. New Jersey stands out in the PJM Interconnection region, the plan says, as the only state that does not review the necessity of transmission projects. The plan also seeks to exert more authority to review federally set fixed rates of return on transmission projects.
In addition, the plan argues that wider deployment of advanced metering infrastructure is a “foundational component” of a modernized distribution grid. Regulators denied previous utility smart meter proposals because of meter cost and the distribution grid’s lack of sophistication to support the promised benefits of the meters.
Other microgrid efforts
Regarding the microgrid feasibility study, the BPU, in partnership with the New Jersey Institute of Technology and Rutgers University, received a $300,000 grant from the US Department of Energy for a microgrid financing study that to produce a financing tool for microgrid developers. The study will inform the final energy master plan and its implementation roadmap.
Free Resource from Microgrid Knowledge White Paper Library How Microgrids Enable Optimal Cooperation Among Distributed Energy Resources Many facility operators need increased resiliency, efficiently, and sustainability. Distributed Energy Resources (DERs) like wind, PV and energy storage can address these needs. Yet also introduce many other challenges. To learn how microgrids can help you optimize the integration of these assets, download this white paper. Many facility operators need increased resiliency, efficiently, and sustainability. Distributed Energy Resources (DERs) like wind, PV and energy storage can address these needs. Yet also introduce many other challenges. To learn how microgrids can help you optimize the integration of these assets, download this white paper. Download
Last summer, the BPU funded the Town Center Distributed Energy Resource project which called for feasibility studies in 13 municipalities, including the capital of Trenton, to determine if critical facilities can be connected into a microgrid to provide power and essential services in the event of a power outage. The next round of funding for that program will be determined at the end of April.
Separately the BPU is in discussions with the Department of the Treasury to study the feasibility of a Statehouse Complex microgrid project, and whether the Statehouse Complex and Trenton microgrid projects could be combined.
The draft energy master plan moves next to the public hearing stage before it can be adopted. A 1977 law requires the government to regularly update the plan to include both long term goals and interim measures to achieve those objectives. The last update to the master plan was completed in 2015.
The long-term goals of any given energy master plan in New Jersey have proven vulnerable to a change in administrations. In 2011, then-governor Chris Christie (R) scaled back the renewable energy targets set by his predecessor, Democratic Gov. Jon Corzine.
Track news about microgrids in New Jersey. Subscribe to the free Microgrid Knowledge newsletter.

Story 134
World-famous restaurateurs Daniel Humm and Will Guidara will open their first London restaurant at iconic Mayfair hotel, Claridge’s. As first reported by Bloomberg, the operators of Eleven Madison Park in New York will open Davies and Brook in the summer 2019, replacing Fera, which closed at the end of last year, and confirming rumours of the Eleven Madison Park’s owners’ first London project.
EMP is one of New York City’s five three-Michelin-starred restaurants, and the best restaurant in the world according to World’s 50 Best Awards in 2017. It is currently fourth in the world, according to those awards, and will bring “a fine dining restaurant without pretence that embraces the heritage of its location with a contemporary sensibility” to London. The hotel, and the restaurant, straddles Davies and Brook Street in Mayfair. The convention of naming something after a street intersection is straight out of the NYC-style playbook. The menus won’t be out of that playbook, according to Richard Vines at Bloomberg, eschewing the tasting format at EMP for a two, or three course offering. Humm also moved to dismiss overt focus on lineage: “We are not opening Eleven Madison Park in London.”
He went on to say: “Having the opportunity to bring our cuisine and hospitality to the most storied hotel in the world is really a remarkable feeling and a dream come true.”
“But on a more personal level, this is my first time opening a restaurant in Europe, a place I left so many years ago to forge a career in America. Most people don’t know this, but I even worked at Claridge’s when I was 15 years only and it left an indelible mark on me. Claridge’s has always been a place I’ve felt connected to, so being able to come full circle is really emotional and exciting — it feels likes coming home.”
Writing on Instagram, Will Guidara paid tribute to “a brand of hospitality that felt so familiar to me, so aligned to my own.”
Guidara said the duo was eager to transition into their new home. “We’re eager to become a part of the community in London, one that has felt like a second home to us over the years, and to deepen the relationships we have there while serving Daniel’s food and bringing our style of service.
The history of Claridge’s and the responsibility that comes with opening a restaurant within those walls is not something we take lightly – it’s an opportunity we’re truly humbled by and we can’t wait to open our doors later this year. It’s going to be a lot of fun.”
Humm and Guidara’s motto, “make it nice,” is known for its hyper intuitive brand of hospitality; it hides a ferociously obsessive mentality and attention to detail regarding cooking, plating, and service. Said mentality was recently exhibited in Netflix documentary Seven Days Out, which went behind the scenes on the reopening of Eleven Madison Park following a top-to-bottom refurbishment.
Their first London restaurant will be designed by Brad Cloepfel, who recently completed that refurbishment. It included employing artist Daniel Turner to melt down the kitchen’s old stove into a step into the new dining room, as a means of reminding the restaurant of its history and iterations.
Paddy McKillen, co-owner of Claridge’s said: “We are very excited to bring longtime friends and guests of the hotel; Daniel, Will and their exceptional team to Claridge’s, as we have been looking for an opportunity to work with them for some time.
“I know their extraordinary culinary vision will lead the way for a new dining direction at Claridge’s, and we all share a belief in creating something truly special that both our guests and Londoners alike will enjoy.”
More soon.

Story 135
WTF?! You should avoid exposing your iPhone or Apple Watch to helium. The small gaseous molecules can bleed into the devices' microelectromechanical systems and stop them from functioning.
Erik Wooldridge, a systems specialist at Morris Hospital in Chicago, shared a strange occurrence with iFixit. One day, while installing a new MRI machine, he started getting calls that cell phones had stopped working throughout the building. A few minutes later, people were reporting their Apple Watches had also quit functioning.
His first response was that the MRI had somehow set off an electromagnetic pulse (EMP), and if that were the case, it would cause big problems for the hospital.
“My immediate thought was that the MRI must have emitted some sort of EMP, in which case we could be in a lot of trouble,” Wooldridge told iFixit.
However, he soon discovered that medical equipment and Android phones were unaffected. An EMP would have taken them out too, but it seemed that only Apple products were going on the fritz. It wasn’t just a few either. More than 40 devices were seemingly bricked. A quick survey found that iPhone 6 and above were malfunctioning and all versions of Apple Watches were as well. The one iPhone 5 in the building was working normally.
“The behavior of the devices was pretty odd. Most of them were completely dead,” Wooldridge said. “I plugged them into the wall and had no indication that the device was charging. The other devices that were powering on seemed to have issues with the cellular radio. The wifi connection was consistent and fast, but cellular was very hit or miss.”
It was quite the mystery and one that Wooldridge wanted to solve. So he took to Reddit to see if anybody had any ideas. Some Redditors suggested perhaps the liquid helium used to cool the MRI magnet was to blame. Wooldridge checked out the theory and sure enough, found that there was a helium leak that had vented into the building’s HVAC system.
About 120 liters of liquid helium had vented which quickly evaporated into about 90,000 liters of gaseous helium. However, he was still unsure why only Apple devices were affected and why helium would have anything to do with it in the first place.
As it turns out, it’s all about the clocks. All electronic devices contain a clock. Most are quartz oscillators generating a frequency of 32kHz.
“Now, these frequency generators are at the heart of every electronic device,” says iFixit. “Without a clock, the system stands still. The CPU flat out doesn’t work. The clock is literally the heartbeat of a modern device.”
Quartz mechanisms are somewhat large as electronic components go, measuring about 1x3mm. In the race for smaller and thinner devices, Apple recently switched to MEMS (microelectromechanical system) oscillators — the SiT512 to be exact, which is billed as “the world’s smallest 32kHz oscillator.
The mechanical components within the SiT512 are so small they are measured by the micrometer. They are so tiny that they can be fouled up by foreign molecules. Helium gas infiltration into a MEMS oscillator would be similar to pouring sugar in your gas tank.
Small-molecule gases are a known problem for these types of devices. Even Apple is aware of the issue.
“Exposing iPhone to environments having high concentrations of industrial chemicals, including near evaporating liquefied gasses such as helium, may damage or impair iPhone functionality,” says the infrequently read iPhone user’s guide.
The thing is, occurrences of gaseous contaminations are extremely rare, so most people have never even heard of this happening. As such, there is not a lot of pressure for Apple to publicize the issue. They are surely not getting a lot of small-molecule gas-related repairs at the Genius Bar.
If you are unfortunate enough to have this problem, it is fixable usually without having to take the device in for repair. Apple’s iPhone user’s guide has a home remedy that should work to fix a contaminated iPhone (or watch).
“If your device has been affected and shows signs of not powering on, the device can typically be recovered. Leave the unit unconnected from a charging cable and let it air out for approximately one week. The helium must fully dissipate from the device, and the device battery should fully discharge in the process. After a week, plug your device directly into a power adapter and let it charge for up to one hour. Then the device can be turned on again.”
It is incredible to think that something a simple and as tiny as a helium atom can completely stop an electronic device from working. Such is the cost of miniaturization.
Microscopic Images via iFixit

Story 136
Fortem Technologies, a Utah-based company founded in 2016 which counts Boeing’s HorizonX among its investors, put on an anti-drone show for legislators on February 11 at the Utah State Capitol building in Salt Lake City.
The company sent up a series of “rogue” drones, each of which was tracked by their SkyDome system using their TrueView radar sensors, which then dispatched a predator drone to autonomously track, capture and retrieve the intruder in a net with Fortem’s DroneHunter system. [Read the CDR interview with Gregg Pugmire of Fortem.]
The DroneHunter goes up with two loaded net guns, each of which fire a high-speed gas-propelled weighted net to capture the offending drone. The trapped drone is then transported away from people, traffic or buildings. In today’s demonstration, the DroneHunter system was mounted on a DJI Matrice M600 hexacopter c-drone; the company says it will be offering an American-made platform in the near future, better optimized for the DroneHunter hardware which includes a TrueView micro-radar unit.
When discussing so-called counter-UAS (Unmanned Aircraft System) or anti-drone systems, a distinction is made between tracking — identifying a drone and its movements; and interdiction — forcing the drone to land or neutralizing it. It is illegal in the United States and many other countries to interfere with aircraft, including drones, without special authorization, although in the US, military bases have had the right to take out drones since 2017 and the recent FAA reauthorization allows law enforcement to stop drone flights.
There are several ways to track wayward drones: micro-radar such as Fortem’s TrueView, managed by its SkyDome software; radio frequency (RF) sensors, used by rival firm Dedrone; electro-optical (EO) for visual identification; thermal; acoustic, picking up the distinctive beehive humming of drone rotors. Software tracking solutions can generally integrate more than one type of sensor. The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) is currently studying how to require remote identification for every drone in the sky; the nascent Urban Air Mobility (UAM) or air taxi industry will need to rely on trouble-free Unmanned Traffic Management (UTM or U-space) to share the sky at low altitudes in urban areas with c-drones. China’s Dà-Jiāng Innovations (DJI), the world’s market leader for c-drones, has remote identification available and preprograms its drones with GPS “geofencing” to prevent overflight of sensitive sites, although apparently some sites aren’t properly fenced by the company, such as this nuclear processing plant in Normandy, France.
There are a number of ways to attempt to interdict drones — a list is here — but there is a problem with destroying a rogue drone (which is already difficult enough): it’s not ideal to have drone rotors, motors, batteries, and airframes raining down on people, traffic, or buildings. Radio jamming or electromagnetic pulse (EMP) techniques could interfere with nearby transmissions. Fortem says capturing a drone with a net is the safest way to interdict a drone. The company claims a high “kill” rate of 85%, although it confirmed most of the 3000 kills over 7500 missions referenced in its press release were during testing or simulations. Fortem’s clients in the US, Europe and the Middle East are mostly government departments wanting to secure sensitive sites, and are reluctant to publicize their drone tracking and interdiction evaluations or contracts.
In late December, one or more drones deliberately flown over the runway at London Gatwick Airport resulted in the airport’s closure for over 33 hours, stranding over 130,000 passengers. The police arrested, then cleared a local couple; the investigation is ongoing. Last month, a drone was sighted at 3600ft altitude by pilots of two aircraft on approach to Newark Liberty Airport near New York City [audio from LiveATC.net]; the drone or its pilot were not found. Last month, Australia’s Civil Aviation Safety Authority (CASA) announced it is deploying DJI’s Aeroscope drone tracking system, but not an interdiction system.
The Utah demonstration was part of Aerospace Day On The Hill, an annual event in its 4th year sponsored by the Utah state governor’s Office Of Economic Development (GOED).

Story 137
New Jersey Governor Phil Murphy announced the New Jersey Partnership to Plug-In, a statewide partnership to build out the necessary infrastructure to support electric vehicle ownership.
The partnership, which will be co-led by the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities, New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection, and the New Jersey Economic Development Authority, will create a strategic and streamlined framework to support New Jersey’s electric vehicle ecosystem, with the goal of registering 330,000 Zero Emission Vehicles (ZEVs) by 2025. The New Jersey Partnership to Plug-In will be ratified under a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU).
The New Jersey Partnership to Plug-In ensures that we are working collaboratively across state agencies and with our private sector partners, to not only meet, but exceed our goal of registering 330,000 electric vehicles in New Jersey by 2025. This new initiative is part of our broader effort to make renewable energy solutions work for everyone in New Jersey. —Governor Murphy
Each agency will have its own direct set of tasks to deploy several critical aspects of electrification such as, mapping of existing and planned charging infrastructure assets; installing electric vehicle charging infrastructure throughout the state; working with lawmakers to establish an electric vehicle rebate program to incentivize adoption of electric vehicles among New Jersey residents; and creating an attractive corporate environment for ZEV-related primary and secondary companies.
Existing initiatives are intended to be enhanced by the partnership’s work. The Department of Environmental Protection recently launched an electric vehicle charging station map and the Board of Public Utilities plans to share a draft of the state’s Energy Master Plan (EMP) in June. The draft EMP will outline ongoing and potential new initiative across state government to achieve 100% clean energy by 2050.
Other agencies, including the Department of Transportation, Motor Vehicle Commission, and Department of Community Affairs, will contribute to aspects of this partnership, including installing signage, tracking vehicle registrations, and actively partnering with municipalities to apply local planning solutions.
With the transportation sector contributing more than 40 percent of New Jersey’s greenhouse gas emissions, it is critical that we electrify this industry as part of Governor Murphy’s commitment to 100 percent clean energy by 2050. The MOU is a significant step in that direction and the NJBPU is eager to partner with our sister agencies in supporting the growth of Zero Emission Vehicles. In particular, the strategies laid out by the MOU will help inform the Board’s review of the EV filings pending before us. —New Jersey Board of Public Utilities President Joseph L. Fiordaliso
Additionally, demonstrating its commitment to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and improving urban air quality in environmental justice communities, the NJ Department of Environmental Protection announced its request for approval from the Volkswagen Environmental Mitigation Trustee to disburse an additional $16 million for the deployment of electric heavy-duty garbage trucks, school buses, and port-related vehicles.
This is the DEP’s second round of requests for funding from the state’s $72.2-million share of federal settlements to resolve claims that Volkswagen installed emissions defeat devices in its vehicles to emit air pollutants without being detected by emissions-testing programs across the US.
The New Jersey Partnership to Plug-In will also dedicate $7 million of Volkswagen settlement funds for fast-charging infrastructure technology. Working with private industry to grow this investment, the partnership has already begun to engage the electric vehicle community to combine these funds with private resources to create a multiplier to the state’s investment, while serving consumers of fast-charging technology.
The Partnership will address possible barriers to entering the EV market that exist in the early stages that may make it difficult for the private sector to deploy capital and ensure charging stations are profitable.

Story 138
Electromagnetic pulses, or EMPs, usually show up in pop culture as a temporary way to disable electronics. In Ocean's Eleven, one knocks out a casino's power supply during a heist. In the Matrix movies, an EMP is a CGI energy blast that Morpheus uses to stop the Sentinels from attacking Zion.
In real life, however, EMPs are a potential threat to national security.
First imagined as a troubling after effect in the wake a nuclear attack, EMPs have recently reemerged as non-nuclear e-bombs that silently attack precious electricity. A burst of energy that fries electronic circuits within a blast radius, an EMP could theoretically knock out a power grid if it were large enough. That in turn could send a major city back to the Stone Age, or knock out a strategically significant military installation in an instant.
But is such a large EMP a plausible fear? Peter Pry, director of a bipartisan congressional commission called the EMP Task force, seems to think so. He went on Fox News this week to say that "nine out of ten Americans could die from starvation, disease, and societal collapse, if the blackout lasted a year." Pry isn't the only one worried: In a letter to investors last year, billionaire hedge fund manager Paul Singer warned that EMPs are now the "most significant threat" to American security.
EMP scaremongering has been a longtime staple for the tinfoil hat crowd, with popular conspiracy blog ZeroHedge claiming that an electromagnetic pulse attack would be "one of the fastest ways to cripple America and end the dominance of the United States in world affairs."
But now, the US military is reportedly carting equipment into bunkers to shield it from EMPs. In April, some of the critical communications equipment at North American Aerospace Defense Command was moved into a bunker inside Cheyenne Mountain, a Cold War relic in Colorado that you might remember from the Matthew Broderick movie War Games.This was after the government had already disclosed a plan about a year ago to build a similar $44 million facility in Alaska for housing interceptor missiles.
Related: The Business of War
So how scared should we be? I wasn't sure, so I contacted a military analyst at the global intelligence firm Stratfor, the exquisitely named Sim Tack, to find out if we all need to buy EMP-proof iPhone cases, or whether EMPs are something we can put off studying until Skynet comes online.
VICE: First thing's first: Is an EMP a real weapon?
Sim Tack: It's not a work of fiction. It's an actual technology that exists. It's being played with in some capacity, and will potentially play a much greater role in future warfare. With the increasing importance of electronic circuits on the battlefield... There's only more and more reason to create weapons that specifically target networking ability and electronics dependence.
Has the US entertained the idea of making EMP weapons?
Yes. That's definitely something the US has looked into. EMPs were recognized as an effect of using nuclear weapons during test launches in the sixties. As with any type of natural force that is discovered, it became, "Hey, we can actually try and harness this power for military means."
And have other countries built them?
Different countries have experimented with EMPs. Russia has. There was some stuff in the media recently about North Korea getting some EMP technology from Russia, although that technology is somewhat limited. But the general idea of using EMPs in warfare? That's not just limited to the US.
Will a real EMP weapon work like the ones in The Matrix?
Well, an EMP overloads whatever weak circuits it can manage to overload, and basically destroys them, requiring that they be replaced by new electronic components to make that system functional again.
Right. And meanwhile in The Matrix it seems like the systems come back after a while.
That could potentially be what happens with hardened systems. Those might have the capacity to absorb an EMP, or work their way through that surge, and be operational again.
"Placing some explosives on the power lines coming out of that power plant would be a lot easier, a lot less complex, and a lot cheaper than building that EMP weapon."
How might someone do serious damage with one right now?
You might spend a ton of money and time generating an EMP near a power plant. But—for instance—placing some explosives on the power lines coming out of that power plant would be a lot easier, a lot less complex, and a lot cheaper than building that EMP weapon.
What would be an example of this "future warfare" you speak of, where EMPs might come into play?
The US has not really been focusing the development of its military capability on peer-to-peer conflict per se, so from that point of view, it hasn't been the main priority. If you look at the conflict in Eastern Ukraine... One of the things that's been interesting to see there was how the electronic element of warfare has played out.
So to be clear, the Ukraine-Russia conflict doesn't involve EMPs, but it's an example of a modern conflict that might have a use for them? How so?
[The Russians] started to jam Ukrainian communications, and tap into [them]. They started to jam the operations of drones that were observing the separatists and the Russians. Then as a countermovement, the Ukrainians have had to look into getting drones that are more hardened against jamming. At the same time they've had to try and restructure their communications, and tried to keep their combatants from using cell phones.
So EMPs might come into play when two very developed countries go to war?
Yes, and Eastern Ukraine is just a blip on the radar... Imagine the importance of that kind of time to disrupt the network-centric warfare of your enemy in actual warfare.
Do functioning standalone EMP weapons already exist?
I know that [the US has] built prototypes, and used those devices to test the hardening of other devices, so that they don't have to set off a nuclear explosion to test circuits against EMPs. Of course, those prototypes and test devices aren't in a format that you can simply drop over an enemy city tomorrow.
So I shouldn't be worried about Al Qaeda using one to knock out the power grid? Paul Singer seems to think I should.
It's not that EMPs are not a threat. It's just that—although the effect would be massive—currently they're not really a risk apart from nuclear strikes, so highlighting them as the greatest threat there is might not be entirely realistic.
But I've seen videos of people making them at home...
When we're talking about realistic versus unrealistic threats, currently generating an EMP with a nuclear weapon is the most feasible way to do it. Homebuilt EMP weapons aren't very feasible. The cost you would put into building such a system versus the benefit that you would actually gain is very, very impaired.
What's the main challenge stopping small militaries from using them?
Besides the weight, and the cost of whatever you use to generate that kind of electricity—a capacitor, a large amount of batteries, or whatever power generation method—the cost would be so high, but the damage you can do with it would be so limited, that other much cheaper methods might be more efficient when it comes to damaging the area that you're targeting.
OK, let's talk about how to defend ourselves from these things. What's "hardening"?
Hardening is designing electronic circuits to deal with the sudden power surge that comes from an EMP. That in some cases means using thicker, heavier conductors, or creating redundant circuits, or avoiding using sensitive elements within the circuit.
And how would I "harden" my electronics?
Basically, it's the same as protecting a circuit from power surges, but you're dealing with the fact that this kind of power surge affects every part of the circuit, rather than entering the circuit at one certain point.
And you really think we're likely to see the kind of warfare that would involve this kind of thing?
Well, we haven't reached Francis Fukuyama's "End of History" just yet.
Follow Mike Pearl on Twitter.

Story 139
The North Korean nuclear crisis has fueled global concern over how much time is left before Pyongyang masters the technology required to miniaturize nuclear warheads and make the re-entry vehicles needed to deliver them on target.
But a Sept. 3 announcement by the reclusive state raised fears of another kind of attack that completely bypasses those hurdles: an electromagnetic pulse.
In Sunday’s announcement, Pyongyang claimed to have successfully tested a hydrogen bomb and said it had the ability to detonate one at high altitude to generate an EMP — an electromagnetic wave that would fry electronic devices and disrupt communications for hundreds of kilometers around.
A nuclear device detonated 30 km to 400 km above ground could disrupt nearly all types of electronics within range, including computers, power grids and communication systems, experts say. Recovery could take years.
“The electromagnetic pulse generated by a high-altitude nuclear explosion is one of a small number of threats that can hold our society at risk of catastrophic consequences,” concluded a 2008 report by a U.S. commission tasked with assessing such threats for Congress, the president and other key government bodies.
Some experts have questioned the commission’s estimates. Others have argued the North would not stage such an attack because it would immediately be met by a massive, devastating retaliatory attack by the U.S.
But perhaps the most alarming aspect of an EMP attack is that staging one wouldn’t require an accurate ballistic missile. Even a simple balloon would be enough.
“For instance North Korea could make an EMP attack against the United States by launching a short-range missile off a freighter or submarine or by lofting a warhead to 30 kilometers burst height by balloon,” William Graham, chairman of the U.S. congressional commission, wrote in a June 2 article published by 38 North, an authoritative website that specializes in analysis of North Korean affairs. “Even a balloon-lofted warhead detonated at 30 kilometers altitude could blackout the Eastern Grid that supports most of the population and generates 75 percent of U.S. electricity.”
Japan, experts say, looks particularly vulnerable compared with the U.S., which is thought to have already shielded key defense and government facilities from EMPs.
At a news conference Thursday, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga said Japan would consider measures to do the same.
But a senior government official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, admitted that Japan remains in the very early stages of addressing EMP threats and said Suga’s comment means the government “will just start studying what it can do.”
Retired Major Gen. Takashi Onizuka of the Ground Self-Defense Force has long warned that a nuclear EMP attack could be catastrophic for Japan.
Onizuka headed the GSDF’s Chemical School in Omiya, Saitama Prefecture, Japan’s sole institute specializing in studying defensive measures against nuclear, biological and chemical weapons, from 2004 to 2005.
“Japan hasn’t even recognized the EMP threat until recently,” he told The Japan Times in a telephone interview, adding that he doesn’t believe even the Self-Defense Forces are well-prepared against EMP threats.
According to Onizuka, if a 10-kiloton atomic bomb is detonated 30 km above the Kanto region, it would have a 602-km radius of effect that would cover most of Honshu. At an altitude of 135 km, the blast radius would expand to 1,300 km, covering Hokkaido and Kyushu.
In a 2016 article for the Tokyo-based nonprofit organization Center for Information and Security Trade Control, Onizuka warned that a high-altitude EMP attack would damage or destroy Japan’s power, communications and transport systems as well as disable banks, hospitals and nuclear power plants.
“If the electricity supply for a nuclear power plant is cut off, and the operator cannot deal with the situation by activating an emergency power system or generators, it could lead to an emergency like the Fukushima nuclear power plant accident,” Onizuka wrote.
After the Fukushima core meltdowns, Japan idled all of its commercial reactors. Five have since been allowed to resume operation and the central government is pushing hard for more restarts.
At a meeting of the Lower House Foreign Affairs Committee on May 12, Shunichi Tanaka, chairman of the Nuclear Regulation Authority, admitted that the nation’s nuclear power plants haven’t taken any particular measures against the EMP threat.
Tanaka said the effects of an EMP attack “are not assumed” under nuclear safety regulations and that the NRA would only order the plants to shut down if war broke out.

Story 140
Iran Is Mastering the Final Frontier
In mid-January and early February, Iran attempted two satellite launches intended for environmental monitoring purposes. The Payam (Message) and Doosti (Friendship) ascended aboard Iranian-made satellite launch vehicles (SLVs). Both launches failed to place the satellites into orbit. The United States nevertheless protested the space launches—mostly because the SLVs used the same base technology as multistage intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBMs).
In an anticipatory tweet on Jan. 3, U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo had warned that “The launch will advance [Iran’s] missile program. US, France, UK & Germany have already stated this is in defiance of [United Nations Security Council Resolution] 2231. We won’t stand by while the regime threatens international security.” The administration of U.S. President Donald Trump has even reportedly revived a Bush-era secret program to sabotage Iran’s missile and space program by planting “faulty parts and materials into Iran’s aerospace supply chains.”
Yet the national-security significance of Iran’s space program far surpasses its implications for ICBMs. Iran’s growing presence in outer space, especially when combined with its growing capabilities in cyberspace, strengthens all aspects of its hard power.
The Islamic Republic of Iran’s space program evolved from its indigenous missile program, which began in the late 1980s with assistance mainly from North Korea, China, Libya, and the Soviet Union. In 2003, when the reformist Mohammad Khatami was president, the Iranian parliament approved the creation of the Supreme Space Council (SSC) and the Iranian Space Agency (ISA) as its executive arm, with both in turn linked to the Ministry of Information and Communications Technology.
The space program received a big boost under Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s hard-line presidency beginning in 2005, just as Iran’s nuclear standoff with the West intensified. In February 2009, during the 30th anniversary of the Iranian revolution, Iran successfully launched its first indigenous satellite, Omid (Hope), using the Safir (Ambassador) SLV, placing it among the dozen or so spacefaring nations with independent satellite launch capability. Iran has so far successfully employed Safir-class SLVs to place in orbit four satellites carrying various telecommunications, earth-imaging and environmental monitoring equipment. Eight other documented orbital launches have failed.
In 2010, Iran unveiled its two-stage Simorgh (Phoenix) SLV, which improves on the Safir by harnessing not one but four missile engines (all based on North Korea’s Nodong missile), in turn permitting a payload capacity of up to 550 pounds—five times more than what it had thus far placed in orbit. Since 2016, Iran has attempted several launches with the Simorgh, but none, including the Payam this January, has yet proven successful. In January 2013, however, Iran reportedly dispatched a monkey into space, bringing it closer to human spaceflight, which so far only Russia, the U.S., and China have achieved. In 2013, Iran also inaugurated a space monitoring center, a crucial first step toward improved awareness of natural and man-made objects, events, and activities occurring in space.
Iran’s successes have so far focused on low Earth orbit (LEO), the highest-traffic band of space, located up to 1,200 kilometers from Earth. This area is generally used for Earth observation, some limited communications systems and, most famously, as a perch for the International Space Station. Iran is now aiming to take a variety of satellites farther afield into the next two bands of space, known as medium Earth orbit (MEO) and geosynchronous equatorial orbit (GEO). Located at up to 12,500 miles and 22,000 miles from Earth, these are used for navigation systems such as GPS, as well as internet, television, and radio broadcast systems.
As with its nuclear program, Tehran has argued for the exclusively peaceful purposes of its space program. But Iran, a state persistently sensitive to threats against it, is likely at the very least to treat space as a potential security vulnerability. It will almost certainly try to degrade, deny, and deter attempts by others to weaponize space.
Tehran meanwhile is surely already assessing the offensive efforts of other countries. In June 2018, Trump instructed the Pentagon to establish a “space force” separate from the Air Force as the U.S. military’s sixth branch, in order to dominate space. Russia and China demurred in response, insisting on purely peaceful uses for space. But while no space wars have yet occurred, an arms race has been quietly building up between China and the United States, with Russia also quickly edging in. Back in 2007, China successfully tested an anti-satellite (ASAT) weapon on one of its own retired weather satellites in orbit, the first since similar tests by the Cold War superpowers in the 1980s. A 2018 U.S. Department of Defense report warned that both China and Russia are investing in weapons capable of attacking U.S. satellites and space assets, which could transform space into a battlefield. The emerging security dilemma has accordingly prompted even other states to develop counterspace capabilities aimed essentially at mastering the new terrain.
Iran, for its part, has been slowly but steadily improving capabilities linked to intelligence, reconnaissance, and early-warning systems. It has reportedly already managed to use space technologies to spoof the GPS system of an American drone, blind a U.S. spy satellite using directed energy, and use advanced jamming techniques against western commercial satellites. More hypothetically, with improved tracking and positioning technology, further ballistic advances could offer Iran the potential to develop Earth-based direct-ascent or on-orbit ASAT missiles, which could also target the satellites and Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance platforms (known as C4ISR) that adversaries such as the United States increasingly use in integrated military operations.
Notwithstanding the 1967 U.N. ban on nuclear weapons in outer space which Iran has signed but not yet ratified, Iran could potentially combine its nuclear ambitions with its outer space ambitions. This could take the form of weaponry not unlike the Soviet Union’s Fractional Orbital Bombardment System, which would have used suborbital flight to achieve a global strike range. Similarly, a nuclear weapon detonated by Iran from space could be used to generate an electromagnetic pulse to incapacitate electrical and electronic systems in orbit.
It’s still premature to talk of Iran employing or possessing advanced space capabilities like those of China and Russia. But even if Iran’s space doctrine firmly eschews offense, self-defense space operations involving means already at its disposal such as lasers, jammers, or hacking could still disrupt a sprawling range of services the international community is increasingly dependent upon, including navigation and communications. Moreover, instead of striking space assets, states could target the other two more accessible components of space systems—ground control and telemetry facilities, and the radars which ensure Earth-space communications links.
One recent assessment by a U.S. think tank persuasively challenged the premise that Iran is using its space program to mask ICBM development, thereby questioning the Trump administration’s characterization of the threat. But as competition among the world’s spacefaring nations gears up, space as the ultimate high ground of strategy will only grow in importance for Iran—especially given the relatively sparse instruments of deterrence otherwise at its disposal.

Story 141
China’s People’s Liberation Army Navy (PLA Navy) unveiled a tactical laser system with a striking resemblance to a solid-state laser system tested by the US Navy in 2014, according to The Maritime Executive.
Appearing in a promotional video broadcast by state-owned channel CCTV, Beijing’s new laser can be deployed on both land and sea, and can be used for both close-in surface-to-surface combat and air defenses. According to CCTV, the laser could be mounted on the PLA Navy’s Type 055 destroyers as an alternative to the HHQ-10 surface-to-air missile.
As The Maritime Executive notes, Beijing’s system looks limilar to the US Navy’s XN-1 LaWS system that was tested on the USS Ponce in 2014. The Navy reported that the system worked as designed against low-end asymmetric threats, and can be used at low power to dazzle enemies. At higher power it can fry sensors, burn out motors and detonate explosive materials. During one test, a UAV was able to shot down in as little as two seconds.
The satellite images were published by Indian Army Col. Vinayak Bhat, whose expertise is often widely cited in western media reports, and show a base with advanced satellite tracking capabilities and facilities which house large-scale lasers located about 145 miles south of the Urumqi, the capital of Xinjiang.
A full report featuring the satellite imagery was published by the Washington Free Beacon which concluded alarmingly, “China likely is pursuing laser weapons to disrupt, degrade or damage sat­ellites and their sensors and possibly already has a limited capability to employ laser systems against satellite sensors.”
According to the analysis:
“The Xinjiang base is one of those laser bases that include four main buildings with sliding roofs that Bhat assesses contain high-powered chemical lasers powered by neodymium.
Bhat estimates that the smaller shed with the sliding roof is a laser tracker. Taken together, the Chinese can fire one to three of the lasers against an orbiting satellite that China is seeking to disrupt.”
Giving credence to the claim, the report cites the US Defense Intelligence Agency which said in its own assessment published in February that China is set to deploy a ground based laser cannon at some point next year.
Meanwhile, last July we reported that China has a “laser AK-47” which its manufacturer claimed could set fire to a target from almost one kilometer away (.62 miles). After naysayers doubted the gun’s capabilities, the South China Morning Post featured a test video in response to the critics. The company says the filmed test was not conducted at maximum range, citing “safety reasons, to avoid anyone accidentally walking into the beam” — as the beam is invisible and the device without sound, various objects are shown igniting, including clothing and even a tire. A company spokesman cited by the SCMP said “And after an upgrade it will be the world’s most advanced laser cannon – it will be able to take down a drone several kilometres away.” ALSO READ Russian air defense forces arrive in Egypt
This article first appeared in Zero Hedge – you can follow them on Twitter @zerohedge
Advertisements

Story 142
The World’s 50 Best list — the highly imperfect, unnecessarily Eurocentric ranking of the “best” fine dining restaurants in the world — announced back in January it was making a concerted attempt to change that reputation by precluding all previous No. 1 winners from entering the list again. At the time of the rule change, organizers championed the move as one way to create “a more diverse and inclusive list in the long-term,” part of the organization’s larger mission to “champion excellence, but also to promote humanity, inclusivity, and opportunity.”
But according to a story by Lisa Abend today in Time, the rule changes did not come direct from the list organizers, but instead “some would say [it was] imposed by half a dozen or so highly ranked chefs, some of them former #1s, some of them close to the top.” And at least some of those influential chefs were motivated not entirely with inclusivity in mind:
According to a source with knowledge of the process who asked for anonymity because he did not have permission to speak publicly on the subject, the core group that began pressing in earnest for the change last year was driven not only or even primarily by an attempt to unclog the top, but also by an effort to avoid the decline in reputation that some notable chefs have suffered once they fell from first place.
Daniel Humm of NYC’s Eleven Madison Park, the 2017 World’s Best Restaurant, confirmed “the impact of a drop” was a factor in the rule change, noting how some chefs would feel “pissed off and mistreated” as their restaurants would fall in the ranking.
Taking formerly No. 1 restaurants out of the mix — a rule that only affects seven restaurants at the end of the day, and actually five when you consider elBulli is closed and Noma relocated so still gets to compete — is certainly one way for the organization to cushion chef’s egos when literally only one restaurant can be named to the top each year. (This, gentlemen — and I say gentlemen very pointedly — is how lists work.)
That a “half dozen or so” formerly top-ranked chefs could push for such a fundamental change driven in part by feelings is particularly noteworthy given that World’s 50 Best has previously brushed aside other attempts at inclusivity, arguing the sanctity of its voting body means it simply doesn’t have to do anything. The list being the List, untouchable and largely unedited by the organization who produces it, was why organizers claimed that it was not actually their fault that so few women, and so few non-Western restaurants, were represented on it.
Back in 2016, the guide’s editor, William Drew, told Eater that he didn’t believe diversifying the judging pool would result in a more diverse list. “We don’t believe a female critic is going to vote for a female chef just as we don’t believe a male critic is going to vote for a male chef.” (The organization has backtracked there, too: In late 2018, before the latest rule change, the World’s 50 Best announced it would gender-balance its voting academy.) Drew also said in 2016 that “the lack of female chefs heading up restaurants on the 50 Best list is a reflection of the state of the industry rather than an endorsement of it... the voters aren’t voting for chefs, they’re voting for restaurants.”
This isn’t the first time chefs have expressed displeasure with the list. Dominique Crenn has been notably outspoken about the absurdity of the Best Female Chef award she won, and criticized the sexism she saw within the list quite publicly. But now, the list-determined best restaurants aren’t even going to be in the game anymore because a handful of the world’s most acclaimed chefs don’t want them to be. These chefs reportedly lobbied the organization, out of sight from readers and their fellow competitors — and actually got their way.
If the World’s 50 Best is willing to say that top performers will get taken out of the running by ~rules~ so that more chefs can have a chance at the spotlight, why not also demand by ~rules~ that voters must meet quotas in who they vote for?
Diversifying the top echelon is a possible side effect of removing the past winners — emphasis on possible. But the World’s 50 Best sold it as a move towards inclusion, which proves that at some level they know something must change in the way they make the list. It’s just not logical to let the people who have benefited most from the list dictate how those changes should be made.
• Why The World’s 50 Best Restaurants 2019 List Is More Controversial Than Ever [Time]

Story 143
If you’ve ever watched The Matrix or Ocean’s Eleven, you’ll be familiar with EMP weapons — pulses of intense electromagnetic radiation that melt any nearby conductors, disabling just about any electrical system or electronic device. Despite their sci-fi-like portrayal by Hollywood, EMP weapons are very real, and very capable of destroying computers or knocking out a power grid. That’s why the Fraunhofer Institute in Germany has now created a device that can defend against EMP attacks.
While the Fraunhofer Institute device can’t actually defend against the crippling effects of an EMP weapon, it can detect the strength, frequency, and location of the attack. An EMP (electromagnetic pulse) is essentially just big, high-powered burst of radiation — and like other forms of radiation, such as a radio signal, it’s relatively easy to analyze that radiation to work out what exactly is going on.
The Fraunhofer instrument consists of four antennae on a tripod (facing different directions), a shielded box that houses some RF components (amplifiers, rectifiers, etc.), and a computer to analyze the resultant data. The Fraunhofer Institute rarely gives up more information than it has to, and sadly this case is no exception, so we have to do some guessing on how the instrument actually works. The antennae cover a quadrant of 90 degrees each, where they can detect “all types of electromagnetic sources.” In the shielded box there’s a “high-frequency module” that can determine when an electromagnetic pulse starts and stops. The computer then tallies this information up to work out where an EMP originated from, how long the EMP lasted, and what kind of EMP blast we’re talking about (weaponized, nuclear, non-nuclear, etc.) “Those affected by the attack can use this information to mount a rapid and appropriate protective response,” explains Michael Jöster from the Institute.
At this point, we should note that Fraunhofer’s device only works for small EMP attacks — non-nuclear EMPs that generally have very small, localized effects. The nuclear EMP that North Korea recently (reportedly) obtained from Russia is based on an atomic bomb, and would thus have enough energy to melt (fuse) every electrical system and electronic device for hundreds of miles — including the Fraunhofer Institute’s instrument. This new instrument would only be useful in defending against small, non-nuclear EMPs — and again, it would only help you locate the attacker after the EMP has already shut down your security system (or whatever else those terrorists are trying to shut down). If you’re the target of a nuclear EMP, there really isn’t anything you can do, short of shielding yourself with a lot of lead.
All of this leads me to ask an intriguing question: Just how common are these low-level EMP attacks? Fraunhofer says that at least one criminal group in Berlin has used suitcase-sized EMP devices to crack the security of limousines. Similar devices can be used to overcome alarm systems, though no real-world examples are given. In general, Fraunhofer says that consumer-grade devices (smartphones, cars) are most at risk from these suitcase EMPs — industrial systems usually have enough shielding that you’d need a serious EMP device to cause any damage. In general, there are very few reported cases of EMP attacks — but that isn’t to say they don’t exist. Presumably, if Fraunhofer has gone out of its way to mitigate against EMPs, there must’ve been demand from the Institute’s industry partners to develop such a device. Who knows: Maybe high-tech crime syndicates have suddenly started using EMPs — but in the interests of security and public relations, such attacks simply aren’t being publicized.
Now read: A deeper look into lasers, particle beams, and the future of war

Story 144
ROK Navy to get Aircraft Carrier, Arsenal Ship as part of Ambitious 5-year defense plan South Korea's Ministry of National Defense (MND) unveiled on August 14 an ambitious mid-term defense plan for 2020-2024. In addition to known projects (KDX III Batch II and KSS III Batch II) the plan calls for the design of two new naval projects for the ROK Navy: An LPX-II aircraft carrier and an arsenal ship.
As part of the MND’s mid-term defense plan released last week, 290.5 trillion won (US$239.06 billion) will be spent on South Korea’s national defense from 2020 through 2024 (a 7.1% annual increase).
According to the MND, the new plan is need to counter the threat posed by North Korea, strengthen South Korean forces around the Korean Peninsula and gain new critical military capabilities.
Those capabilities will be achieved via new programs:
Non-kinetic strike weapons (EMP)
Counter-stealth radar
Aircraft carrier (amphibious ship capable of deploying F-35B)
Arsenal ship armed with dozens of land attack missiles
ROK Navy LPX-II Aircraft Carrier
Conceptual development of the amphibious ship (that would act as an aircraft carrier) is set to begin next year, with commissioning with Republic of Korea Navy expected for the early 2030s. The vessel, displacing around 30,000 tons would be based on the existing Dokdo-class amphibious assault ship and would be able to accommodate around 20 F-35B STOVL fighters.
ROK Navy Arsenal Ship
ワイは好きよこういうの。 pic.twitter.com/ugh9gvMkFt — コンギョ（全裸中年男性雪村あおいちゃん!の西京焼き (@najinclass) August 15, 2019 Early artist impression of ROK Navy arsenal ship
According to daily newspaper The Hankyoreh, the arsenal ship will likely be modeled on the locally produced KDX-II destroyer. It will be loaded with a large number of precision-guided weapons, including ship-to-ground missiles, for hitting ground targets. It’s expected to begin its mission in the late 2020s.
An arsenal ship is a concept of a floating missile platform capable of carrying and launching large numbers (in the hundred) of cruise missiles via vertical launch system.
ROK Navy KDX III Batch II and KSS III Batch II
CGI of KDX-III Batch II. DAPA Image
The MND’s mid-term defense plan also mentions of ongoing ROK Navy programs such as the KDX III Batch II destroyer and the KSS III Batch II large conventional submarine.
Based on the existing Sejong the Great-class (known as KDX III program the new KDX III Batch II AEGIS destroyers will feature several improvements including anti-ballistic missile capability with Raytheon’s SM-3 interceptors. The KDX-III Batch II will be fitted with SM-2 as well and, possibly, the new SM-6 “multi-mission missile” capable of long-range Fleet Air Defense, Sea-Based Terminal defense, and Anti-Surface Warfare.
ROK Navy KSS III Batch I Dosan Ahn Changho-class submarine. Picture by Plus Ultra / Kim Sang Yeon
The DSME-built submarine ‘Dosan Ahn Chang-ho‘ started its seat trials from Opko shipyard on June 10, 2019. With the KSS III program, South Korea has entered the elite club of the few countries able to independently design and build submarines, especially large ones (over 3,000 tons). The KSS-III Batch 1 submarine has a length of 83.5 meters, a width of 9.6 meters, and a draft of 7.7 meters. Its maximum submerged speed is 20 knots, and the cruising range at economic speed is 10,000 nautical miles. The crew consists of 50 sailors.
In March 2019, the construction of the KSS-III Batch II project for the RoK Navy was approved. Compared to the first batch, KSS III Batch II submarine are expected to have a longer hull (bringing displacement approx. from 3000t to 4000t), 10x VLS tubes (up from 6x), a greater level of South Korea systems and Lithium Ion batteries and High-Temperature Superconductor (HTS) motor technology for integrated full electric propulsion system

Story 145


WASHINGTON, DC—A small company from Utah has developed a composite material that combines carbon fibers with a nickel coating. The result is an extremely lightweight electric-conducting material with the properties of plastic. And now that material is being used to create cases and computer enclosures that are essentially lightweight Faraday cages—containing electromagnetic radiation from digital devices and shielding them from electronic eavesdropping or electromagnetic pulse attacks. Ars got a brief hands-on with some of the materials at the Association of the United States Army expo this week.
The company, Conductive Composites, is now selling cases built with the Nickel Chemical Vapor Deposition (NiCVD) composite material through its Faraday Cases division. The cases range in size from suitcase-sized units for carrying smaller digital devices to wheeled portable enclosures that can house servers—providing what is essentially an EMP-shielded portable data center. The cases and enclosures are being marketed not just to the military but to consumers, corporations, and first responders as well.
The materials used in Faraday Cases can also be used to create ultra-lightweight antennas, satellite communications reflector dishes, and hundreds of other things that currently need to be made with conductive metal. And they could be a boon to anyone trying to prevent electronic eavesdropping—be it through active wireless bugs, radio retroreflectors used by nation-state intelligence agencies, or passive surveillance through anything from Wi-FI hacking to electromagnetic signals leaking from computer cables and monitors. And in some cases, they could make it possible to create the kind of secure spaces used by government agencies to prevent eavesdropping nearly anywhere.
Loose waves sink ships
The "Faraday cage" is named for the English scientist Michael Faraday, who discovered the principles behind electromagnetic shielding. When electromagnetic radiation or static electricity is applied to a hollow conductor, it is transmitted over the surface of the conductor—preventing it from passing through the conductor's interior. A Faraday cage prevents electromagnetic radiation from penetrating its exterior, protecting whatever is inside from static, electromagnetic pulses, radio waves, and other electromagnetic phenomenon
I've had some fairly practical experience with the Faraday cage concept. In 1992, I was working for a defense contractor on a networking project for a military customer, and we were trying to figure out how to run CAT5 Ethernet cables through a conduit shared with electrical cables without electromagnetic interference. In a stroke of genius, my colleague Steve Lewis came up with the perfect solution: running the Ethernet cables through PVC pipes covered externally with anti-static spray, a conductive polymer.
Faraday cages also work the other way: radio signals and other electromagnetic waves can't escape from inside the cage. That's why the Sensitive Compartmented Information Facilities (SCIFs) used by intelligence agencies and the military are constructed within carefully configured Faraday cages—to keep adversaries from eavesdropping and to keep any data within emanations from computers and communications devices inside the SCIF from leaking out.
SCIFs are still extremely expensive to build. But the materials used in the Faraday Cases products essentially create small, inexpensive mobile SCIFs. The nickel-coated carbon fibers created by Conductive Composites can be combined with plastic resins and be injection-molded into just about any shape standard plastic can take, at similar weight. As a result, a rolling Faraday Cases computer enclosure weighs about as much by itself as a rolling suitcase.
Conductive Composites' materials can also be integrated into paints, wallpaper, and concrete; they could be used to create SCIF-like rooms and buildings without the cost of metal mesh Faraday cages. They could even conceivably be used to set up temporary secure electronic facilities just about anywhere, as well as providing protection from lightning and other sources of electromagnetic pulses (EMPs).
EMP can ruin your whole day
Lightning strikes and other large electromagnetic pulse events—such as, say, a high-altitude nuclear explosion or geomagnetic storms caused by solar winds on a larger scale—can destroy electrical and electronic systems, inducing currents in conductors within them and overloading them. Just as generators create electricity by passing a wire through a magnetic field, a strong electromagnetic wave can create current within anything conductive it passes through.
Again, I can speak from experience. A lightning strike outside my house a few years ago didn't get past my surge suppressors, but it still killed everything connected to my hard-wired Ethernet because of the voltage induced in my cable runs. While more heavily shielded wires like monitor cables protected some ports on my computers, some of the USB ports plugged into longer cables got fried.
Shielded cables typically use a tight mesh of conductors to protect from the majority of interference from electromagnetic waves—such as those created by alternating current in power wires and some EMP events. As a result, they're usually a lot heavier (and more expensive) than normal cables. But the same NiCVD materials used in the Faraday Cases can be used as wire shielding, or as conduit material to enclose unshielded cables.
Conductive Composites hasn't quite launched the Faraday Cases line yet, at least through its Web store. Ars is looking forward to conducting some lab tests on the company's gear when it's fully available. Perhaps it will help us prevent unintentional Wi-Fi attacks on the mobile phones and computers of people walking or driving past the Ars Technology Lab cyber-range.

Story 146
Solar Powered Sails
In 2019 the world’s first solar energy sails will be put to the test. Called EnergySails, the technology should enable ships to use both solar and wind energy at the same time.
The sails were developed by Japanese renewable energy systems company Eco Marine Power (EMP) as part of a larger project known as Aquarius Marine Renewable Energy. EMP is working on alongside other strategic partners and Japanese ship owner Hisafuku Kisen K.K to equip bulk carrier ships with the technology that, according to EMP, is an “advanced integrated system of rigid sails, marine-grade solar panels, energy storage modules, and marine computers.” EMP said the its project will enable ships to tap into renewable energy by harnessing the power provided by the wind and sun.
The EnergySails themselves will also help ships collect and store energy even while docked. NewAtlas reported that the sails — made of carbon fiber or steel — can also be stored during rough weather conditions.
A Greener Ship
EMP is currently conducting feasibility tests on multiple ships in Hisafuku Kisen’s fleet. The collaboration hopes to estimate how much propulsion an EnergySail system could provide to the ships while also accounting for how much solar power the on-board panels would receive on each individual ship’s route.
Once the testing is over, one ship from the fleet will be chosen for a 12 to 18 month trial. The selected ship will be fitted with an array of EnergySails, solar panels on deck, and the hardware necessary to monitor and control every part of the system.
EMP claims their Aquarius project can reduce fuel consumption and carbon dioxide emissions. Vessels outfitted with the technology would join other ships that are cognizant of climate change, like the fleet of autonomous, clean energy-powered ships called the “Tesla of the Canals.”
But it isn’t clear yet what Hisafuku Kisen’s EnergySail-equipped ships will be hauling. In December 2017, China launched a world-first electric cargo ship, but ironically the clean-powered vessel is ferrying coal — the very material that prompted a shift to electric power in the first place. Hopefully EMP and Hisafuku Kisen’s wind and solar powered ships will not follow suit.

Story 147
A growing chorus of experts now believe that new grid infrastructure in North America must facilitate a massive reduction of greenhouse gas emissions while, at the very same time, protecting the electrical transmission system against natural and humanmade threats. An ambitious project, The North American Supergrid (aka, NAS, or Supergrid), as proposed by the Washington DC-based non-profit Climate Institute, aims to address this problem.
The United States has vast resources of renewable energy: wind energy on the Great Plains and in the Midwest, solar energy in the Southwest, geothermal energy in the Rocky Mountains and Great Basin, and hydropower in the Northwest and Southeast. Unfortunately, the variability and dispersed nature of renewable energy resources has made it difficult to optimally utilize them, given that the existing electrical grid was not originally set up to transmit electricity over long distances from renewable energy supply centers to major load centers. As a result of these factors, renewable energy resources remain significantly underutilized in the U.S., even as the cost of electricity generated from wind and solar sources has declined sharply in recent years.
As of today, North America’s electrical transmission infrastructure is troublingly unprepared for modern threats and natural hazards. If a terrorist organization or rogue state, for example, obtained and detonated a nuclear weapon high above the United States, it would send a powerful electromagnetic pulse (EMP) that would overload transmission infrastructure, taking the grid down for years. A similar effect would occur in the event of a solar storm like the famous Carrington event of 1859, a completely unavoidable and unpredictable event.
NAS would make electricity infrastructure more resilient and greatly reduce power sector carbon emissions.
The NAS has been proposed as a nodal high voltage direct current (HVDC) network. As a largely underground transmission systems, it would extend across the lower 48 states, thus creating a national electricity market. The Supergrid would create a resilient backbone to the existing system and make clean renewable energy competitive with fossil fuel-generated energy in open markets.
Adding the Supergrid atop the existing regional alternating current distribution system would provide the flexibility and reliability that would enable expanded use of electricity across the economy, without altering how electricity is currently used in homes or businesses. This would also afford electromagnetic pulse (EMP) and geomagnetic disturbance protection not garnered from the current system, as well as much needed fortification against increasingly common natural disasters.
The NAS concept is based on research summarized in the MacDonald et al. publication released in 2016 in “Nature Climate Change”. Through extensive temporal and spatial modelling of the variable weather patterns present in the continental United States, the MacDonald et al. publication surmised that solar and wind power penetration into the electric grid could be achieved through the construction of an integrated national electricity market, without raising electricity costs or sacrificing the reliability of power delivery to consumers. MacDonald et al. idealized that a single national market (built from low-loss, high-capacity direct current cabling) would allow the instantaneous transmission of excess power (often generated in areas with little immediate demand) to large load areas where it can be utilized, better integrating both large scale utilities as well as distributed systems in a non-preferential market based solely on cost. The optimization technique is unbiased towards any one energy source and is mainly dependent on forecasted technology costs. The authors estimated that the evolution in the electricity market that such a grid would prompt could result in nearly an 80% reduction in power-sector carbon emissions, as low-cost wind and solar generated power would displace more expensive fossil fuel-based electricity generation in a competitive market.
Preliminary analyses by the Climate Institute confirm both feasibility and cost-effectiveness.
While MacDonald et al.’s article explored the NAS’s potential benefits and implications, a number of other practical aspects were left for additional investigation. The Climate Institute has conducted a number of feasibility analyses to assess the practical challenges associated with the creation of a mostly underground HVDC transmission overlay system, considering practical aspects such as how best to meet the need for rights of way, compatibility of soils and HVDC cabling, natural-disaster and national-security co-benefits from undergrounding, and the projected costs for a few representative network lines.
The published analyses indicate that the NAS would do the following:

Story 148
We live in a scary world, where cyberattacks and shootings compete for headlines with pandemics and climate change. The threat landscape is, to put it bluntly, very crowded. Amid this clamor, there’s one danger that warrants more attention, as it could shake the very foundations of society.
I’m talking about an electromagnetic pulse (or EMP) attack, one that could bring down the electrical grid and cause communication, health care, transportation and other systems to fail. In the worst-case scenario, modern society would abruptly lose the benefit of more than a century of technological progress.
How could this happen? Nuclear explosions cause immediate destruction by releasing an enormous shock wave and burst of heat. When occurring at high altitudes, they also create a large pulse of electromagnetic radiation. The EMP generates a massive spike in voltage that can bring down electrical grids and damage electronic devices and systems.
The EMP generates a massive spike in voltage that can bring down electrical grids and damage electronic devices and systems.
In a 1962 nuclear test, known as “Starfish Prime,” the United States detonated a nuclear bomb 250 miles above the Pacific Ocean. The explosion generated a dazzling sight, with hotels hosting “Rainbow Bomb Parties” for onlookers. The resulting EMP disabled satellites and even disrupted telephones and streetlights in Hawaii. Military strategists soon realized attackers could leverage this effect to disable a nation’s infrastructure.
What would the aftermath of such an EMP attack look like? It’s not pretty. The bestselling 2009 science fiction novel, “One Second After,” describes one grim possibility. Because electronic systems fail, transportation, communication and refrigeration all cease, resulting in shortfalls of food and medicine. Ninety percent of the U.S. population dies.
READ MORE: Column: Our zeal for antibiotics in agriculture could become an economic nightmare
Think this is mere fiction? Think again. Here’s how a study from the National Academy of Sciences describes a possible aftermath: “collateral effects of a longer-term outage would likely include, for example, disruption of the transportation, communication, banking, and finance systems, and government services; the breakdown of the distribution of potable water owing to pump failure; and the loss of perishable foods and medications because of lack of refrigeration.”
Thankfully, we’ve never suffered such an attack — but we have considered dishing one out on our enemies. According to Newsweek, during the early 1990s Gulf War, “the U.S. commander in the gulf, General Norman Schwarzkopf, requested authorization to explode a nuclear device high over Iraq at the start of hostilities… [in order to] generate a massive electromagnetic pulse, which would shut down every electronic device in Iraq.” One source claimed the request made it to President Bush, who rejected it.
Military strategists soon realized attackers could leverage this effect to disable a nation’s infrastructure.
A devastating disruption of the kind envisioned by Gen. Schwarzkopf could happen even without an attack. A solar storm could generate the same effect. And that’s not just a theory — it’s happened before. In 1989, “a vast cloud of…plasma,” ejected from the sun, caused a 12-hour blackout in Quebec. An even more extreme space weather event — expected to occur approximately every 150 years — could result in worse blackouts and cost the U.S. as much as $2.6 trillion.
So what can we do about this risk? To begin, we need to understand it and raise awareness. James Woolsey, the former director of the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency, has highlighted the existential risks to America’s critical infrastructure. Scientists, politicians and investors alike have joined Mr. Woolsey in working to bring attention to the issue.
READ MORE: Column: Are we headed for a recession?
Beyond communication, there are also concrete steps we can take to limit the potential impact of an EMP. One possibility is to upgrade our national grid to be more resilient. The congressional EMP commission estimated this would cost around $2 billion, a very small amount relative to the potential damage. Unfortunately, the government has made little progress implementing the necessary upgrades.
As we continue building increasingly robust infrastructure, we should also develop contingency plans for technological breakdowns.
While the risks of EMP disruption are quite concerning, some think focusing on the threat is overly alarmist. Critics highlight the technical difficulty of an EMP attack, adding that an enemy with a nuclear bomb would be much more likely to deploy it directly on an urban target. But even they concede the solar threat alone justifies precautionary measures. On the bright side, an upgrade to our aging early warning systems for dangerous solar storms goes online this month.
Clearly more investments are needed. Ignoring critical vulnerabilities is risky business. And the stakes are rising every day as our reliance on technology grows in every realm of our lives. As we continue building increasingly robust infrastructure, we should also develop contingency plans for technological breakdowns. For however much we bolster our systems, unexpected failures can rapidly cascade through our interconnected modern society.
READ MORE: Column: In Brazil, finding opportunity in deepening crisis
As noted in country music artist Joe Nichols’ hit song “The Impossible,” we need to think about the unthinkable: “unsinkable ships sink, unbreakable walls break, sometimes the things you think would never happen, happen just like that… I’ve learned to never underestimate the impossible.”

Story 149
It was once said “the age of the expert is dead” — meaning these days anyone with an opinion, no matter how uninformed, can consider themselves an expert. Nowhere does this seem to be more true than in the threat from electromagnetic pulse (EMP).
The Congressional EMP Commission has warned that an EMP from man or nature, from a nuclear attack or a solar super-storm, could black out the nation’s electric grid for over a year and kill 90 percent of Americans. The threat non-trivial, and public policy should not be guided by the ignorant.
Critics of the EMP Commission invariably are not EMP experts. They never worked professionally on EMP for the Department of Defense, the Intelligence Community, for any defense contractor, for the U.S. Air Force or the Senate Armed Services Committee as an EMP expert.
ADVERTISEMENT
Critics usually do not even know who the genuine EMP experts are.
For example, one critic of the EMP Commission who recently wrote for The Hill quoted at length from Cheryl LaFleur’s testimony before the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee on May 2017. LaFleur, then the acting chairwoman of the U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, would be the first to admit she is no EMP expert, her background being service as a lawyer and executive for electric utilities.
The critic cherry-picked LaFleur’s testimony and misrepresented her meaning, writing, “In other words, the EMP threat is real, but in today’s world of competing challenges, not a top threat or priority in an age of limited resources.” But LaFleur never said EMP is “not a top threat or priority,” only that FERC does not yet know if the electric grid can be protected from EMP in a cost-effective manner.
The EMP naysayer also cherry-picked witnesses from the May 2017 Senate hearing on EMP, ignoring testimony from former Speaker Newt Gingrich and Ambassador Henry Cooper, former director of the Strategic Defense Initiative. Speaker Gingrich is a policy expert on EMP, and Ambassador Cooper is an EMP technical expert, having worked on protecting missiles and other military systems for the U.S. Air Force.
Speaker Gingrich and Ambassador Cooper testified EMP is a “top threat” — an existential threat — and that the national electric grid can be protected cost-effectively, and should be protected now. The EMP naysayer’s article omitted the real expert testimony that contradicted his position.
Strangely enough for anyone who is supposed to be a defense expert, the EMP naysayer would entrust our national security to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, which is not part of the defense community but deals chiefly with regulation of electric rates. “Let’s hope our policymakers listen to the head of FERC, and not alarmists with little grounding in real world probability and practicality.”
Hopefully, the Senate Armed Services Committee would want policymakers to listen not to FERC but to the Department of Defense. During the Obama administration, the department spent nearly $1 billion hardening NORAD HQ inside Cheyenne Mountain and other assets against a North Korean EMP attack.
Or we could listen to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and Congress. Last year, Congress passed the Critical Infrastructure Protection Act, which requires DHS to develop plans to protect and recover the electric grid and other life-sustaining critical infrastructures from EMP, and to work on pilot projects demonstrating the grid can be protected.
Others who have spoken out on the threat posed by EMP include Ambassador R. James Woolsey (a former director of the CIA), Dr. John Foster (former Director of Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory), General Richard Lawson (former Deputy Commander-In Chief of NATO), and William R. Graham (Chairman of the Congressional EMP Commission, Science Advisor to President Reagan, former Administrator of NASA).
EMP ignoramuses do not seem to know that the whole purpose of congressional commissions—like the Congressional EMP Commission—is to assemble a team of the nation’s best experts, people grounded “in real world probability and practicality.”
The aforementioned naysayer dismissed the nuclear threat from North Korea, saying, “North Korea appears to be — like always — retreating from its most bellicose positions.”
Days after those words were published, North Korea escalated the nuclear crisis by launching a missile over Japan and testing a thermonuclear H-Bomb warhead that, according to North Korea, is designed for a “super powerful EMP attack.”
With such a gift for always being wrong, let us hope that the naysayers do not thwart the EMP Commission’s efforts to protect our nation.
Dr. Peter Vincent Pry is chief of staff of the Congressional EMP Commission. He served on the staff of the House Armed Services Committee and at the CIA.
The views expressed by contributors are their own and are not the views of The Hill.

Story 150
Cebu landfill operator ordered to shut down 0 SHARES Share it! Share Tweet
By Minerva Newman
CEBU CITY — The Environmental Management Bureau (EMB) issued a Cease and Desist Order (CDO) to Asian Energy Systems Corp., operator of a sanitary landfill in Polog, Consolacion, Cebu, for environmental violations.
EMB Director for Central Visayas William Cunado said Asian Energy Systems failed to implement its Environmental Management Plan (EMP) that resulted in a landslide last May 4.
The EMP is one of the conditions in the Environmental Compliance Certificate (ECC) issued to the landfill operator on Feb. 10, 2010, Cunado said.
Asian Energy Systems was also found to have exceeded the wastewater effluent limit for Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD), Ammonia, and Total Coliform parameters, he added.
The CDO was served last May 7 and the company’s officials were summoned to a Technical Conference and apprised of the violations.
The company was also fined P100,000.
Asian Energy Systems was required to submit a rehabilitation plan for the landslide area within 15 days and rehabilitate the affected area.
It was also ordered to immediately stop discharging wastewater and seal all leakages.
The environmental bureau will conduct another inspection to determine compliance, Cunado said.

Story 151
President Franklin Roosevelt’s Manhattan Project (1942-1945) was a crash emergency program to develop the atomic bomb before Nazi Germany could confront Western Civilization with an unanswerable existential threat.
Miraculously, in merely three years, the Manhattan Project organized an army of scientists and engineers, built nuclear industrial facilities and entire cities that never before existed, and achieved the seemingly impossible feat of translating arcane and problematical scientific theories into the reality of revolutionary new weapons that ended World War II and prevented the Cold War from becoming World War III.
Today the United States and the world faces another existential threat — from an electromagnetic pulse (EMP), that can be caused by Nature or Man, and topple the technological pillars of modern electronic civilization.
My new book EMP Manhattan Project: Organizing Survival Against An Electromagnetic Pulse Catastrophe (Amazon.com) advocates another Manhattan Project to protect the U.S. electric grid and other life-sustaining critical infrastructures.
Why does the EMP threat warrant another Manhattan Project?
Appended to my book are some of the most recent unclassified reports of the Congressional EMP Commission that provides the most definitive assessment of the EMP threat and solutions for purposes of public policy.
EMP Commission Chairman Dr. William Graham, warns an EMP event causing a nationwide blackout lasting one year could kill up to 90 percent of the American people.
An EMP catastrophe could, figuratively and literally, turn out the lights across entire nations and be the advent of a new Dark Ages.
Worth quoting at length is the Congressional EMP Commission’s 2017 Executive Summary "Assessing the Threat from Electromagnetic Pulse":
"The United States — and modern civilization more generally — faces a present and continuing existential threat from naturally occurring and manmade electromagnetic pulse assault and related attacks on military and critical national infrastructures.
"A nationwide blackout of the electric power grid and grid-dependent critical infrastructures—communications, transportation, sanitation, food and water supply—could plausibly last a year or longer. . . . A long-term outage owing to EMP could disable most critical supply chains, leaving the U.S. population living in conditions similar to centuries past, prior to the advent of electric power. In the 1800s, the U.S. population was less than 60 million, and those people had many skills and assets necessary for survival without today’s infrastructure.
"An extended blackout today could result in the death of a large fraction of the American people through the effects of societal collapse, disease, and starvation.
"While national planning and preparation for such events could help mitigate the damage, few such actions are currently underway or even being contemplated."
The EMP Commission recommends protecting the national electric grid and other critical infrastructures utilizing an "all hazards" strategy. Thus, protecting against the worst threat — nuclear EMP attack — can also mitigate all lesser threats, including natural EMP from solar super-storms, non-nuclear EMP weapons, cyber-attacks, sabotage, and severe weather like hurricanes.
The challenge of protecting the nation’s critical infrastructures from EMP is — from a scientific, technological, and financial perspective — modest compared to the original Manhattan Project:
Scientifically. The original Manhattan Project began merely with a physics theory about atomic weapons, not knowing whether they would be possible or practical to build given the technology of the 1940s. In contrast, EMP is a proven scientific phenomenon demonstrated and well understood.
Technologically. The original Manhattan Project had to invent not only the atomic bomb, but a wide array of new machines, new chemical and metallurgical industries, new electronics and instruments, to manufacture and refine weapons-grade uranium and plutonium. In contrast, technologies for EMP protection already exist and have been used to protect military systems for over a half-century.
Financially. The original Manhattan Project cost about $20 billion in today’s dollars, an enormous expense for the U.S. government in the midst of fighting World War II. In contrast, the Congressional EMP Commission estimates protecting the national electric grid would cost a few billion dollars, a relatively trivial expense.
So why is an EMP Manhattan Project necessary?
The bureaucratic politics of EMP protection are so formidable, despite the best bipartisan efforts of Congress, no real progress has been achieved implementing the EMP Commission’s recommendations made in 2008, a decade ago. Despite a decade of educational and legislative effort, American civilization remains unprotected from EMP extinction.
And the U.S. government of the 21st century is not the same highly competent U.S. government of the Greatest Generation who successfully ran the Manhattan Project to invent the atomic bomb, won World War II, built the national highway system, and sent a man to the moon.
Today’s U.S. government is not competent to make a website for Obamacare, spends $500 million to train a Free Syrian Army of 50 men who mostly defect to al-Qaeda, relies on Russia to send U.S. astronauts into orbit, and is generally so corrupt, incompetent, and obstructionist that it seems no longer capable of carrying out great enterprises, as it did in the past.
President Trump, an EMP Manhattan Project is necessary because the bureaucratic politics of EMP protection are even more formidable than the scientific, technological, and financial obstacles that faced the original Manhattan Project’s development of the atomic bomb.
Dr. Peter Vincent Pry is executive director of the Task Force on National and Homeland Security. He served on the Congressional EMP Commission as chief of staff, the Congressional Strategic Posture Commission, the House Armed Services Committee, and the CIA. He is author of "Blackout Wars." For more of his reports, Go Here Now.

Story 152
ANALYSIS/OPINION:
After massive intelligence failures grossly underestimating North Korea’s long-range missile capabilities, number of nuclear weapons, warhead miniaturization, and proximity to manufacturing a hydrogen bomb, the biggest North Korean threat to the United States remains unacknowledged. North Korea has two satellites in orbit, and more to follow, that could be nuclear-armed for a high-altitude electromagnetic pulse (EMP) attack that would black out North America for months to years, killing millions.
An EMP attack doesn’t require accurate guidance systems because the area of effect, having a radius of hundreds of miles, is very large. No re-entry vehicle is needed because the warhead detonates at a high altitude, above the atmosphere. This point appears to be beyond the comprehension of most, including secretaries of defense, the military leadership and the usual “experts” who appear in the press.
The design of a super-EMP weapon could be relatively small and lightweight, resembling the U.S. W-79 Enhanced Radiation Warhead nuclear artillery shell of the 1980s, designed in the 1950s. Such a device could fit inside North Korea’s Kwangmyongsong-3 (KMS-3) and Kwangmyongsong-4 (KMS-4) satellites and pose a potential EMP threat to every nation on Earth.
Two Russian generals warned the EMP Commission in 2004 that Russia’s super-EMP warhead design was transferred accidentally to North Korea.
North Korea’s KMS-3 and KMS-4 satellites were launched to the south on polar trajectories and passed over the United States on their first orbit. The south polar trajectory evades U.S. ballistic missile early-warning radars and national missile defenses, making the satellites resemble a Russian secret weapon developed during the Cold War called the Fractional Orbital Bombardment System (FOBS) that would have used a nuclear-armed satellite to make a surprise EMP attack.
Ambassador Henry Cooper, former director of the U.S. Strategic Defense Initiative, and a pre-eminent expert on missile defenses and space weapons, has written numerous articles warning about the potential North Korean EMP threat from their satellites.
On Sept. 20, 2016, Mr. Cooper wrote: “U.S. ballistic missile defense (BMD) interceptors are designed to intercept a few North Korean ICBMs that approach the United States over the North Polar region. But current U.S. BMD systems are not arranged to defend against even a single ICBM that approaches the United States from over the South Polar region, which is the direction toward which North Korea launches its satellites. This is not a new idea. The Soviets pioneered and tested just such a specific capability decades ago — we call it a Fractional Orbital Bombardment System (FOBS). So, North Korea doesn’t need an ICBM to create this existential threat. It could use its demonstrated satellite launcher to carry a nuclear weapon over the South Polar region and detonate it over the United States to create a high-altitude electromagnetic pulse. The result could be to shut down the U.S. electric power grid for an indefinite period, leading to the death within a year of up to 90 percent of all Americans — as the EMP Commission testified over eight years ago.”
Former NASA rocket scientist James Oberg visited North Korea’s Sohae space launch base, witnessed elaborate measures undertaken to conceal space launch payloads, and concludes in a 2017 article that the EMP threat from North Korea’s satellites should be taken seriously: “There have been fears expressed that North Korea might use a satellite to carry a small nuclear warhead into orbit and then detonate it over the United States for an EMP strike. These concerns seem extreme and require an astronomical scale of irrationality on the part of the regime. The most frightening aspect, I’ve come to realize, is that exactly such a scale of insanity is now evident in the rest of their ‘space program.’ “
That doomsday scenario, it now seems, is plausible enough to compel the United States to take active measures to ensure that no North Korean satellite, unless thoroughly inspected before launch, be allowed to reach orbit and ever overfly the United States.
Kim Jong-un has threatened to reduce the United States to “ashes” with “nuclear thunderbolts” and to retaliate for U.S. diplomatic and military pressure by “ordering officials and scientists to complete preparations for a satellite launch as soon as possible” amid “the enemies’ harsh sanctions and moves to stifle” the North. The North Korean press asserts readiness for “any form of war,” including their satellite with “strengthening of the nuclear deterrent and legitimate artificial satellite launch, which are our fair-and-square self-defensive choice.”
Moreover: “The nuclear weapons we possess are, precisely, the country’s sovereignty, right to live and dignity. Our satellite that cleaves through space is the proud sign that unfolds the future of the most powerful state in the world.” The same article, like many others, warns North Korea is making “constant preparations so that we can fire the nuclear warheads, which have been deployed for actual warfare for the sake of national defense, at any moment!”
An earlier generation immediately understood the alarming strategic significance of Sputnik in 1957, heralding the nuclear missile and space race, yet few today understand or even care about the strategic significance of North Korea’s satellites, consistent with a widespread ignorance about an EMP.
• William R. Graham is chairman of the congressional EMP Commission, and served as President Reagan’s White House science adviser and administrator of NASA. Peter Vincent Pry is chief of staff of the congressional EMP Commission and served in the House Armed Services Committee and the CIA.
Sign up for Daily Opinion Newsletter Manage Newsletters
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC. Click here for reprint permission.

Story 153
James Stavridis, a retired US Navy admiral and former NATO commander, warns that an electromagnetic pulse attack by North Korea could be devastating.
Such an attack has been previously estimated to kill up to 90% of the US population within one year.
Stavridis recommends that the US should increase its defenses against an attack by preserving the US' ballistic missile stockpile, invest in new ballistic missile defenses, and focus on early warning systems, especially in space.

James Stavridis, a retired US Navy admiral and former NATO commander, outlined the dangers of an electromagnetic pulse (EMP) attack from North Korea in a column for Bloomberg on Thursday.
Analysts have told Congress that an EMP attack could kill up to 90% of the US population if successful.
Stavridis writes that he believes that while President Donald Trump's intended summit with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un is well intentioned and "right." However, he notes that the chances of North Korea fully denuclearizing is low, and that the nuclear weapons in North Korea's possession are still extremely dangerous.
"What makes it so worrisome is not only the handful of nuclear weapons in the hands of a dictator who may be able to lob a few to Honolulu or even to Seattle," Stavridis writes. "We also need to consider North Korea’s ability to deploy one or two nuclear weapons at altitude over the continental US in order to create a devastating burst of energy called an electromagnetic pulse."
Stavridis writes that an EMP attack could involve three phases after the detonation of a nuclear weapon over the United States. He labels these waves as E1, E2, and E3.
The E1 phase, is "a brief pulse that is particularly devastating to what are known as supervisory control and data acquisition systems," like water treatment facilities, heating, ventilation and air conditioning, and manufacturing plants.
E2 is a smaller burst immediately after E1, and could be as short as a microsecond. Despite its short time it could still wreak havoc because its targets would have already had their protection weakened by the E1 wave.
The E3 pulse "could last several minutes and attack long-line systems such as the electric power grid by destroying substations across the nation." The E1 and E3 waves present the biggest threats, according to Stavridis, and could "deprive large parts of the country of electricity for weeks, months, or even a year or two."
In this Thursday, Aug. 10, 2017, file photo, a man watches a television screen showing U.S. President Donald Trump, left, and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un during a news program at the Seoul Train Station in Seoul, South Korea. North Korea has announced a detailed plan to launch a salvo of ballistic missiles toward the U.S. Pacific territory of Guam, a major military hub and home to U.S. bombers. If carried out, it would be the North's most provocative missile launch to date. Ahn Young-joon/AP
Stavridis' column echoes a report given to Congress in October 2017.
"Airliners would crash killing many of the 500,000 people flying over North America at any given moment," Peter Vincent Pry, a former CIA analyst and one of the report's authors, told Forbes.
Pry added that the country's food supplies would be decimated by radiation and up to 90% of the population would die within a year.
Stavridis notes that the affects of an EMP have not been fully studied because a test would darken large segments of the country. He also noted that there does not seem to be an agreement amongst analysts over how likely an EMP attack is, or how damaging it would be.
Still, Stavridis recommends that the US harden its defenses against such an attack, first finding ways to protect its ballistic missiles so that they can be used even after an EMP, in order to deter any such attack.
The US should also "increase its ballistic missile defenses against the 'single shot' attack that would use EMP," Stavridis writes.
A North Korean EMP attack could come from either a ballistic missile or a satellite orbiting the Earth that has a nuclear warhead placed within it. One report even said that a warhead attached to a balloon could suffice.

Story 154
Canada is vulnerable to a crippling attack and is doing nothing to prepare for it.
That’s what I learned while researching my new book on electromagnetic pulse.
After speaking with top level national security sources in the United States the other year, I began studying this little known phenomenon that was classified until not long ago.
An EMP — whether naturally occurring via a solar flare or detonated above North America from a missile — sends extremely high voltage energy through the atmosphere and into electronics and our electricity grid. It’s so powerful that it has the ability to fry electronics and shut down the grid for days, weeks or even months.
The worst case scenario is that our water, food, transportation and communications systems all go down. The result is societal decay and a staggering death count.
No, this isn’t science fiction or a thriller novel. It’s all real, as government reports and laboratory documents I’ve dug up from years ago reveal. And now, with rogue states like North Korea on the rise, the few experts who know about this issue are sounding the alarm.
While EMP crops up in a few Canadian government reports over the years, I’ve discovered from access to information requests that our bureaucrats and politicians are basically clueless about this serious threat to our way of life.
There is no mitigation strategy. There is no action plan. There isn’t even significant awareness of the issue.
In the book I look at the science behind the issue, previous EMP attacks, where we’re at with it now and where we should be heading.
One well timed, properly aimed missile sent from a failed state or terrorist group is all it would take to bring us to our knees. It’s just not right.
Thankfully, there are things we can do to prevent it. The question is if we’ll get to it before it’s too late.
EXCERPT:
From Chapter 1 of Pulse Attack: The Real Story Behind the Secret Weapon that can Destroy North America
It was a quiet night at the Pacific Gas & Electric Company’s Metcalf transmission substation. Even though it’s one of the largest electric utility companies in America and its combined operations provide electricity to over 5 million customers, there were no security guards posted at the facility that night. Just like on most nights. There weren’t any other employees on shift either.
The only eyes on the ground were the surveillance cameras and motion detectors and someone clearly knew how to avoid their detection because just before 1 a.m. a person was able to sneak in and cut the telecommunications cables leading into the station. The phones went dead.
Thirty minutes later, a group of people opened fire on the station with military-grade rifles. They continued firing for 19 minutes — targeting the transformers. When they finished firing their weapons they didn’t enter the facility. They didn’t steal anything. They just left as mysteriously as they had arrived.
Officers arrived only one minute after the last bullet was fired. But the attackers were already gone. The officers didn’t see them leave or even hear any of the blasts. All they had to work with was a 911 call about shots fired. So, seeing nothing suspicious, they shrugged it off and left.
A couple hours later — soon after 3 a.m. — an employee finally arrived to check things out. What he found was doubtless a surprise. While there are a number of different types of equipment failures the electricity industry is used to dealing with, this wasn’t one of them.
The employee discovered in those early morning hours that a total of 17 transformers had been riddled with gunfire. Over 50,000 gallons of oil had leaked out around the station. Power had to be rerouted to avoid a blackout in the area. The most troubling evidence was the more than one hundred shell casings found littering the ground.
Who were these unidentified figures, systematically firing their weapons into the dark of the California night, targeting the metallic monoliths that powered nearby homes and businesses? Were they disgruntled former employees giving the finger to an old boss? Petty criminals looking to steal anything they could resell? One of California’s notorious gangs or drug rings? Operatives of a foreign terrorist group, prepared to die for a chance at taking down the Evil Empire?
The attackers left no trail behind them. There was zero evidence aside from the shell casings. Zero hint as to their motivation or goals. And this unsolved mystery has left a small but informed number of academics, politicians, industry experts and intelligence operatives deeply concerned for the safety of their country.
But why? Just how big of a problem could this attack have caused? Even if they’d blown up the transformer station entirely, and even if they were terrorists, how bad would the effects from this one incident have been?
***
The book is available at www.pulseattackbook.com and amazon.ca.

Story 155
Is government prepared for the pulse?
An electromagnetic pulse is a high-intensity burst of energy that can disrupt and in some cases permanently disable electronic systems spread over hundreds of miles. Lightning strikes are a common, highly localized example of EMPs, but the real risks come from solar storms and man-made disruptions. Nuclear weapons detonated at high altitudes can cause widespread destruction of the electrical grid, and non-nuclear EMP-producing weapons can cause similar damage on a smaller scale.
A powerful solar storm set telegraph wires ablaze in 1859, and the threat of a deliberate EMP attack on the U.S. power grid has been a concern since at least the George W. Bush administration. Given how dependent all critical infrastructure sectors are on electronic controls and the nation’s power grid, some experts estimate that if a large-scale EMP knocked out electrical power in the United States for a significant amount of time, two-thirds of the population could die within a year.
Social services, wastewater systems police and emergency response personnel and systems, as well as implanted medical devices would all be seriously impacted by a massive EMP attack. Air traffic control systems would go down with hundreds of flights still in the air, and the electrical systems of those in flight would be in jeopardy. Hospitals could lose power, threatening the lives of millions that need machines to keep them stable.
Critics contend government agencies have neglected to prepare for such a catastrophe, and on May 16, legislators held a hearing to explore what can be done.
According to a recent Government Accountability Office report, the Department of Homeland Security has developed EMP protection guidelines to help federal agencies and industry identify options for safeguarding critical communication equipment and control systems from an EMP attack. However, DHS has not identified internal roles and responsibilities for addressing electromagnetic risks, which has led to limited awareness of related activities within the department and reduced opportunity for coordination with external partners. And state and local governments have largely been left to address (or ignore) the risk on their own.
At a May 17 House Homeland Security Committee hearing, legislators asked Brandon Wales, the director of DHS' Office of Cyber and Infrastructure Analysis, how many nations could actually execute an EMP attack.
Wales did not mince words. “Any country that has a nuclear capability has the capacity to generate an electromagnetic pulse from the explosion of a nuclear weapon,” he said, and many others could create a non-nuclear EMP.
Judson Freed, the director of the Emergency Management & Homeland Security division in Ramsey County, Minn., was asked if local governments had been given guidance on how to respond to an EMP.
“The short answer is not really,” he told the committee. “Not one that has been moved down to us at the local level. Where there are best practices is in prioritizing critical infrastructure and key resources and prioritizing what is energized by which substation.”
And coordination at every level of government would be critical. Once federal agencies prioritize critical infrastructure, state agencies can develop methods to bring emergency response units together and communicate with them once they go out into the field. Government at the local level can work with energy companies to improve local infrastructure and meet regularly to review and revise emergency plans to make sure services go to the right areas.
Chris Currie, GAO's director of Homeland Security and Justice Issues, told the committee that some steps have been taken to protect the grid against EMP, but there is more to do.
“DHS and DOE have invested in research to study the vulnerability of large high voltage transformers to EMPs... and other natural disasters,” Currie told the committee. And the Federal Emergency Management Agency is developing a specific plan to deal with long-term power outages. While that plan is not specific to EMPs, he said, it could help to develop critical response capabilities.
Some of the plans Currie mentioned align with those outlined in the GAO’s report. However, there hasn’t been a comprehensive effort to execute those plans to their fullest extent. There are still pieces of those recommendations that have yet to be implemented. Currie added that there is confusion at the federal level as to what agency is responsible for specific EMP risks and the issue lacks a leader to bring different levels of government together.
One of the biggest reasons coordination and response to the threat of EMP is lacking, hearing witnesses said, is that most energy companies are privately owned and thus do not have to comply with recommendations made by DHS. But Wales told the panel that some efforts have been made to enhance public-private partnerships.
“Our work benefits from the activities of the National Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center,” said Joseph McClelland, the director of the Office of Energy Infrastructure Security at the Department of Energy. He described NCCIC as “a conduit within DHS to share information between the interagency community and the private sector on risks to the communication and control elements of our infrastructure systems.”
McClelland added that the Office of Infrastructure Protection has also worked with the private sector to enhance electric grid security and resilience.
Even with these efforts, however, Currie acknowledged that there are simply too many electrical substations across the country to protect them all against an attack. Yet with the right coordination, he said, the effect of an attack can be minimized.
“The first order of business would be to prioritize the assets, and DHS has done work in that area,” Currie told the committee. “With 55,000 substations across the U.S., the argument that would be backed by industry is that we can’t protect all of them, it’s too difficult and too expensive.”
“However if the assets were prioritized around functionality, for instance what do you need to provide service to major urban areas and what facilities would DOD absolutely have to have in service in order to remain mission ready?” he added. “If you can identify those criticalities, it just ends up being a few hundred stations.”
The next steps, Currie said, would include providing threat briefings and critical intelligence to the owners of those facilities.
Government agencies themselves, meanwhile, can improve their own resiliency by creating a specific plan detailing the most important steps to take in the event of an EMP attack. A resilient method of communication would be one of the top priorities, the experts said.
Congress has also taken steps to research and better plan for EMP attacks, but those efforts are incomplete as well. Last year the House passed the Critical Infrastructure Protection Act, but the bill has not moved through the Senate.

Story 156
ANALYSIS/OPINION:
Electromagnetic pulse (EMP) is a major threat to the continued existence of America. An enemy could destroy our nation simply by detonating a single nuclear weapon above the atmosphere over our country. All our enemies, including some terrorist groups, have, or can acquire, this capability. The electromagnetic pulse from this detonation would destroy our national electric power grid, and it would take many months or years to rebuild it. Without electricity, virtually all our everyday life-support systems would remain paralyzed, and millions would die of disease or starvation.
Protection from this threat would be relatively simple and affordable, but for decades our leaders have refused to take action. This is because of near-total disagreement over the threat. The tragedy is that those who support protection against EMP know what they’re talking about, and those who deny the threat don’t. One would think this type of dispute would be easily resolvable. But not in this case. Here’s why.
EMP was discovered — almost by accident — by our nuclear weapons scientists during the Cold War. It loomed as an immense threat, and these scientists plunged into understanding it. Everything about EMP was highly classified — at least secret, often top secret. A great many of our underground nuclear weapon tests in the 1970s and 1980s focused on EMP. They were intensively instrumented. Progressively, EMP came to be understood as a complex scientific phenomenon. But it was still highly classified, and the only individuals who had access to scientific data on EMP were government nuclear weapons scientists.
The foremost government laboratory involved was the Defense Nuclear Agency (DNA). It was America’s national laboratory for nuclear weapons effects, just as Los Alamos, Livermore and Sandia were our national laboratories for nuclear weapons design. DNA’s function was to ensure that America’s military knew absolutely everything knowable about the many effects of nuclear weapons.
DNA employed many hundreds of nuclear scientists, detonated several underground nuclear weapon tests each year, carried out thousands of complex experiments involving nukes, and produced countless highly classified reports that were distributed to other nuclear scientists. Much of this work was focused on EMP. Its effects became are quite well understood — but only by these Cold War defense nuclear scientists. No EMP data reached anyone outside.
The Cold War ended in 1992, and many things happened. No enemies were in sight, so an undeclared nuclear freeze was established. Our leaders slashed weapons budgets and stopped all new nuclear programs. Underground nuclear testing was prohibited immediately. The United States has not conducted a test in 26 years. Advanced nuclear weapons science has been at a near standstill for a quarter-century. DNA was shut down in 1997. Most of DNA’s massive library of EMP scientific data is in cold storage somewhere.
Most of the hundred-odd U.S. contractors who specialized in nuclear weapons effects shifted to other business lines or went out of business. Through laws, regulations, national policies and budget cuts, anti-nuclear activists and arms controllers essentially denuclearized the Defense Department — the only source of EMP expertise.
Today, the few retired Cold Warriors who remain are the only nuclear scientists who have designed and conducted underground nuclear EMP tests and observed the results. They know the EMP threat is immense.
In 2001, a few alert congressmen established the EMP Commission to advise the nation of the seriousness of the threat and the essential defensive actions. Congress named its nine members: The chairman, William R. Graham, is the nuclear physicist who probably knows more about EMP than any other scientist. He had just served as director of President Reagan’s Office of Science and Technology Policy. The other eight members were superbly qualified through years of EMP research.
Over the past 17 years, this EMP Commission has produced many vital reports, clearly demonstrating that EMP can destroy America and kill many tens of millions, and that it can be defended against by measures which — although expensive — are well within our means.
However, during these same 17 years, a massive nationwide resistance to EMP expenditures has been orchestrated by the electric power industry and its many powerful three- or four-letter support organizations. These many thousands of important people bring their senators and congressmen (and their votes) with them. The left-wing national media, always opposed to U.S. nuclear preparedness, has spawned a cottage industry of non-experts who belittle EMP with pseudoscience, calling EMP unproven or a hoax.
Adding to the impasse, national policy for a quarter-century has prohibited the Departments of Defense and Energy from nuclear testing, so no one currently serving therein has any idea whose calculations are correct. Finally, the new Department of Homeland Security, which should be sounding the bugles for EMP defense, hasn’t a clue.
With a handful of knowledgeable, 80-year-old Cold Warriors on one side, and many thousands of misinformed, powerful people on the other, is it any wonder that nothing has been done? And guess what Congress just did? It disbanded the original EMP Commission, and directed establishment of a new one.
President Trump must issue an executive order directing the government to implement the EMP Commission’s long-standing recommendations on EMP defense. Failure would invite an attack.
• Robert R. Monroe, a retired U.S. Navy vice admiral, is the former director of the Defense Nuclear Agency.
Sign up for Daily Opinion Newsletter Manage Newsletters
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC. Click here for reprint permission.

Story 157
8 February 2019
US DOEâs ARPA-E awards $35m to 12 new projects to support medium-voltage devices for grid, industry and transportation
The US Department of Energy’s Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E) has awarded $35m in funding for 12 projects seeking new ways to harness medium-voltage electricity for applications in industry, transportation, on the grid and beyond. The selected projects are part of ARPA-E’s program ‘Building Reliable Electronics to Achieve Kilovolt Effective Ratings Safely’ (BREAKERS), as well as the latest OPEN+ cohort ‘Kilovolt Devices’.
“America’s energy landscape is constantly evolving, and as new ways to generate and distribute power gain popularity, it’s critical we develop the tools to maximize their utility,” comments US Secretary of Energy Rick Perry. “These ARPAâE projects serve first and foremost to modernize how we move power around safely, reliably and efficiently, creating a new set of capabilities for tomorrow’s utilities and industry.”
The eight BREAKERS projects will work to develop new direct current (DC) devices to better manage power by eliminating electrical faults, improving efficiency and reaction times, and potentially enabling greater proliferation of energy storage and renewable resources.
The four Kilovolt Devices OPEN+ projects will focus on challenges facing power electronics in the medium-voltage space, with a particular eye toward grid security and reliability.
Existing power distribution networks are primarily powered by alternating current (AC) electricity, but DC can provide lower distribution losses and higher power-carrying capacity. BREAKERS projects will develop DC devices that prevent electric arcing, a safety hazard, while handling large amounts of power and voltage.
It is reckoned that medium-voltage DC circuit breakers could enable significant improvements in the USA’s electrical system, transforming how electricity is delivered and managed across the entire power grid, as well as critical applications in industry, transportation and resource production.
BREAKERS projects include:
Ultra-Efficient Intelligent MVDC Hybrid Circuit Breaker ($4,413,913). Drexel University aims to design a significantly more efficient, fast, low-cost, compact, and reliable circuit breaker for medium-voltage direct-current (MVDC) power system. The breaker is designed to protect MVDC systems from electrical faults and expected to respond in 500Î¼s. Drexel hence proposes a solid-state circuit breaker based on silicon carbide (SiC) devices that aims to significantly improve breaker performance for the MVDC ecosystem.
Drexel University aims to design a significantly more efficient, fast, low-cost, compact, and reliable circuit breaker for medium-voltage direct-current (MVDC) power system. The breaker is designed to protect MVDC systems from electrical faults and expected to respond in 500Î¼s. Drexel hence proposes a solid-state circuit breaker based on silicon carbide (SiC) devices that aims to significantly improve breaker performance for the MVDC ecosystem. DC Wide Bandgap Static Circuit Breaker ($3,760,000). Eaton Corp will develop a SiC-based direct-current circuit breaker design that boosts efficiency and can scale up or down medium-voltage application requirements. The comprehensive approach includes a robust design that effectively dissipates excess energy and autonomously coordinates fault protection across multiple devices. Results will extend to future ultra-wide-bandgap power semiconductor devices and other advances affecting future generations of devices and power electronics.
Eaton Corp will develop a SiC-based direct-current circuit breaker design that boosts efficiency and can scale up or down medium-voltage application requirements. The comprehensive approach includes a robust design that effectively dissipates excess energy and autonomously coordinates fault protection across multiple devices. Results will extend to future ultra-wide-bandgap power semiconductor devices and other advances affecting future generations of devices and power electronics. Ultra-Fast Resonant DC Breaker ($500,000). Marquette University will develop a DC breaker combining the advantages of a vacuum interrupter with a wide-bandgap-based resonant current source and novel actuator topology. The proposed solution represents a transformational DC breaker scalable across voltage and current in medium-voltage DC applications, such as power distribution, solar, wind, and electric vehicles.
Marquette University will develop a DC breaker combining the advantages of a vacuum interrupter with a wide-bandgap-based resonant current source and novel actuator topology. The proposed solution represents a transformational DC breaker scalable across voltage and current in medium-voltage DC applications, such as power distribution, solar, wind, and electric vehicles. T-Type Modular DC Circuit Breaker (T-Breaker) for Future DC Networks ($2,309,950). Ohio State University will develop a MVDC circuit breaker prototype based on a modular design using SiC modules to reduce cost and weight while enabling simpler manufacturing, increased reliability, functionality, efficiency and power density. The modular structure will be self-sustaining and allow for inherent scalability while providing possibilities for multiple ancillary functions.
Ohio State University will develop a MVDC circuit breaker prototype based on a modular design using SiC modules to reduce cost and weight while enabling simpler manufacturing, increased reliability, functionality, efficiency and power density. The modular structure will be self-sustaining and allow for inherent scalability while providing possibilities for multiple ancillary functions. ARC-SAFE: Accelerated Response semiconducting Contactors and Surge Attenuation for DC Electrical systems ($2,250,000). Sandia National Laboratories will develop a solid-state circuit breaker for medium-to-high-voltage applications using switches based on the wide-bandgap semiconductors silicon carbide (SiC) and gallium nitride (GaN). The concept builds on Sandia’s knowledge of optically triggered GaN devices, as well as the team’s experience in circuit design for medium-voltage (MV) applications. Sandia will build a prototype breaker to demonstrate a fast response time using a photoconductive switch that is potentially scalable from 1kV to 100kV for DC systems. This technology could contribute to more widespread adoption of MVDC power distribution across the grid.
The OPEN+ Kilovolt Devices projects include:
Advanced Medium Voltage SiC-SJ FETs with Ultra-Low On-Resistance ($3,090,746). GE Global Research will develop a device architecture for the first high-voltage SiC super-junction (SJ) field-effect transistors, which will provide highly efficient power conversion (such as from direct to alternating current) in medium-voltage applications, including renewables like solar and wind power, as well as transportation. The transistors will scale to high voltage while offering up to 10 times lower losses compared with commercial silicon-based transistors available today.
GE Global Research will develop a device architecture for the first high-voltage SiC super-junction (SJ) field-effect transistors, which will provide highly efficient power conversion (such as from direct to alternating current) in medium-voltage applications, including renewables like solar and wind power, as well as transportation. The transistors will scale to high voltage while offering up to 10 times lower losses compared with commercial silicon-based transistors available today. GaN MOCVD Growth on Native Substrates for High Voltage (15-20kV) Vertical Power Devices ($2,211,712). Ohio State University will develop GaN materials suitable for high-voltage (15-20 kV) power control and conversion. The team will develop a unique method to grow thick GaN films with low background impurity contamination, necessary to allow high-voltage operation with high efficiency. The thick GaN layers will be deposited on high-quality bulk GaN base materials with reduced defects, critical to depositing high-quality GaN films on top, and perform high-voltage device design, fabrication and testing to provide feedback for further GaN material growth and optimization.
Ohio State University will develop GaN materials suitable for high-voltage (15-20 kV) power control and conversion. The team will develop a unique method to grow thick GaN films with low background impurity contamination, necessary to allow high-voltage operation with high efficiency. The thick GaN layers will be deposited on high-quality bulk GaN base materials with reduced defects, critical to depositing high-quality GaN films on top, and perform high-voltage device design, fabrication and testing to provide feedback for further GaN material growth and optimization. 20kV Gallium Nitride pn Diode Electro-Magnetic Pulse Arrestor for Grid Reliability ($5,415,000). Sandia National Laboratories will develop a new device to prevent damage to the power grid caused by electromagnetic pulse (EMP). The EMP arrestor will comprise diodes fabricated from GaN, capable of responding on the nanosecond timescale required to protect the grid against EMP threats. It will be capable of blocking 20kV, enabling a single device to protect distribution-level equipment on the grid. The team will focus on GaN crystal growth and device design to achieve the 20kV performance target. It will also create a pilot production line to serve as a model for eventual commercial production.
Sandia National Laboratories will develop a new device to prevent damage to the power grid caused by electromagnetic pulse (EMP). The EMP arrestor will comprise diodes fabricated from GaN, capable of responding on the nanosecond timescale required to protect the grid against EMP threats. It will be capable of blocking 20kV, enabling a single device to protect distribution-level equipment on the grid. The team will focus on GaN crystal growth and device design to achieve the 20kV performance target. It will also create a pilot production line to serve as a model for eventual commercial production. 20kV GaN Switch Technology Demonstrated in High-Efficiency Medium-Voltage Building Block ($3,000,000). Virginia Tech will accelerate deployment of power electronics into grid-scale energy applications by developing 20kV GaN devices integrated into a medium-voltage power module. High-quality substrates and innovative growth techniques will be used to reduce the background impurity contamination in the thick layers needed to block 20kV. The power module will be fabricated using 3D packaging for improved thermal management and high power density at 20kV. The module will enable the full potential of high-voltage, high-temperature and fast-switching GaN devices in medium-voltage power converters for use in renewable energy grid-level applications and transportation.
See related items:
ARPA-E awards $30m for 21 projects as part of CIRCUITS program
US DOE awards $27m ARPA-E funding to 14 new 'SWITCHES' projects
Tags: Â GaN power transistor SiC power devices GaN substrates
Visit: Â https://arpa-e.energy.gov/?q=arpa-e-programs/breakers

Story 158
As part of the ongoing strategy to prepare its EnergySail and Aquarius MRE for commercial release, Eco Marine Power (EMP) unveiled further details of its automated control and monitoring systems.
These will enable EMP’s technologies to integrate with existing ship-based systems. This will facilitate the seamless operation between EMP's renewable energy platforms with other equipment on ships including fuel flow meters.
Three marine computer systems jointly developed with KEI System Ltd will be integrated to provide a robust, reliable and easy to operate control and monitoring platform for all elements of Aquarius Marine Renewable Energy (MRE).
These include the Aquarius Management and Automation System (Aquarius MAS), the EnergySail Automated Control System (EnergySail ACS) and Aquarius Integrated Management System (Aquarius IMS). Effectively the EnergySail ACS is used for automated control of the EnergySail’s either as stand-alone units or as part of an array. Aquarius MAS manages EMP's ship solar power system including monitoring the charge controllers and hybrid battery packs.
Overall the Aquarius IMS is the central interface and control platform for both the Aquarius MAS and EnergySail ACS. The overall system architecture also includes redundancy and the ability to monitor equipment on tablet computers via on-board WiFi links. Operational and performance data is also displayed and logged in real time including fuel consumption, calculated CO2, NOx, SOx emissions, ship speed and location, solar power output plus the status of the EnergySail's. This data can easily be sent back to an onshore support or technical office for further analysis.
A major focus of the system development has been related to the intelligent control of the EnergySail's either when used individually or part of an array. Fine tuning of the control algorithms is ongoing and this work encompasses elements of robotics engineering, computational fluid dynamics (CFD) and artificial intelligence (AI). This methodology is a key component of EMP's intellectual property (IP) strategy.
In addition to being incorporated as part of a complete Aquarius MRE solution, each of the marine computer systems has other applications as well. For example the Aquarius MAS can be configured as a compact version and used to monitor fuel consumption and emissions or installed as part of an Aquarius Marine Solar Power package.

Story 159
Russia’s Conventional Weapons Are Deadlier Than Its Nukes
The INF Treaty is widely seen as one of the crowning achievements of arms control, banning the possession by two of the world’s leading powers of an entire class of nuclear weapons system. As such, the Trump administration’s declaration late last year that it might withdraw from the treaty has stoked fears of a new nuclear arms race.
The United States alleges that Russia is violating the agreement by fielding the 9M729 cruise missile from land-based launchers and says Moscow must return to compliance by early February or Washington will begin the formal six-month withdrawal process.
Stepping away from the treaty could be harmful for the United States. Moscow has little need for an additional nuclear capability. However, it would stand to benefit greatly from being able to openly deploy new ground-launched conventional missiles—a process for which withdrawal from the INF Treaty could open the door.
There has been little discussion of the impact scrapping the accord would have on non-nuclear weapons systems in Europe.
Nevertheless, there has been little discussion of the impact scrapping the accord would have on non-nuclear weapons systems in Europe. Despite its name, the INF Treaty doesn’t just prohibit ground-launched missiles with ranges between 500 and 5,500 kilometers (approximately 300 to 3,400 miles); it actually provides for the elimination of all such short, medium, and intermediate-range missiles possessed by Washington and Moscow regardless of the warheads they carry. For this reason, the treaty’s abandonment has grave short-term implications that extend beyond the concern over nukes.
That the INF Treaty would also place a ban on ground-launched missiles with conventional warheads was not considered a major issue at the time of its signing, as such weapons were generally thought of as secondary to their nuclear counterparts. The emerging potential of precision-guided weapons with an extended reach was already clear to some—Nikolai Ogarkov, then the chief of the Soviet general staff, said in 1984 that the availability of those systems could “make it possible to sharply increase (by at least an order of magnitude) the destructive potential of conventional weapons … bringing them closer, so to speak, to weapons of mass destruction in terms of effectiveness.” However, that destructive potential remained to be fully demonstrated, until the 1990 to 1991 Gulf War and subsequent actions in the former Yugoslavia, Afghanistan, Iraq, and Libya validated the view of advocates for precision-guided conventional strike systems, and “Tomahawk diplomacy” entered the U.S. foreign policy lexicon.
Russia has redeveloped its precision-guided posture as part of the regeneration of Moscow’s armed forces as a whole. As a matter of policy, Russia has increasingly prioritized conventional strategic strikes as a substitute for some missions previously assigned to its nuclear force. The current Russian Military Doctrine, published in 2014, states that Russia views high-precision weapons as a key element of strategic deterrence. More explicitly, the contemporary version of Russia’s Naval Doctrine, published in 2017, says: “With the development of high-precision weapons, the Navy faces a qualitatively new objective: destruction of [the] enemy’s military and economic potential by striking its vital facilities from the sea.”
Russia has matched the evolution of its military strategy on paper with the deployment of systems capable of achieving these objectives. At sea, new and modernized surface ships and submarines now carry the 3M-14 Kalibr land-attack cruise missile—a weapon with a 1,500 to 2,500 kilometer (approximately 930 to 1,550 mile) range. In the air, many Russian Aerospace Force Tu-95 Bear and Tu-160 Blackjack bombers have been equipped with the Kh-101 air-launched cruise missile, which possesses a range of at least 2,500 kilometers. Both of these systems have been used against targets in Syria. Additional air-to-surface weapons to equip bombers and tactical fighters—including the Kh-47M2 Kinzhal and the Kh-50—are either beginning to enter service or are at the development stage.
Moscow has also fielded land-based precision-guided weapons, most notably the 9K720 Iskander-M ballistic and 9M728 Iskander-K cruise missile systems. However, under the INF Treaty, these are currently limited to a potential firing range of 499 kilometers (about 300 miles). This presents a major disadvantage to Russia. The U.S. Navy and Air Force, in particular, allow NATO to call on a vast arsenal of cruise missiles that fall outside of the limits of the INF agreement by virtue of being launched from ships, submarines, and aircraft. Lacking the alliance’s resources at sea or in the air, the only way Russia can counter this arsenal is by developing deadlier ground-launched conventional missiles. The scrapping of the INF treaty as it currently stands would make that development far more likely. While the agreement has not entirely succeeded in preventing Russia from fielding weapons that violate its provisions, as the deployment of the 9M729 cruise missile demonstrated, they appear to have only entered service in limited numbers.
Russia clearly resents the constraints of the INF Treaty: In December 2018, Russian President Vladimir Putin claimed that the agreement amounted to unilateral disarmament.
Russia clearly resents the constraints of the INF Treaty: In December 2018, Russian President Vladimir Putin claimed that the agreement amounted to unilateral disarmament. He argued that the Soviet Union did not possess the sea and air-launched intermediate-range weapons the United States held (even though this is untrue). Ever eager to avoid a perception of weakness, Putin then went on to say that Russia did not need such weapons due to its new missile arsenal. He was, however, also keen to highlight how easy it would be to modify Russia’s air and sea-launched missiles to be fired from the ground—perhaps an attempt to troll those who suspect the 9M729 is simply a Kalibr adapted to be launched from a land-based platform.
Despite Putin’s protestations, at present, Moscow’s non-nuclear strategic strike capability is powerful but not overwhelming. Various initiatives by NATO members—including improvements in ground-based air defenses and reasserting the alliance’s naval presence in northern waters—are likely to further reduce Russian capabilities. But with the end of the INF Treaty, Russia will be free to openly mass-produce conventional variants of the 9M729 or successor systems. Launched from territory in the west of the country, such missiles could potentially reach almost any point in Europe. Freed from the constraints of the treaty, Moscow could use relatively cheap vehicle-based launch systems instead of expensive ships and aircraft to build a conventional strike force. This would both deliver a considerable deterrent effect and—if utilized—inflict major damage on NATO countries.
Ultimately, Moscow’s existing nuclear systems are more than adequate for its needs. Instead, enhanced conventional capabilities would offer the greatest potential reward— and the biggest threat to the West. For this reason, the United States should think carefully before terminating the INF Treaty and falling into a potential Kremlin trap.

Story 160
GARBAGE SLIDE. Garbage, which slid from the pile in sanitary landfill in Barangay Polog, Consolacion in Cebu run by Asian Energy Systems Corp., partially covers a truck. The Environmental Management Bureau (EMB-7) slapped the corporation with PHP100,000 fine for violating Presidential Decree 1586 or the Environmental Impact Statement System and Republic Act 9275 or the Clean Air Act of 2004. (Photo courtesy of EMB-7 Public Information Office)
CEBU CITY -- The Environmental Management Bureau (EMB) in Central Visayas (Region 7) has ordered the closure of a private sanitary landfill in Consolacion, Cebu after a “garbage slide” last May 4 that reportedly killed a truck driver, an environmental regulatory body official said on Wednesday.
Engineer William Cuñado, regional director of the EMB-Central Visayas, issued a cease and desist order against the sanitary landfill owned and operated by Asian Energy Systems Corporation located in Polog village in Consolacion.
The establishment was found to have violated the provisions of Environmental Impact Statement System (Presidential Decree 1586) and the Clean Air Act of 2004 (Republic Act 9275), Cuñado said.
“Based on the findings of the inspection conducted by EMB-7 personnel on April 23, 2019 and May 5, 2019, Asian Energy Systems Corp., failed to implement their Environmental Management Plan (EMP) that resulted to a landslide last May 4, 2019,” said EMB-7 in a statement sent to the Philippine News Agency (PNA).
The EMP is listed as among the conditions of the landfill’s Environmental Compliance Certificate (ECC) issued by the EMB-7 last February 10, 2010.
“These ECC conditions are ought to be complied by the proponents,” the statement read.
Cindy Pepito, information officer of EMB-7, told PNA that the piles of garbage that fell from the top have slid all the way down to the service road.
According to her, a truck driver whose identity is yet to be established, was killed by the trash avalanche.
EMB-7 investigators also found the landfill’s failure to comply with the fifth condition of the ECC and the regulations laid down under RA 9275 as it reportedly “exceeded the wastewater effluent standards for chemical oxygen demand (COD), ammonia, and total coliform parameters”.
The cease and desist order was served last May 7, but the appraisal of the landfill’s compliance to the conditions as directed by the Technical Conference between the EMB-7 investigators and the management is ongoing.
The statement said the EMB-7 ordered the landfill to pay a fine of PHP100,000.
To ensure commitment to solve the problem, the corporation that runs the landfill is required to submit rehabilitation plan in the area where the garbage-slide occurred within 15 days.
The bureau also directed the landfill management to conduct and implement a full rehabilitation and assessment of the area affected by garbage-slide.
The landfill is also required to immediately stop discharging wastewater and seal all leakages to avoid violating the Clean Air Act.
Re-inspection will be conducted by EMB-7 to determine compliance.
The corporation is required to observe the provisions of the closure order. Otherwise, they will be fined PHP50,000 per day of illegal operation, the statement said. (PNA)

Story 161
A new concrete formulation designed to keep winter surfaces ice-free also has the unexpected benefit of protecting electronics from electromagnetic attack. Developed by scientists at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln, the concrete serves as a shield from pulses of electronic energy that threaten to disable everything from military equipment to TV sets.
The effects of an electromagnetic pulse were first observed in the early 1960s, when a 1.4 megaton thermonuclear bomb detonated in the mid-Pacific knocked out electronics as far away as Hawaii. This confirmed what many had theorized—nuclear explosions generated a powerful pulse of electromagnetic energy that flew invisibly through the air and capable of overloading and frying circuits in all kinds of devices. Despite being nearly 900 miles away, the pulse burned out streetlights across the state of Hawaii and tripped burglar alarms.
EMP became a key concern for nuclear war, and it was often assumed the opening shot would be a gigantic nuclear bomb detonated in low-earth orbit over the United States, to cripple the Pentagon's ability to fight back. As a result military power systems, communications, and weapons were "hardened" against its effects. This involves placing whatever you want to protect in a so-called Faraday cage , a metal enclosure that prevents the pulse from getting in. Those fancy new wallets you've seen that claim to block RFID hacking? Faraday cages.
Now, UNL engineers Christopher Tuan and Lim Nguyen and have come up with a concrete mixture that would also block an electromagnetic pulse. The researchers were originally attempting to come up with a concrete that would melt snow and ice from infrastructure such as roads and bridges. It was only after they had invented the concrete they realized it had the ability to block electromagnetic energy.
Early Faraday cage, Germany 1931. Via Getty Images.
According to Phys Org , the special concrete mixture has bits of carbon and metal added to it to absorb energy. A key ingredient is magnetite, a mineral and iron ore with magnetic properties.
Used in construction, the new concrete can create buildings and structures that protect against both explosive threats and electromagnetic threats. The Nebraska university has licensed the technology to a Florida-based company that builds disaster-proof buildings. The concrete could be used to protect power plants, communications, and other critical infrastructure not only from nukes but conventional EMP generators and coronal mass ejections. You could build your home from it to protect your electronics but be forewarned—the Wi-Fi signal in your backyard will probably suffer.

Story 162
The threat faced by North America from an electromagnetic pulse attack isn’t going away anytime soon, according to unclassified reports from the United States only just cleared for public release.
An electromagnetic pulse (EMP) creates a waveform that has the ability to disrupt and even destroy whatever electronics it comes into contact with, ranging from minor consumer products to the electrical wires that feed into transformer stations.
An EMP can be created as a side-effect of a nuclear weapon launched from high up in the sky, and if detonated high enough can create a waveform that has an effect on most of the United States and Canada. It can also occur naturally, as the result of a solar flare.
The projected consequences vary but the worst-case scenario means the entire electricity grid goes down, crippling our transportation hubs, water filtration systems, shutting down cities and ultimately sending the continent back into a pre-industrial lifestyle that could result in mass deaths.
These reports are the products of the Commission to Assess the Threat to the United States from an Electromagnetic Pulse (EMP) Attack. It’s a body that was established by the U.S. Congress in 2001 but laid dormant throughout the Obama years. Following this hiatus, the commission received funds and authorization to reboot their endeavours during 2017.
The new reports reaffirm these eerie possibilities, but also offer up fresh solutions for federal governments, states and provinces to implement. Previous calls for action have been for industry to alter components in their grid to be EMP compliant and better absorb the shocks.
To accomplish this, industry needs more information about the nature of EMP waveforms. The only publicly available data comes from U.S. and Russian tests conducting in the 1960s, prior to John F. Kennedy banning atmospheric tests of nuclear weapons. The military has more information, but won’t release it.
“Major efforts have been undertaken by the Department of Defense to assure that the U.S. national command authority and U.S. strategic forces could survive and operate after an EMP attack,” writes the commission’s executive report, dated July 2017 but only made public the other week. “However, no major efforts were thought necessary to protect critical national infrastructures, relying on nuclear deterrence to protect them.”
The report urges the information from military sources be made available to the utilities sector. For those worried this information might fall into enemy hands, countries such as Russia, China, Iran and North Korea all seem to already have it.
One other recommendation is highly technical but represents a watershed moment in the EMP conversation that advocates and utilities need to take seriously. It urges “government agencies and industries adopt new standards to protect critical national infrastructure from damaging E3 EMP heave fields, with more realistic standard of 85 V/km (volts per kilometre).”
The commission had previously been calling for more research and study in a vague sense, but now we have a working figure that quantifies a technical specification to be implemented to ensure our grid is resilient and doesn’t get destroyed by the whims of a rogue state.
We’re certainly at risk of such an attack. Just last year, North Korea directly threatened to launch EMP strikes following their September nuclear launch. While their current talk about denuclearization is cause for cautious optimism, it doesn’t mean we should drop our guard.
“President Trump’s withdrawal from the bogus Iran nuclear deal, and his determination to denuclearize North Korea, are all the more important because even a single nuclear weapon possessed by these rogue states would pose an existential threat to North America by EMP attack,” Dr. Peter Vincent Pry, executive director of the EMP Task Force on National and Homeland Security, told the Sun.
But what about Canada? How prepared are we relative to the U.S.? While researching my book, Pulse Attack: The Real Story Behind The Secret Weapon That Can Destroy North America, I discovered through freedom of information requests and discussions with bureaucrats that the federal government was basically blind to this issue.
The U.S. military has patchwork protection while their entire civilian infrastructure is vulnerable. Canada, it seems, isn’t even that far ahead.
U.S. President Donald Trump included EMP in his National Security Strategy and issued an executive order last year to strengthen the cybersecurity of critical infrastructure. While EMP isn’t cybersecurity in the way we generally think of it, experts hope the administration will include it in their action plan.
Likewise for Canada, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has instructed Public Safety Minister Ralph Goodale, via his mandate letter, to come up with a similar plan. The department won’t confirm or deny whether this includes EMP.
But even if there is no action federally, utilities are state and provincial entities and as such can be protected that way. Some U.S. states are already heading in this direction. Canadian provinces can as well.
afurey@postmedia.com
Twitter: @anthonyfurey

Story 163
While it’s easy to explain the benefits of energy efficiency to building owners, it’s much more difficult to ensure their facilities continue to perform at peak performance while you’re working to reduce their energy consumption. A new credential — the Energy Management Professional (EMP) certification from Energy Management Association (EMA) — is training individuals to balance the goals of energy conservation and building performance, which, according to Andrew Heitman, owner of Building Energy Sciences LLC in Pensacola, Florida, keeps customers happy.
Since its introduction, the EMP is attracting the attention of building owners, he explained, because professionals with this training are focused not just on energy but also on performance.
“A bedrock principle of the EMP program is to assimilate energy management principles with commissioning and retrocommissioning methodologies,” said Heitman, who is certified as an EMP and also administers the credential. “EMPs have the knowledge and ability to implement commission-based energy management. This appeals to building and facility owners and operators because they realize additional operational savings due to complementary improvements in building performance.”
EMP CERTIFICATION
EMA is a young organization dating back to 2012, when its certification program was developed as part of the Associated Air Balance Council (AABC) Commissioning Group. EMA became a stand-alone association in 2014, and its EMP offering is among the newest credentials to hit the market.
To attain EMP certification, candidates take a seminar and exam, generally conducted over two days, with 12 hours of classroom-style instruction followed by a four-hour closed-book exam. The related experience required of a candidate varies from two to 10 years according to an individual’s level of technical education.
The cost for the seminar, exam, and all related fees is $1,150. EMA charges $250 per year for a company membership and $250 for certification renewal.
According to Edward Armstrong, EMA’s executive director, “The EMP is unique in the energy management field. It’s very results-oriented with a strong element on ongoing energy management.”
Plus, he added, “It’s really catching on with major companies like Siemens, ABM Industries, and Hanson.”
EMP BENEFITS
Steve Dodd, senior sales manager of automation service for Siemens, became certified as an EMP two years ago. He believes the credential offers great benefits to those who seek it out.
“The EMP is kind of a cross between a certified commissioning agent and an energy manager,” Dodd said, adding that those who become certified receive training that provides them with a good baseline of knowledge in this field.
Anyone who has an interest in improving energy performance is a potential candidate for EMP certification, he said.
“It could be facility engineers, energy managers, HVAC technicians, or controls technicians — all of these individuals could benefit from this credential,” Dodd continued. “It would help each of them understand building systems better. That’s really the key to success for each of those positions.”
According to Dodd, a lot of these folks understand components, their functions, and how to work on them, but, he said, only top-tier technicians and engineers have an understanding of full building systems and how they interact.
“Associations like EMA really foster that knowledge of complete buildings and systems,” Dodd said.
Currently, Armstrong said the majority of EMPs are electrical and mechanical engineers.
“But, architects, energy engineers, long-time energy management specialists, and others possess the credential, as well,” he added. “They come from a variety of companies, ranging from MEP engineering firms to ESCOs [energy service companies] to manufacturers of HVAC products.”
EXISTING BUILDING EFFICIENCY
According to Armstrong, the EMP is a unique certification because it combines energy analysis, testing and balancing, and commissioning into a process designed to meet building owners’ goals. The diagram below on this page illustrates the seven project phases an EMP commits to when working to improve a building’s efficiency.
For Dodd, the differentiating factor that makes the EMP process so valuable is its focus on existing buildings. Other industry certifications are geared toward energy management and commissioning for new construction, Dodd said.
“The process involves developing a plan to make them operationally efficient," he said.
During the assessment phase, Dodd said, “The key to doing the project properly is defining current facility requirements with all the stakeholders, not just the facilities people. This is getting all end-use stakeholders to agree on the specific conditions a building can be tuned up to. The mistake a lot of people make when doing these types of projects is they do it for the sake of energy, and they sometimes sacrifice building productivity and customer satisfaction.”
But, he continued, “By following the current facility requirements in the EMP process, it ensures that you just get to the best level of energy efficiency and that you meet the owner’s needs for his or her business.”
Heitman also emphasized the importance of maintaining optimal building performance while seeking to reduce energy use.
“Effective energy management involves identifying and understanding where and why energy is used in a building or facility and using that information to measure, manage, and minimize energy consumption while meeting performance standards,” he said.
ON THE HORIZON
Looking ahead, certification in energy management may become more important due to government regulation in this sector.
“The federal government is starting to mandate some standards for workforce qualifications, and the more the industry is regulated in that manner, the more prevalent this [a certification like the EMP] is going to be,” Dodd said, adding that EMA is ahead of the curve in developing its certification program.
According to Armstrong, EMA is currently revising its continuing education requirements to align with the U.S. Department of Energy’s (DOE’s) Better Building Workforce’s building energy manager specifications. This trend is impacting all major certification programs, he said. Some, including EMA, are working toward attaining some level of federal recognition for their credentials.
Plus, he noted, “Commercial building energy benchmarking regulations are driving certifications in certain jurisdictions.”
Dodd expects the EMP numbers to continue to grow, and he encouraged more industry members to seek out certification as a way to stay plugged in and up to date on best practices.
Publication date: 8/22/2016
Want more HVAC industry news and information? Join The NEWS on Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn today!

Story 164
The recent military writings and exercises of potential adversaries would combine EMP with cyber-attacks, sabotage, and kinetic attacks against the national electric grid and other critical infrastructures.
"Our increasing dependence on advanced electronics systems results in the potential for an increased EMP vulnerability... and if unaddressed makes EMP employment by an adversary an attractive asymmetric option." â EMP Commission
An EMP attack on the U.S. would leave the country with no electricity, no communications, no transportation, no fuel, no food, and no running water.
The recent North Korean nuclear and the Iranian ballistic missile tests are serious deadly threats to the United States. North Korea's latest bomb test is being widely dismissed by "experts" because the apparent yield is around 10 kilotons or less â which just so happens to be exactly the right amount for an electromagnetic pulse (EMP) explosion.
Contrary to some "expert" analysis, both the recent North Korean nuclear and the Iranian ballistic missile tests are deadly serious threats to the United States.
The danger to the United States is particularly consequential due to the close military cooperation of North Korea and Iran. Their combined capabilities, as demonstrated recently, could very well signal a future nuclear attack of the electromagnetic pulse type, for which the U.S., at the moment, is totally unprepared.
The threat to the United States from an electromagnetic pulse (EMP) attack -- the high-altitude detonation of a nuclear weapon over the United States -- is so potentially catastrophic that both the 2004 and 2008 reports of the Congressional EMP Commission said so openly -- probably in the hope that the public warning would spur the nation and the Department of Defense to action. [1]
Even an EMP attack from a single 10-kiloton nuclear weapon -- of the type now in North Korea's arsenal -- could cause cascading failures which could black out the U.S. Eastern Grid for months or years, and devastate the civilian economy. An EMP, detonated at an altitude above 30-70 kilometers, could be delivered by a short-range missile fired off a freighter, hundreds of kilometers off U.S. shores.
The result would be no communications, no transportation, no fuel, no food, and no water for a decade or more. That would be true for at least the entire eastern half of the United States, where most of the population lives. National Geographic has described it as an "Electronic Armageddon."
An illustrative rendering of an EMP attack on the United States. (Image source: Video screenshot from "33 Minutes")
Despite these previous warnings and North Korea's recent bomb test -- its fourth known nuclear test since 2006 -- "experts" are dismissing a nuclear threat from North Korea as of little concern because the apparent yield of the bomb was in the neighborhood of 10 kilotons or less.
Hydrogen Bombs, or thermonuclear weapons, which is what North Korea claimed to have detonated, produce yields higher than those.
In fact, however, these experts may be way off base. The yield of an EMP explosion is lower. The North Korean bomb capability that was tested may therefore well be that of a super-EMP.
Neutron bombs, or Enhanced Radiation Weapons such as Super-EMP weapons, are essentially very low yield H-Bombs. They typically have yields of 1-10 kilotons, exactly like North Korea's device. Indeed, because of their very low yield, all four North Korean nuclear tests look like Super-EMP weapons.
A Super-EMP weapon is designed to produce special effects (gamma rays, in the case of Super-EMP). A Super-EMP warhead, while having a seemingly insignificant explosive yield, could be far more deadly and dangerous to the United States than the most powerful H-Bomb ever built.
Russia's Tsar H-Bomb, (known as Tsar Bomba), the most powerful H-Bomb ever detonated, produced during its test in October 1961 a yield of 60 megatons. It would have been capable of flattening everything in the state of Rhode Island. [2]
A Super-EMP weapon, however, detonated 300 kilometers above the center of the U.S., could destroy the entire nation's industrial and military capacity, and kill a large percentage of the American people, by taking down the U.S. electrical grid. Once destroyed, the grid's elements would take decades to rebuild.[3]
Even if the U.S. were to protect its electrical infrastructure from such a threat -- legislation to protect the grid is now in Congress, primarily thanks to Rep. Trent Franks (R-Arizona) -- the parallel vulnerability of U.S. military forces to an EMP attack would be just as serious.
We know the Department of Defense has testified to Congress that 99% of the electricity for continental U.S. military bases comes from the civilian grid. Our military bases would thereby be without electrical power for decades as well. Unfortunately, the thousands of electrical transformers destroyed by an EMP attack were not primarily built in America. Even if they were, they require at least a five-year lead-time for production.
Overseas power-projection from U.S. military bases would be effectively impossible without an operational grid. Moreover, after such an EMP attack, the national focus would be on saving millions of Americans from mass starvation and preserving societal existence, not on going "over there" to fight a war or defend U.S. interests.
If the EMP attack were executed anonymously, say, by a missile launched off a freighter at sea close-in to the United States, we would probably not even know against whom to retaliate. Thus, classical deterrence would not work, further "inviting" such an attack.
In 1999, for example, at a high level meeting in Vienna of a Congressional delegation with senior members of the Russian government, Vladimir Lukin, the chairman of the Duma's Foreign Affairs Committee, angry with American policy in the Balkans, issued the following threat: "If we really wanted to hurt you with no fear of retaliation, we would launch a Submarine-launched Ballistic Missile (SLBM), [and] we would detonate a nuclear weapon high above your country and shut down your power grid."
Congressman Curt Weldon, (R-PA), the American delegation chair, who understood Russian, turned to his Maryland colleague, (Roscoe Bartlett, D-MD) and asked, "Roscoe, did you hear what he said?"
The chairman of the State Duma Geopolitics Commission, Alexander Shabanov, smiled and said, "And if that one doesn't work, we have plenty of spares".[4]
Thus a nuclear weapon designed specifically for EMP attack, what Russian experts call a "Super-EMP" warhead, would constitute a worst-case threat.
A single Super-EMP warhead, detonated in the sky 300 kilometers over the center of the U.S., would generate such a powerful EMP field over all 48 contiguous United States that, not only would a protracted nationwide blackout result, but even the best protected U.S. military forces and C3I on all military basesâif not sufficiently protected-- could also be at risk.
The technology to protect the electrical grid is relatively straightforward and inexpensive. But only with action now could the grid be protected sufficiently to give the US industrial and economic capability a fighting chance to survive an "Electronic Armageddon".
It is also possible to protect military assets through "hardening," but doing so after production and the fielding of equipment is time-consuming and costly. The sooner the U.S. starts with hardening its equipment, sooner the job will get done. The U.S. is seriously behind schedule in what is required to protect it.
It is not as if the threat is "over the horizon." Russia and China already have Super-EMP warheads. Moreover, according to the Congressional EMP Commission, the design of Super-EMP warheads is no secret: "Certain types of relatively low-yield nuclear weapons can be employed to generate potentially catastrophic EMP effects over wide geographic areas, and designs for variants of such weapons may have been illicitly trafficked for a quarter-century."
The EMP Commission warned that non-state actors -- terrorists -- could also pose an EMP threat: "What is different now is that some potential sources of EMP threats are difficult to deter -- they can be terrorist groups that have no state identity, have only one or a few weapons, and are motivated to attack the U.S. without regard for their own safety."
The EMP Commission also warned that the Department of Defense has failed to maintain adequate EMP protection for U.S. military forces since the end of the Cold War:
"The end of the Cold War relaxed the discipline for achieving EMP survivability within the Department of Defense, and gave rise to the perception that an erosion of EMP survivability of military forces was an acceptable risk. EMP simulation and test facilities have been mothballed or dismantled, and research concerning EMP phenomena, hardening design, testing, and maintenance has been substantially decreased. However, the emerging threat environment, characterized by a wide spectrum of actors that include near-peers, established nuclear powers, rogue nations, sub-national groups, and terrorist organizations that either now have access to nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles or may have such access over the next 15 years have combined to place the risk of EMP attack and adverse consequences on the US to a level that is not acceptable."
The EMP Commission further warned that even U.S. strategic forces and C3I may be at risk from an EMP attack:
"Current policy is to continue to provide EMP protection to strategic forces and their controls. The Department of Defense must continue to pursue the strategy for strategic systems to ensure that weapons delivery systems of the New Triad [land, sea and air] are EMP survivable, and that there is, at a minimum, a survivable 'thin-line' of command and control capability to detect threats and direct the delivery systems."[5]
U.S. strategic forces today are also relatively more vulnerable than they were during the Cold War: they are far less numerous and located on fewer bases, so an adversary could more easily target peak EMP fields on each base. Compared to Cold War era systems, the more modern and sophisticated C3I systems for command and control of U.S. strategic forces could be vulnerable to EMP, unless they are hardened to withstand such electromagnetic pulse attacks. This is also true for the entire industrial infrastructure, the most critical of which is the electrical grid.
The EMP Commission also warned that as U.S. conventional forces become more dependent upon high-technology, they also become more vulnerable to EMP attack:
"The situation for general-purpose forces (GPF) is more complex. The success of these forces depends on the application of a superior force at times and places of our choosing. We accomplish this by using a relatively small force with enormous technological advantages due to superior information flow, advanced warfighting capabilities, and well-orchestrated joint combat operations. Our increasing dependence on advanced electronics systems results in the potential for an increased EMP vulnerability of our technologically advanced forces, and if unaddressed makes EMP employment by an adversary an attractive asymmetric option."
The above alarming assessments about the vulnerability of U.S. military forces to EMP attack are what the EMP Commission decided must be stated publicly, in its unclassified Executive Summary. The EMP Commission submitted a separate, classified, report to the Department of Defense analyzing these and many other vulnerabilities in far greater detail.
What progress has the Department of Defense (DoD) made to protect itself and the nation from EMP attacks since the reports were completed?
When the EMP Commission terminated in 2008, it was on the understanding that DoD would move aggressively to protect U.S. military forces from EMP, and report biennially to Congress on progress being made implementing the EMP Commission recommendations. The only unclassified biennial report from DoD indicates that there were still serious deficiencies in protecting U.S. military forces from EMP in 2011.
On April 7, 2015, the North American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD) chief, Admiral William Gortney, announced that NORAD was moving critical assets back into the nuclear bunker inside Cheyenne Mountain and spending $700 million to harden the mountain further against a potential nuclear EMP attack from North Korea. That the nation's most critical C3I node is just now being adequately protected does not bode well for the preparedness of U.S. military forces as a whole for an EMP Doomsday scenario.[6]
Fortunately, Congress re-established the EMP Commission in the recently completed and passed Fiscal Year 2016 National Defense Authorization Act, to serve as a watchdog on U.S. preparedness and the fast-evolving EMP threat.
The recent military writings and exercises of potential adversaries, for example, combine EMP with cyber-attacks, sabotage, and kinetic attacks against the national electric grid and other critical infrastructures -- a decisive new way of warfare described by Russian experts as a "Revolution in Military Affairs."[7]
The U.S. response has recently gotten some important traction. The House, on November 16, 2015, unanimously passed the Critical Infrastructure Protection Act (CIPA -- House of Representatives bill number HR 1073).
CIPA directs the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to educate emergency planners and first responders at all levels of government about the EMP threat, and to prepare plans to protect and recover the electric grid and other critical infrastructures from an EMP attack and from natural EMP that can be generated by a rare solar super-storm. The House Energy and Commerce Committee also passed provisions to secure the electric grid from EMP, including by stockpiling spare parts and incorporating the SHIELD Act, which gives new authorities to the U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to protect the grid.
Protecting the national electric grid from EMP is necessary to preserve the existence of American civilization, to sustain U.S. military power-projection capabilities, and it would also mitigate worst-case threats from cyber warfare, sabotage, kinetic attacks, and even severe weather. CIPA and SHIELD are the crowning achievements of Rep. Trent Franks (R-AZ), who for years has been the conscience of the Congress, warning about the existential threat from EMP. [8]
While both bills now await action in the Senate, there is an increasing threat from Iran, which recently successfully tested two nuclear-capable missiles, and from a North Korean satellite, the KSM-3, which regularly orbits over North America at the optimum trajectory to evade U.S. national missile defenses. If the KSM-3 were to carry a nuclear weapon, it would project an EMP field over all of the 48 contiguous United States.
North Korea is Iran's strategic partner, and there is a treaty between the two countries that obligates the sharing of scientific and military technology.
North Korea's military recently carried out what some have described as an attempted test from a submerged barge, an indication that an earlier test failure has not derailed its underwater missile program, according to U.S. defense officials.
Add North Korea's missile capability and a super EMP weapon to this potential, and the significance of the recent North Korean nuclear test comes into better focus. The possibility of a North Korean or Iranian EMP attack seems to be gathering strength.
We may have already seen what such an attack might look like. During the 2014 Gaza War, Hamas, the Syrian Electronic Army, and Iran attempted mass cyber-attacks, coordinated with massive missile strikes, on Israel's electrical grid. Hamas launched over 5000 rockets and missiles against Israel. Prepared, Israel's cyber defenses defeated the cyber-attacks, and the Iron Dome missile defense system shot down all the missiles aimed at the Israeli grid.[9]
There are important lessons here. Missile and cyber defenses work: they are critically important parts of any national security strategy.
Israel had also made a prior decision to harden its grid against threats by EMP attacks. The combined efforts of this crucial ally of ours gives us a roadmap to follow: robust missile defenses to defend the homeland from EMP-armed missiles; cyber defenses to protect critical assets and the infrastructure; and EMP defenses to protect national security and defense assets and the electrical grid from attack.
Both the 2004 and 2008, EMP Commission reports urged America's leaders to protect against such threats as EMP. The House of Representatives has now passed the necessary legislation to protect the grid. The Senate has a champion -- Senator Ron Johnson (R-WI), who has pledged to secure Senate passage.
But there are serious pressures working against its passage. Too many "experts" currently dismiss any such threat to the American homeland.
Just recently, for instance, a former intelligence specialist in the U.S. government, Paul Pilar, argued in The National Interest that Iranian ballistic missiles were "here to stay" and were simply elements of Iran's defenses â and, despite repeated Iranian calls for "Death to America," were no threat to the United States homeland or its overseas interests.[10]
Such conventional complacency, such as calling ISIS the jay-vee team, is not uncommon in Washington, D.C. The National Intelligence Estimate on Iran in 2007 argued that Iran had stopped all its nuclear weapons work in 2003[11]; the International Atomic Energy Administration has now determined that Iran's nuclear work had continued to at least 2009.[12]
Unfortunately, there is real-world experience -- in Israel -- that such threats from missiles and cyber-attacks are constantly serious and looming: the entire job of an adversary is to look for weak spots to attack.
There always seem to be those who wish to downplay all threats and are reluctant even to invest in an "insurance premium." The consequences of failing to protect America against such threats, however, will be far more serious than future embarrassment for some head-in-the-sand bureaucrats.
An EMP attack would shut down the country; lead to the loss of millions of lives, and set it back into effective defenselessness.
It is a threat as serious as any estimates of what a mushroom cloud at the height of the Cold War would have entailed. Instead, it kills by sending the country back to what former House Speaker Newt Gingrich has described as early 18th century America: people would not be able to function in even the simplest of ways. Buildings would be left standing but the ability to live in them would not. People would be unable to move about, eat, drink, shop or communicate.
It therefore requires full attention, in this era of increased cyber-sophistication, especially among enemies of the West, to see that an EMP attack is never "invited" to happen in the U.S.
Peter Huessy is President of GeoStrategic Analysis of Potomac, Maryland and Senior Defense Consultant to the Mitchell Institute of the Air Force Association and a guest lecture at the US Naval Academy on nuclear deterrent policy and the founder of the 36 year AFA-NDIA-ROA Congressional Breakfast Seminar Series on Nuclear Deterrence, Missile Defense, Arms Control, Proliferation and Defense Policy.
[1] Previous such threat analysis had been classified; the Report of the Commission to Assess the Threat to the United States from Electromagnetic Pulse (EMP) Attack, July 2004 and April 2008 was issued in both classified and unclassified versions; see also Henry F. Cooper and Peter Vincent Pry, "The Threat to Melt the Electric Grid," Wall Street Journal, April 30, 2015; and Former Director of Central Intelligence, R. James Woolsey, testimony before the U.S. Congress, May 21, 2013.
[2] "Big Ivan", The Tsar Bomba", Viktor Adamsky and Yuri Smirnov, 1994, "Moscow's Biggest Bomb".
[3] EMP Commission, April 2008.
[4] Committee on Armed Services, House of Representatives, July 22, 2004, Hearing on the Report of the Commission to Assess the Threat to the US from Electromagnetic Pulse Attack.
[5] "Report of the Commission to Assess the Threat to the United States from Electromagnetic Pulse (EMP) Attack", Volume I: Executive Report; hereinafter cited as EMP Commission Report 2004.
[6] EMP Commission Report 2004, p. 47.
[7] "Defense Science Board (DSB) Task Force on the Survivability of Systems and Assets to Electromagnetic Pulse (EMP) and other Nuclear Weapon Effects (NWE)", Summary Report No. 1, Interim Report of the DSB Task Force, 2011. See also Dr. Peter Vincent Pry, Apocalypse Unknown: The Struggle to Protect America from an Electromagnetic Pulse Catastrophe, Task Force on National and Homeland Security, 2013, pp. 158-164.
[8] For a good history of these efforts, see Congressman Trent Franks, remarks at the AFA-NDIA-ROA Congressional Breakfast Seminar, December 17, 2015, transcript available from Peter Huessy at AFA (Phuessy@afa.org).
[9] Information from Uzi Rubin, President of Rubicon, to the authors.
[10] See an excellent rejoinder by Emily Landau and Shimon Stein, INSS, National Defense University, "Iran's Ballistic Missiles Are Actually a Huge Problem", January 5, 2016.
[11] Paul Pillar spoke approvingly of the 2007 NIE at "The Iran National Intelligence Estimate and Intelligence Assessment Capabilities", December 20, 2007, the Brookings Institution.
[12] IAEA Board Report: Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action implementation and verification and monitoring in the Islamic Republic of Iran in light of United Nations Security Council Resolution 2231 (2015), Resolution adopted by the Board of Governors on 15 December 2015.

Story 165
Call of Duty: Black Ops 4’s new Specialist is a game changer, countering and hacking opponents for some clutch plays in multiplayer.

Since launch, Black Ops 4’s Specialists have filled the playing field with explosive mesh mines, pesky razor wire, and microwaving barricades. Games can often be won or lost with the assistance of Specialist abilities, equipment, or even scorestreaks. Zero is the first post-launch Specialist to arrive, and she’s delivering countermeasures.
Advertisement
This mysterious hacker was introduced during Black Ops 4’s latest Contraband stream event Operation: Absolute Zero, which launched on PlayStation 4 on December 11. This new Specialist is easy to unlock, as you only have to complete the first tier of the Contraband stream, which should equal about an hour of game time.
Zero comes equipped with a highly effective EMP grenade that can briefly disrupt enemies’ HUDs and preventing them from activating their abilities. Equipping the Tactical Mask perk can avoid the disruption, but if you’re without a counter, the duration of the effects is only about five seconds. Zero’s EMP works wonders against camping players who post up in a tiny room with every piece of equipment accessible. Just toss Zero’s EMP into the room, and watch everyone panic and scatter. Zero can pretty much counter everything except Nomad’s K-9 unit, because even a bad doggo can’t be EMPed.
However, Zero’s Ice Pick is what makes her the biggest game-changer. This ability is basically tapping furiously at a tablet device to hack the enemy team. This allows Zero the ability to sabotage active enemy scorestreaks, equipment, and even the players themselves, scrambling their HUD and distorting their view. Zero doesn’t just pick one action, she ruins everything.
The most fun things to hack is scorestreaks and equipment. Scorestreaks like the Sniper’s Nest and Strike Team can only be destroyed by Zero’s hacking ability, but hacking and turning hostile sentry guns and attack choppers into friendly streaks is quite useful. Equipment such as mesh mines and barricades can also be turned against the enemy team. If used wisely, the Ice Pick can turn a losing game in your favor.

Advertisement
In the clip below, I’m using Zero’s Ice Pick to take control of the enemy attack chopper, sentry gun, and UAV to force a nice comeback for my team in a losing game of Domination.
If the opposition has Zero on their team, this can ruin your match the same way. I’ve had my Drone Squad scorestreak hacked and used against me on more than one occasion. It feels bad to have your high scorestreaks and Specialist toys taken away from you.
Advertisement
Treyarch already issued a balancing nerf for Zero’s Ice Pick with the content’s arrival on Xbox One and PC with the December 18 update. You can still sabotage those high-end streaks, but they’re going to take much longer to hack, leaving you vulnerable with your device for an extended period of time.
Some players might feel Zero is too much of a nuisance, but I think she’s a nice addition to the game. Her Ice Pick can still clutch even with extended hacking times, and EMP grenades are much needed in a Call of Duty that seems to rely so much on equipment and abilities. Zero has become one of my main Specialists for objective game modes, so I’ll be EMPing and hacking all the enemy’s toys.

Story 166






One of the perks (generally speaking, as you'll soon see) of living in the Colorado Rocky Mountains is the multi-sensory experience of the thunderstorms that churn through them nearly every summer afternoon. About a week ago, I returned home one evening to find an excited friend awaiting me, who'd seen and heard a lightning bolt hit only a few dozen yards (he claimed) away from my home's southeast corner. A next-door neighbor corroborated the strike story, although I haven't yet been able to find where the bolt hit in order to accurately assess its proximity. Nonetheless, I considered myself lucky that it hadn't scored a bullseye on my property, and assumed I'd dodged damage.That was until I realized that I couldn't get online. Eventually, I discovered that not one but two multiport GbE switches (a LG-Ericsson ES-1105G and a D-Link GO-SW-8GE ), both located in the southeast quadrant of the residence, no longer would power up. And I later realized, after several successive days' worth of unsuccessful television program recordings, that a seemingly otherwise functional (judging by front panel LED illumination, although one of them was now red, not green) SiliconDust HDHomeRun Prime CableCARD TV tuner would no longer go online, either.A power surge might tidily explain the switches' failures, but it doesn't account quite as neatly for the TV tuner's offline-but-otherwise-still-alive status. All three devices, along with others (both powered on and off at the time) were connected to premises power through high quality surge protectors, in some cases also in combination with UPS backup batteries. And the remainder of the gear seemed (fingers crossed) to survive the near miss unscathed. Why, then, did these particular products expire?The culprit, I suspect after a bit of pondering, is a two-fold combination; the failed gear's locations in the residence, coupled with their Ethernet interconnect. As the lightning bolt headed to the ground in the open space behind my house, it radiated an abundance of broad-spectrum electronic interference; in effect, it was an EMP weapon delivered by Mother Nature. The several dozen feet of Ethernet cable connecting the two switches to each other, and connecting one of them to the router (which bafflingly seems to have survived unscathed), acted as an antenna for receiving that EMP. And, zap.This scenario might plausibly explain what happened to the switches, but what about the TV tuner, located only a few inches away from the router? In this particular case, a few-foot span of Ethernet cable was repetitively coiled and twist-tied into a rough approximation of an inductor, sticking up in the air. And when the EMP hit it, once again, zap. Or at least that's my story.Fortunately, you're able to view the EMP results, and potentially assess the failure root cause(s), for yourself. I plan to once again embrace the saying " When life gives you lemons, make lemonade ," by dissecting the three deceased devices for your inspection. Look for the series in the "teardowns" area of EDN's website , and if you notice anything amiss that provides further clues as to the reason(s) for their demise, please do sound off in the comments!

Story 167
An E-4B aircraft is towed out of its hangar June 17, 2009, at Offutt Air Force Base, Nebraska. Josh Plueger | US Air Force
ABOARD A US MILITARY AIRCRAFT — There is no aircraft quite like the U.S. Air Force's E-4B. Affectionately known as the "doomsday plane," the modified Boeing 747 is used to transport the secretary of Defense and is born and bred for battle. It stands nearly six stories tall, is equipped with four colossal engines, and is capable of enduring the immediate aftermath of a nuclear detonation. "It's like a backup Pentagon," a U.S. Air Force crew member told CNBC aboard one of the aircraft. "There's always one plane on alert and ready to go 24 hours, seven days a week." On Tuesday morning, acting Secretary of Defense Patrick Shanahan boarded the E-4B at Joint Base Andrews in Maryland for a week-long trip to Asia. It was his second time taking the plane on an international trip since ascending to the highest office in the Pentagon. The aircraft, also known as the National Airborne Operations Center, will ferry Shanahan and his staff to Hawaii, Indonesia, Singapore, South Korea and Japan.
U.S. Acting Secretary of Defense Patrick Shanahan waves goodbye as he boards the E-4B. Lisa Ferdinando | Department of Defense
Air crew aboard the plane said that the aircraft would clock a total of 22,538 nautical miles with the help of three aerial refuelings and six tankers during the eight-day trip. "It's great, but they keep giving me more work," Shanahan joked when asked about working and traveling on the E-4B. "The work never stops," he added, noting that he has a pulse on U.S. military operations across the globe while aboard the aircraft. "Think of it as this, the plane is basically a flying command center,” a Pentagon spokesman said aboard the aircraft. The spokesman added that the secretary has access to both unclassified and the highest form of classified communication systems on the plane. "So, he's never out of the loop," another Pentagon spokesman added.
Much like Air Force One, its sister aircraft with the same recognizable paint job, most of the E-4B's capabilities are classified. Currently, there are four of these unique aircraft in the Air Force's fleet. The identical planes, which are based at Offutt Air Force Base in Nebraska, have been in operation since 1980. The noticeable hump on top of the plane is called a "radome" and houses some of the nearly 67 different satellite dishes and antennas. The dome is one element in the E-4B's communication portfolio that gives those aboard the ability to contact ships, submarines, aircraft and landlines anywhere in the world.
An E-4B is refueled by a KC-10 tanker during a local mission June 12, 2017. Staff Sgt. Nicole Leidholm | US Air Force

Story 168
The Exclusive PS4 Call of Duty Beta finishes today at 7pm BST.
With Playstation players having spent the weekend figuring out what guns give them the highest chance of success in a battle, we here at RealSport want to relay this knowledge onto both Xbox and PC players who are itching to get a taste of their first Modern Warfare gameplay.
READ MORE: Call Of Duty Modern Warfare: Day one beta review, nuke, tips & tricks
Xbox and PC Beta
Being a COD fan must be tough when you play on either Xbox or PC knowing that all its content will be delayed either a week or month compared to the Playstation.
However, not to worry, if you have pre-ordered the game on Xbox and PC, early access will be granted to you on Thursday September 19th to Friday 20th at 6pm BST.
This will be open to:
Xbox and PC pre-orders
ALL Playstation players
If you are waiting to play before pre-ordering the game, then you are in luck! The Beta will be open to all PS4, Xbox and PC players. When…?
Saturday September 21st to Monday 23rd: Open Beta on all platforms.
Best Class Set Ups
After having played since September 12th and being able to try out all the weapons available in the first 20 levels that were unlockable; we are here to give you a competitive advantage over the opposition when you drop in on the 19th.
﻿The Edit Loadouts system is only accessible after achieving level 4 in the Beta, but don’t stress… this takes a mere two games to achieve if you can average 10-15 kills. Winning the games you play will also propel you quicker to this level.
What pre-set Class should you use before unlocking Edit Loadout?
Assault
Ghost
Demolition

The Assault class comprises the FR 5.56 (MW2 FAMAS), and the M19 Handgun. The player who likes to get into medium to longer range gun fights should use this class; this is because it is extremely accurate with little recoil.
We do not recommend using this if you are a gun runner, who likes to get amongst the action. Instead, we suggest using the Ghost class, which includes the AUG Submachine Gun. This is for the short to medium range gun fights.
It’s advised to use the Ghost class before being level 4 whilst playing game modes such as Cyber Attack, this is because of the Perks it has:
﻿ Perk 1 – Cold Blooded – Undetectable by AI targeting systems (Kill Streaks).
Perk 2 – Ghost – Undetectable by UAVs and Radar Drones.
Perk 3 – Spotter – See enemy equipment.
﻿﻿All three are useful giving yourself the best chance to stay alive and win games.
Last but not least, the Demolition class. The all time fan-favourite AK-47 which performs similar to its predecessors… packing a punch with its Secondary Weapon the PILA (Rocket Launcher).
﻿﻿Surprisingly, the Secondary (PILA) can come in handy to takedown enemy score streaks such as the UAV or VTOL Strike (MW2 Harriers).
READ MORE: ﻿Modern Warfare 2019: No mini-map, realism mode, beta changes, battle pass, and gameplay
﻿ Class One
MP5 – This Submachine Gun is available from the get go, once reached level 4. Its quick, powerful and can be accurate (this depends on player). Levelling the gun up by using it in games will allow you to create in GUNSMITH what RealSport views as one of the best guns in the Beta so far!
Attachments:
1mW Laser – For better Hip Fire Accuracy.
Lightweight Stock – Faster movement while staying on target.
Vertical Foregrip – Better control of Vertical recoil.
Pistol Grip – Stippled – Keeps the MP5 in control while performing high speed maneuvers.
Perk FMJ – Increased bullet penetration.
When each of these attachments are unlocked and used cohesively together on the MP5 it makes one of the best Gun Runner classes so far available in the first 20 Levels.
Secondary Weapon:
.50 GS (Desert Eagle COD 4) brings back the older Call of Duty feelings. Its powerful, looks good and kills quick… a trusty side arm.
The only negative is that you have to be very accurate with it.
Perks:
﻿ Perk 1 – Double Time – Doubles duration of tactical sprint. Increases crouch movement speed by 30%.
This Perk adds on to the speed of the class, which allows you to move around the map quicker than your opponents and reach objectives quicker, making kills easy.
Perk 2 – Ghost – Undetectable by UAVs and Radar Drones.
With the Mini-Map being a controversial topic currently in the Beta, Ghost makes you invisible to the enemy team when they have a UAV or Radar Drone flying around. You are then able to flank the enemy and again get easy kills.
Perk 3 – Battle Hardened – Reduces strength of enemy flash, stun and EMP effects.
We here at RealSport learned the hard way that both Flash and Stun Grenades are overpowered and it can become frustrating not being able to move or see when hit by one. Having this perk on decreases the strength and the stress that comes with it.
Lethal:
Claymore / Frag Grenade
Either of these will make a great Lethal for you to carry on the battlefield. In game modes such as Cyber Attack, Claymores would be ideal to leave near the bomb or door ways where the enemy may be crossing.
If you are playing either Domination or Headquarters, Frag Grenades are perfect to cook and throw into or on the objective; allowing you to pick up a couple of kills.
Tactical:
Flash / Stun Grenade
As earlier discussed, both Tactical equipments are powerful and can cause some serious distortion to the opposition on any game mode. RealSport suggest throwing these in rooms where the enemy is likely to be.
Overview:
This Class can quickly become your best friend in gun fights saving you from death. Give it a go once all unlocked when dropping in coming September 19th 6pm BST.
READ MORE: Call of Duty Modern Warfare 2019: New Battle Royale Mode, Campaign, Gunfights on PS4, PC & Xbox One
Class Two
M4A1 – This Assault Rifle like the MP5 is also available as soon as the Edit Loadout sector has been unlocked. This AR is a fully automatic, all purpose battle rifle. If you can control your shots, it can be very effective at all ranges.
This can be made easy with Attachments that can be unlocked through levelling up the weapon whilst using it in games.
Attachments:
Muzzle Breacher Device – Enables one hit melee kills.
Optic Operator Reflex Sight – Providing higher precision.
Under-barrel Angled Foregrip – Additional control for recoil.
Gun Perk FMJ – Increased bullet penetration.
Unlocking all of these attachments may take a few games, but once they are available, you will understand that it was definitely worth it, making the weapon a beast.
As for all the Secondary Weapon, Perks, Lethal and Tactical equipment we recommend you use the same as Class one. However, play around and find out what suits your playing style best.
Another option being Hardline in Perk 2 to gain killstreaks quicker.
Let us know if you have any classes you would like to share and whether you would change any aspects of ours down below!
READ MORE: Call of Duty: MiDNiTE on leaving OpTic, joining Minnesota CoD team
Want to join the RS team? Become a RealGamer

Story 169
Le rapport de recherche sur le marché mondial de 2019 de Développement durable Outils logiciels présente une analyse approfondie de la taille du marché, de la croissance, de la part, des segments, des fabricants et des technologies, des tendances clés, des facteurs de marché, des défis, de la standardisation, des modèles de déploiement, des opportunités, des futures Prévisions 2025.
Demandez un exemplaire du rapport à ladresse suivante: – www.precisionreports.co/enquiry/request-sample/14183907
La recherche mondiale 2019 sur le marché des mots clés fournit un aperçu de base du secteur, y compris des définitions, des classifications, des applications et la structure de la chaîne industrielle. L’analyse de marché Global Développement durable Outils logiciels est fournie pour les marchés internationaux, notamment les tendances de développement, l’analyse du paysage concurrentiel et le statut de développement des régions clés. Les politiques et les plans de développement sont discutés ainsi que les processus de fabrication et les structures de coûts sont également analysés. Ce rapport indique également la consommation d’import / export, l’offre et la demande, les chiffres, le coût, le prix, les revenus et les marges brutes.
Le rapport mondial détudes de marché sur le marché 2019 du secteur , est réparti sur plusieurs pages et fournit des statistiques vitales exclusives, des données, des informations, des tendances et des informations détaillées sur le paysage concurrentiel de ce secteur de niche.
Renseignez-vous avant d’acheter ce rapport @ www.precisionreports.co/enquiry/pre-order-enquiry/14183907
Concurrence mondiale sur le marché des mots clés par les principaux fabricants, avec la production, le prix, le revenu (valeur) et la part de marché de chaque fabricant; les meilleurs joueurs, y compris
curo

Axxerion GMAO

CenterStone

FM: Interagir

Essentials actifs

MaintiMizer

Wattics

Maintenir vx

IBM TRIRIGA

VFA Capital Planning

Solutions Dude

Entronix EMP

Dexcell Energy Manager

CAFM Explorateur
Le rapport met également laccent sur les principaux acteurs mondiaux du marché mondial du mot-clé , fournissant des informations telles que les profils dentreprise, la photo et les spécifications du produit, la capacité, la production, le prix, les coûts, les revenus et les coordonnées. L’analyse des matières premières et des équipements en amont et en aval de la demande est également effectuée. Les tendances mondiales en matière de développement du marché et les canaux de commercialisation sont analysés. Enfin, la faisabilité de nouveaux projets d’investissement est évaluée et les conclusions générales de la recherche sont proposées.
Avec des tableaux et des chiffres qui aident à analyser le marché mondial des mots clés à léchelle mondiale, cette étude fournit des statistiques clés sur létat du secteur et constitue une source précieuse de conseils et dorientation pour les entreprises et les particuliers intéressés par le marché.
Achetez ce rapport (Prix 3900 USD pour une licence mono-utilisateur) @ www.precisionreports.co/purchase/14183907
Développement durable Outils logiciels Répartition des données par type
cloud Based

Locaux en
Nombre de mots clés par application
PME

grandes entreprises

