Story 0
The regulator has found that Bottomline Technologies’ purchase of Experian Payments Gateway may reduce competition.
The UK Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) has voiced its concerns about payment software firm Bottomline Technologies’ purchase of Experian Payments Gateway (EPG). According to the regulator, the deal may reduce competition.
The CMA has been investigating whether the completed merger of Bottomline and the EPG business raises competition concerns.
Both companies provide payments software used by businesses every day to submit direct debits, run payroll and pay suppliers. This directly connects to the UK’s Bankers’ Automated Clearing Services (Bacs) scheme Bacstel-IP service and Faster Payments System Direct Corporate Access (FPS DCA). Bottomline and EPG are 2 leading providers of the software, with Bottomline by far the largest and EPG a trusted supplier to some of the biggest businesses.
After its initial Phase 1 investigation into the merger, the CMA is concerned that the new, merged company may increase prices, reduce product availability, or reduce its investment in innovation. This is mainly because if Bottomline had not acquired EPG, there would have been a realistic chance that EPG would have been bought by a different firm, which could have resulted in a more competitive market with greater product development and more choice for customers.
Joel Bamford, Senior Director of Mergers at the CMA, commented:
“Our investigation has shown that other options for the EPG business were available which could have resulted in more competition in the future. We are therefore concerned this transaction could lead to prices going up or less development of current software”.
Bottomline has until October 14, 2019, to offer solutions to resolve the CMA’s concerns. Otherwise the merger will be referred for an in-depth Phase 2 investigation.

Story 1
The regulator says the situation has resulted, or may be expected to result, in a substantial lessening of competition within the UK market for goods or services.
Two weeks after the UK Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) voiced its concerns about the payment software firm Bottomline Technologies’ purchase of Experian Payments Gateway (EPG), the regulator said it was referring the deal for an in-depth investigation.
In the document published today, the CMA says it believes that it is or may be the case that:
(a) a relevant merger situation has been created, in that: (i) enterprises carried on by Bottomline Technologies (de), Inc. have ceased to be distinct from the enterprise consisting of the Experian Payments Gateway business carried on by Experian Limited; and (ii) the condition specified in section 23(2)(b) of the Act is satisfied; and
a relevant merger situation has been created, in that: (i) enterprises carried on by Bottomline Technologies (de), Inc. have ceased to be distinct from the enterprise consisting of the Experian Payments Gateway business carried on by Experian Limited; and (ii) the condition specified in section 23(2)(b) of the Act is satisfied; and (b) the creation of that situation has resulted, or may be expected to result, in a substantial lessening of competition within a market or markets in the United Kingdom for goods or services, including: (i) the supply of payments software for Bacs submissions via Bacstel-IP in the UK; and (ii) the supply of payments software for Faster Payments Service Direct Corporate Access submissions via Secure-IP in the UK.
Hence, CMA makes a reference to its chair for the constitution of a group under Schedule 4 to the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013 in order that the group may investigate and report, within a period ending on April 5, 2020, on the following questions in accordance with section 35(1) of the Act:
(a) whether a relevant merger situation has been created; and
whether a relevant merger situation has been created; and (b) if so, whether the creation of that situation has resulted, or may be expected to result, in a substantial lessening of competition within any market or markets in the United Kingdom for goods or services.
Earlier in October, the regulator said that, after its initial Phase 1 investigation into the merger, it was concerned that the new, merged company may increase prices, reduce product availability, or reduce its investment in innovation. This is mainly because if Bottomline had not acquired EPG, there would have been a realistic chance that EPG would have been bought by a different firm, which could have resulted in a more competitive market with greater product development and more choice for customers.

Story 2
John Melvin, Executive Vice President, brings his proven track record in sales and marketing to the Simplicity Life family.
Monticello, MN –Tom Tous, who started the Elite Producer Group division at Simplicity Life, is excited to be working alongside John. Their mission is to drive membership, business, production, and brand awareness. John brings over 30 years of financial services experience to Simplicity.
John comes from the US Bank Premium Finance Division, based in Kansas City. There he helped close more than 1 ½ billion dollars in premium finance loans over a 7-year span, using a national agent networking platform. He was instrumental in the development and marketing of the division.
“Simplicity Life is proud to welcome John to the team,” says Brian Schneier, Chief Marketing Officer, Simplicity Life.
“John is a well-respected veteran with many contacts and relationships that will provide new and unique opportunities which will take EPG to the next level,” says Tom Tous, EVP of Elite Producer Group, Simplicity Life.
John Melvin’s career in finance began as an agent with Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company. He then became a Business Development Specialist for a regional bank and trust firm focusing on assets under management, trust and estate services and overall family wealth planning.
The addition of Melvin will increase sales, enhance agent recruiting and continue to grow the bottom line.
John is well known in the community for his philanthropic endeavors. The charities closest to his heart concentrate on assisting children with special needs, serving on the Board of Directors with the Down Syndrome Guild since 2001, serving as treasurer for nine years. John is currently the Chairman of the Development Committee for the Down Syndrome Guild. He also serves on the Advisory Board for the B.E. Smith Family Center. John has also served on the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society of Kansas City Board and their Planned Giving and Executive Committee.
984291 -1019
###

Story 3
DUBAI, United Arab Emirates, Oct. 18, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Today the President of Elite Petro & Gas, Mr. George Matharu and the President of Tabarak Investment Capital Limited (Investment Bank), Dr. Mohamed Ahmadi announced a deal in which the two companies will use their combined resources to execute physical commodity trades, and provide banking and finance facilities for oil and gas transactions.

The alliance between the two entities will also allow compliance related activities to be carried out from two major international hubs of London and Dubai. This increases the international presence of both companies.
Additionally, Elite Petro & Gas (“EPG”) has recently formed relationships with the owners of a number of high profile European, South American and Chinese projects, which EPG and Tabarak can work on together.
Tabarak Investment Capital Limited is a regulated investment bank by Dubai Financial Services Authority and incorporated in the Dubai International Financial Centre. Tabarak supports its clients to expand and improve their Global Wealth Management and Trading business by providing expert services through a proven and secure platform.
Elite Petro & Gas is a Finance, Trading and Advisory firm with a focus on downstream activities in the global Oil and Gas markets. They are a results-driven business, working closely with their clients to deliver tangible solutions and outcomes.
Elite Petro & Gas owned by Kuwaiti businessman Dr. Faisal Khazaal has made strategic alliances with Tabarak Investment Capital Limited which have given them access to Middle East and GCC region. This has given Elite Petro & Gas a substantial foundation of clients to build on, in addition to access to the markets that are most in need of the products and services they offer. The aim of EPG is to facilitate the commencement and completion of petroleum & gas projects, stimulate economy, create employment and combat poverty.
“This relationship will serve to enhance our growing client relationships and business reputation in the Middle East and Gulf Cooperation Council” Mr. George Matharu, President and General Manager of Elite Petro & Gas, said.
Dr. Mohamed Ahmadi, President and Executive Board Member of Tabarak Investment Capital Limited, agreed and commented that “our Middle Eastern and Gulf Cooperation Council clients have been doing business in Europe and China for many decades, and through this alliance we will be able to offer them a more tailored and personal service”.
Mr. George Matharu and Dr. Mohamed Ahmadi concluded their statement by saying “We are excited about these opportunities and cementing our business relationship”.
Elite Petro & Gas – Contact Details –
Elite Petro & Gas
(Trademark by Elite Capital & Co. Limited)
33 St. James Square
London, SW1Y4JS
United Kingdom
Telephone: +44 (0) 203 709 5060
Facsimile: +44 (0) 203 709 5061
SWIFT Code: ELCTGB21
Website
petro.uk.com
Tabarak Investment Capital Limited – Contact Details –
Tabarak Investment Capital Limited
Office 208, Level 2
Burj Daman, West Court
DIFC, Dubai, UAE
Telephone: +971 4 3593700
Facsimile: +971 4 3593703
SWIFT Code: TIBIAEAD
Website
tabarak.ae

Story 4
Dutch company Divitel has delivered Icareus Playout EPG solution to BVN, a Dutch-language public television channel for Dutch and Flemish people abroad
Icareus Playout EPG solution is used to contribute, manage and distribute EPG data to operators globally.
Icareus EPG offers a scalable and versatile EPG platform for BVN to support multiple operators with different network environments. The EIT information can be automatically ingested from different sources such as live streams, XML and text files. Icareus’ distributor and system integrator partner Divitel has been responsible for the sales, integration and operating of Icareus Playout EPG for BVN.
Icareus’ Director Mr Mikko Karppinen comments: “BVN’s global footprint with different networks, time-zones and uplinks presented a challenge to which Icareus Playout fitted perfectly with its multinetwork capabilities. Timeshifting EPG data at BVN head-end enabled them to take full control of the contribution and to optimise the delivery to different parts of the world. We are naturally very proud to be selected by BVN, the best Dutch language television via satellite.”.
Icareus Playout EPG solution offers Trusted Broadcast Technology enjoyed by leading broadcasters and operators globally for over a decade. Icareus Playout EP110 server is a full-scale PSI/SI generator server targeted for operators and broadcasters to manage their DVB multiplexes and channel line-ups. The tested integrations to multiplexes, EPG data providers, network management systems and Icareus Suite enable quick deployment and high reliability. Icareus global reseller and systems integrator partners offer high service levels and peace-of-mind to our customers. Icareus Playout EPG solutions have been deployed in broadcasting production since 2004.
Icareus Playout EPG is part of Icareus Playout broadcast head-end product family, which also includes Icareus CS DSM-CC Carousel servers for HbbTV and other interactive TV standards, Icareus Playout SSU servers for boot-loading the TV devices’ firmware and Icareus Playout Compact Lab solution for research, development and testing TV services.

Story 5
Charter Court Financial Services Group PLC (LON:CCFS) today announced that its subsidiary Charter Mortgages Limited has agreed to sell its residual economic interest in the Precise Mortgage Funding 2019-1B plc securitisation to J.P. Morgan Securities plc for cash consideration of £6.2 million, payable on completion. The Transaction, which is expected to complete on 31July 2019, will involve the sale of the RC2 residual certificates to the securitisation. JPM managed the sale process and purchased the Certificates for onward sale.
The Transaction will generate a pre-tax gain of £28.8 million, which will be recognised in the 2019 financial year. It will also result in a reduction in the gross assets of the Group of c. £389.1 million1 and a reduction in risk weighted assets of c. £206.7 million. The associated increase in common equity tier 1 capital ratio through the reduction in risk weighted assets and the gain on sale will be reinvested to support new loan originations in Charter Court’s specialist lending segments and ongoing business activities. During the period between the issuance of the securitisation and 30 June 2019 the assets being disposed of contributed c. £1.3 million in profit before tax.
Commenting on the Transaction, Sebastien Maloney, CFO of Charter Court, said: “This transaction demonstrates our proactive approach to asset-liability and capital management and our ability to execute capital markets transactions when we judge conditions to be right to generate incremental shareholder value. The demand for the Certificates and the final terms achieved further reflect investor confidence in the quality of our underwriting and our track record of strong loan book growth while maintaining a market-leading cost of risk.”
Background on PMF 2019-1B
PMF 2019-1B was issued on 31 May 2019 and securitised approximately £734 million of prime buy-to-let mortgages originated by Charter Court Financial Services Limited (‘CCFSL’). At the time of issuance, PMF 2019-1B sold all of the rated notes (classes A1, B, C, D, E and X notes to third parties independent of the Group, and the A2 notes to CCFSL), and Charter Mortgages Limited, a Charter Court group company, purchased the residual certificates pertaining to the transaction. It subsequently sold a sub-component of the residual certificates (the ‘RC1’s) earlier in July 2019 to a third-party investor independent of the Group. The Transaction will result in the de-recognition of the securitised mortgages and, as a liability, the rated notes (classes A1, B, C D, E and X notes) from the Group balance sheet.
The Transaction has been agreed today and will settle on 31 July 2019.
A copy of this announcement will be available on Charter Court’s website at: http://www.chartercourtfs.co.uk/
1 Includes £20.3 million of non-mortgage assets in PMF 2019-1B and reflects the recognition on balance sheet of £359.0 million of PMF 2019-1B class A2 notes retained by CCFSL

Story 6
The regulator considers this to be appropriate, given that long-established patterns in how consumers complain to organisations are changing significantly.
The Australian Securities & Investments Commission (ASIC) has earlier today published a consultation paper that is set to change the way firms handle complaints filed by their clients. The proposed changes will affect the internal dispute resolution (IDR) schemes that firms regulated by ASIC apply in handling customer complaints. The list of proposals includes a couple of rather interesting changes to IDR schemes, such as accepting customer complaints submitted via social media, as well as reduction of the time for reviewing (and replying to) a complaint.
ASIC considers that as consumers move beyond telephone, email and traditional written mediums, financial firms should:
(a) adopt a proactive approach to identifying complaints made on their social media platform(s); and
(b) have processes in place (including appropriate links between media and complaints departments) to deal with these matters through their IDR process.
At a minimum, the regulator expects that complaints made on a financial firm’s own social media platform(s) will be dealt with through the firm’s IDR process when the consumer is both identifiable and contactable.
ASIC’s own research into consumer experiences with financial services IDR processes and consumer research conducted by the Central Bank of Ireland indicate that social media is being used by consumers as a complaints channel to financial firms. Furthermore, more general consumer research in the Australian, UK and US markets strongly indicates that social media is being used by many consumers as a preferred channel for customer service interactions with organisations.
Put briefly, the proposal establishes social media as a legitimate channel for making complaints.
Another proposed change to pay attention to concerns the IDR timeframes – that is, the time to respond to a complaint.
ASIC proposes to:
(a) reduce the maximum IDR timeframe for superannuation complaints and complaints about trustees providing traditional services from 90 days to 45 days;
(b) reduce the maximum IDR timeframe for all other complaints (excluding credit complaints involving hardship notices and/or requests to postpone enforcement proceedings and default notices where the maximum timeframe is generally 21 days) from 45 days to 30 days; and
(c) introduce a requirement that financial firms can issue IDR delay notifications in exceptional circumstances only.
Other proposals include setting clear standards about what should be in written reasons for decisions, as well as strengthening the requirement that firms take a systemic focus to complaints handling.
ASIC seeks public feedback on the consultation documents by August 9, 2019 and aims to release new IDR standards by end 2019.

Story 7
Britain is now the world’s number 1 destination for all types of financial market investment. Here is our detailed report
There have over the years been many a dubious speculation relating to where the majority of the world’s financial investment transactions take place, however when a genuine report is generated by a respected multi-national auditing giant, it is worthy of attention.
The race for supremacy between New York’s Wall Street-based and incredibly historic investment banking sector and London’s Canary Wharf-based ultra-modern interpretation of a 300 year old financial markets tradition has been very closely contended for many years.
This week, Ernst and Young has compiled a report which cements London as the absolute powerhouse in terms of all types of financial investment business, whether it be hedge funds, Tier 1 electronic trading or inbound and outbound capital flow ratios.
Since 2014, North America has held the number one slot in terms of capital investment from global sources, and has since time immemorial been the largest and most successful economy on earth.
That may well have been the case previously, however for London, which is the capital city of a nation with 75 million people whereas New York nestles among a vast continental union of over 350 million commercially and socially aligned individuals in the most free market economy on the planet, this represents a milestone.
The as a nation has now displaced the US as the top investment destination globally, a position it had held since 2014.
The US was followed by Germany, China, France, Canada, India, Australia, Brazil and the United Arab Emirates in the rankings. The UK’s top sectors for investment were consumer products and retail, industrials and financial services. Despite what Ernst & Young called “mounting geopolitical complexities”, the report found the appetite for global M&A was at a 10-year high.
Almost six in 10 global companies are planning to make an acquisition in the coming year, up from 52% 12 months previously. Executives are positive about the global deal market, with 92% expecting it to improve in the next year, compared to 86% in April 2018.
Steve Krouskos, EY global vice chair for transaction advisory services, said: “Geopolitical issues create significant challenges, but executives are determined to overcome perceived barriers and secure – or expand – their presence in markets that support their long-term strategic goals. “While nationalism may fuel much political debate, technology has made the world a smaller place and executives remain international in their search for growth.”
How did London surpass Wall Street as the world’s finance capital? Partly it was due to favourable legislation, and partly to good positioning. London’s time zone means that its business hours overlap those of the Middle East, America and Asia – something which definitely put the city in good stead when it came to trading.
That said, the key event in London’s rise as the world’s premier financial hub was probably legislation passed the “Big Bang” reforms passed by Margaret Thatcher’s government in 1986. These were intended to remove the laws that were protecting Britain’s slow-growing firms and contributing to sluggish financial markets.
The results were immediate. From a network of small companies with very little potential for growth, London-based businesses grew overnight to become conglomerates of huge proportions, along with more advanced financial practices like virtual banking.
Even better news for UK businesses lay ahead. The Big Bang had created relaxed regulatory measures that allowed corporations to earn unlimited amounts of money between the 1980s and the early 2000s. Helping London further, in 2002, the US Congress tightened corporate regulations through the Sarbanes-Oxley reforms, which increased paperwork and put a cap on the local earning opportunities.
On this basis, London’s stock markets flourished: American firms were forced to adhere to the Sarbanes-Oxley reforms, but other international markets simply sidestepped them by taking their business to London instead, a dynamic reflected by the institutional trading clearing houses such as LCH.Clearnet which conducts its entire global trade clearing business from London.
London’s ability to dominate the world’s entire financial ecosystem was fomented through these actions, positioning it as the world’s number one hotspot for trading and business ventures. Within a few years London had captured more than 75% of the US exchange’s public stock, and US Congress was trying to win them back through softer regulation.
It could be perhaps a viewpoint that the US relies on a stringent and very comprehensive regulatory framework to administer its business, whereas the UK’s regulatory authorities are relatively lax by comparison, yet the business environment is at such an elevated level that it is almost self-regulating and self-innovating.
In 2015, London was on its way to the top, now it leads all areas of financial technology and investment



To gain a perspective on this from a governmental point of view, FinanceFeeds spoke recently to Adam Afriye, Conservative MP for Windsor, who was a member of the Science and Technology select committee from 2005 until its abolition in July 2007, has been the President of the Conservative Technology Forum and Chair of the Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology since 2010.
Mr. Afriyie is Chairman of Connect Support Services, an IT support company he set up in 1993. He owned two-thirds of DeHavilland, a political monitoring company, which was sold to publishers Emap in 2005 for £18 million. He was also a regional finalist in the 2003 Ernst and Young Entrepreneur of the year awards. He was a Governor of the Museum of London, a trustee of the Museum in Docklands and a director of Policy Exchange, a centre-right policy body.
Additionally, Mr Afriyie is a stakeholder of Axonn Media, a content marketing business which produces content for clients. The company incorporates brands such as Content Plus, NewsReach, DirectNews and ReelContent. Axonn turned over £9.4m in 2011 and made a pre-tax profit of £1.3m.
He is also the largest shareholder of the firm and he and his fellow directors split dividends of £2.2m in 2010 and 2011 and shared directors’ pay of £3.6m over the last five years.
This morning here in London, Mr Afriyie explained to FinanceFeeds ““London’s status as the global centre for Financial Technology did not come about by accident but rather due to the positive and supportive actions of British legislators, regulators and financial firms.”
“That’s why as the Chair of the All Party Parliamentary Group on Financial Technology I was so pleased to hear the FCA explicitly highlight RegTech throughout the whole of last year as a sector where they are committed to playing an active role in fostering innovation” – Adam Afriyie, Conservative MP
“More can be done to stimulate advances in the RegTech sector. The FCA’s Call for Input from July last year highlighted the pro-active, but limited, role that they can support the sector, in particular aiding the industry in defining standards and guidance. However, the FCA are also receptive to the role that Government cannot play, such as building one-size fits all regulatory solutions to an area with a great diversity in complex legacy infrastructure.”
“It is reassuring that we have a Government that recognises technology is the key to our continued economic vibrancy and that seeks to nurture and adapt to disruptive new technologies through the Industrial Strategy rather than try and stifle them” he concluded.
Now, with London becoming the platform capital of the non-bank trading world, this global talent base and holistic dominance is worth taking very seriously.

Story 8
DUBAI, United Arab Emirates, Oct. 17, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Today the President of Elite Petro & Gas, Mr. George Matharu and the President of Tabarak Investment Capital Limited (Investment Bank), Dr. Mohamed Ahmadi announced a deal in which the two companies will use their combined resources to execute physical commodity trades, and provide banking and finance facilities for oil and gas transactions.

The alliance between the two entities will also allow compliance related activities to be carried out from two major international hubs of London and Dubai. This increases the international presence of both companies.
Additionally, Elite Petro & Gas (“EPG”) has recently formed relationships with the owners of a number of high profile European, South American and Chinese projects, which EPG and Tabarak can work on together.
Tabarak Investment Capital Limited is a regulated investment bank by Dubai Financial Services Authority and incorporated in the Dubai International Financial Centre. Tabarak supports its clients to expand and improve their Global Wealth Management and Trading business by providing expert services through a proven and secure platform.
Elite Petro & Gas is a Finance, Trading and Advisory firm with a focus on downstream activities in the global Oil and Gas markets. They are a results-driven business, working closely with their clients to deliver tangible solutions and outcomes.
Elite Petro & Gas owned by Kuwaiti businessman Dr. Faisal Khazaal has made strategic alliances with Tabarak Investment Capital Limited which have given them access to Middle East and GCC region. This has given Elite Petro & Gas a substantial foundation of clients to build on, in addition to access to the markets that are most in need of the products and services they offer. The aim of EPG is to facilitate the commencement and completion of petroleum & gas projects, stimulate economy, create employment and combat poverty.
“This relationship will serve to enhance our growing client relationships and business reputation in the Middle East and Gulf Cooperation Council” Mr. George Matharu, President and General Manager of Elite Petro & Gas, said.
Dr. Mohamed Ahmadi, President and Executive Board Member of Tabarak Investment Capital Limited, agreed and commented that “our Middle Eastern and Gulf Cooperation Council clients have been doing business in Europe and China for many decades, and through this alliance we will be able to offer them a more tailored and personal service”.
Mr. George Matharu and Dr. Mohamed Ahmadi concluded their statement by saying “We are excited about these opportunities and cementing our business relationship”.
Elite Petro & Gas – Contact Details –
Elite Petro & Gas
(Trademark by Elite Capital & Co. Limited)
33 St. James Square
London, SW1Y4JS
United Kingdom
Telephone: +44 (0) 203 709 5060
Facsimile: +44 (0) 203 709 5061
SWIFT Code: ELCTGB21
Website
petro.uk.com
Tabarak Investment Capital Limited – Contact Details –
Tabarak Investment Capital Limited
Office 208, Level 2
Burj Daman, West Court
DIFC, Dubai, UAE
Telephone: +971 4 3593700
Facsimile: +971 4 3593703
SWIFT Code: TIBIAEAD
Website
tabarak.ae

Story 9
In the short term, the loss of passporting creates a number of cliff-edge risks, such as a need for firms to secure regulatory permissions to service existing and new business.
The UK Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has earlier today published its “EU Withdrawal Impact Assessment” in response to a request by the Treasury Select Committee. The document outlines the major risks and challenges for the UK financial services industry, as seen by the FCA.
If the EU and the UK do not ratify a Withdrawal Treaty in time for March 29, 2019, absent any alternative agreement, the UK would leave the EU with no implementation period. In a financial services context, this would translate into defaulting to a “third country” relationship, with market access determined under World Trade Organisation (WTO) rules and EU or national Member State rules, the FCA explains.
The regulator warns of the consequences of loss of passporting. Under a passporting regime, financial services firms established and authorised in any EEA Member State have access to the single market for the relevant financial services.
A summary of the volume of cross border passports included in the FCA’s previous correspondence with the Treasury Select Committee shows there are 8,008 EEA firms with passports allowing them to undertake business in the UK, and 5,476 firms in the UK hold passports allowing them to undertake business across the EEA. When the UK leaves the EU, passporting rights will cease to apply.
“If the EU and UK do not take action to manage risks caused by the loss of passporting, existing cross-border flows of business may be disrupted on the UK’s exit on 29 March 2019”, the FCA warns.
In the short term, the loss of passporting creates a number of cliff-edge risks, such as a need for firms to secure regulatory permissions to service existing and new business. Without this, firms may lose the ability to conduct cross border business, which creates legal and operational risks.
Furthermore, in such a scenario, EEA and UK firms may also be unable to trade certain securities across both jurisdictions. This could lead to a fragmented market as UK and EEA firms would no longer be able to use the same pool of liquidity. Over time, this could have a harmful impact on financial services markets more widely, through reduced competition and increased costs for consumers in both the EEA and UK. A potential reduction in the depth of the markets available to UK and EEA participants could also result in higher costs or make it more difficult to execute larger transactions, according to the FCA.
In the short term, the regulator expects the the risks to be low although specialist markets may be disproportionately affected. Over time, more significant restructuring could affect markets more widely.
The FCA expects the loss of passporting to have consequences for outstanding cross-border contracts. The performance of many contractual obligations agreed before exit is unaffected by the UK’s withdrawal. However, the performance of certain activities that are linked to those contracts may be subject to authorisation in certain Member States.
After the UK’s withdrawal, firms may need to get local authorisation to service existing cross-border contracts. An FCA analysis to date suggests the impact is most significant in the insurance, uncleared OTC derivative and cleared derivative markets. There are also potential risks to financial stability and consumer protection – in particular in the EU – if firms cannot service these contracts.
On the brighter side, the FCA, Bank of England and Government have taken action to manage risks in the UK. This includes setting up a temporary permissions regime (TPR), which will allow inbound EEA firms and funds that want to continue operating in the UK after exit to continue to operate as before, including carrying on new business, while applying for full authorisation in the UK.
In terms of customer protection, the FCA is proposing to extend the reach of FSCS cover to include more EEA firms so as to help maintain protection for UK consumers.

Story 10
At IBC 2019, Austrian technology company Ocillion will be displaying its complete IPTV platform that provides operators with an easy to use interface, available content and a branded customer portal.
Among the solutions on display at the show are the company’s P400 family of set-top boxes which address 4K, IP, hybrid DVB and cable solutions.
The demos at Ocilion’s booth showcase the unique user interface with EPG service, VoD portal, infotainment services 4K live and replay TV, and recording. In addition, the company will present its IPTV solutions for mobile TV for mobile and second screens such as smartphones and tablets as well as Apple TV and Amazon Fire TV. Finally, we will also demonstrate how content is directly delivered to the set top box user interface when using apps.
“Given our longstanding experience with service providers in the German-speaking regions of Europe, we know exactly what their needs are and are in a position to provide them with a comprehensive platform that can be easily set up and managed end-to-end”, Hans Kühberger, Managing Director of Ocilion, says. Ocilion’s turnkey solutions are created to set up a profitable business for different market players such as telcos, cable providers, ISPs and the hospitality business and can either be hosted on premise or supplied as a rental option hosted on the Ocilion network.
Recent customers include local providers such as Salzburg AG or LIWEST. For digital rights management, the Austrian company cooperates with partners including Verimatrix.

Story 11
Unleashing its +140 games portfolio
A
s London’s ExCeL closed its doors at the end of yet another record-breaking ICE, Merkur Gaming and the entire Gauselmann Group reflected with pride on a show that had seen the German gaming powerhouse set records all of its own.
On the largest and most impressive booth space ever for the Gauselmann Group, teams from around the world came together to present a wide range of gaming products and solutions. None more so, of course, than the real stars of Merkur Gaming: the games! With more than 140 games available for ICE attendees to see and try for themselves the booth was a magnet for visitors from the moment the doors at ExCeL opened to the show’s close, three days later. Standout game attractions were Arctic adventure, Snow Wolf Supreme and the wilds of Africa as portrayed by Savanna Stampede. In Snow Wolf Supreme the base game is presented on 40 lines but, when the bonus feature is triggered, that play phase transforms to be run on 80 lines. The great savanna plains of Africa provide the backdrop for Savanna Stampede, where the randomly triggered Bonus Reels bring Lions, Buffalos, Zebras, Wild Boars, Flamingos and Meerkats into action on the game’s up to 25 lines.
Great games demand great cabinets and, alongside Merkur Gaming’s world-famous Avantgarde and Avantgarde Trio, Evostar and Merkurstar ranges was the new and elegant Allegro Curve cabinet that proved to be such a success on its international debut at the recent G2E in Las Vegas. Allegro (the name is derived from an Italian music notation that means ‘to play briskly and brightly’) is a stunning development. The cabinet features are a 43” curved Ultra HD monitor plus the latest Gforce Ultra HD multigame technology platform, an attractive lighting concept, a player perfect ergonomically assured seating position and its optional video touch button panel. Allegro is sleek, it is curvy and it is gaming entertainment ‘made in Germany’ that gives an exciting new dimension to the Merkur Gaming product range.
Brand new at ICE was the launch of the Merkur Roulette. This is the product of the recently concluded Strategic Technology Alliance between Merkur Gaming and Spintec of Slovenia. Built in Merkur style and of the highest quality the Merkur Roulette is a premium product that marks the Gauselmann Group’s proud entry into the multiplayer electronic table games market. Given its own dedicated space on the ICE booth the Merkur Roulette 8-player unit attracted both visitor attention and praise in equal measure and was an undoubted star of the show in its own right.
Another brand new development was the announcement that the UK Gauselmann subsidiary Blueprint Games is to enter the UK casino market with a range of B1 category games that, immediately post-ICE, would go on location trial with some of the UK’s leading casino operators.
In addition to games and gaming machines from its international sales brand Merkur Gaming, adp Gauselmann GmbH once again used ICE as a platform for showcasing various products for the German market. At the Gauselmann stand visitors were able to experience the latest multigamers for national arcades and the gastronomy sector, an exciting new additional feature and a new add-on in M-BOX design – all in compliance with the Technical Directive (TD) 5.0 implemented since November 2018. The M-BOX, adp’s most successful German multigamer was be presented in three different versions: the M-BOX Buzzer in a TRIO cabinet, which was launched in 2018 as the first buzzer AWP machine in the German arcade market, as well as the M-BOX SEVEN and the M-BOX EXPLOSION, each with its own exciting additional feature.
Filling the huge Gauselmann Group booth at ICE were the subsidiary companies that extend the famous laughing sun brand to every sector of today’s gaming landscape. Having recently celebrated its 25th anniversary, GeWeTe is the company that is responsible for cash handling solutions. This German company has amassed a wealth of experience in the realms of cash handling systems. GeWeTe offers a vast range of machines for many applications and market sectors – from compact to high-end, PC-based machines that master both cashless and cash handling requirements. All hardware and software development is carried out in-house. Thus, GeWeTe not only provides complete solutions to the market but is able to adapt and create cash handling solutions to match individual customer requirements. The success of GeWeTe is best seen in the home market of Germany. Even though the German street market (AWP) is very competitive, GeWeTe commands over 70% of the market share and has sold over 60,000 systems worldwide. GeWeTe is rapidly expanding in more European countries and has invested heavily in setting up subsidiaries to support key markets, such as in Spain, United Kingdom, Ireland and Italy. The ‘all-in-one’ solutions have enabled GeWeTe to offer a range of machines and options for all gaming sectors – casino, AWP (street market), VLT/SBG, bingo, redemption and sports betting.
Betting operator Cashpoint was presenting its extensive product portfolio at ICE London for the 20th year. At the company’s completely redesigned exhibition stand, sports betting fans from all over the world had a unique opportunity to discover the latest sports betting highlights from the Gauselmann Group. Cashpoint took advantage of the enlarged Gauselmann booth and designed a rotunda that allowed visitors to see the different products and more easily explore the connected world of Cashpoint. They soon found that the Cashpoint product portfolio encompassed much more than sports betting alone. The system platform designed by Cashpoint now also offers casino, games and virtual products in addition to classic sports betting, that B2B customers can optionally select and manage centrally. All platform solutions are individually tailored to the needs and wishes of the B2B partners and are available for all bricks-and-mortar, online and mobile channels.
Online gaming specialists edict egaming presented a new set of HTML5 table games at this year’s ICE. In the past edict already had a strong passion for the details of classic casino games due to the company’s long history with land-based casinos in Germany. In 2019, aside from several roulette and blackjack versions, the company launched Sic Bo and Craps also. Edict also added significantly to their online games portfolio. With several decades of experience in developing games, edict egaming have been translating this land-based experience to the online world for ten years now. New releases coming soon this year, African Mask, Flame of Egypt, Salmon Catch and Eastern Lights, will for sure match players’ expectations as they combine unique mathematics and in-game features. Edict is especially looking forward to the launch of Zentaurus, as this game has been long-awaited in the online market. Additionally, edict is expanding into new markets, as well as carefully watching the regulatory scene in Europe. A new data centre will soon enhance the gaming experience for players in South and Latin America. Furthermore, edict is looking closely at the development in Germany and expects the federal states to make a huge step in the right direction by setting a regulatory framework to allow online gambling all over Germany and thus give players a safe environment.
Euro Payment Group (EPG) presented its product portfolio at ICE London. The payment service provider from the Gauselmann Group was present at ICE in two exhibition halls at the same time: not only on the expansion area of the Gauselmann Group but also with a stand in the area of payment providers. In almost all spheres, business done on the Internet has become part of everyday life. As a result, electronic payments are also becoming increasingly important. EPG acts as an interface between payment providers and online merchants. Based in the financial metropolis of Frankfurt am Main, the internationally active payment service provider is an experienced expert for online payment and gateway services. On behalf of its customers, it coordinates and authenticates all processes relating to the integration of payment methods and the processing of payment transactions in online business. The entire cash flow is handled by the subsidiary and the licensed financial institution EPG Financial Services Ltd., based in Malta. At ICE the EPG team presented a new payment method in the versatile product portfolio: the innovative cryptocurrency bitcoin. In response to the increasing demand for bitcoins as a payment option – especially in the areas of online sports betting and online gaming – EPG is now also offering online merchants tailor-made solutions for this type of payment. At the twin EPG stands, ICE visitors were able to gather information about standard payment methods via credit cards and online bank transfers, as well as the payment options PayPal, paysafecard, Skrill and Neteller, all of which are popular in the gaming industry.
At the conclusion of ICE Athanasios ‘Sakis’ Isaakidis, Chief Executive of Merkur Gaming International and Head of International Product Management, stated: “I can say for certain that this edition of ICE has been a tremendous success. Not just for Merkur Gaming but for all the participating subsidiary companies of the Gauselmann Group also. I want to thank everyone that attended as a team member for their hard work and dedication. Everyone played their part: from the build-up and breakdown crews that made the new and enlarged booth so special, to the catering and booth hostess staff that ensured the standards of hospitality for which the Gauselmann Group is famous were fully met and, of course, to our dedicated commercial and technical teams. They all contributed to the success that was created here in London. Merkur Gaming has much to achieve in 2019 and I can say without doubt that the new contacts that we have made here at ICE and the existing friendships that we value so highly will go a long way to ensuring that our targets for the rest of this year will be met.”

Story 12
Billionaire Lindsay Fox, right, and business partner Mark O'Connor distribute Steinway pianos throughout Australia. Supplied
Lindsay Fox's Linfox had revenues of $2.8 billion in FY19, according to this year's ranking of Australia's largest private companies published in Thursday's Financial Review. And it's not the only part of his empire that's booming.
Fox's Exclusive Piano Group made record sales this year, selling $10 million worth of Steinway & Sons pianos. According to ASIC, Fox owns 90 per cent of EPG, which since 2015 has had an exclusive licence to sell Steinway pianos in Australia.
His enthusiasm for top-of-the-line ivories has always struck observers as a little odd, because despite owning a dozen or so, he doesn't actually play.
But that hardly matters these days. Steinway's pianos have for a few years now been able to play themselves, like modern pianolas, mechanically recreating the fingerstrokes of skilled pianists on iPad command. All of Fox's pianos have been fitted with the system, which EPG CEO and minority owner Mark O'Connor says has unleashed a wave of Steinway-buying among Australia's wealthy.
"It used to be that you needed to both play the piano and be in a financial position to spend at least $150,000 on a Steinway," he said. "With the Spirio system, anyone in a financial position to buy something special can buy the piano, and get it played by the best pianists in the world at their home, off an iPad."
A top-of-the-line CD player can deliver a similar effect at a fraction of the price. But since when have status symbols been about function ...

Story 13
Takehiko Nakao, president of the Asian Development Bank. Photo by: Takehiko Nakao / CC BY-NC-ND
There has been much discussion recently about the value of multilateralism. I am a strong believer that the multilateral system, which includes multilateral development banks, plays many important roles to support the global community. The multilateral system does not conflict with the national agenda. At its root, it relies on the coordination and support of national governments and their taxpayers.
The Asian Development Bank’s long-term corporate strategy — Strategy 2030, published last year — set priorities to support our member countries and their people in line with major international commitments such as the Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Agreement on climate change.
These priorities include (i) addressing remaining poverty, including through better health, education, and social protection, (ii) accelerating gender equality, (iii) tackling climate change, building disaster resilience, and enhancing environmental sustainability, (iv) making cities more livable, and (v) promoting rural development and food security.
UN Green Climate Fund sees nearly $840M worth of IDB projects lapse Two of the Inter-American Development Bank’s seven planned projects have lapsed, and GCF will no longer support the projects in their current form. How did a major multilateral development bank wind up with its projects terminated?
We support these priorities by strengthening governance and institutional capacity in our member countries and fostering regional cooperation and integration. ADB seeks to be a knowledge center and aims to incorporate digital technologies, artificial intelligence, satellite systems, and other advanced technologies in its projects, programs, and technical assistance.
For MDBs to effectively pursue their missions, they must continue to reinvent and reform themselves. Since the “Making the Global Financial System Work for All” report by the G20 Eminent Persons Group on Global Financial Governance was published last October, there has been renewed interest in how to reform MDBs. I would like to share my thoughts on three important areas mentioned in the EPG report.
First is collaboration among MDBs. Contrary to the perception that MDBs are not working in a coordinated way, MDBs have been strengthening their partnerships. MDB leaders meet at least three times a year to discuss global issues and enhance their coordination. MDB departments spanning regional operations and sectors, private sector operations, strategy, legal issues, treasury, independent evaluation, human resources, and so forth have regular meetings. Moreover, MDBs have close donor coordination in member countries among offices there together with relevant government agencies.
MDBs also work closely with the International Monetary Fund, especially when considering budget support for our member countries. When ADB considers policy-based lending, I always ask whether IMF is supporting it. And ADB waits until an IMF program is agreed with the government before proceeding with policy-based lending if it involves the balance of payment issues.
Strong collaboration is key to achieving greater development impact. MDBs must continue to collaborate, including with EPG’s proposed launch of a country platform, to promote economic stability and sustainable growth in our member countries.
Second is a stronger focus on mobilizing private sector resources. MDB lending and equity investment to private sector companies generally have an outsized impact on mobilizing private resources as well as expertise. This is the reason ADB is increasing its private sector operations, especially in frontier economies, startups, and social sector projects such as in vocational education and health care, in addition to projects in renewable energy, urban transport, water, and sewerage.
We must be mindful, however, that our private sector operations do not distort the market by crowding out private money or giving an unfair advantage to specific companies.
ADB also promotes public-private partnerships by providing transaction advisory services, even without using its financial resources. We established a PPP office within ADB to support the governments’ capacity building and to help design and structure PPP transactions. We must expand the use of credit enhancement instruments including guarantees.
At the same time, it should be remembered that regardless of sovereign or nonsovereign lending, MDBs are vehicles for mobilizing private resources by issuing bonds in capital markets, thereby leveraging our shareholders’ contributions to our equity. We should be proud that since their establishment, MDBs have achieved a lot in the development of poor countries by de-risking development financing through their high credit ratings — AAA in the case of ADB — and by recycling financial resources.
The third element of MDB reform is that, as the EPG report proposes, MDB governance itself needs to be brought up to date, reflecting the complexity of MDB strategic challenges and the needed shift in business models.
As part of ADB’s governance reform, we are reviewing the functional relationship between our board and management. We aim to enhance our effectiveness by reorienting the board’s focus to strategic priorities and adopting a practical, risk-based approach that delegates greater responsibility to ADB management for project and program approvals.
As the scale and complexity of ADB’s operations increase, we need a new model to achieve the dual targets of securing the role of the board on the direction of ADB on the one hand, and enhancing efficiencies and speed in decision-making on the other.
Perspectives provided by the board collectively and by their constituencies individually are essential inputs to the good work of ADB. They represent various development priorities including quick and tailored responses to the needs of developing countries, the efficient use of taxpayer money of shareholding and donor countries, promotion of gender equality, and environmental and social considerations.
I have a strong view that at ADB, the resident board in Manila, the Philippines, contributes to close and collegial discussions between board and management, even when there are differences in view between them and among board members. We all share ADB’s mission of a prosperous, inclusive, resilient, and sustainable Asia-Pacific region.
In addition to these three broad areas of reform, ADB has been implementing various reform measures.
These include (i) optimizing the use of our balance sheet by combining ordinary capital resources and Asian Development Fund lending operations so that we can expand our operations without seeking a capital increase, (ii) establishing 15 sector and thematic groups supported by independent secretariats located in the Sustainable Development and Climate Change Department to enhance the creation and sharing of knowledge across departments, (iii) introducing guidance and procedures to ensure collaboration of sovereign and nonsovereign operations as “One ADB,” (iv) increasing the role of ADB offices on the ground in member countries, (v) modernizing business processes and IT systems, (vi) strengthening our human resources management by increasing mobility, improving talent management and career development, and promoting diversity including improving women’s representation in senior roles, (vii) better engagement with civil society organizations, and (viii) continued efforts to keep ADB efficient through the prudent management of our administrative budget.
National interests and multilateralism go hand in hand because, in the longer run, we need international cooperation and collective actions for the interests of people in all nation states. By reforming MDBs, we will continue to contribute to the improvement of people’s lives in the global community.

Story 14
RTE is facing a financial crisis again. I’m pretty sure I’ve typed that exact sentence quite a few times in the many years I’ve been doing this job.
RTE is facing a financial crisis again. I’m pretty sure I’ve typed that exact sentence quite a few times in the many years I’ve been doing this job.
It’s difficult not to repeat yourself, to be honest, because RTE always seems to be facing a financial crisis of one description or another.
The state broadcaster’s annual report, released on Tuesday, reveals it recorded a net loss last year of €13m.
RTE is putting some of the blame for this on the €7.2m it cost to cover the World Cup, the presidential election and the pope’s three-day visit to Ireland — although there’s no breakdown of the individual bill for each of them.
The rest of the blame is directed at the high cost of collecting the licence fee (which RTE Director-General Dee Forbes maintains is too cheap at €160 anyway) and the high rate of licence-fee evasion.
“We want to do more,” said Forbes, calling for licence-fee reform. “We are full of programme ideas, but every day we have to curtail our own ambitions and the creative ambitions of the broader independent production sector due to our constrained resources.”
Passionate words, those. We might be inclined to give them more credence, to have a smidgen more sympathy and understanding, if we hadn’t heard them so many times in the past from so many different director-generals.
This is the same old tune being played on the same battered, scratchy old violin. And it doesn’t get any more pleasing to the ear.
Nobody with a grain of common sense would deny that we need a state broadcaster. It’s essential to the functioning of an open democracy. No commercial terrestrial broadcaster would provide the kind of news, current affairs and political coverage RTE provides.
Major sporting events like Olympics and World Cups (men and women’s), which RTE covers brilliantly, by the way, would immediately be shoved behind a paywall.
Breaking RTE up and selling it off to the highest bidder — which is what some right-wing political and commercial interests in Britain would dearly love to see happening to its closest counterpart, the BBC — would be disastrous. If you want to see what the alternative looks like, scroll down through the EPG on your television and look at the worst of the junk TV being pumped out, 24/7.
Nobody is denying, either, that the lack of money is a major problem. Every state broadcaster in Europe has been impacted by competition from deep-pocketed satellite outfits, streaming services and the general fragmentation of the audience.
Every one of them has had to make savage cutbacks — although not all of them enjoy the luxury of the dual-funding model of TV licence takings and advertising revenue.
But pointing the finger at viewers and telling those of us who dutifully pay our €160 every year that it’s not enough, and that we have to cough up more if we want the television service we think we’re entitled to, is an insult, frankly.
It’s not just the money shortage that’s the problem; it’s also the shortage of imagination, and the unwillingness of RTE to examine its own culture and creative choices.
When Forbes talks about being “full of programme ideas”, what kind of programmes is she talking about? More formulaic cookery, lifestyle, DIY and property porn shows? More witless travelogues with Francis Brennan?
More half-baked, poorly-written comedies and dramas, which appear to get the green light without anyone exerting quality control over the scripts? More dud chat shows, all copying one another?
You need money to make TV, but you need good ideas even more. The truth is that when RTE was rolling in cash during the boom years, the quality of its programming didn’t appreciably improve. It squandered a lot of money, not least on servicing the obscenely high salaries of a handful of supposedly indispensable “stars”.
There’s currently no evidence to suggest things will get any better if it’s granted a licence fee hike.
Read more: John Boland's week in TV: Good times under Clerys clock and one fix too many of DIY dross
Love/Hate stars return for RTE murder series Dublin Murders
The Handmaid's Tale season 3: Series is floundering since overtaking Margaret Atwood's book
Herald

Story 15
The Energy Policy Group (EPG) is a Bucharest-based non-profit, independent think-tank on energy policy, market analytics and energy strategy, established in February 2014. EPG’s regional focus is Southeast Europe and the Black Sea Basin, yet it covers the trends and processes at the EU and global levels. EPG promotes a technologically advanced, environmentally friendly and socially acceptable energy system. Its views are self-standing and science-based. EPG’s publications are freely available at www.enpg.ro.
In this interview Radu Dudau – EPG’s Director, reveals EPG’s role in creating a better understanding of policies and processes in the energy sector and proper solutions for the Romanian energy industry and market to function.
The beginnings…
Dear Mr. Dudau, your academic career, focused on teaching and research, is grounded in an interest in international relations, foreign policy, and international energy policy. You have been personal adviser to the Energy Minister, in charge with developing a new National Energy Strategy. How did the idea of establishing the Energy Policy Group emerge?
Radu Dudau: Well, I co-founded EPG quite a few years before I became adviser to the Energy Minister. It was back in 2013, when the public uproar over the shale gas issue was still ongoing in Romania, that I felt the need to start a independent think-tank able to provide the public with quality information, based on evidence and validated science, on energy and environment issues. It was obvious that the Romanian citizens were, from then on, going to have their say in a domain that, in our country, had been traditionally kept outside the purview of public consultation.
At the same time though, a certain deficit of confidence in the official sources of information was palpable. Against a backdrop of anxiety and fear about the supposed consequences of shale gas operations, and suspicious of the intentions of their own government, many Romanians did turn, back then, to various other channels of information, many of which were unchecked, distorted or even manipulative. The press itself seemed to be ineffective in conveying lucidity and reasonableness – that is, when it did not itself fan the flames of hostility and suspicion – while the institutions of higher education, inasmuch as they got involved at all in the debate, were only limitedly able to make themselves heard and respected.
Along with my friend Laurentiu Pachiu, we felt the need to create a new, independent and credible voice that would try to elevate the level of public debate on such issues. This is how we started EPG in February 2014, as a non-governmental organization. Other issues have soon followed in the public discourse: The Black Sea gas finds and their development; the oil and gas fiscal framework in Romania; the Nabucco pipeline – and its demise; the optimal energy mix and the energy strategy itself, etc. In all of these, EPG has been a steady source of information, analysis, and policy recommendations.
What are the goals of the EPG platform?
Radu Dudau: Our goals have been largely delineated above: put succinctly, quality public information on all critical issues in the energy sector. At the same time, EPG purports to serve as trusted interface between the government, the business environment and the broader public. Indeed, in this latter respect, we have earned a good reputation for our specialized, solution-oriented events, in which we bring together the authorities and the relevant stakeholders.
What is EPG’s role in creating a better understanding of policies and processes in the energy sector?
Radu Dudau: By always trying to produce objective, well-reasoned and solidly documented analyses, EPG purports to provide the public with relevant information on relevant topics. We have come to produce substantive papers and reports in virtually all segments of the energy sector. Then, there are our public events (conferences, workshops and roundtables) and educational programs (courses, seminars, and summer schools). We are always learning and enhancing our analytic skills and understanding, while trying to impart that knowledge with others.
What are the main areas on which the EPG is focused? How about the most important research programs carried out by EPG?
Radu Dudau: We started with the O&G sector, but have since diversified to electricity, energy markets, energy efficiency, EU energy and climate policy, renewables, etc. Apart from this sectoral take, we have strong abilities to do strategic energy planning, thanks to our extensive understanding of the Romanian energy system and our quantitative analysis skills.
We have been for the past few years in several international grants focusing on the energy systems of South-eastern Europe, typically involving modelling and quantitative analysis. An overarching concern is to match EU’s ambitious energy and climate goals for the next decades with optimized energy mixes of the region’s countries, and to emphasizes the changes that are needed in support of clean, reliable and affordable energy.
Overview
As analyst specializing in energy, how do you estimate the energy market and the business environment in Romania compared to the interest area covered by EPG – Southeast Europe and the Black Sea Basin?
Radu Dudau: The Romanian energy sector has come a long way since 1989 in terms of its restructuring, modernisation and competitiveness. However, especially over the past few years, significant investments in the sector have been a rarity. This has mainly to do with a regulatory instability that seems to have been running amok. There is barely any segment or sector in which investors would not feel disincentivised by erratic pieces of legislation – including government ordinances – not to mention their often-dubious quality. To a certain extent, this is understandable, given the major policy challenges ahead (such as the corpus of EU climate legislation). Nonetheless, the institutional capacity of the Romanian state in the energy sector seems to exceeded by the tasks ahead of it, and is barely able to keep up with a vibrant private sector.
More generally, there are two underlying traits consistently displayed in public rhetoric at all levels: a mistrust in the workings of the competitive energy markets (although, in theory, as an EU member state, Romania is committed to building and sustaining them, along with the needed checks) and a deeply entrenched inclination towards self-isolation and autarchy, in a syndrome of fortress besieged, in which the ‘goods’ are to be zealously guarded from greedy plunderers.
Leaving aside the figurative language, I am not for a moment suggesting that the state should not vigorously guard its interests. My point is that, after three decades of rediscovered market economy and 12 years of EU membership, it is time for the state to really build capacity, bring forward professionals and draw on genuine know-how. I realize this is easier said than done, but there is no other way to really take advantage of our own potential and what the EU has to offer.
You have recently stated that the gas sector was dysfunctional. Please explain extensively what you refer to and what recovery solutions you envisage for the Romanian energy industry and market to function.
Radu Dudau: In a way, the gas sector is the best illustration of what poor and tempestuous law making can cause in the energy market. After several year of increasingly burdensome fiscality, centralized market trading obligation, royalties calculated by reference to the Austrian gas market, an incomplete market liberalization that brought a major burden of cost upon the gas suppliers, here comes GEO 114/2018 on top of it all – a monument of ineptitude and irresponsibility. The gas market liberalization was to be utterly suspended for the coming three years, the upstream sector, already disincentivised by the said factors, was hit with a regulated price for the domestically produced gas, the regulated rate of return (RRR) for the distribution companies was dramatically reduced, to the point where no significant new investment was possible any more, and a 2% turnover ‘money contribution’ was introduced for every energy company licenced by the national energy regulator, ANRE. In all the panic and disarray thus caused, numerous investment projects were cancelled or mothballed, a lot of value was destroyed, and the reputation of the Romanian business environment was ruined. Add to that the fact that no new block O&G has been put on tender for the last 10 years by the Romanian authorities, that the state-owned energy companies are systematically deprived of capital by the insatiable appetite for money of their owner, thus constantly upending their investment plans, etc.
Now, this is what I call a dysfunctional sector – though not to everybody, in all fairness: the traders of imported gas, which has grown in higher demand, have been blossoming for the past half year or so.
In the Black Sea Basin in particular the developments are quite slow. How do you assess that operations will be carried out in this area?
Radu Dudau: It is hard to understand why such a hugely important project for the Romanian economy, energy security, and political relevance is still stalling, seven years after the discovery of the Black Sea’s main gas find. Although, again, the above explanations about the regulatory instability go a long way.
After last year’s frantic elaboration of the Offshore Law, the state should now be able to offer the investors the terms for a long-term, win-win deal. And the investors need to know that they will be shielded from aberrations such as GEO 114. Any delay translates into high opportunity costs.
What is your opinion on the heavily debated Ordinance 114 and its impact on the energy sector? It seems that investors are expecting its annulment…
Radu Dudau: Well, I suppose I have not minced my words on GEO 114/2018 so far. Such distortions occur when people disconnected from the true concerns of the energy domain get to act on their own, in narrow circle, driven by self-sufficiency, resentment, and probably group interests, with no accountability. And it is not just about energy, but also about banking, constructions, telekom and others. An all-out assault on the entire economy.
Unfortunately, the chaos thus caused will be hard to get past. The very untenable effects of GEO 114 made it from the outset very difficult to comply with. Some of its most untenable provisions have been already rescinded by means of GEO 19/2019, while other have been sweetened by ANRE. However, quite a few others are still in place. And, in any event, the reputational costs are high and long-term.
Strengths/Weaknesses
What are, in your opinion, the most important assets of Romania as regards its positioning on the regional energy market?
Radu Dudau: Romania is a country with significant energy resources, a well-developed, though rusty, infrastructure, and a well-qualified work force, inheriting a tradition in the energy industry. Its energy mix is diversified and its dependence on energy imports (especially of natural gas) is reasonably low. Moreover, the country has a large potential for renewable energy sources and, again, significant reserves of natural gas, especially in the deep waters of the Black Sea.
How about the chapters in which Romania has weaknesses?
Radu Dudau: The Romanian energy sector needs massive investment of capital and know how. However, the country has a unstable and suboptimal regulatory environment, an insufficiently developed and modernized energy infrastructure, and a sizeable risk of supply security in case the transit of Russian gas through Ukraine is interrupted.
The coal sector, still a sizeable contributor to the country’s electricity mix, is on the brink of collapse, while the government has no real mid-term solution and no long-term coal exit strategy. The country needs urgently new electricity production capacities, modern and competitive, yet it is uncertain that the so-called ‘projects of national interest’ listed in the recent energy strategy will ever come to fruition. Meanwhile, lacking the right regulatory environment, investors find little incentive to finance new projects.
After decades of underinvestment, the district heating systems are inefficient in most of the cities, with Bucharest being the most blatant case. Energy poverty is a widespread social problem, and the vulnerable consumer is, in fact, no more than an ill-defined concept. I will stop here with the list of negatives, lest I skew the picture.
Given the global technological trends, energy markets dynamics, climate effects, energy geopolitics, legislative issues, when and how do you see Romania’s transition to a circular economy – Europe’s strategy for a clean environment and sustainable development?
Radu Dudau: Climate change is not a genuine concern in the Romanian decision-making circles, and circular economy, as a concept, is still in the eye of the beholder. Investment in renewables has come to a halt in the past three years or so; energy efficiency is more talk than action, in spite of some success stories, and the other trappings of the clean energy transition –digitalization, distribution, prosuming, e-mobility – are either incipient and still marginal, or pushed back in time for many years by the regulatory framework – consider, for instance, the lack of ambition regarding the smart meters in Romania.
On a positive note, though, the state has started subsidizing some salient programs, such as the installation of rooftop PV panels by households, through the Agency of the Environmental Fund, while recent regulation by ANRE has paved the way for prosumers.
In effect, I think that, absent other large-scale, costly energy investments, the renewable energy sources will grow on a small and medium scale, close to the customer. Natural gas will complement them, offering back up and flexibility, while the regulatory framework will have to adapt to a more decentralized and volatile electricity system.

Story 16
The sixth report of the Eminent Persons’ Group on Transformation in Sport (EPG) was released on Tuesday morning.
CAPE TOWN - SA Rugby was one of only eight of 19 South African sporting federations that achieved their transformation targets in 2017/18.
The sixth report of the Eminent Persons’ Group on Transformation in Sport (EPG) was released on Tuesday morning.
SA Rugby achieved 60% of the targets it set itself and then agreed with the Department of Sport and Recreation South Africa (SRSA) and the South African Sports Confederation and Olympic Committee (Sascoc).
The EPG sets a minimum target of 50% achievement as the measure of successful compliance.
The other federations achieving the target were: table tennis, football, gymnastics, tennis, cricket, netball and basketball.
Jurie Roux, CEO of SA Rugby touched on the body's efforts in transformation.
“Rugby is continuing to succeed in the transformation process and we’re pleased with the outcomes of the EPG report. We maintained a 60% achievement from the previous year against the background of rising targets.”
“We are now in the final year of our original strategic transformation plan (STP), and we have made considerable strides in the past four years. We expect that progress to continue in 2019.”
SA Rugby was praised in the report back for dedicating resources to the monitoring and evaluation of transformation data, which was noted as being of a “very high standard”.
South Africa’s national rugby teams have most recently been captained by Shakes Soyizwapi (Springbok Sevens), Phendulani Buthelezi (U20s co-captain), Zintle Mpupha (Springbok Women’s Sevens), Siya Kolisi (Springboks) and Sindi Booi (Springbok Women).

Story 17
The Group of Twenty (G20) is a leading forum of the world's major economies that seeks to develop global policies. The G20 is made up of 19 countries and the European Union. The 19 countries are Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Germany, France, India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Russia, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, South Korea, Turkey, the United Kingdom and the United States.
The G20 did not issue a communiqué at the World Bank and IMF 2018 Annual Meetings in Bali, but Nicolás Dujovne, Argentine Minister of the Treasury, did give a press briefing on 12 October, outlining key points of the discussions that ministers had undertaken during their two-day meeting, the Fourth of Argentina’s G20 presidency.
According to the G20’s press release, “During the meeting, which was held on the margins of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank annual meetings, over 50 heads of delegation held sessions on international financial architecture; the Compact with Africa initiative, launched under the 2017 G20 to promote private investment in the African continent; and the agenda on financial inclusion.”
The recent debt crises in Argentina and Turkey were euphemistically alluded to by Dujovne in his opening statement of the press briefing: “As monetary policy continues to normalize in advanced economies, financial conditions tighten in emerging ones, and several emerging economies have experienced market volatility.” As Argentina received the largest IMF bailout in the institution’s history in July this was indeed an understatement (see Observer Summer 2018). Additionally, interest rates rises by the United States have raised the prospect of wider debt crisis contagion in countries already expressing debt distress, according to the IMF (see Dispatch Annual Meetings 2018).
Bringing shadow banking into development doesn’t just promote the privatization of public services, but may usher in permanent austerity along the lines of ‘privatizing gains, socializing losses’ Open letter from concerned academics
On mounting trade tensions between G20 members, namely the US and China, Dujovne commented, “We agreed that international trade is an important engine of growth, and we need to resolve tensions which can negatively affect market sentiment and increase financial volatility.” In response to a question from a journalist about the G20’s reaction to US protectionism, Dujovne said, “The G20 can play a role in providing the ground for the discussion, but of course the differences that still persist should be resolved by the [G20] members that are directly involved in the tensions.”
With the prospect of market volatility and trade tensions undermining the global economy’s fragile post-crisis recovery, the G20 remained determined to elevate investments in large-scale infrastructure as a key driver of growth. Dojovne said, “given [infrastructure’s] importance for economic prosperity, sustainable development and inclusive growth, … we have focused on how to catalyze private sector investment in infrastructure by putting in place the necessary conditions to develop infrastructure as an asset class.”
An open letter signed by more than 90 academics, and released on the eve of the G20 meetings, raised concerns about the G20’s move to promote infrastructure as an asset class, which is seen as operationalising the World Bank’s Maximising Finance for Development (MFD) approach (see Observer Summer 2017). The letter noted: “the new strategy for achieving the Sustainable Development Goals is to use shadow banking to create ‘investable’ opportunities in infrastructure, water, health or education and thus attract the trillions in global institutional investment. … Bringing shadow banking into development doesn’t just promote the privatization of public services, but may usher in permanent austerity along the lines of ‘privatizing gains, socializing losses’. More fundamentally, it seeks to re-engineer poor countries’ financial systems around capital markets that can attract global investors.” Completing the G20’s push to standardise infrastructure as an asset class will now be the job of Japan’s G20 presidency in 2019.
Standardising infrastructure as an asset class was just one of the recommendations of a report released by the G20 Eminent Persons Group (EPG) in tandem with the ministerial meetings. The report also called for steps to be taken to increase standardisation across IFIs, in order to enhance the coordination between themselves, private investors and large NGOs and philanthropies more generally. The report claimed, “Governance reforms within the IFIs themselves should cut back on today’s significant overlap between Board and Management responsibilities. They should enable Boards to focus more on strategic priorities” – raising concerns that this may lead to less board oversight of individual project approval.
On this and other issues, the G20 appears to have the right diagnosis of macroeconomic ills, but the wrong prescription for how to ensure its reforms are aligned with people-focused, sustainable development.

Story 18
While the business has scale, Questas is expected to use Allegro's capital injection to pursue growth, including further acquisitions. It believes the industry is fragmented and there is room for a deep-pocketed player to lead consolidation.
For Sydney-based Allegro, the investment is its third in the firm's current fund, Fund III, which is worth about $400 million. The firm has $1 billion in assets under management and its other investments include Pizza Hut Australia and education provider Endeavour Learning Group.
“We were attracted by the opportunity to team up with Kede and his industry leading team to help drive industry consolidation via acquisitions," Allegro managing director Chester Moynihan told Street Talk on Tuesday night.
"Questas already has a successful acquisition track record but together we can significantly accelerate the company’s growth strategy.”
Carboni said Allegro's investment came two years after the retirement of his long term business partner and as he was considering where to try and take the company.
"Allegro’s investment style aligned with what I was looking for from an equity partner to help grow the business,” he said.
“We’ve established a strong position in our sectors and now with additional capital and Allegro’s well developed integration processes we can take the business to the next level.
"Allegro’s proven and repeatable approach appealed to me and will no doubt appeal to other industry participants either looking to sell to or partner with the Questas Group.”
PwC and Ashurst advised Allegro, while Miles Advisory and Holding Redlich worked for Questas.

Story 19
This is an automated server image backup for Dedicated Servers, providing backup images of customers’ data in Beeks’ offsite location, via a secure dedicated backup network.
Cloud computing and connectivity provider for financial markets Beeks Financial Cloud Group PLC (LON:BKS) has earlier today announced the launch of a Bare Metal Automated Backup Service. It will be initially available within Beeks’s London locations and subsequently in its other locations.
This is an automated server image backup for Dedicated Servers and storage within Dedicated Servers, providing backup images of customers’ data in Beeks’ offsite location, via a secure dedicated backup network.
Beeks has launched the service to respond to the growing compliance and regulatory pressures for backup and storage being experience by its customers. The service will be provided under a ‘pay-as-you-store’ model, providing another recurring revenue stream for the Group. The service is being rolled out following a successful proof of concept testing with a small customer set, who are now live on the service.
Gordon McArthur, CEO of Beeks Financial Cloud, commented, “The aim of this Backup service is to further increase the security options available to our clients in order to best protect their data, which is of the utmost importance to us. With the ever-increasing threat of hacking and malware attacks, security and backup procedures are imperative, particularly in a sensitive industry such as automated trading. I am extremely pleased to announce this server imaging addition to our offering and look forward to its implementation in London and other locations later in the year.”
Earlier in September, Beeks posted its financial results for the year to end-June 2019, with revenues and gross profits staging a rise from the preceding year. Group revenues increased by 31.7% from the prior year to £7.35 million, on the back of continued organic growth. The CNS acquisition contributed £0.1 million revenue in the final two months of the year.

Story 20
PARIS, Sept. 13, 2019 /PRNewswire/ -- DOTSCREEN, the multi-screen video applications & UI specialist, today announced its selection by Freesat as the developer of the operator's User Interface for its next HbbTV compliant set-top box.
Headquartered in Paris, DOTSCREEN is one of the most experienced developer of HbbTV applications. The company has already been working for Freenet TV in Germany and Fransat in France, two other main European satellite operators using the HbbTV technology. Other HbbTV customers of DOTSCREEN include TF1 and France Télévisions in France, SVT in Sweden, ERT in Greece as well as France 24 in Europe.
Chandan Rajah, Director of Technology at Freesat said, "Our collaboration with DOTSCREEN has turned into a burgeoning partnership and they have been instrumental in the success of our Generation 3 product offering. We are thankful to them for pulling out all the stops and displaying an uncompromising sense of professionalism and dedication to deliver on time, under immense pressure. As Freesat grows and scales, we see DOTSCREEN as a key partner to our success."
About DOTSCREEN:
DOTSCREEN designs and develops multi-screen applications & UI (available on smart TV, TV set-top boxes, game consoles, smartphones, tablets, smartwatches, connected refrigerators, etc.) for major media, telecommunication and electronics companies (Disney, HBO, ESPN, Fox, Turner, CBS, Orange, Vodafone, Telefonica, Freenet, TF1, Beinsports, Mediaset...). The company also licenses its own, off-the-shelf UI & applications (TV Everywhere, VOD/SVOD, EPG, weather, radio, etc.).
About FREESAT:
Freesat is the UK's subscription-free satellite television platform, offering brilliant free recordable TV, together with the latest streaming services, including catch-up and pay-as-you-go. First and foremost, we're about giving our viewers content, choice and amazing value. But we're also innovative, ambitious and agile, whether that's adding new services on our platform, finding new ways to help the channels that work with us, or exporting our technology to broadcasters in new territories. We invest our profits back into the business, helping to maintain a great user experience for all our customers.
Established in 2007 by the BBC and ITV, Freesat reaches 2 million homes each week and is available via TV and set-top box. Our customers have access to a wide range of channels providing entertainment, news, and children's programming and on-demand and catch-up favourites such as BBC iPlayer, ITV Hub, YouTube and Netflix.
www.freesat.co.uk
SOURCE DOTSCREEN
Related Links
https://dotscreen.com


Story 21
Banks should have a clear and robust risk management framework that is appropriate for the risks of their crypto-asset exposures.
The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision has earlier today set out its expectations regarding banks that have exposure to crypto-assets.
The Committee warns that crypto-assets present a number of risks for banks, including liquidity risk; credit risk; market risk; operational risk (including fraud and cyber risks); money laundering and terrorist financing risk; and legal and reputation risks. Accordingly, the Committee expects that if a bank is authorised and decides to acquire crypto-asset exposures or provide related services, it has to implement a raft of measures.
First, before acquiring exposures to crypto-assets or providing related services, a bank should conduct comprehensive analyses of the associated risks Banks also have to make sure they have the relevant and requisite technical expertise to adequately assess the risks stemming from crypto-assets.
Moreover, banks need to have a clear and robust risk management framework that is appropriate for the risks of its crypto-asset exposures and related services. A risk management framework for crypto-assets should be fully integrated into the overall risk management processes, including those related to anti-money laundering and combating the financing of terrorism and the evasion of sanctions, and heightened fraud monitoring. Board and senior management should be provided with timely and relevant information related to the bank’s crypto-asset risk profile.
In addition, a bank is expected to publicly disclose any material crypto-asset exposures or related services as part of its regular financial disclosures and specify the accounting treatment for such exposures, consistent with domestic laws and regulations.
Finally, banks are expected to inform relevant supervisory authorities of actual and planned crypto-asset exposure or activity in a timely manner and provide assurance that they have fully assessed the permissibility of the activity and the risks associated with the intended exposures and services, and how they have mitigated these risks.
The Committee continues to monitor developments in crypto-assets, including banks’ direct and indirect exposures to such assets. The Committee plans to clarify the prudential treatment of such exposures to appropriately reflect the high degree of risk of crypto-assets. It is coordinating its work with other global standard setting bodies and the Financial Stability Board.
Although crypto-assets continue to spark regulatory concerns, recent research commissioned by the UK Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has shown that whereas some harm to individual cryptoasset users is possible, but did not suggest a large impact on wider society. The FCA estimates only 3% of consumers surveyed had ever bought cryptoassets. Of the small sub-sample of consumers who had bought cryptoassets, around half spent under £200.

Story 22
Shepherd Compello, a specialist insurance brokerage, has announced the opening of Shepherd Compello B.V., in Assen, the Netherlands, to support the company’s growth ambitions across Europe.
Shepherd Compello B.V. is the broker’s new international company, which received a licence to trade as an Insurance Agency from the Netherlands AFM on January 31st 2019, with the assistance of business partners in the country.
Subsequently, the new entity received passport permissions to be able to service clients throughout Continental Europe from March 15th, 2019.
The opening of a new international company in the Netherlands, allows the existing European clients of Shepherd Compello Limited and EPG Administration Services, to be handled by a fully authorised Insurance Agency, no matter what the outcome of the UK’s ongoing Brexit situation.
The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Shepherd Compello, John Shepherd, said: “Opening the Assen office is an important milestone in our growth strategy. This enhances our global footprint and enables Shepherd Compello to focus on the identification and development of European opportunities regardless of what happens with Brexit.”

Story 23
HICKORY, N.C.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Subscribers have access to SKY PerfecTV! Premium service with SKY PerfecTV! Hybrid
New customer win extends CommScope’s growth in the Japanese market
One of Japan’s leading pay television operators has chosen CommScope to provide set-tops for its SKY PerfecTV! Premium Service. SKY Perfect JSAT Corporation is introducing CommScope’s PT-SH700A high-definition (HD) set-top which features HD Pay TV channels and on-demand services for SKY PerfecTV! Premium Service subscribers.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20190911005107/en/
The PT-SH700A will provide subscribers access to more than 160 HD channels over a satellite or broadband fiber network. It will also feature Wi-Fi®, video-on-demand, recommendations and web-based interactive electronic program guide (EPG). Specifically, the set-top enables live TV program recording with an external up to 8TB HDD (Hard Disk Drive) connected via USB, and subscribers will be able to save live TV programs to LAN recording devices.
Pay TV subscriptions are on the rise in Japan, with expected subscription rates predicted to reach 38% by 20201. This continued growth emphasizes operators’ need to update the Pay TV experience with secure technology solutions and minimize time to market. CommScope’s unique combination of a broad Pay TV portfolio and localized expertise in integrating new technologies within the Japanese market allows its customers to deliver the latest services, reliably and in-step with increasingly shorter technology cycles.
“Our collaboration with SKY Perfect JSAT Corporation emphasises our strong focus on global video growth markets. It also highlights our strength in leveraging key integration capabilities both centrally and locally in Japan,” said Anthony Zuyderhoff, senior vice president, International Customer Premises Equipment, CommScope. “We thank SKY Perfect JSAT Corporation, our partners, and our team for their high degree of focus in delivering this innovative solution for the benefit of Japanese consumers.”
The PT-SH700A will be on the CommScope stand at IBC 2019 in Amsterdam (13-17 September in Hall 1—B19).
About SKY PerfectJSAT:
Since its foundation in 1985 following the deregulation of the telecommunications sector, we have created new businesses and services as a pioneer in satellite communications and digital multichannel broadcasting.
Subsequently, through the merger of SKY Perfect Communications Inc. and JSAT Corporation in 2007 followed by the acquisition of Space Communications Corporation in 2008, SKY Perfect JSAT Group has become one of the largest providers of multichannel pay TV broadcast services in Japan, operating the largest satellite communications business in Asia.
About CommScope:
CommScope (COMM) and the recently acquired ARRIS and Ruckus Networks are redefining tomorrow by shaping the future of wired and wireless communications. Our combined global team of employees, innovators and technologists have empowered customers in all regions of the world to anticipate what’s next and push the boundaries of what’s possible.
Discover more at www.commscope.com.
This press release includes forward-looking statements that are based on information currently available to management, management’s beliefs, as well as on a number of assumptions concerning future events. Forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of performance and are subject to a number of uncertainties and other factors, which could cause the actual results to differ materially from those currently expected. In providing forward-looking statements, the company does not intend, and is not undertaking any obligation or duty, to update these statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Follow us on Twitter and LinkedIn and like us on Facebook.
Sign up for our press releases and blog posts.
Source: CommScope
© 2019 CommScope, Inc. All rights reserved. CommScope is a trademark of CommScope, Inc. and/or its affiliates. Wi-Fi is a trademark of the Wi-Fi Alliance. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
1 ABI Research, Pay TV Subscribers, July 2019
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20190911005107/en/

Story 24
Close Get email notifications on {{subject}} daily!
Your notification has been saved.
There was a problem saving your notification.
{{description}}
Email notifications are only sent once a day, and only if there are new matching items.

Story 25
Sky has announced plans for two new channel brands, Sky Crime and Sky Comedy, as part of its entertainment portfolio.
Sky Crime will launch in October 2019 and Sky Comedy in February 2020. Both channels will be available to all Sky customers at no extra charge, through linear and on demand, and as part of the NOW TV Entertainment pass.
Sky Crime will be based around US true crime from Oxygen – the channel owned by Sky’s parent NBC Universal – and HBO. Key programming will centre around accounts of true crimes, many of which remain unsolved. There will also be headline cases from the United States and UK such as Kemper on Kemper and Britain’s Most Evil Killers.
Sky Comedy, launching in February 2020, will be the home of premium scripted US comedy from HBO, NBC and Showtime, including brand new acclaimed comedies like Mrs Fletcher, starring Kathryn Hahn, Righteous Gemstones, starring John Goodman, Adam DeVine and Danny McBride, A.P. Bio and Sunnyside.
It will also feature The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon and Last Week Tonight with John Oliver.
Zai Bennett, Managing Director of Content at Sky, said: “Sky Crime and Sky Comedy are fantastic additions to our entertainment portfolio, providing our customers with two new destinations for their favourite shows. By investing in the best of the US as well as doubling our investment in original drama and comedy, we are making Sky an unbeatable destination for the best range of premium TV.”
The entertainment portfolio on Sky in UK and Ireland also includes Sky One, Sky Atlantic, Sky Witness (rebranded from Sky Living in August 2018), Sky Arts, Sky, alongside the Sky Cinema and Sky Kids services. Sky’s other channel brands include E!, SYFY, Pick and Challenge.

Story 26
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 27
Media headlines about HOMB stock have trended extremely negative this week, InfoTrie reports. The research group identifies negative and positive media coverage by reviewing more than six thousand news and blog sources. The firm ranks coverage of companies on a scale of -5 to 5, with scores nearest to five being the most favorable. Home Bancshares earned a daily sentiment score of -4.0 on InfoTrie's scale. They also gave news headlines about the financial services provider a news buzz of 0.0 out of 10, meaning that recent media coverage is extremely unlikely to have an impact on the company's share price in the next few days. View News Stories for Home Bancshares.

Story 28
From, November 30 to December 1, world leaders will meet in Buenos Aires to wrap up the G-20’s work in 2018. One of the Summit’s priorities includes how to unleash people’s potential in the context of a rapidly changing future of work. Investing in human capital is among its core proposals: “Making the new wave of technological breakthroughs as inclusive as possible will require considerable investment in training and skills for life and work.” Education is at the crux.
Last month, the central role of human capital as a determinant of economic and social progress received three significant boosts. First, Paul Romer shared the Nobel Prize in Economics for his contributions to the theories of economic growth. In his endogenous growth model, investing in human capital and knowledge creation are key drivers of the technological innovations that determine growth. Second, the World Bank released a Human Capital Index, an advocacy and evaluation tool for assessing how far countries are from achieving their productive potential relative to a benchmark of complete education and full health, as well as encourage governments and partners to take actions to close the massive human capital gap that exists. Third, the salient importance of human capital was prominently acknowledged in Proposal 1 of Making the global financial system work for all, the new report by the G-20 Eminent Persons Group on Global Financial Governance. More precisely, the report calls for refocusing on human capital as a foundation for a stronger investment climate, building more inclusive societies, and reaching the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Investing in broad-based human capital distinctly creates a three-way win-win. Human capital is key for economic growth. Human capital investments are also key for building equitable societies. And human capital is not only “capital”—that is, an input for production—but higher levels of human capital immediately translate into superior quality of life. Better health and nutrition, achieving literacy and numeracy, and access to modern sanitation services not only make people more productive but vastly improve their living conditions and well-being. Human capital improvements translate into longer, healthier, and more fruitful lives.
Is the global financial system ready to support human capital investments of the type and in the scale that the world needs? For now, it is not. The required type and scale of human capital investments will only happen if financial resources, data, knowledge, coordination, leveraging, surveillance capacity, and governance in the IFIs are revamped and realigned. The EPG report recommends actions and reforms conducive for the needed revamping and realignment of the IMF and the multilateral development banks (see a summary on Future Development here).
The international financial institutions (IFIs) are indeed in a unique position to help governments achieve the human capital/human development goals embedded in the SDGs. IFIs could provide adequate support with:
Better inter-institutional coordination: Proposals 2 and 3 focus on building country and regional collaboration platforms to facilitate joint and mutually re-enforcing efforts, while Proposal 7 proposes integrating trust fund activities into core operations to avoid fragmentation.
Better data and cutting-edge knowledge: Proposal 8 focuses on the importance of IFI’s continuing to invest in data and policy-relevant research.
Innovation and capillarity at the grassroots level: Proposal 9 focuses on the importance of leveraging more on the ideas and operating networks of business alliances, NGOs, and philanthropies.
The IFIs are also uniquely positioned in helping governments estimate how much reaching the human development goals would cost and find the mechanisms to finance these investments. In particular, the IFIs can help governments ensure tax collection is efficient and progressive and target resources where they are most needed, reduce waste and corruption in public spending, and adopt best practices in the deployment of education, health, and sanitation services.
The IFIs can also provide realistic assessments of how much of the financing of investments in human capital can actually rely on improvements in domestic resource mobilization. The IMF estimates that, on average, low-income developing countries will need additional annual outlays of 14 percentage points of GDP on average in the areas of education, health, water and sanitation, roads, and electricity to achieve the SDGs. Across 49 low-income developing countries, about $520 billion a year in additional spending is needed.
However, where will the additional needed resources come from? Boosting domestic tax revenue is an obvious option, especially for emerging economies but it will not be sufficient to meet the financing needs of most low-income developing countries. In fact, too much emphasis on domestic resource mobilization—especially in the poorer countries—could badly backfire: if, for instance, consumption taxes are raised, the poor may be left worse off. Moreover, borrowing may not be an option for many of these low-income countries because they are at risk of or are already experiencing debt distress. Foreign assistance will have to continue playing its part, but this too will not suffice. Recognizing these limitations, the EPG report makes a central recommendation: Proposal 4 to shift the basic business model of Multilateral Development Banks from direct lending towards risk mitigation (including political risk insurance schemes) to mobilize significantly greater private equity investment.
As important as finding ways to invest more and more efficiently in human capital is, it is also crucial to prevent human capital from falling. We often forget that one of the greatest costs of financial crises, natural disasters, and pandemics is the destruction of human capital, which often can never be rebuilt. Malnutrition at an early stage in life cannot be reversed by consuming more food at an older age. Adult literacy programs cannot replace not attending school or not completing primary school.
Hence Proposal 6, which focuses on the importance of strengthening the joint capacity of the IFIs to tackle challenges of the global commons. Challenges include preventing and coping with environmental threats related to climate change, degradation of ecosystems, water scarcity, systemic health risks from pandemics, and the rapid spread of antimicrobial resistance. Crucially, the EPG report devotes an entire section (Section II) to recommendations that should prevent financial crises from happening in the first place and help countries manage crises at the minimum cost to their economies and people. In particular, it calls for: strengthening the risk surveillance and policy follow-up capacity of IMF and other central actors (Proposals 12 and 13), ensuring an adequately-resourced and reliable global financial safety net at the earliest (Proposal 14), establishing a standing IMF liquidity facility to give countries timely access to temporary support (Proposal 15), and enabling the IMF to quickly mobilize additional resources in the face of severe global crises (Proposal 16).

Story 29
News headlines about NRIM stock have been trending extremely negative recently, according to InfoTrie Sentiment. InfoTrie ranks the sentiment of news coverage by analyzing more than six thousand news and blog sources in real time. The firm ranks coverage of publicly-traded companies on a scale of negative five to positive five, with scores nearest to five being the most favorable. Northrim BanCorp earned a daily sentiment score of -4.0 on InfoTrie's scale. They also assigned news stories about the financial services provider a news buzz of 0.0 out of 10, meaning that recent news coverage is extremely unlikely to have an impact on the company's share price in the next several days. View News Stories for Northrim BanCorp.

Story 30
The black list of cryptocurrency trading platforms that exhibit signs of fraud now includes 113 names.
Belgium’s Financial Services and Markets Authority (FSMA) has earlier today announced the latest additions to its list of suspicious cryptocurrency-related websites that show signs of fraudulent activities. Today’s announcement underlines the growing concerns stemming from the rise of cryptocurrency scams.
The FSMA black list of cryptocurrency trading platforms now includes a total of 113 websites. The latest additions may be viewed below.
The Belgian regulator would like to note that this list of cryptocurrency trading platforms is based solely on the findings of the FSMA, in particular as a result of consumers’ reports. As such, the list does not include all the companies which might be operating unlawfully in Belgium in that sector.
FSMA started publishing its “black list” of cryptocurrency platforms in February 2018. Back then, the regulator explained that all such entities use the same approaches: they claim to offer the best (or one of the best) trading platform(s), enabling both beginners and professionals to trade in cryptocurrencies in a matter of seconds and with full confidence. Also, some of these platforms offer other financial products with cryptocurrencies as their underlying: savings accounts with supposedly guaranteed returns, servicing rights or derivative products such as CFDs.
Less than a month after Belgium, France also started compiling such a “black list”. The variety of such scams has been significant. In June this year, for instance, France’s AMF published a warning about an individual presenting himself as Stéphane Delaplace who claims to be working at the AMF and to be investigating a trading platform operating via www.union-crypto.com/. The regulator noted that it has no employee called Stéphane Delaplace. Furthermore, the trading platform in question is not authorized to provide services to French residents. The AMF sent the information associated with this case to the public prosecutor’s office.

Story 31
WINFIELD, Kan., March 19, 2019 /PRNewswire/ -- Speyside Equity Fund I LP ("Speyside") announced today it has completed the sale of the Western Industries Plastic Products LLC ("Western") to LJC Investments IV, LLC, an investment vehicle controlled by Littlejohn Capital, LLC ("Littlejohn Capital"). Speyside has retained ownership of the EPG business unit, which has been integrated with Block Midland Group ("BMG"). Western is a niche technical manufacturer of large blow molded products.
Eric Wiklendt, a Director at Speyside, said, "We congratulate and thank the Western management team for their impressive execution of the strategy that we created during due diligence. We are very proud to have partnered with management at Western. Their creative solutions to extract as much value as possible during the completion of this deal was unparalleled."
Norris McLaughlin, P.A. served as legal counsel and Stout Risius Ross Advisors, LLC served as exclusive financial advisor to Speyside with respect to this transaction.
About Western
With over 30 years of rich history, Western has grown to become an industry leading designer and manufacturer of premium blow molded finished products and components for a variety of end markets and offers one of North America's largest selection of large head capacity machinery. The company's end markets include the industrial, furniture, sports and leisure, transportation, and lawn and garden sectors and its products are shipped worldwide. Founded in 1987, Western is headquartered in Winfield, Kansas. Visit www.westernind.com.
About Speyside
Formed in 2005, Speyside employs an operationally intensive approach to investing in specialty chemicals, industrials, metal forming and food ingredients businesses. It targets companies with a history of strong revenue, a defensible position in their respective markets, and a core group of managers that can move the business forward. Speyside prefers situations where there are opportunities to leverage its operating expertise to improve financial performance and create sustainable long-term value.
Since its formation, Speyside has successfully executed numerous platform investments and add-on acquisitions using its own capital. This principal-driven investment philosophy and approach will continue in its $130 million institutional fund which closed in January 2016.
http://www.speysideequity.com
Robert Sylvester
Managing Director
855.233.5695
robert.sylvester@speysideequity.com
SOURCE Speyside Equity
Related Links
http://www.speysideequity.com


Story 32
Provident Financial plc (LON: PFG) have today announced that Simon Thomas, Chief Financial Officer, has notified the Board of his intention to step down from the Board following the 2019 preliminary results announcement in March 2020 for personal health reasons, as previously announced in RNS 7579U on 2nd April 2019. Whilst we are saddened by Simon’s decision to depart, we respect it, and would like to thank him for his significant contribution to the Group.
We look forward to continuing to work together over the next eight months during which time the Board will also be undertaking a process to identify a successor.
Provident Financial plc is a leading provider of credit products which provide financial inclusion for those consumers who are not well served by mainstream lenders. The Group serves 2.4 million customers and its operations consist of Vanquis Bank, Moneybarn, and the Consumer Credit Division (CCD) comprising Provident home credit and Satsuma.

Story 33
Press coverage about GPX stock has trended extremely negative this week, InfoTrie Sentiment Analysis reports. InfoTrie rates the sentiment of press coverage by reviewing more than six thousand news and blog sources in real-time. The firm ranks coverage of public companies on a scale of negative five to five, with scores closest to five being the most favorable. GP Strategies earned a coverage optimism score of -4.0 on InfoTrie's scale. They also assigned press coverage about the company a news buzz of 0.0 out of 10, meaning that recent press coverage is extremely unlikely to have an impact on the stock's share price in the next few days. View News Stories for GP Strategies.

Story 34
Here’s something that’s existed for quite a few years now but might finally reach the Irish television market this year: a “backwards EPG”.
The function allows viewers to scroll back through their electronic programme guides (EPGs), usually for up to a week, and watch some or all of the programmes listed.
UPC Ireland has revealed plans to launch “Replay TV”, which will include a backwards EPG, in the summer or early autumn of this year.
Saorview Connected
But given so much of what is worth watching is available via on-demand services and the Irish broadcasters’ catch-up players already, what’s so great about a backwards EPG anyway?
For broadcasters, backwards EPGs serve to maintain a link between on-demand and linear channel viewing, effectively by merging the two in a single interface.
And for viewers, as the Saorview Connected tender suggests, it boils down to even easier access to missed programmes.
But the attraction of any backwards EPG will increase exponentially if the seven-day catch-up function within it also applies to content from the main UK channels whose on- demand players do not currently sit on Irish television platforms.

Story 35
While delegates dressed in matching stilettos and pinstripe suits would probably spice up your average OECD meeting, real ECA and DFI cross-dressing – the increasingly blurred lines between tied ECA support and untied multilateral/DFI support – is a serious and growing problem, and one that governments need to address.
ECA/DFI cross-dressing is a reaction to a common issue for non-Chinese ECAs – how to compete with opaque official finance offerings from China, which has long been providing cheap debt, arguably at unrealistic market rates.
Until recently, that Chinese cheap-money competitive edge was offset by the quality of the technology China was peddling – Chinese products were cheap, but product lifespan was usually much shorter, and operations and maintenance costs much higher, than developed market technology.
But Chinese technology has radically improved in recent years, and cheap Chinese ECA/DFI debt is now distorting competition in the global project and trade marketplace. Non-OECD Arrangement countries like Japan and Korea have responded strongly, in effect more or less mirroring the Chinese methodology. And now some OECD Arrangement countries are following suit, circumventing OECD rules by blurring the lines between aid and trade.
While those solutions may work short-term at a national interest level, they are exacerbating the problem at an international level – in short, the level playing field for international trade, the ambition that drove the OECD Arrangement, is becoming seriously distorted.
Trade distortion growing
During the past 10 years China has transformed itself from an aid recipient into the largest official financier of developing countries. That is a huge positive development and China deserves credit for putting development of emerging market infrastructure higher on the international agenda.
But many OECD companies are rightly concerned about the completely unregulated official finance practices of China. And unfair competition has snowballed since the introduction by the Chinese government of the Going Global Strategy in 1999 and the Belt Road Initiative in 2013.
Unlike OECD countries, China does not make a clear distinction between official development finance – which includes concessional Official Development Assistance (ODA) and other forms of multilateral and bilateral development finance – and officially supported export credits. Global Chinese official finance for developing countries during the period 2005-2014 totaled $328 billion, of which $79 billion was concessional (ODA-like) $204 billion non-concessional (OOF-like) and $53 billion ‘vague official finance’, which cannot be identified as concessional or non-concessional.
Chinese official finance practices in Africa were the first to sound alarms. The annual gross revenues of Chinese construction companies in Africa reached $50.27 billion in 2016, more than three times the $16 billion gross revenues of European contractors in 2017. The economic success of Chinese construction companies in Africa is mainly attributable to the enormous official finance support provided by the Chinese government via Chexim, Sinosure, China Development Bank (CDB) and the Agricultural Development of China (ADBC).
In 2000-2017 China provided $143.3 billion of financing to African governments, which was largely used to finance public infrastructure projects. That pace of lending shows no signs of slowing. In September 2018, China announced at the international Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) it will invest $60 billion in Africa for the next three years – the same amount that was committed in 2015.
China has now become more important than the World Bank in Africa. In 2016 IBRD/IDA committed $9.35 billion to Africa, of which $8.7 billion was concessional IDA loans and $669 million was non-concessional IBRD loans. Chinese lending to African governments in 2016 was therefore three times more than that of the World Bank.
The main issues with Chinese official finance practices
Most Chinese construction companies active in Africa are state-owned enterprises (SOEs), which benefit from general government support in their domestic and foreign operations. In the domestic market the SOEs have a de facto monopoly, benefit from preferential treatment and have access to relatively cheap government supported finance. Revenues generated in the domestic market can be used to cross-subsidize foreign operations.
In addition, the overseas operations of Chinese SOEs are heavily supported by the Chinese policy banks and Sinosure. The signing of a government-to-government loan implies that China “rolls out a red carpet” for Chinese SOEs to build the infrastructure with no international competition. All these aspects lead to unfair competition between Chinese SOEs and OECD construction companies across the globe. The tied nature of Chinese official finance implies also no adequate competition between construction companies. As a consequence, Africa does not get fair value for their (borrowed) money.
At the heart of the distortive trade practice is the fact that China does not fully participate in the unique, but rather complex multilateral official finance system for official finance to developing countries. This system was built by the international community during the past 40-60 years and is based on seven key pillars, of which some cooperate frequently and some only on an ad hoc basis.
The seven pillars include the (i) IMF, (ii) multilateral development banks, (iii) bilateral development banks, (iv) OECD Development Assistance Committee (DAC) and agencies that provide Official Development Assistance (ODA aid agencies), (v) the Paris Club and its permanent members, (vi) the OECD Export Credit Group and members to the Arrangement on officially supported export credits and relevant official ECAs and Export-Import Banks (EXIM banks), and (vii) the World Trade Organization (WTO). Behind these organizations are the ‘guardian authorities’, usually represented by ministries of finance, trade and industry and development cooperation/foreign affairs.
The multilateral official finance system is a rules-based system to ensure an orderly functioning of international official financial markets. It includes detailed regulations for development finance, official export credits, financial and technical assistance for countries in debt distress and debt rescheduling for developing countries of bilateral debt to major creditor countries on a multilateral basis in the Paris Club.
The seven pillars of the Multilateral Official Finance system
Thus far China has refused formal membership of the OECD DAC, Paris Club and the OECD Arrangement on officially supported export credits. This has led to 10 key official finance issues that cause a severe distortion of competition:
1/ Minimum risk/market-based premiums for officially export credits agreed in the OECD to comply with WTO regulations do not apply to China. China can easily undercut pricing from OECD ECAs and create competitive advantages for Chinese construction companies. China is highly opaque about its pricing of officially supported export credits and development finance. It cannot even be ascertained whether China violates the WTO obligation that premiums for official export guarantees should not be inadequate to cover long term operating costs and losses.
Conversely, OECD governments, because they adhere to OECD minimum premiums, meet the WTO obligation and are transparent about the performance of their export credit programs through amongst others detailed reporting within the OECD.
2/ Minimum interest rates for officially supported export credits do not apply to China. Again, due to a lack of transparency, it cannot be ascertained whether China violates the WTO rule that interest rates for export credits may not be lower than the funding costs of the Chinese government. Relevant OECD minimum interest rates to safeguard the WTO obligation – the so-called Commercial Reference Interest Rates (CIRRs) – do not apply to Chinese official finance.
3/ Terms and conditions of export credits regarding the repayment profile, maximum credit periods, maximum grace periods, max support for local costs and minimum down payments (15%) and minimum interest rates (e.g. CIRR) do not apply to China.
4/ Very restrictive tied aid standards and procedures that are designed to avoid distortion of competition caused by tied aid practices do not apply to China, whereas all Chinese official finance is tied to procurement of goods and services from China. This is a huge advantage for China. Consequently, OECD construction companies cannot adequately compete against Chinese construction companies. This is one of the greatest distortive factors of financing public infrastructure projects in Africa.
5/ International anti-corruption guidelines do not apply to Chinese official finance, whereas there are many alleged and even proven cases of bribery by Chinese companies or individuals of officials in developing countries. The problem is that these corrupt business practices outside China are not well prosecuted by Chinese authorities, very likely because it often involves Chinese SOEs or individuals representing SOEs.
The situation is completely different for companies in OECD countries. Bribery of foreign officials is a serious crime, which is prosecuted by OECD authorities. Conversely, China is rated 27 out of 28 countries in the Bribe’s Payers Index (BPI) developed by Transparency International.
6/ China does not apply international best practices on managing environmental, social and governance (ESG) risks for projects in Africa, whereas OECD ECAs and multilateral and bilateral DFIs do. China applies local ESG standards of borrower countries, which are less strict, weakly implemented and poorly managed, often leading to serious sustainability issues in Chinese infrastructure projects.
7/ Chinese official finance practices are a serious threat for debt sustainability in developing countries and the IMF/WB Debt Sustainability Framework (IMF /WB DSF).
Chinese resource-backed official finance practices have a huge negative impact on debt sustainability, and that impact is growing. Non-Paris Club debt of developing countries, particularly debt to China, has risen substantially during the past years, which has already led and will lead to new debt sustainability problems in many countries. Non-Paris Club debt now accounts for more than 50% of the external stock of debt of Low Income Developing Countries (LIDCs), which complicates an orderly multilateral debt rescheduling program and IMF assistance.
The irony is that debt problems for low-income countries have, during the past 15 years, been substantially reduced by the international debt relief initiative for Highly Indebted Poor Countries (HIPCs), which included multilateral debt relief of $34.1 billion and bilateral debt relief of $38 billion, the majority of which was financed by OECD governments.
8/ China is not a member of the Paris Club and strongly prefers bilateral debt work-outs to benefit from full flexibility and no meddling from other creditors in debt rescheduling discussions. To meet government policy objectives – securing access to natural resources or obtaining overseas military bases) – China maintains secrecy over its lending and obtains better rescheduling terms than it would be able to get within a multilateral Paris Club setting. Consequently, current debt recovery practices of China are a serious threat for the sovereignty of developing countries, the multilateral debt resolution system, the preferred creditor status of the IMF and key multilateral development banks, which allows them to play their role as “lenders of last resort”.
9/ China is not a member of the OECD DAC and its ‘development loans’ lack transparency and are not in line with ODA standards and practices, which again creates advantages for China. Research from AidData revealed that approximately $79 billion of ODA-like aid and $53 billion of vague official finance was provided in the period 2005-2014. But Chinese ODA-like aid, and most certainly vague aid, cannot be characterized as true ODA because it serves mainly Chinese national interest. It is all tied to procurement of goods and services from China. Chinese official finance does not meet the ODA condition that development of developing countries should be the main objective of the financial support provided.
China would have to use substantial higher subsidy amounts to meet international (tied) aid requirements. If AidData had applied the higher OECD standards for tied aid, the highly distortive nature of Chinese official finance practices would have become more apparent. Very likely vague (tied) aid would be at least $132 billion: the sum of ODA-like ($79 billion) and vague official finance of ($53 billion).
10/ While China is not part of the entire multilateral official finance system, it benefits substantially from it. China participates in four pillars of the official financial system – the IMF, MDBs, BDBs and WTO – but thus far has managed to stay out of three other critical pillars (OECD DAC, Paris Club and OECD Arrangement on officially supported export credits).
In 2017, China received new subsidized sovereign loans from key multilateral development banks – the IBRD and ADB – totaling $4.6 billion, and currently China is one of the largest borrowers from both. The total amount outstanding of sovereign loans of both IBRD and ADB was, at the end of 2017, $32.4 billion.
At the same time China also benefits from bilateral ODA from certain OECD donor countries. During the years 2014 – 2016 China obtained new bilateral ODA funds for an amount of $4.4 billion, which is almost $1.5 billion per year.
China also benefits from official support through export credits supported by OECD ECAs. New MLT business of all Berne Union (BU) members into China in 2017 totaled around $8.6 billion, of which $2.5 billion was official export credits from BU ECAs, $1.2 billion was trade-related investment insurance and sovereign risk business, and $4.9 billion was classical investment insurance.
Furthermore, Chinese companies benefit substantially from untied multilateral and bilateral financing for projects in developing countries. In the period 2007-2017 Chinese companies were involved in $27.9 billion of IBRD financed projects, followed by Indian ($16 billion), Italian ($6.2 billion), German ($3.3 billion), French ($3.1 billion) and South Korean ($2 billion). And in the period 2008-2016 around $5.63 billion of untied bilateral ODA from OECD DAC members was used to procure goods and services from Chinese companies for projects in Least Developed Countries (LDCs) and Highly Indebted Poor Countries (HIPCs).
Responses from OECD governments
China clearly benefits substantially from direct (i.e. from bilateral sources) or indirect (from multilateral sources) official finance support from OECD governments. Given the distortive official finance practices of China in developing countries, and its unwillingness to adhere to international best standards for official finance, this is disturbing. And since money is fungible, it could even be argued that OECD governments are unintentionally partially financing the international expansion of China and supporting Chinese distortive official finance practices.
OECD governments have responded in a number of ways, primarily via an increase in non-Arrangement business – untied investment loans or guarantees provided by OECD ECAs; development loans or guarantees from bilateral Development Finance Institutions (DFIs); equity investments; import loans and working capital facilities or pre-export financing.
All these forms of official financing have, during the past few years, become more important than regular officially supported export credits that are governed by the OECD Arrangement. Between 2013-2017 OECD Arrangement business decreased from $107 billion to $63 billion. Non-Arrangement business (including China) increased from $135 billion in 2013 to $157 billion in 2014 and has since decreased only slightly to $148 billion in 2017. The OECD Arrangement has become substantially less relevant during the past five years.
Japan and South Korea have responded strongest to the Chinese official finance competition. Japan has introduced a global strategy for “Partnership for Quality Infrastructure”. The main objectives of this initiative are (i) to support quality infrastructure investments in developing countries, (ii) to increase exports of Japanese infrastructure services to $268 billion by 2020 and (iii) to compete more effectively against Chinese official finance and construction companies.
Leading the Japanese reaction are JBIC, NEXI and ODA aid agency JICA. These institutions cooperate closely with one another to support Japanese national interest. Such a close cooperation does currently not exist in many European countries.
The US is also reacting – in October 2018 the US Senate introduced the so-called BUILD Act, which will create a new US government agency: the US International Development Finance Corporation (DFC).
Many perceive this as the biggest change in US development policy in 15 years. The new agency will combine two existing DFIs (OPIC and part of the US ODA aid agency USAID) and have additional capital of up to $60 billion to increase the US impact on developing countries and combat against Chinese aid activities. It will also be allowed to make equity investments, which OPIC is currently not allowed to do. OPIC is today already providing development finance which is linked to US national interests and this is likely to increase.
The US also strongly advocates that the IBRD should substantially reduce its lending to China, arguing that China no longer needs subsidized development finance.
In November 2018 Australia also initiated a new A$3 billion facility designed to tackle Chinese competition. It comprises a new infrastructure financing facility of A$2 billion ($1.45 billion), which will include concessional loans and grants, and A$1 billion of export finance from EFIC. The facility will prioritize investments in essential infrastructure like telecommunications, energy, transport and water.
Other current ‘OECD solutions’ adding to the problem
Although in some ways positive – certainly more positive than the EU, which appears to be ignoring the problem – all these initiatives have also added to the increase in non-Arrangement business and pose a threat to the integrity of that Arrangement.
The OECD Arrangement has existed for 40 years, during which is has been quite successful in creating a level playing for OECD exporting companies and avoiding a credit subsidy race among OECD governments. Today, not only the future of the OECD Arrangement is at stake, but the entire multilateral official finance system. Unfortunately, this is not adequately recognized, which explains the lack of action by the EU and most other OECD countries.
Apart from the increase of non-Arrangement business there it is noteworthy that tied aid provided by certain OECD governments has increased substantially. In the period 2013-2017 tied aid provided by OECD governments increased from $2.3 billion to $5.5 billion. Key providers of tied aid in 2015 are Japan (76% of all tied aid reported) and Korea (12%), reflecting their response to the competition from China. Tied aid is mainly used for public sector infrastructure projects and has obviously a highly distortive impact.
Furthermore, untied aid has also become de facto tied aid. A substantial share of untied aid for LDCs and HIPCs reported by OECD DAC donors seems to be de facto tied to procurement of goods and services from the donor country – 65% on average for all DAC countries. For some countries, this figure is even higher (USA: 94,9%, UK: 89,8%, Canada: 75,2%). And despite more than 10 years of untying efforts no or hardly any progress has been made on an actual untying of aid to LDCs and HIPCs.
An alternative, more nuanced and effective approach is needed, particularly given that development finance provided by five of the nine leading multilateral development banks is de facto partially untied to relevant member countries only, and not completely untied to all countries.
Problematic is the fact that the International Working Group (IWG) for officially supported export has made no or limited progress. The IWG was established in 2012 to promote development of a new global framework for officially supported export credits. Thus far China has been unwilling to join the existing multilateral framework for official export finance or to develop a comprehensive new global framework. The attitude of China to the IWG gives the impression that China wants to continue going its own way – the benefits of ‘going global’ alone are perceived as higher than those of multilateral cooperation.
Multilateral development banks and IMF are recommended to redesign their operations
In the recent G-20 report 'Making the Global Financial System Work For All', from the so-called Eminent Persons Group (EPG), various recommendations are made as to how international financial institutions (IFIs), which include the IMF and leading multilateral development banks, can improve their operations and developmental impact in developing countries. Although the report, published on 18 October 2018, covers only two pillars of the multilateral official finance system, it has a key recommendation of relevence to all: that multilateral DFIs have to fundamentally redesign their business models and should substantially improve the cooperation with one another and other financiers. The multilateral development banks should transform themselves from direct lenders to catalysts of finance by focusing much more on:
mobilisation of private capital
using insurance instruments and reinsurance techniques
implementation of joint DFI core standards among others regarding the pricing by DFIs, debt sustainability, Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) topics, procurement, transparency and anti-corruption.
DFIs can learn a lot from the development of certain ‘core standards’ from the OECD ECA community. For example, the OECD ECAs developed minimum risk- or market-based premiums to avoid distortion of competition between OECD ECAs. This could be an interesting basis to not only avoid the current competition between DFIs, but also competition between DFIs and ECAs.
Another interesting feature could be the so-called commercial viability test that was designed to avoid distortion of competition between tied aid and conventional officially supported export credits. Introduction of the commercial viability test for tied aid has reduced tied aid practices substantially. Would it not be an interesting idea to use a similar approach for untied aid financing to ensure that scarce subsidized development finance does not crowd out other forms of finance that do not benefit from official support/subsidies or substantial less official support/subsidies? The approach would also help to direct highly subsidized forms of official finance to countries that have no or very limited access to market-based finance. These are the countries that are mainly dependent on development finance.
The EPG report seems to support such an approach, because it clearly states that multilateral DFI’s must place "rigorous emphasis on additionality to ensure that guarantees and concessional finance have the greatest catalytic role in attracting private capital and addressing market failures". An "additionality ranking" for all forms of official finance, not just multilateral DFI financing, is critical.
It is noteworthy that IFIs were consulted by the EPG, but this seems not to be the case for the official ECAs and ODA agencies, which explains why no reference is made to ODA, the business of ECAs and the importance of alignment of the operations of IFIs with these important other official financiers of developing countries. The EPG report reflects the silo approach of multilateral DFIs and confirms that a ‘whole of government approach’ covering all forms of official finance is key.
Concerted action is urgently needed
For all these reasons concerted action by OECD and non-OECD governments, multilateral development banks, bilateral DFIs, ODA aid agencies, ECAs and EXIM banks, and the guardian authorities behind these official finance agencies, is urgently needed to create a global level playing field for internationally operating construction companies.
A ‘whole of government’ approach must be developed, which implies that government officials, active in the various pillars of the multilateral official finance system, will have to cooperate closely with one another. The framework should cover all forms of official finance for developing countries – export credits; ODA; tied aid; untied investment loans and guarantees; development loans and guarantees from multilateral and bilateral DFIs; other forms of official finance (e.g. equity investments); and debt rescheduling for countries in debt distress. The current focus by the IWG on just conventional export credits is too narrow. The G20 EPG report on IFIs lacks also a comprehensive official finance approach.
The joint action plan is also of utmost importance to maintain and restore the unique multilateral system for official finance to developing countries. The system is being eroded by the increase in tied aid, unregulated official finance and the untied aid practices of various OECD countries. Chinese practices have triggered a renewed race to the bottom of all forms of official finance at the expense of scarce government budgets and tax-payers’ money. And if, in the short term, no adequate action is undertaken, it may even lead to a complete collapse of the multilateral official finance system.
Last, but certainly not least, concerted action is also in the interest to enhance international efforts to achieve the UN Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs), maintain the integrity of IMF/WB Debt Sustainability Framework, improve debt sustainability of low-income developing countries and ensure an orderly multilateral management of public debt problems of developing countries.
An enhanced multilateral official finance framework will assist in a better alignment of various forms of official finance (both from multilateral and bilateral sources) with other forms of public and private sources of capital for development. Such a better alignment is needed to avoid that for projects in developing countries (highly) subsidized forms of official finance replace or crowd out other forms of finance that do not need or benefit from substantial less official support. Subsidized development finance should be complementary to the market and not the other way around. The agenda is therefore important for the development of successful DFI mobilization strategies that truly catalyze additional capital and not replace other existing forms of capital. It can therefore contribute to enhance aid effectiveness and aid efficiency. Given the magnitude of various global challenges faced today, a single pillar or silo-approach can no longer be afforded. Bridges need to be built, because 1+1=3!
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Priority issues for a global framework for official finance
Common regulations on all forms of tied aid and (partially) untied aid (e.g. ODA and multilateral or bilateral development finance), including an “additionality ranking” of all forms of official finance.
Common risk-based pricing system for all forms of cross border trade- or investment-related official finance / guarantees.
Minimum interest rates for all forms of cross border trade- or investment-related official finance / guarantees.
China should be strongly encouraged to become a permanent member of the Paris Club and to fully adhere to the IMF/WB DSF and OECD guidelines on sustainable lending to developing countries.
Common terms and conditions on maximum repayment periods, maximum grace periods, repayment profiles, minimum officially supported interest rates & premiums, maximum amounts for official support for all forms of cross border trade – and investment-related official finance/ guarantees.
Adequate and verifiable transparency on all forms of official finance with priority to (i) tied aid, (ii) export credits, (iii) untied development finance (multilateral and bilateral ODA and non-ODA), (iv) untied investment loans and guarantees and (v) other forms of official finance (e.g. equity investments).
The UN SDGs, which include infrastructure, climate change, partnership for development and the importance of mobilizing private capital, provide the direction for what needs to be done, so it is now primarily a matter of bringing people and organisations together and building the necessary bridges between them.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This article is based on a study conducted by Paul Mudde, consultant at Sustainable Finance & Insurance, for the European International Contractors. The complete report with detailed background information and potential action points can be found on the website of the European International Contractors via the following internet link: https://www.eic-federation.eu/sites/default/files/paragraph-files/sfi_study-china-official_finance_practices.pdf.
It should be noted that the views and opinions expressed in this article and the study are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect the official policy or position of the European International Contractors or TXF Media.

Story 36
Media coverage about MFNC stock has trended extremely negative recently, according to InfoTrie Sentiment. The research firm identifies negative and positive press coverage by reviewing more than six thousand news and blog sources. The firm ranks coverage of public companies on a scale of negative five to positive five, with scores closest to five being the most favorable. Mackinac Financial earned a daily sentiment score of -4.0 on InfoTrie's scale. They also gave news articles about the financial services provider a news buzz of 0.0 out of 10, indicating that recent press coverage is extremely unlikely to have an impact on the stock's share price in the near term. View News Stories for Mackinac Financial.

Story 37
Deutsche Bank’s FX dealing operation is the 7th largest by market share in the world. The bank is in financial ruin but says it does not need state aid, however the German government has previously said it would not lend. Is this the twilight year for another liquidity provider?
It may well be the 7th largest interbank FX dealer by market share percentage, however Deutsche Bank has not enjoyed a clear run over the past two years with many a furrowed brow in the boardroom resulting from several setbacks.
Today, Paul Achleitner, Chairman of Deutsche Bank made significant attempts to stem the generally held view that the firm requires aid from the German government in order to remain in business.
“Let’s look at the facts: Deutsche Bank has a very strong capital basis compared to its competitors,” Mr Achleitner told German press this morning. He added new chief executive Christian Sewing was balancing the books after the turbulent year, which represents another set of losses for three straight years now, with the bank having experienced share price reductions to half its value in the wake of the investigations both in the US and in Europe.
Just over two years ago, FinanceFeeds reported that Germany’s government may well be duty bound not to offer state assistance to Deutsche Bank, however one of the world”s largest FX dealers, therefore if it goes to the wall, a liquidity contraction could occur.
Deutsche Bank’s real revenue driving division is its interbank FX and electronic trading section, based in London and is operated as a totally separate entity from its flagging German commercial and retail banking operations.
Fiscal and operational difficulties on Deutsche Bank’s home soil have created a situation in which the bank has been the subject of government discussion for almost a year now, ever since the firm began reporting grave losses. Indeed, Germany’s finance minister Wolfgang Schaeuble even issued a public statement in the spring 2016 that there was ‘nothing to worry about’ in order to sweep Deutsche Bank’s grave position under the carpet.
A series of plummeting share price episodes has once again emerged over recent weeks, and as long ago as October 2016 an even more precarious position was demonstrated in that Germany’s government stated that it would not be prepared to provide any form of state funded bail out for the bank should it eventually hit the buffers.
The company’s litany of regulatory fines for malpractices in specific core areas has not enamoured the government either, the most recent example being a $14 billion fine from the US Department of Justice for mis-selling mortgage backed securities. LIBOR and FX benchmark manipulation has also cost the bank gravely.
Despite the German government’s lack of will to prop up Deutsche Bank, a further difficulty has to be taken into consideration, that being that it has now become somewhat apparent that Germany could not provide emergency capital to the bank even if it wanted to, meaning that any lobbyists from important financial markets regions such as London would find it difficult to put pressure on the German government in order to maintain Deutsche Bank’s prominent position in the electronic trading world.
The Frankfurter Allgemeine stated at the end of 2016 that if Chancellor Angela Merkel were to offer state assistance to Deutsche Bank, it would not sit comfortably with the hard line stance she took against a not dissimilar rescue package proposed for Italy’s impoverish banks during the summer of that year, however once again there have been speculators in Germany that consider the only option for Deutsche Bank is government aid, hence a stalemate situation exists.
Chairman Paul Achleitner today rebuffed suggestions the bank may need financial support from the state. “This scenario will not come about,” he said. Mr Sewing said in November he saw no“indication” of a possible merger, following speculation that Deutsche could be looking at a tie-up with German rival Commerzbank, or Switzerland’s UBS.
“We are on track to make our first profit for three years,” Sewing, the lender’s chief executive, told Bild am Sonntag. “It is only a matter of time before this progress is reflected in the share price.”
Whilst Mr Achleitner did not proffer any reason for not going down the state aid route, it is well worth considering that even if the bank needs a government cash injection, the answer would be no if it asked.
This should compound FinanceFeeds view that Deutsche Bank will never move any of its clearing houses for FX to European mainland locations, a banal suggestion that has been bandied around by anti-Brexit socialists in London this year.
In August, the cacophony of sensationalism was abound, and at that time FinanceFeeds reiterated that no institution is moving its FX business in any form from London to Europe. It simply will not happen and Germany’s struggle with Deutsche Bank’s retail and commercial business vs its absolute market prominence in London as an interbank dealer represent exactly the dichotomous reason that this wont happen.
Sensationalist warblings such as “Deutsche Bank is shifting business out of London hinting at troubling post-Brexit future for $1 trillion industry” dominated the headlines during the summer of 2018, which is all very well, except for one very important factor: this is quite simply not true.
What Deutsche Bank actually made concrete plans to move approximately 50% of its Euro clearing business to the firm’s global head offices in Frankfurt, which is necessary to comply with European regulations. Currently, Britain is a member of the European Union, hence consolidating all of the Euro clearing business in London is compliant, however once the United Kingdom makes its exit, there will have to be a contingent in Frankfurt.
This does NOT by any means signal a shift of business from London at all. Indeed, Deutsche Bank, along with all of the Tier 1 banks, British, Swiss, American or German in origin, will remain in London in their existing form as long as London remains the world’s dominant financial markets center, which will be pretty much as long as the financial services industry exists, ie: forever.
The acceptance of English law and widespread use of English language has made London a hub for clearing globally. London handles more than 70% of the daily euro clearing business, equivalent to around €930 billion (£792 billion, $995 billion) of trades per day, according to a House of Lords report.
Deutsche Bank has shifted some of its euro clearing volumes from London-based LCH, which is owned by the London Stock Exchange, to Deutsche Börse subsidiary Eurex, however this is by no means an operational removal of any components of Deutsche Bank’s commercial structure to Europe. No bank in the world will do that.
Eurex, which is a Frankfurt-based clearing house owned by Deutsche Bank, revealed its program to award its largest customes a share of its revenues late last year, which has been construed by the pro-Europe mainstream publications in London as an attempt to incentivize large institutions to conduct their clearing in mainland Europe rather than in London and can be considered a lobbying attempt, and a futile one at that.
In October last year, Eurex Clearing said that its 10 most active participants will be eligible for a “significant share” of the returns from its multi-currency interest rate swap offering, as well as being offered seats on its board.
Deutsche Boerse at the time boldly claimed that Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Citigroup, Commerzbank, Deutsche Bank, JP Morgan and Morgan Stanley have all signed up to the program, adding to the existing 200 clients which Deutsche Boerse claims Eurex currently has on board. Since then only a small percentage of clearing has taken place in Europe compared to existing business in London (probably to maintain compliance with having Euro clearing in Europe to a certain extent of the entire global business).
Indeed, these are major Tier 1 FX dealing banks, and yes they may well have signed up to the program, but that absolutely does not indicate a priority to clear all their trades in Germany. No Tier 1 bank would even consider doing that, and LCH Clearnet’s firm, London-based OTC FX clearing customer base will remain absolutely undiminished.
“This market-led initiative will benefit clients and the broader market place through greater choice and competition, improved price transparency as well as reduced concentration risk,” said Eric Mueller, Eurex’s chief executive last year.
Competition is not fostered by offering conflicting ownership stakes in clearing houses which are located far from the mainstay of interbank dealing and have no place in this industry’s global topography or infrastructural considerations.
Underlining this further, Deutsche Bank very quietly signed the lease for a new London headquarters at 21 Moorfields recently, despite threatening to sack staff in the City due to Brexit, demonstrating that nationalistic politics may be a generator of interest for Europhile mainstream media, but that when it comes to sensible business, London is home.
Deutsche Bank, along with other Tier 1 banks, must realize that their core business activity is the provision of prime brokerage services to electronic financial markets participants.
Mainland Europe does not have a developed electronic trading sector in any shape or form, and before any dissenters seek to present Deutsche Bank as Frankfurt’s equivalent to Canary Wharf’s institutions, it is worth bearing in mind that Deutsche Bank conducts no electronic financial markets business whatsoever from Frankfurt, instead doing so from London, which is at odds with the all-controlling political stance of the socialist government of its host nation, obviously because business efficiency is more important than post-war socialist-progressive nationalist aspirations.
If Deutsche Bank in its current form does actually go to the wall, it may be that the only remaining division of it will be its investment banking and FX dealing business, which would remain in London and render it a totally London-based core business-dependent institution.

Story 38
SVB Financial Group with ticker code (SIVB) now have 19 analysts covering the stock. The analyst consensus points to a rating of ‘Buy’. The target price ranges between 300 and 210 calculating the average target price we see 255.26. With the stocks previous close at 206.05 this would imply there is a potential upside of 23.9%. There is a 50 day moving average of 202.56 and the 200 day MA is 221.26. The company has a market cap of $10,625m. Visit the company website at: http://www.svb.com
SVB Financial Group, a diversified financial services company, provides various banking and financial products and services. The company operates through three segments: Global Commercial Bank, SVB Private Bank, and SVB Capital. The Global Commercial Bank segment offers deposit products, such as business and analysis checking, money market, multi-currency, in-country bank, and sweep accounts, as well as merchant, remote capture, lockbox, electronic deposit capture, and fraud control services; credit products and services comprising term loans, equipment loans, asset-based loans, revolving lines of credit, accounts-receivable-based lines of credit, capital call lines of credit, and credit cards; and payment and cash management products and services, including wire transfer and automated clearing house payment, bill pay, debit and credit cards, account analysis, and disbursement, as well as online and mobile banking services. This segment also provides foreign exchange services; export, import, and standby letter of credit; investment services and solutions; investment advisory services; vineyard development loans; and equity valuation services, as well as invests in debt funds. The SVB Private Bank segment offers private banking services, such as mortgages, home equity and capital call lines of credit, restricted stock purchase loans, and other secured and unsecured lending products. The SVB Capital segment provides venture capital investment services that manage funds on behalf of third party limited partner investors. The company also offers asset and private wealth management, and private equity investment services. It operates through 27 offices in the United States; and offices in Hong Kong; Beijing and Shanghai, China; Frankfurt, Germany; Bengaluru, India; Herzliya Pituach, Israel; and London, England. SVB Financial Group was founded in 1983 and is headquartered in Santa Clara, California.

Story 39
Synthomer PLC (LON:SYNT), a FTSE 250 speciality chemicals company, and one of the world’s major suppliers of aqueous polymers, has today announced that it has reached an agreement with OMNOVA Solutions Inc., which develops, manufactures and markets polymers, dispersions, elastomers and other speciality chemicals, on the terms of a recommended acquisition of the entire issued and to be issued share capital of OMNOVA at a price of US$10.15 per OMNOVA Share.
Strategic Highlights
· Creation of a global speciality chemicals company with greater scale and a strong platform from which to invest in future growth.
· Strong synergy potential with target run-rate pre-tax cost synergies of US$29.6 million per annum by the end of the third year following completion of the Acquisition.
· Natural strategic fit with complementary chemistries and end market presence as well as materially strengthening Synthomer’s footprint in North America and increasing its presence in Europe and Asia.
· Increased exposure to markets offering GDP+ growth and blue chip customer base.
Financial Summary
· Acquisition values OMNOVA’s entire issued and to be issued share capital at US$473 million (approximately £375 million), with implied enterprise value of US$824 million (approximately £654 million).
· Acquisition represents an enterprise value multiple for OMNOVA of 9.9 times OMNOVA’s May 2019 LTM Adjusted EBITDA before Acquisition-related synergies and 9.6 times OMNOVA’s FY2018 EBITDA.
· Attractive post-synergy multiple with target run-rate pre-tax cost synergies of US$29.6 million per annum by the end of the third year following Completion.
· Conservatively financed Acquisition with an estimated leverage of approximately 2.5x net debt / EBITDA expected at Completion with strong cash flow generation driving expected deleveraging to below 2.0x by the end of the second full financial year following Completion.
· Earnings accretion expected in the first full financial year following Completion and strongly accretive thereafter.
Transaction Rationale
The Directors believe the Acquisition represents an attractive opportunity for Synthomer to strengthen its global position as a major speciality chemicals company underpinned by significant growth opportunities.
· Strong strategic fit with the Acquisition creating a global speciality chemicals company with greater scale and a strong platform from which to invest in future growth: Following the Acquisition, the Company and its subsidiaries will benefit from increased scale becoming a major global player in water-based polymer solutions, having greater customer reach and strong operational capabilities, and will be in a stronger position to invest in growth, innovation, and people.
· Expansion and diversification of product portfolio into new attractive end-sectors: The Acquisition will broaden and strengthen Synthomer’s current portfolio with entry and/or increased exposure to attractive end-sectors, most particularly the oil and gas drilling, cementing and stimulation sectors. Following the Acquisition, the Enlarged Group will have the ability to leverage OMNOVA’s brand recognition and technical expertise in new application areas.
· Enhanced focus on speciality products supported by strong R&D and innovation capabilities: OMNOVA’s focus on commercial excellence, innovation and inorganic growth initiatives in its Specialty Solutions segment has led to the development of over 60 products in the past three years and will allow Synthomer to bolster its speciality products offering by leveraging the Enlarged Group’s best-in-class process technology and R&D platform.
· Global geographic coverage with increased customer proximity and access to attractive international markets: The Acquisition will materially strengthen Synthomer’s presence in North America, as well as increase its presence in Europe and Asia, including further penetration into the high growth Chinese market.
· Ability to leverage manufacturing excellence expertise to drive productivity and cost improvements: Synthomer intends to utilise best practices from across the Enlarged Group to improve productivity and reduce costs. The Enlarged Group will benefit from excellent raw materials integration and Synthomer’s strong track record of safe conversion of hazardous feedstocks into water-based polymers.
Synergies and Financial Effects of the Acquisition
· The Acquisition is expected to result in estimated recurring run-rate pre-tax cost synergies of US$29.6 million per annum by the end of the third year following Completion.
· The Acquisition is expected to be earnings accretive in the first full financial year following Completion and strongly accretive thereafter.
· Synthomer’s return on invested capital associated with the Acquisition is expected to exceed its cost of capital in the third full financial year following Completion.
· The Acquisition will be conservatively financed with an estimated leverage of approximately 2.5x net debt / EBITDA expected at Completion with strong cash flow generation driving an expected deleveraging to below 2.0x by the end of the second full financial year following Completion.
Financing and Expected Timetable
· The Company intends to finance the Acquisition and related fees and expenses from the gross proceeds of a rights issue of up to £204 million (approximately US$257 million); and drawings under new debt facilities.
· The Acquisition constitutes a Class 1 transaction for the purposes of the Listing Rules, and therefore requires the approval of Synthomer shareholders. Accordingly, a General Meeting will be convened to approve the Acquisition and further details, including the notice of the General Meeting, will be set out in a circular that will be sent to shareholders in July 2019.
· In addition, Synthomer shareholders will be asked to approve an increase of the borrowing limit set out in the Articles of Association from £750 million to £1,500 million to enable the Company to finance the debt consideration.
· Assuming satisfaction or waiver of all conditions to the Acquisition, Completion is expected to take place in late 2019 / early 2020.
Commenting on today’s announcement, Calum MacLean, Chief Executive of Synthomer, said: “This transaction is an important step in the continued execution of Synthomer’s strategy with an acquisition that is both strategically and financially compelling. The acquisition of OMNOVA represents an attractive opportunity to materially expand our international business into North America and expand our presence in Europe and Asia, creating a global speciality chemical company. The Acquisition provides an attractive financial profile with significant expected synergy benefits. Synthomer has been disciplined waiting for the right opportunity to deliver value through our inorganic growth strategy and this acquisition will provide an additional platform for Synthomer to continue to grow into the medium term. I am delighted to welcome OMNOVA employees to the business and look forward to working with them to take the combined business to the next level.”
ANALYST AND INVESTOR PRESENTATION
The Company will host a meeting for the Company’s analysts and investors at 09.00 a.m. (London time) today at Canaccord Genuity Limited (88 Wood Street, London EC2V 7QR).
The presentation will be webcast on the Company’s website www.synthomer.com.
Participants may also join by conference call using the following dial-in details:
International Access: + 44 (0) 20 3037 9315
UK Toll Free: 0800 368 2276
Password: Synthomer
Please note that those joining remotely and wishing to participate in the Q&A session should dial into the conference call facility.

Story 40
Digital advisers that operate as financial advisers will be allowed to pass their clients’ trade orders to brokerage firms for execution, without the need for an additional capital markets services licence.
The Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) has been making strides in facilitating the use of novel technologies in the financial services area. Earlier this year, the regulator said it was working on guidelines for artificial intelligence (AI) solutions use by financial institutions. Today, MAS published its Guidelines on Provision of Digital Advisory Services, which aim to facilitate the provision of these services in Singapore.
The guidelines are applicable to all financial institutions offering digital advisory services in Singapore.
Let’s note that the Authority defines digital advisers, also known as robo-advisers, as entities that provide advice on investment products through direct access to automated, algorithm-based tools to clients, with limited or no human adviser interaction. In contrast, conventional FAs may rely on similar algorithm-based tools at the back-end to help their representatives advise and service their clients.
Digital advisers operating in Singapore will have to be licensed for fund management, dealing in capital markets products and/or providing financial advisory services under the relevant Acts. The type of licensing depends on the operating model of the digital adviser. A digital adviser may also qualify for exemption from licensing, if it meets the relevant exemption provisions in the Acts.
Some digital advisers typically assist clients to pass their buy or sell orders (e.g. CIS, bonds and stocks) to brokerage firms for execution. The passing of such orders to brokerage firms for execution constitutes dealing in capital markets products under the Singaporean laws. However, MAS recognizes that the risks posed by facilitating the execution of clients’ buy or sell orders are low.
To allow FAs to provide better services to clients, digital advisers which are FAs are exempted from the need to hold a CMS (capital markets services) licence for dealing in capital markets products if they merely assist to pass on clients’ buy or sell orders to brokerage firms for execution, provided that such dealing is incidental to their financial advisory activities.
The regulator explains that dealing is considered incidental only if the digital adviser has provided advice to a client and subsequently assists the client to pass on the order to a brokerage firm for execution. The Dealing Exemption is independent of whether the specific recommendation is accepted by the client.
It is common for digital advisers to offer rebalancing of clients’ portfolios to address portfolio drift. This entails bringing the clients’ portfolios back to the most recent advice provided to the clients on the recommended asset allocation. This rebalancing of portfolios is automated and performed periodically.
Such portfolio rebalancing activities are treated as fund management under the SFA and persons who conduct such activities are required to hold a CMS licence in fund management unless otherwise exempted. However, MAS recognizes that there are merits to exempt digital advisers from holding a CMS licence in fund management to carry out rebalancing activities for portfolios that comprise solely of listed and unlisted CIS (“Fund Management Exemption”).
Portfolio rebalancing is considered incidental to the advice provided where it is solely for the purpose of aligning the portfolio back to its last recommended allocation as agreed or chosen by the client, and there is no change to the constituents of the portfolio. The scope of the Fund Management Exemption is limited to CIS as rebalancing of portfolios comprising individual securities requires FAs to advise clients on which securities to invest in, and the client’s consent should be obtained for this purpose.
Digital advisers relying on the Fund Management Exemption will be required to:
(a) ensure that the rebalancing activity is carried out only for portfolios comprising solely listed and unlisted CIS;
(b) obtain a one-time prior written authorisation from the client to periodically rebalance the constituent units of the portfolio;
(c) provide a written disclosure to the client on the following, prior to obtaining the client’s written authorisation:
(i) the scope of rebalancing activities, including frequency and methodology of rebalancing;
(ii) fees payable and any other material terms and conditions associated with periodic rebalancing;
(iii) advance notice period that will be provided prior to carrying out any rebalancing activities; and

Story 41
He expressed his displeasure on Twitter.
His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice-President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, has sent another strong and clear message on governance: That he is not going to tolerate poor government services and he declared that he would remove staff and officials who are not performing well.
Video: Sheikh Mohammed takes government officers by surprise
Taking to his Twitter account on Monday morning, Sheikh Mohammed shared a photo of long queues at a branch of Emirates Post, the official postal operator of the UAE. He reprimanded the government agency and publicly shared its performance report - all in the spirit of transparency and the need for stronger customer service.
The photo that was shared came from a team of 'mystery shoppers' or investigators that was dispatched to measure the quality of service as well as staff performance at Emirates Post. The mystery shoppers returned with a photo showing customers waiting in long queues.
In his tweet, Sheikh Mohammed disapproved of the poor service. "This is not our level. These are not our services. Whoever provides such level of services will not be in my team," he said.
Sheikh Mohammed also publicly shared Emirates Post's evaluation report. He highlighted the indicators for their poor performance.
- Services:
> No proper indications or index linking to the center's efforts to deal with customer satisfaction.

> Customers wait for long periods of time to receive a service.

> Post offices deliver Emirates ID cards in person and this service accounts for 75 per cent of the total number of customers.
Service Efficiency:
> 80 per cent of Emirates ID are reported to be delivered to Al Karama post office, most customers receiving ID cards at that office are workers who don't have a PO Box.

> Lack of services to fit the customer's needs.
Customer Service:
> Lack of coordinated customer service for customers from different stratas of society.

> Overcrowding at post office due to the increased amounts of text messages sent to customers for Emirates ID pick up at the same time.

> Customers have to visit multiple counters to complete a transaction.
Capacity building:
> According to a 2018 study conducted on the post center, the study was based only on one service at the center not on all services.

> The post office delivers more than 3,000 ID cards per day which results in overcrowding.

> The centre has not done an capacity building to handle the large number of customers.
Service Culture:
> There is a need for employees at the center to work on building personal conduct and customer service skills.
There is also an overcrowding at the post office due to the increased amount of text messages sent to customers for Emirates ID pick up and customers have to visit multiple counters to complete a transaction.
Moreover, the Karama office, which handles 80 per cent of Emirates ID transactions, has not done a capacity-building to handle the large number of customers.
Serving the people is the first in the list of 10 commandments of governance, that was issued by Sheikh Mohammed in his latest book titled Qissati (My Story) launched early this year.
Khaleej Times asked Emirates Post about the tweet but they promised to give comments earliest on Tuesday morning.
Last week, Emirates Post announced that it won its third International Express Mail Services accolade for outstanding Customer Services. Abdulla Mohammad Alashram, acting CEO of Emirates Post Group, said: "Our postal service is designed with customers in mind as we know that individuals and organisations need a reliable partner when it comes to sending and receiving packages locally, regionally and internationally. To that end, we are proud to have been recognised and presented with this global accolade for the third time."
Experts hail transparent approach to governance
Sheikh Mohammed's tweet on Monday was not the first time that he has surprised government officials.
In 2016, he visited various government departments including the Dubai Municipality, the Dubai Lands Department, the Economic Development Department (DED) and Dubai International Airport.
He was surprised to find directors and senior officials of some departments not present during his visit. No senior officer or director is exempted from reporting early for duty, social media users had concluded after the visit.
The Dubai and federal governments have launched a series of initiatives and strategies over the past few years to make the city and the country one of the happiest and most innovative in the world - hence there is no margin for complacency at any level of government.
According to a customer service expert interviewed by Khaleej Times, the recent tweet was not public shaming but done in the spirit of transparency.
"Sheikh Mohammed is a great inspiration to others to learn from. This is a transparent approach to leadership. The message is clear for all those to be reminded of the standards that lead to better services across the board," said Dana Bousaleh, marketing manager, Awards International UAE.
"Using the power of social media is also getting everyone involved in governance. His Highness wants to hear it directly from the people," Bousaleh added.
Dr Rommel Sergio, a management professor at the Canadian University of Dubai, also praised the leadership style of Sheikh Mohammed.
He said: "It is befitting for a leader to call the attention of people under his governance. Doing this in public resonates transparency and calls for organisational development and change within the customer service sector."
"This is also in consistency with the "Year of Tolerance" that does not only speak of safety and stability. This year's bannering slogan and theme highly emphasises happiness, which the government has been promoting all along," Sergio added.
Share


More >



Vote

Click/tap here to subscribe to Khaleej Times news alerts on WhatsApp. Make sure you save the phone number under Contacts on your phone for uninterrupted service.
ERROR: Macro /ads/dfp-ad-article-new is missing!

Story 42
Reviews Cord Cutting: Review of MyIPTV with SOPlayer By
MyIPTV is a cable cutting service that uses the SOPlayer app for multiple platforms and provides television, movies, and other forms of media for a paid monthly fee. As part of our Cord Cutting series, we’ll look at the service I discovered to meet my cord-cutting needs. This is not your traditional live OTT streaming service like YouTube TV or PlayStation Vue. But there are some things that MyIPTV does really well, and some areas where it is lacking. Let’s take a look at what you can expect.
Live TV
There are quite a few things to talk about in this review, but the first let’s look at what kind of channel features does this service offers. The number was actually quite surprising. There’s the main U.S. lineup, as well as a Canadian, Spanish, Sports, UK, Local, and a lot more. I think I hit around channel 3500 before it stopped and looped back to channel one.
Now granted, not all of these channels were great or should really go towards that high of a count. There are a lot of sports channels that were dedicated to specific games. There are also large gaps between channel numbers. For example, after channel 565, it suddenly jumps to 600 — there’s nothing in between those 35 numbers. The main thing is, it has every channel I looked for including every live sports game going on at the moment.
Channel Quality
The picture quality of live TV is pretty good. I noticed a lot of channels in 1080p HD or 720p HD and this was consistent across the main line-up of the first few hundred channels. Some of the one-off channels in the high number range that display in 480p quality, though. And some local channels were just plain not available while others were low quality in 480p. I reached out to technical support (an experience I will talk about in a bit) to ask, but the agent didn’t have a clear response. From what I gathered, it could be a supply-demand thing, if the demand for HD content on specific channels is low, they might not be showing it.
Below is what it looks like across my an Android phone. I have to apologize to a few people about the channel choice here, but I love PBS. I was checking for buffering and other issues, which is one of the first things I look at in any internet TV service. Basically, comparing it to other services like YouTube TV and Hulu Live. There wasn’t any buffering here, but there were a few channels that wouldn’t work on my Fire TV Cube but would work on my smartphone or vice versa.
Electronic Programming Guide (EPG)
Onto the Electronic Programming Guide or (EPG). This is probably the weakest part of the service. While it looks and functions just like a normal cable TV setup, the program data is frequently missing, delayed, or completely incorrect. On some devices, there is a nice preview window that plays the currently selected channel while you scroll up or down. I want to say it was right about 70% of the time, but I don’t really know for sure. There are simply too many channels to keep track of on this service.
On the phone, the EPG was nice and quick and could fly up and down across channels. On the TV and set-top-box portal, it wasn’t as good. There is no Page Down or Page Up functionality that I could find, and that’s a bummer when you’re dealing with hundreds of channels.
Price and Customer Service
A MyIPTV subscription costs $25 per month for 4 screens. I have one gripe with the price. There are no options. You sign up for four screens or you sign up for zero. There is nothing in-between. For someone who just wants to watch TV on a phone, that could be a deal-breaker. But when you compare it to the $40 that Hulu Live charges or $50-$70 for DirecTV Now, it’s competitive.
Getting support is about what I’ve come to expect from other online companies. There is a phone number but it doesn’t seem to have human helpers. The website has a full-chat module on every page — which is the main way to contact the company. From my brief talk with a customer rep, it was a professional experience with a good English speaker. I couldn’t tell if the support rep was from an outsourced center or not. And they were able to answer my questions and I didn’t have to wait in a queue. Instant chat support is a big plus with me. But chat support is limited from 9 am to 9 pm. After hours, it goes into an offline ticket mode.
User Interface
In the set-top-box portal and the Android app, the interface is fantastic. I tried it on a couple of different Fire TV devices, a Samsung S8, an Android TV, and a TVIP v605 box. The different content areas are easy to find — especially on streaming boxes. It mimics the traditional cable box grid. The responsiveness was bad on my first-gen Fire TV Stick, though as it lagged a lot. But it was snappy on my Fire TV Cube and newer devices. Out of all the devices my favorite setup was on the TVIP v605.
One thing I will recommend straight away. On Android, open the settings (swipe from left edge towards the right) and turn on the Black Theme. It is a lot easier on the eyes than the ugly default one. This happens to also be right next to the “default player” setting as well. I found that it needed to be switched on or off depending on device compatibility in order to watch programming.
Catchup “DVR”
One thing I’m accustomed from my cable days is DVR for catching up on shows. A DVR also comes in handy for zipping past those pesky commercials. I believe at one time I was paying TiVo a premium fee because it was able to automatically detect commercials and skip past them.
The Catchup system on MyIPTV is similar to a traditional DVR, but not quite. Instead of recording the shows to your box, they are all streamed from an online cache. You don’t select which shows you want to record either. Instead, it records every single show for seven days out. This may sound like a cool option, but the channels are limited. In all, I only counted roughly 100 channels that had the “Catch up” feature enabled. This is likely based on the popular and most-watched channels.

Video On Demand (VOD)
I’ll be candid. I’m not a Live TV viewer, commercials have killed it for me. On-demand is where it’s at. MyIPTV has just about every movie I searched for. That is until I started looking for some of the older titles. I like the old classics, and they are missing. Now when it comes to the new movies, new tv shows? I found every show, including a decent “Kids and Family” lineup.
I was looking at the VOD section on different platforms, and while the interface is different, the content is the same. Titles are separated by different categories. On the Android phone app, this is a drop-down menu. On a the set-top-box or TV version of the app, it’s similar but the categories run across the top of the page.
The picture quality of the on-demand content is good with little to no buffering. You are able to instantly fast-forward or rewind movies without any hesitation, which is an improvement from my experiences with Netflix or Direct TV Now. I did run into a problem with the service on my T-Mobile phone, though. The on-demand content wouldn’t load when on 4G data, but it would work fine over WiFi. I then tried a VPN over 4G and it was able to load the on-demand content without issues.
Conclusion
MyIPTV offers a vastly comprehensive service. I did notice quite a few quirks. But with the price comparatively lower at $25 per month for four active devices — which comes to $6.25 per screen. It also has more channels and movie titles, too which makes up for some of the inconsistencies. Anyone can check it out for themselves without much hassle as it has a 3-day trial that doesn’t require a credit card to try.
Activation requires a three-step process of signing up, downloading the SOPlayer app, and logging in. Setup instructions can be found on YouTube. If not for the kid’s channels and the on-demand section, I’m not sure if it would be a good fit for casual viewers like myself. But any cinephile or tv show binger could easily get their money’s worth.



Story 43
Fetch TV has announced it has partnered with four Australia Free-To-Air (FTA) networks to introduce Virtual Playlist Channels (VPCs) for 7Plus, 9Now, 10 Play and SBS On Demand.
VPCs are a new Fetch TV format designed to bridge the linear and on-demand worlds, and will provide additional visibility of, and navigation to, the content available on the FTA Broadcast Video on Demand (BVOD) services via a dedicated listing on the Fetch EPG.
The VPCs will be scheduled by the FTAs, taking into consideration time of day and content popularity.
The new dual navigation VPC format recognises both he popularity of the FTA BVOD content and the enduring nature of the traditional EPG as the principal means of content discovery.
VPCs effectively expand the number of FTA channels available, while adding the functionality of an on-demand experience.
Fetch subscribers can select a current listing on the EPG or go forward in time to select a future listing.
All episodes selected commence from the start, with fast-forward and rewind functionality available.
According to Scott Lorson, Fetch TV CEO, consumer viewing behaviours continue to evolve.
“Fetch is committed to working with our content partners to provide the best possible user experience, one that caters to the diverse content discovery preferences of Australian households,” Lorson said.
“We are delighted to partner with the FTA networks to offer Fetch subscribers more choice, flexibility and convenience via the four new VPCs.”
Fetch introduced the NBCU’s Oxygen as its first VPC in January.
The new channel regularly ranks as a top 10 most popular non-kids’ channel on Fetch and consumers are utilising the dual navigation options with 89% of the show views originating via the EPG or Now & Next listings, while the rest comes from the dedicated Oxygen Catch Up app.

Story 44
Edison Power Group has been named the best electrical company in SA




Brian Mpono the Group Corporate Affairs Executive (left) and Edison Power Group Chairman, Vivian Reddy (right). Photo: Supplied DURBAN - Edison Power Group (EPG) owned by entrepreneur Vivian Reddy has been named the Best Electrical Company in South Africa for the 10th consecutive year. PMR. Africa Chief Executive, Johan Hattingh said that this was an unprecedented achievement for any business in South Africa. The company received its tenth Diamond Arrow Award at a Business Leaders event hosted by PMR Africa at the Royal Johannesburg & Kensington Club on 3rd June 2019.

Hattingh said, "This award is based on an annual research process where the respondents representing the Construction Industry in South Africa rated the Edison Power Group across a range of criteria and attributes such as Accommodating Client Requirements, Expertise, Quality, Responsiveness, Reputation, CSI and Timeousness".

"This award reflects the ethos of the Edison Power Group that is courage, professionalism and leadership," added Hattingh. Edison Power Group Chairman, Vivian Reddy said that the company’s philosophy was to deliver quality workmanship and outputs and he was glad they were being recognized for this. "I am really humbled by this award and all those that went before this.It is certainly in recognition of the hard work executed by our entire workforce. Bearing this in mind, I dedicate this award to the workers of Edison Power, who have sacrificed thousands of hours of hard work to satisfy our client base," said Reddy.
Edison Power Group has been a veritable rags to riches tale. Reddy began the company 3 decades ago with just R500 and a borrowed 1400 nissan half ton bakkie to create arguably the largest Electrical Contracting Company in South Africa.
His eureka moment came when he met Astronaut Neil Armstrong on a Boy Scout World Jamboree visit to Japan. Young Reddy on asking the first man on the moon for advice on his secret to success and was told "If You Dream It, You Can Achieve It".
'Persistence prevails when all else fails' has been Reddy’s mantra over the years.
Edison Power Group the most diversified Electrical Power Infrastructure business in Africa has also ventured into other specialists fields including: industrial electrification, transmission and distribution, smart energy solutions, utility services, communications solutions, power quality monitoring and renewable energy.
Following his successes, Reddy dedicated much of his life to philanthropic work. The Vivian Reddy Foundation and associated Trusts has contributed tens of millions of rands towards upliftment, educational, cultural and religious programmes.
Reddy, for his business and philanthropic successes has received numerous National & International Awards. Some of the awards include the UNISA Merit Award for Philanthropy, Lifetime Achiever Award in House of Commons London, World Tamil Economic Crown Jewel of the World Award, SA Institute of Black Property Practitioners (SAIBPP) for Transforming Property Sector Award and Father of the Nation Award for commitment to assisting destitute children and voted the Most Admired Business Person in KwaZulu-Natal.
He has been recognized by Forbes Magazine as “One of the leading entrepreneurs of Africa” and is a past winner of the SA Community Services Award owing to his humanitarian work.
KwaZulu-Natal Premier Sihle Zikalala praised Edison Power Group on its achievement. Zikalala said, "This is an outstanding example of a Black Empowerment Company leading the way. Edison’s professionalism and capabilities are the benchmark for electrical contractors across the African continent. Much of this is due to Mr Reddy’s efforts and resilience. We congratulate both him and his company and wish them many more successful years".
BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE

Story 45
Headlines about PSEC stock have trended extremely negative on Thursday, according to InfoTrie Sentiment Analysis. InfoTrie identifies positive and negative press coverage by monitoring more than six thousand news and blog sources in real time. The firm ranks coverage of publicly-traded companies on a scale of negative five to five, with scores nearest to five being the most favorable. Prospect Capital earned a news impact score of -4.0 on InfoTrie's scale. They also gave media stories about the financial services provider a news buzz of 0.0 out of 10, indicating that recent press coverage is extremely unlikely to have an effect on the stock's share price in the near future. View News Stories for Prospect Capital.

Story 46
South African pay-TV platform MultiChoice is planning to layoff 2,194 staff.
The company, which recently listed on the South African Stock Exchange following its split from Naspers, said the redundancies would be predominantly in customer services.
“This has not been an easy decision to make but, in a business driven by advancing technologies, we must continue to drive efficiencies yet be agile enough to adapt to evolving customer needs,” said MultiChoice Group Chief Executive Calvo Mawela.
“We must act decisively to align to the change in customer behaviour and competition from over-the-top services.”
Like pay-TV platforms in Europe and across the globe, Multichoice is coming under threat from streamers such as Netflix.
Under South Africa’s employment law a 60-day consultation period is required.
Such moves are particularly sensitive in a country where the unemployment rate currently stands at 27%.

Story 47
Vanguard Energy ETF (the Fund) is an exchange-traded share class of Vanguard Energy Index Fund. The Fund employs a passive management or indexing investment approach designed to track the performance of the Morgan Stanley Capital International (MSCI) US Investable Market Energy Index (the Index), an index of stocks of large, medium and small United States companies in the energy sector, as classified under the Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS). This GICS sector is made up of companies whose businesses are dominated by activities, such as the construction or provision of oil rigs, drilling equipment, and other energy-related service and equipment (such as seismic data collection), or companies engaged in the exploration, production, marketing, refining, and/or transportation of oil and gas products. The Vanguard Group, Inc., through its Quantitative Equity Group (QEG), serves as the investment advisor of the Fund.
Basic Details Issuer Vanguard Fund NameVanguard Energy ETF Tax ClassificationRegulated Investment Company SymbolNYSEARCA:VDE Inception Date9/23/2004 Fund ManagerWilliam Coleman, Awais Khan http://www.vanguard.com/ Web Phone+1-800-5231036 Fund Focus Asset ClassEquity BenchmarkMSCI US Investable Market Energy 25/50 Index CategorySector FocusEnergy Development LevelDeveloped Markets RegionNorth America Fund Statistics Assets Under Management$3.09 billion Average Daily Volume$311,334.30 Discount/Premium-0.06% ETF Expenses Management Fee0.08% Other Expenses0.02% Total Expenses0.10% Fee Waiver0.00% Net Expenses0.10% Administrator, Advisor and Custodian AdministratorThe Vanguard Group, Inc. AdvisorThe Vanguard Group, Inc. CustodianState Street Bank and Trust Company DistributorVanguard Marketing Corporation Transfer AgentThe Vanguard Group, Inc. Trustee Lead Market MakerPundion AMEX:VDE Rates by TradingView Receive VDE News and Ratings via Email Sign-up to receive the latest news and ratings for VDE and its competitors with MarketBeat's FREE daily newsletter.
Vanguard Energy ETF (NYSEARCA:VDE) Frequently Asked Questions What is Vanguard Energy ETF's stock symbol? Vanguard Energy ETF trades on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE)ARCA under the ticker symbol "VDE." How often does Vanguard Energy ETF pay dividends? What is the dividend yield for Vanguard Energy ETF? Vanguard Energy ETF announced a -- dividend on Thursday, September 26th. Stockholders of record on Friday, September 27th will be given a dividend of $0.6735 per share on Tuesday, October 1st. This represents a dividend yield of 3.4%. The ex-dividend date is Thursday, September 26th. View Vanguard Energy ETF's Dividend History. Has Vanguard Energy ETF been receiving favorable news coverage? News coverage about VDE stock has trended extremely negative this week, InfoTrie Sentiment Analysis reports. The research firm scores the sentiment of press coverage by reviewing more than six thousand news and blog sources in real time. The firm ranks coverage of public companies on a scale of -5 to 5, with scores closest to five being the most favorable. Vanguard Energy ETF earned a coverage optimism score of -4.0 on InfoTrie's scale. They also assigned news articles about the company a news buzz of 0.0 out of 10, meaning that recent press coverage is extremely unlikely to have an effect on the company's share price in the near future. View News Stories for Vanguard Energy ETF. What other stocks do shareholders of Vanguard Energy ETF own? Based on aggregate information from My MarketBeat watchlists, some companies that other Vanguard Energy ETF investors own include General Electric (GE), The Coca-Cola (KO), AbbVie (ABBV), IBM (IBM), Mcdonald's (MCD), AT&T (T), Verizon Communications (VZ), Exxon Mobil (XOM), Cisco Systems (CSCO) and NVIDIA (NVDA). Who are Vanguard Energy ETF's key executives? F. William McNabb III , Chairman of the Board of Trustee, President, Chief Executive Officer (Age 61)
, (Age 61) Thomas J. Higgins , Chief Financial Officer (Age 56)
, (Age 56) Kathryn J. Hyatt , Treasurer (Age 58)
, (Age 58) Heidi Stam , Secretary (Age 57)
, (Age 57) Emerson U. Fullwood , Independent Trustee (Age 69)
, (Age 69) Rajiv L. Gupta , Independent Trustee (Age 71)
, (Age 71) Amy Gutmann , Independent Trustee (Age 64)
, (Age 64) JoAnn H Heisen , Independent Trustee (Age 63)
, (Age 63) F. Joseph Loughrey , Trustee (Age 69) Vanguard Energy ETF's management team includes the folowing people: Who are Vanguard Energy ETF's major shareholders? Vanguard Energy ETF's stock is owned by a variety of of institutional and retail investors. Top institutional investors include Beacon Capital Management Inc. (3.43%), Wealthfront Advisers LLC (2.94%), Envestnet Asset Management Inc. (1.31%), Allied Investment Advisors LLC (0.30%), Commonwealth Equity Services LLC (0.28%) and California Capital Advisors Inc. (0.12%). Which major investors are selling Vanguard Energy ETF stock? VDE stock was sold by a variety of institutional investors in the last quarter, including Wealthfront Advisers LLC, Beacon Capital Management Inc., Bray Capital Advisors, Dowling & Yahnke LLC, Ledyard National Bank, Wagner Bowman Management Corp, California Capital Advisors Inc. and WP Advisors LLC. Which major investors are buying Vanguard Energy ETF stock? VDE stock was bought by a variety of institutional investors in the last quarter, including Envestnet Asset Management Inc., Allied Investment Advisors LLC, Sepio Capital LLC, Starfire Investment Advisers Inc., Sage Rhino Capital LLC, Grove Bank & Trust, Affiance Financial LLC and Commonwealth Equity Services LLC. How do I buy shares of Vanguard Energy ETF? Shares of VDE can be purchased through any online brokerage account. Popular online brokerages with access to the U.S. stock market include Vanguard Brokerage Services, TD Ameritrade, E*TRADE, Robinhood, Fidelity and Charles Schwab. What is Vanguard Energy ETF's stock price today? One share of VDE stock can currently be purchased for approximately $76.35. How big of a company is Vanguard Energy ETF? Vanguard Energy ETF has a market capitalization of $3.02 billion. View Additional Information About Vanguard Energy ETF. What is Vanguard Energy ETF's official website? The official website for Vanguard Energy ETF is http://www.vanguard.com/. How can I contact Vanguard Energy ETF? Vanguard Energy ETF's mailing address is P.O. Box 1110, Valley Forge, 19482, United States. The company can be reached via phone at +1-800-5231036.
MarketBeat Community Rating for Vanguard Energy ETF (NYSEARCA VDE)
Community Ranking: 2.5 out of 5 ( ) Outperform Votes: 65 (Vote Outperform) Underperform Votes: 66 (Vote Underperform) Total Votes: 131
MarketBeat's community ratings are surveys of what our community members think about Vanguard Energy ETF and other stocks. Vote "Outperform" if you believe VDE will outperform the S&P 500 over the long term. Vote "Underperform" if you believe VDE will underperform the S&P 500 over the long term. You may vote once every thirty days.

Story 48
Image source: The Motley Fool.
South Jersey Industries Inc (NYSE: SJI)
Q1 2019 Earnings Call
, 11:00 a.m. ET
Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Q1 2019 South Jersey Industries' Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct the question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder, this call may be recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference, Dan Fidell. Please go ahead.
Daniel Fidell -- Vice President of Investor Relations
Thanks, Chris. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to SJI's first quarter earnings conference call and webcast. I'm joined here today by Mike Renna, our President Chief Executive Officer, as well as several additional members of our Senior Management team.
Our earnings release and the presentation slides that accompany the call were issued yesterday after the close of the market, and are also available on our website at www.sjindustries.com. The release and the associated 10-Q provide an in-depth review of earnings on both the GAAP and non-GAAP basis using our non-GAAP measure of economic earnings. Reconciliations of economic earnings to the comparable GAAP measures appear in both documents.
Let me note that through today's call, we will be making references to future expectations, plans and opportunities for SJI. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these statements as a result of various important factors, including those discussed in the company's forms 10-K and 10-Q, which are on file with the SEC.
With that said, I'm pleased to introduce our CEO, Mike Renna, who will discuss our current earnings performance, guidance and outlook. SJI's Chief Financial Officer, Cielo Hernandez, will then review the financial performance of our individual segments and our balance sheet. Mike will then offer some final remarks. After that, we'll then be happy to take your questions.
So, with that introduction, let me now turn it over to Mike.
Michael Renna -- President & Chief Executive Officer
Thanks, Dan, and thank you all for joining us today. Hopefully, you've had an opportunity to review our earnings release and our slide deck. Before we dig into the first quarter details, I want to give you an update on our business transformation initiative. As you know, the last two years have been transformational for SJI, bringing with them greater opportunity than at any time in our company's history.
We've shifted our strategy and composition, acquiring two well-run natural gas utilities and cementing our profile as a dynamic, yet still heavily regulated entity. As these utilities are integrated into SJI in conjunction with a broader business transformation effort, we remain focused on achieving best practices and continuous improvement across our combined organization.
Simultaneously, we have shared our non-core, non-regulated solar and retail gas assets. These efforts are designed to reduce earnings volatility, improve our overall earnings quality and support our shift to a more utility-driven growth path. Further, we had to absorb and overcome the tighter spreads and limited opportunities for optimization in wholesale markets. It has been, without question, an exceptionally exciting time in the SJI's story.
While our first quarter results reflect some of the transition year timing pressures associated with our transformation, results, overall, met our expectations and those we set for the investment community. We have, today, reaffirmed our 2019 economic earnings guidance of $1.05 per share to $1.15 per share. More importantly, we're building on a foundation of solid regulator performance. And today, we are initiating 2020 economic earnings guidance of $1.53 per share to $1.57 per share, a 45% increase from our 2017 performance and our 2019 -- from our 2019 midpoint.
Overall, we expect roughly half of our growth to be attributable to earnings improvement from customer growth and planned regulatory initiatives in our utilities, with the balance owing to our Midstream investment, improving our non-utility operations, productivity and efficiency gains stemming from our business transformation initiatives.
Story continues
With regard to ETG and Elkton, the integration remains largely efficient and seamless process, thanks to the hard work of our dedicated employees, with full integration on track to be completed in Q1 2020. Leveraging people, process and technology, we have been able to cost effectively absorb Elizabethtown and Elkton, while simultaneously driving down costs and increasing efficiencies across all of our businesses. These efforts are the linchpin of our growth plans into 2020 and beyond.
On the regulatory front, we have two significant initiatives under way at Elizabethtown. In October, we filed an infrastructure replacement program proposal, very similar to the plan we have in place for SDG. We've begun settlement discussions and expect a final decision from the BPU in 2019.
In April, we also filed a petition with the NJBPU, requesting a revenue increase of roughly $65 million to recover approximately $346 million in system improvements that are not currently reflected in base rates. We expect settlement discussions to begin later this year, followed by a final order in line with precedent from prior cases. Finally, on the financial front, we continue to strengthen our balance sheet via repayment of debt from non-core assets sales and remain focused on further improving our credit metrics.
Looking forward, our priorities for the balance of 2019 remain unchanged. We are focused on completing our review of our remaining non-core, non-regulated businesses, continuing to effectively integrate our Elizabethtown and Elkton acquisitions, including the winding down of our TSA with Southern, achieving significant cost savings from our business transformation initiatives and effectively executing our pending regulatory proceedings, all of which provide the foundation for the anticipated 6% to 8% earnings-per-share growth annually.
With that, I'll now turn it over to Cielo to review our operational performance.
Cielo Hernandez -- Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
Thank you, Mike. Good morning, everyone. As Dan noted earlier, post the economics, the earnings release and the slide deck we have made available will provide you dictating permission regarding GAAP earnings, and I encourage you to review that information as well. For this call, we will focus our discussions on our non-GAAP measure of economic earnings. As management believes, this measure provides valuable insight into our business performance.
SJI's first quarter of economic earnings per share totaled $1.09 as compared with $1.26 per share in 2018. In line with our expectations, 2019 economic earnings were $99.4 million as compared with 2018 economic earnings of $100.4 million. The quarterly variance reflects the addition of ETG and Elkton, and improved results of South Jersey Gas, Midstream and Energy Services that were offset by lower results at Energy Group. Q1 2019 results also reflects the pressure of integration in acquisition financing costs as well as share dilution.
Now, I will review the first quarter performance drivers of each of our business segments. Our gas utilities contributed earnings of $1.09 per share compared with $0.84 per share in 2018. The improvement primarily reflects the addition of ETG and Elkton operations acquired in July 2018 as well as their role in our investments for infrastructure replacement and customer growth. Our net customer growth across our utilities was 1.4% over the last 12 months. Our growth rate remains above the national average.
With close to three quarters of its additions coming from conversions, the South Jersey Gas growth rate reached 1.9%. These contributions reflect our commitment to growth from regulated investments and initiatives, as well as our partnership with BPU. We expect both South Jersey Gas and ETG to maintain this strong partnership in support of our customers across New Jersey. Midstream earnings were $0.01 per share, reflecting AFUDC-related to PennEast Pipeline Project, which was generally consistent with 2018.
Turning to our non-regulated operations, Energy Group contributed economic earnings per share of $0.08 compared to $0.45 last year. The decline in results reflects several items; lower margins of daily energy trading activities tied to tighter spreads, less favorable weather and new pipeline operating rules that limited asset optimization opportunities.
First quarter 2019 results were also impacted by headwinds associated with several legacy contracts, which begin to roll off in 2020. First quarter 2019 result should also be evaluated in light of the various strong wholesale gas market conditions that existed during the same period in 2018.
Energy Services results improved by $0.02 per share versus last year, reflecting the announced sale of our solar assets to an entity managed by Goldman Sachs Asset Management, in June 2018. Through the end of the first quarter, we received over $300 million of the $350 million solid agreement. Turning now to capital spending, first quarter the spend totaled $108.8 million, and we remain on track for approximately the $530 million in capital spending in 2019. In 2019, we further strengthened our balance sheet. As of March 31, 2019, equity to total capitalization was 35.1%, up significantly compared with 28.9% at December 31, 2018. This reflects the issuance of our equity forward in January, and $400 million in debt repayments using proceeds from non-core asset sales.
As previously communicated, our growth plan embeds our mandatory convertible equity units of $287.5 million due in 2021. Including conversion, our adjusted equity to total capitalization ratio in non-GAAP measure was 39.1% at March 31, 2019, and 35.3% at December 31, 2018. As a reminder, we remain committed to further strengthening of our balance sheet. And we anticipated that any proceeds from potential sales of remaining non-core, non-regulated assets will be deployed for additional debt repayment.
That concludes my review of operational performance and the balance sheet.
I will now turn it back to Mike for his concluding remarks. Thank you.
Michael Renna -- President, Chief Executive Officer, Director
Thank you, Cielo. As I conclude my remarks, I want to thank our approximately 1,100 dedicated employees for their outstanding work. As always, they remain the driving force behind our results and our ability to execute the strong growth path we've outlined for you.
Operator, that concludes our prepared remarks. We are now ready to open the line for questions.
Questions and Answers:
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions)
And our first question comes from the line of Dennis Coleman with Bank of America. Your line is now open.
Dennis Coleman -- Bank of America Merrill Lynch -- Analyst
Yes. Hi. Good morning.
Daniel Fidell -- Vice President of Investor Relations
Good morning.
Michael Renna -- President, Chief Executive Officer, Director
Good morning, Dennis.
Dennis Coleman -- Bank of America Merrill Lynch -- Analyst
Thanks for the call. Maybe, if we could just pick up on some of the priorities that you listed on Slide 3. You talked about reviewing remaining non-core assets, and one of the questions we've heard is, would you consider divesting the wholesale business? You've done quite a lot already, but that's one of the ones that still has some growth to it.
Michael Renna -- President & Chief Executive Officer
Thanks, Dennis. Good morning. I think it's fair to say that, with the exception of our utilities, we would certainly be open to considering anything as it relates to our non-utility businesses. Although we have identified our wholesale business as core, it is an area that, despite some challenges currently in the market, it has performed well for us. Historically, it is a -- it's not a capital-intensive business.
We have designed it to operate from a very low risk platform. So, right now, we do view it as being complementary and a critical part of our future. But that's not to say that if there was a market out there that we'd be able to capture and monetize the business with a commanding premium, that we wouldn't consider it -- I mean, I think we'd have to consider any kind of opportunity like that.
Dennis Coleman -- Bank of America Merrill Lynch -- Analyst
Okay. Thank you for that. I guess...
Michael Renna -- President & Chief Executive Officer
Go ahead. I'm sorry.
Dennis Coleman -- Bank of America Merrill Lynch -- Analyst
Sorry. I was going to just switch to the redundancy project alternatives. With the BL England offline, you've indicated you're pursuing different options. And in the release, you talked about an equity issuance to support those efforts. I wonder, if there's any more details you might be able to add there?
Michael Renna -- President & Chief Executive Officer
Yeah. We don't have specific to share it in terms of what a potential project would look like. Maybe, I'll just kind of take a little bit of a step back. We view redundancy as having two components to it. One would be system redundancy. That would be the kind of redundancy that would be afforded by a BL England replacement project. That is to ensure that all of our customers have a redundancy and we maintain continuity of service, should there be some kind of an interruption right now.
We believe that we have some exposure, and we believe that our regulators are supportive of us, addressing that exposure, when we have roughly 140,000 customers who were served off of a single aided distribution line. We are addressing that redundancy. That redundancy would have been addressed with the BL England project, so we are exploring alternatives.
And we're looking to do that with really two things in mind. The affordability, right, making sure that whatever we do minimizes the impact on customer bills, and expediency, making sure that we can get it permitted and in place in the shortest time possible.
The other type of redundancy is supply redundancy. And that would be a project designed to protect us against an interstate supply interruption, particularly in heavy usage months. So, that's a different type of project. It's more capital-intensive. And that would involve either -- there's really two options that we think. One would be another feed off of a third interstate pipeline, which we think would take a lot of time, and particularly, on the permitting and construction front, or perhaps as we've mentioned before, large scale LNG.
We are kind of finalizing our decision in our design around both of those projects. We've also said to the second point with that, the equity that we would raise would be to support redundancy projects. And depending, again, on the size and the scope of particularly, the supply redundancy project, we had targeted $125 million of equity to support that project. Our guidance range reflects equity that may be less or may be a little bit more depending on the size of that project.
So, we have $125 million out there right now, and that, again, is really designed or it's specifically related to that project. I can't say that any equity investment that we would -- or any additional equity that we would raise would be supported by a utility project and the revenues that would come from that project.
Dennis Coleman -- Bank of America Merrill Lynch -- Analyst
Okay. That's great. Thanks for all the detail there. A couple -- just a little more detail, given that you mentioned the guidance. And thanks for the 2020 guidance. I think that should help people understand that this is transition 2019, but I assume it is, but just to confirm, the Elizabethtown rate case is in that guidance, and you've sort of guided or, at least, sort of stated you think it will settle someplace along the lines of past rate cases. Is that how we should think about that being represented in the 2020 guidance?
Michael Renna -- President & Chief Executive Officer
I'm going to ask ask Dave Robbins, who is the President of our Utilities, to speak to that.
David Robbins -- Senior Vice President
Yeah, it's absolutely in the 2020 guidance. I mean we've invested about $134 million of prudent capital into their system, which is really driving the filing of that case. We file it. We expect discovery to begin soon. So, we expect it to be settled in a kind of a standard time frame, and the 2020 numbers reflect that.
Dennis Coleman -- Bank of America Merrill Lynch -- Analyst
Right. Okay. And then, last one for me and sorry for just to dig a little deeper, but there were some conversation or statements about pipeline rules limiting optimization as having impact on the quarter. Could you share a little more specifics on that?
Steven Cocchi -- Senior Vice President & Chief Strategy and Development Officer
Yeah. Dennis, hi. It's Steve Cocchi. Yeah, this is something that we've talked about before. When we look back at the volatility and what we were able to take advantage of in the first quarter of 2018 in the wholesale business, a lot of the uptick that we saw in the numbers that year were related to being able to optimize our transportation and storage on certain pipelines.
And because of the demand coming out of the extremely cold winter that we had at the beginning of 2018, the pipelines have changed their operating rules. That don't allow us to take advantage of the ability to move secondary and things of that nature that kind of inhibit our ability to really maximize the value of some of the capacity that we own. It's really -- again, it's something that the pipelines did coming out of the demand that they saw in an extremely cold early 2018.
Dennis Coleman -- Bank of America Merrill Lynch -- Analyst
Okay. Thanks for the reminder there. That's it for me.
Steven Cocchi -- Senior Vice President & Chief Strategy and Development Officer
Thanks, Dennis.
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions)
And our next question comes from the line of Tate Sullivan with Maxim Group. Your line is now open.
Tate Sullivan -- Maxim Group -- Analyst
Hi. Thank you. Thanks and good morning. Michael, a couple...
Michael Renna -- President & Chief Executive Officer
Good morning, Tate.
Steven Cocchi -- Senior Vice President & Chief Strategy and Development Officer
Hey, Tate.
Tate Sullivan -- Maxim Group -- Analyst
Good morning. Hey, a couple of questions to learn more about the Elizabethtown service territory. And are there any redundancy -- potential redundancy issues there? Or most of what you talked about redundancy as is related to your legacy territory?
Michael Renna -- President & Chief Executive Officer
I will -- I'll let Dave speak a little bit more about that because he's got a greater familiarity and understanding of their -- the specifics as it relates to their territory. What I do know is that, our -- South Jersey Gas Company has served off of two interstate pipelines. So, obviously, if you were to -- if you were to have an interruption on one of them, we would not be able to meet the needs of our customers, particularly in the winter. The demand is just -- it would outstrip the capacity of the interstate pipeline. There are a number of pipelines that serve our Elizabethtown territories, but they come into three different city gates. And so, the redundancy issue may exist. I think it's something that they're evaluating right now, but I'll ask Dave to speak more on that.
David Robbins -- Senior Vice President
Yeah. I mean it's not as pronounced as the needs of South Jersey Gas because, as Mike mentioned, we're only served by two interstates. That's probably a project that we're going to spend more time on a little bit further down the road because there is not as pressing a need, but it probably makes sense that somewhere on their system to put a large scale LNG would make sense. But we haven't identified that opportunity just yet.
Tate Sullivan -- Maxim Group -- Analyst
Okay. That was related to my other question, and you answered the -- you gave some detail on the Elizabethtown rate case, and I'm looking at your Slide 16, with the Elizabethtown CapEx guidance for '20. Are there other projects -- your potential projects you can talk about in the Elizabethtown service territory? Or is it early beyond the pipe replacement effort?
David Robbins -- Senior Vice President
No, I think that CapEx at ETG just reflects new growth opportunity, it reflects compliance and baseband, and then, certainly, it assumes that we receive approval of our infrastructure program. So, they're really the three main components of the ETG capital numbers.
Tate Sullivan -- Maxim Group -- Analyst
Okay. Thank you. And then, last on Elizabethtown is, has the customer -- I see the customer growth rate in Elizabethtown versus the South Jersey Gas, is the customer growth in Elizabethtown what you expected? And what are the different dynamics in the two service territories, please?
David Robbins -- Senior Vice President
I see the ETG number as the opportunity. So, I believe that under Southern ownership, there wasn't much of a focus on growth. They were really focused on operating efficiency, which they have done very well. And if you look at our customer growth number at South Jersey Gas at 1.9, we believe that we have a model that's portable. So, we are transferring that model to ETG, ramping up the sales and marketing efforts. We believe there's ample opportunity for both convergent customers and new construction up there. So, we expect to make the investments to significantly invest the ETG customer growth number.
Michael Renna -- President & Chief Executive Officer
Tate, this is Mike. I'll jump in a little bit too. They are very different topographies as well. Southern New Jersey, it's flat, it's largely sand. So, running new main and distribution has a different set of economics than it does in Elizabethtown, particularly, if you look at the northern part or sort of the central part of Elizabethtown, it's very densely populated. So, things like street openings and a lot of that construction up there can be a little bit more costly than it is in Southern New Jersey. But on the western part of the territory, the one that hugs the Delaware River, it's mountainous and very rocky. So, again, it's just -- some of the growth is really driven by the actual -- the inherent differences in the service territories themselves.
David Robbins -- Senior Vice President
I think that's certainly true. But I do believe that we have the opportunity to significantly improve upon the 0.8%. And we're already seeing some encouraging signs. So, look for that number to go north as we move forward.
Tate Sullivan -- Maxim Group -- Analyst
Yeah. Great. Thank you for all that detail. Have a good day.
Michael Renna -- President, Chief Executive Officer, Director
Thanks, Tate.
Operator
And that does conclude today -- we do have -- actually have a question that just came in from the line of Stephen Byrd with Morgan Stanley. Your line is now open.
David Arcaro -- Morgan Stanley -- Analyst
Hi. Thanks. This is Dave Arcaro on for Stephen. Thanks for taking my question. Had a...
Michael Renna -- President, Chief Executive Officer, Director
Good morning, Dave.
David Arcaro -- Morgan Stanley -- Analyst
...a bit of a clarification -- good morning. Looking at the capital plan, looking into 2020, noticed some shifting in the proportions of CapEx between SJG and EPG, I'm wondering if you could talk a little bit about what was driving one up and the other down?
Michael Renna -- President, Chief Executive Officer, Director
All right. I'll have Dave jump in and provide more detail. I think really fundamentally what you're seeing in 2020 in that shift are identified larger scale, more capital-intensive projects in South Jersey Gas, again, related to things that we just discussed with redundancy. And so, there has been a little bit of a shift in spending it. As we try to, obviously, again, optimize our capital structure and our balance sheet as well.
David Robbins -- Senior Vice President
But yeah, I think one of the drivers of 2019 -- we had our SHARP II program approved last year. So, there's going to be significant spend in our second accelerator program at SJG and we have a large scale compressor station that is in the '19 numbers as well. On the ETG side, there, we're going to be spending quite a few dollars on standing up their IT systems. So, there are some dollars in there for ETG as well.
David Arcaro -- Morgan Stanley -- Analyst
Okay. Got it. Thanks. That's helpful color. I was also curious on the Midstream side of things, looking at the outlook into 2020, it was a bit higher than we were expecting and looking back at the Analyst Day. But I was wondering, if you could talk about -- on the Midstream side, if there are any drivers of an increase versus your expectations on Analyst Day, kind of what implied ROE is being baked in there? Or are there extra CapEx dollars? Any color on that would be helpful.
Steven Cocchi -- Senior Vice President & Chief Strategy and Development Officer
This is Steve. I don't have the Investor Day numbers at my fingertips at the moment. But I think anything that would have changed since then really is just timing of CapEx. We've not changed our expectations as to the ROE we would expect from that project, once it's in service or the in-service date.
David Arcaro -- Morgan Stanley -- Analyst
Okay. Got it. And could you remind me what is the ROE that's expected once the full -- once the project goes into service, post AFUDC period?
Steven Cocchi -- Senior Vice President & Chief Strategy and Development Officer
That's not something that we disclosed publicly. It's something that is negotiated with FERC, so it's...
Michael Renna -- President, Chief Executive Officer, Director
Yeah. We have -- yeah. The project is fully subscribed and 85% of those volumes are under confidential negotiated contracts with our base shippers. So, what we have said is that, we would expect to get FERC like returns, but we have not given any real detail as to what the exact ROE is. It's all negotiated.
David Arcaro -- Morgan Stanley -- Analyst
Okay. Got it. Thanks so much for the color.
Michael Renna -- President, Chief Executive Officer, Director
Got it.
Steven Cocchi -- Senior Vice President & Chief Strategy and Development Officer
Thanks, Dave.
Operator
Thank you. We do have a follow-up question from the line of Tate Sullivan with Maxim Group. Your line is now open.
Tate Sullivan -- Maxim Group -- Analyst
Hey, thanks for taking my follow up. Mike, I think you mentioned earlier, the wind down of the transition service agreement with Southern. Can you describe a little more how that work? Is it based on -- did you make bulk cash payments related to that? Or is it within the income that you repeat on Elizabethtown on a consistent basis over the year?
Michael Renna -- President, Chief Executive Officer, Director
The actual mechanics of the TSA, it's a part of the settlement agreement. The assets purchase agreement was a -- basically, a rate that we expected based on the amount of services that we would be receiving from Southern, which, over the past or over the 18 months or so, that we were expecting to be under the TSA, would reflect, again, our migration off of the TSA.
I think the two really important things, Tate, are we would expect to be off the services component of a -- somewhere around the middle of this year. That is the -- that's the dispatch function, that's the customer service support function, and a number of the other services that were provided out of Atlanta or Chicago, that were really kind of essential to utility operations. We have -- we're continuing to progress in terms of hours stating those service or those functions up, and allowing us to migrate off of them.
The other big piece, which is a little bit longer of a runway is the -- are the systems. We had to, basically, build all of the systems necessary to run a utility. So, from customer billing, to a financial system, to work management system, all of those systems -- they are Southern property. They are remaining with Southern's though. Before we can exit fully off the PSA, we have to have those systems up and running. And that is probably, I think, right now, we're targeting a first quarter -- early first quarter 2020 exit from the systems.
Tate Sullivan -- Maxim Group -- Analyst
Okay. Thank you. And real quickly, cash flow from operations in the quarter was $200 million. That usually drops in the second quarter. Was there something abnormal in the quarter?
Cielo Hernandez -- Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
No. No. There is nothing abnormal in the quarter.
Tate Sullivan -- Maxim Group -- Analyst
Okay. Thank you. Okay. Thanks for taking the follow-ups.
Operator
Thank you. And we do have a follow-up from the line of Stephen Byrd with Morgan Stanley. Your line is now open.
David Arcaro -- Morgan Stanley -- Analyst
Hi. Thanks. Dave Arcaro again here. Just had one more quick question around Elizabethtown. I was just wondering, if you were to get the equity layer of 52% as requested, I'm wondering if you'd be able to fit that into your current financing plans? Or if that might require potentially just equity? Or how you might go about financing such an equity layer?
Ann Anthony -- Treasurer
Sure. This is Ann Anthony. So, I don't think that we would envision additional equity needs in order to actually achieve that equity layer down at Elizabethtown. We will be able to accommodate that within the current financing plan.
David Arcaro -- Morgan Stanley -- Analyst
Got it. Thanks so much.
Operator
Thank you. And that does conclude today's question-and-answer session. I would now like to turn the call back to Dan Fidell for any further remarks.
Daniel Fidell -- Vice President of Investor Relations
Great. Thank you all for joining us this morning. We look forward to meeting with many of you at the upcoming AGA Financial Forum. And we wish you all safe travels, of course. As a reminder, a recording of our call today is -- will be available on our website. As always, please feel free to contact either myself, Dan Fidell, or Eric Jacobson for analysts and investor questions, or Marissa Travaline for media inquiries. Our contact information may be found on our earnings release and earning presentation materials.
Again, thank you for joining us today and for your continued interest and investment in SJI. This concludes our call. Have a good day.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude today's program. You may all have a great day and please disconnect.
Duration: 35 minutes
Call participants:
Daniel Fidell -- Vice President of Investor Relations
Michael Renna -- President & Chief Executive Officer
Cielo Hernandez -- Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
Michael Renna -- President, Chief Executive Officer, Director
David Robbins -- Senior Vice President
Steven Cocchi -- Senior Vice President & Chief Strategy and Development Officer
Ann Anthony -- Treasurer
Dennis Coleman -- Bank of America Merrill Lynch -- Analyst
Tate Sullivan -- Maxim Group -- Analyst
David Arcaro -- Morgan Stanley -- Analyst
More SJI analysis
All earnings call transcripts
AlphaStreet Logo More
More From The Motley Fool
This article is a transcript of this conference call produced for The Motley Fool. While we strive for our Foolish Best, there may be errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in this transcript. As with all our articles, The Motley Fool does not assume any responsibility for your use of this content, and we strongly encourage you to do your own research, including listening to the call yourself and reading the company's SEC filings. Please see our Terms and Conditions for additional details, including our Obligatory Capitalized Disclaimers of Liability.
Motley Fool Transcribers has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.

Story 49
Imdaad, a Dubai-based provider of facilities management (FM) services, has been awarded a $1.6m (AED6m) contract by Emirates Post Group (EPG).
EPG's postal operational division and subsidiaries consist of Wall Street Exchange Centre and Electronic Documents Centre, and offer a range of postal, logistic, and specialised financial services.
The one-year integrated FM (IFM) contract is extendable by two years, and spans all of EPG's branches in the UAE.
Imdaad's network operations centre in Jebel Ali, Imtedaad, will be connected to EPG's building in Umm Ramool to implement energy conservation processes.
READ: Imdaad charts $16m acquisition plan for 2017
The contract covers the maintenance of EPG's buildings and facilities, through services encompassing civil works, and electrical, and heating, ventilating, and air-conditioning (HVAC), and mechanical operations.
Due to commence on 15 June, 2017, the contract will see the mobilisation of more than 70 staff from Imdaad.
Remarking on the contract win, Jamal Abdulla Lootah, group CEO of Imdaad, said: "This partnership illustrates our proven capabilities to roll out quality-driven integrated FM solutions, designed to optimise the reliability of all building services across EPG’s branches throughout the UAE.
"Preventative, including regular maintenance, improves the reliability, efficiency, life span, and operating costs of HVAC and mechanical, electrical, and plumbing (MEP) systems.
"[This saves] companies considerable amounts of money [and] also encourages a more responsible attitude towards energy management, reduced carbon emissions as well as potential water leaks, which ultimately lowers utility bills."
READ: Imdaad employee wins fmME Awards 2017 Young Facilities Manager honours
Sami Mohammed Alkhaja, chief support services offer at EPG, said Imdaad was picked for its experience as both, an FM and energy management specialist.
He added: "We selected Imdaad because we want our customers to be happy when they see our facilities at EPG, where our services are enhanced and the very latest technical solutions are implemented.
"We also want to ensure that our branches operate as energy efficiently as possible and we feel confident that Imdaad has the proficiency to manage this process."

Story 50
The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) has released a new consultation paper to seek views on issues related to platform service channels offered by Direct-to-Home (DTH) service providers.
Platform services are programming channels offered by distribution platform operators (DPO) that are not obtained from broadcasters and are offered as value-added services to consumers. This also serves as an additional source of revenues for DPOs as they typically charge a subscription fee for these services, besides earning ad-revenues. In a statement, the regulator said that it received a reference from the Information & Broadcasting (I&B) Ministry this July to give its recommendations on platform services with reference to DTH guidelines.
Annual fee
In the consultation paper, the regulator has sought views of the stakeholders on various issues such as the quantum of registration fee/annual fee that should be charged for each platform service channel offered by the distribution platform.
“The I&B Ministry, in the reference, has also sought recommendations on whether one-time registration fee can be considered for enhancement to ₹1 lakh per PS channel as against ₹1,000 per PS channel recommended earlier by the Authority,” TRAI said in a statement.
Other issues pertain to whether platform service channels should be available exclusively on a particular DTH service provider and the maximum number of platform services channels a DTH operator should be allowed to offer.
“Whether PS channels should be placed separately on EPG to distinguish them from regular TV channels? If yes, how these channels are to be placed?,” is among the other key queries on which the regulator has sought stakeholder views.

Story 51
Edison Power Group brightening women's lives




Edison Power Group chairperson Vivian Reddy and group corporate affairs executive Brian Mpono with the 10th PMR.africa Diamond Arrow Award the firm was awarded for being the Best Electrical Company in South Africa. Leon Lestrade African News Agency (ANA) As South Africans celebrated Madiba’s birthday by giving up 67 minutes of their time to improve the lives of the less fortunate, Edison Power Group (EPG) went a notch up to guarantee a bright future for 21-year-old Philile Jessica Mngadi and many other young women. The 40-year-old company owned by respected entrepreneur Vivian Reddy has sent the young woman who hails from eNanda, in the valley of eMzinyathi, north-west of Durban, to represent EPG as well as South Africa at the 45th Edition of the World Skills Competition in Kazan, Russia, this year. Brian Mpono, 35, EPG’s group corporate affairs executive in South Africa’s oldest black-owned electrical power giant, said the move was a deliberate step to bringing more women into the sector. He said they were proud to be the first company to radically drive transformation through skills development and transfer. “The depth of experience and knowledge that has flanked Philile over the past three years of her apprenticeship at Edison Power is far beyond the text book,” said Mpono, the company’s youngest executive tasked with the responsibility of driving EPG’s expansion into the rest of Africa.
“Many have questioned us, asking why there aren’t any (black) women at the forefront of South Africa’s electrical power giant.
“The simple answer is that for many years the engineering field as a whole has had some serious catching up to do when it comes to levelling the playing field and represent the country’s demographics post 1994,” he said.
Mpono said it was important for EPG, as a black-owned company, to play a huge part and lead from the front as Africa’s most diversified electrical power company.
Philile Mngadi is to represent EPG as well as South Africa at the 45th Edition of the World Skills Competition in Kazan, Russia, this year.
“It might not dent the colour or gender lines immediately but our recent accolade is indicative of the visionary foresight Edison Power Group established 40 years ago.
“No immediate reference to executive chairman and founder Vivian Reddy himself. Rather though, the seed and vision he planted 40 years ago,” he said.
The accolade Mpono was referring to is that of EPG being named the Best Electrical Company in South Africa for the 10th consecutive year.
Consultancy firm PMR Africa’s chief executive Johan Hattingh said this was an unprecedented achievement for any business in South Africa.
The company received its 10th Diamond Arrow Award at a glittering Business Leaders event at the Royal Johannesburg & Kensington Club last month.
Hattingh added: “This award is based on an annual research process where the respondents representing the construction industry in South Africa rated the Edison Power Group across a range of criteria and attributes such as accommodating client requirements, expertise, quality, responsiveness, reputation, and punctuality.
“This award reflects the ethos of the Edison Power that is courage, professionalism and leadership.”
Reddy said the company’s philosophy was to deliver quality workmanship and outputs, and he was glad they were being recognised for this.
“I am really humbled by this award and all those that went before this. It is certainly in recognition of the commitment to hard work and dedication executed by our entire workforce at Edison Power Group.
“Bearing this in mind, I dedicate this award to the workers of Edison Power, who have sacrificed thousands of hours of hard work to satisfy our client base, allow me to mention my chief executive officer of the Power Division, Bazil Govender, who leads the team with force and determination where excellence and quality is the mantra,” Reddy said.
Mpono said EPG’s apprenticeship programme proves that skills development was the cornerstone to its excellence through uplifting young women such as Mngadi.
“The company is focused on skills development. Recently Philile Mngadi, a third year electrical apprentice at Edison Power, powered her way through the World Skills Competition,” he said.
The first leg was the regional competition held in Durban where she won. She went on further to win at provincial level.
“Then took top honours at the national competition. The next step for her is the 45th World Skills finals set to take place on August 22 to 27.
“What an honourable and prestigious way to also celebrate the month of women,” Mpono said.
EPG has been a veritable rags to riches tale.
Reddy began the company four decades ago with just R500 and a borrowed Nissan bakkie to create arguably the largest black owned electrical contracting company in South Africa.
Reddy’s eureka moment came when he met astronaut Neil Armstrong on a Boy Scout World Jamboree visit to Japan. Young Reddy on asking the first man on the moon for an advice on his secret to success and was told: “If You Dream It, You Can Achieve It.”
“Persistence prevails when all else fails.” This has been the 66-year-old entrepreneur’s mantra over the years.
Besides the company having the most diversified electrical power infrastructure business in Africa, it has also ventured into other specialist fields, including industrial electrification, transmission and distribution, smart energy solutions, utility services, communications solutions, power quality monitoring and renewable energy.
Following his successes, Reddy dedicated much of his life to philanthropic work.
The Vivian Reddy Foundation and associated Trusts have contributed millions of rand towards upliftment, educational, cultural and religious programmes.
Reddy, for his business and philanthropic successes, has received numerous national and international awards.
He has been recognised by Forbes Magazine as “one of the leading entrepreneurs of Africa”, and is a past winner of the South African Community Services Award owing to his humanitarian work.

Story 52
The Vader pirate IPTV service provider has announced its end through Telegram.
The operators urge users and re-sellers to accept the losses and move on, as they will also do.
The exact reason for the shut down is unknown, but Vader admins have implied pressure from outside.
Vader, one of the most successful and recognizable pirate IPTV service providers out there has announced the cessation of its operations. The people behind the illicit IPTV platform assert worried users that no customer information will ever reach the authorities or copyright holders. While the rumors for an imminent end of the Vader service have been piling up during the past couple of weeks, the service administrators have finally confirmed the end officially through their Telegram channel, where they posted the following message:
“We have no choice but to close down Vader. We can’t reveal much publically, but by now some of you should know through the other means what happened. We tried everything in our power to avoid this, to avoid any outage, but enough people worked against us. We’re going to make sure, no Email, IP, account + re-seller name goes to the wrong hands. Everything will be wiped clean, and that’s all.”
So, from this announcement, it becomes evident that Vader was forced to an end by those concerned by its existence. Also, the “outage” and “worked against us” parts indicate technical problems and possible attacks against their infrastructure. Persistently DDoSing the service could be a potential scenario here, but no further details were given right now anyway, and the actual means of bringing Vader to its end doesn’t matter much anyway.
With the IPTV platform service being over now, there is the issue of the subscribers who had months still left in their plan, as well as the re-sellers who had prepaid for Vader services. The operators of the service stated that they understand the frustration of their clients, but they would appreciate it if everyone would just accept the financial losses and get on with it. Of course, people who sign up for illicit IPTV subscription services should come to terms with the fact that losing your money along the way is always a possibility.
Vader was offering many hundreds of channels, “catch up” functionality, multi-device support, multi-IP support, an advanced EPG Guide, and a straight-forward easy to use interface. All of this combined with the bargain prices made it lucrative and helped build a massive crowd around it. Now that Vader is gone, other IPTV service providers will be called to absorb the enormous user influx, as well as the shift of the authorities’ focus to the next biggest fish in the pond.
Were you a Vader subscriber? Where are you going to head to now that it’s gone? Let us know in the comments down below, or share your thoughts on our socials, on Facebook and Twitter.

Story 53
×
Cookie Policy
zeenews.india.com understands that your privacy is important to you and we are committed for being transparent about the technologies we use. This cookie policy explains how and why cookies and other similar technologies may be stored on and accessed from your device when you use or visit zeenews.india.com websites that posts a link to this Policy (collectively, “the sites”). This cookie policy should be read together with our Privacy Policy.
By continuing to browse or use our sites, you agree that we can store and access cookies and other tracking technologies as described in this policy.
What are Cookies and Other Tracking Technologies?
A cookie is a small text file that can be stored on and accessed from your device when you visit one of our sites, to the extent you agree. The other tracking technologies work similarly to cookies and place small data files on your devices or monitor your website activity to enable us to collect information about how you use our sites. This allows our sites to recognize your device from those of other users on our sites. The information provided below about cookies also applies to these other tracking technologies.

How do our sites use Cookies and Other Tracking Technologies?
Zeenews.com use cookies and other technologies to store information in your web browser or on your mobile phone, tablet, computer, or other devices (collectively "devices") that allow us to store and receive certain pieces of information whenever you use or interact with our zeenews.india.com applications and sites. Such cookies and other technologies helps us to identify you and your interests, to remember your preferences and to track use of zeenews.india.com We also use cookies and other tracking technologies to control access to certain content on our sites, protect the sites, and to process any requests that you make to us.
We also use cookies to administer our sites and for research purposes, zeenews.india.com also has contracted with third-party service providers to track and analyse statistical usage and volume information from our site users. These third-party service providers use persistent Cookies to help us improve user experience, manage our site content, and analyse how users navigate and utilize the sites.
First and Third-party Cookies
First party cookies
These are those cookies that belong to us and which we place on your device or are those set by a website that is being visited by the user at the time (e.g., cookies placed by zeenews.india.com)
Third-party cookies
Some features used on this website may involve a cookie being sent to your computer by a third party. For example, if you view or listen to any embedded audio or video content you may be sent cookies from the site where the embedded content is hosted. Likewise, if you share any content on this website through social networks (for example by clicking a Facebook “like” button or a “Tweet” button) you may be sent cookies from these websites. We do not control the setting of these cookies so please check the websites of these third parties for more information about their cookies and how to manage them.
We use the following types of cookies:
Persistent Cookies
We use persistent cookies to improve your experience of using the sites. This includes recording your acceptance of our cookie policy to remove the cookie message which first appears when you visit our site.
Session Cookies
Session cookies are temporary and deleted from your machine when your web browser closes. We use session cookies to help us track internet usage as described above.
You may refuse to accept browser Cookies by activating the appropriate setting on your browser. However, if you select this setting you may be unable to access certain parts of the sites. Unless you have adjusted your browser setting so that it will refuse cookies, our system will check if cookies can be captured when you direct your browser to our sites.
The data collected by the sites and/or through Cookies that may be placed on your computer will not be kept for longer than is necessary to fulfil the purposes mentioned above. In any event, such information will be kept in our database until we get explicit consent from you to remove all the stored cookies.
We categorize cookies as follows:
Essential Cookies
These cookie are essential to our site in order to enable you to move around it and to use its features. Without these essential cookies we may not be able to provide certain services or features and our site will not perform as smoothly for you as we would like. These cookies, for example, let us recognize that you have created an account and have logged in/out to access site content. They also include Cookies that enable us to remember your previous actions within the same browsing session and secure our sites.
Analytical/Performance Cookies
These cookies are used by us or by our third-party service providers to analyse how the sites are used and how they are performing. For example, these cookies track what content are most frequently visited, your viewing history and from what locations our visitors come from. If you subscribe to a newsletter or otherwise register with the Sites, these cookies may be correlated to you.
Functionality Cookies
These cookies let us operate the sites in accordance with the choices you make. These cookies permit us to "remember you” in-between visits. For instance, we will recognize your user name and remember how you customized the sites and services, for example by adjusting text size, fonts, languages and other parts of web pages that are alterable, and provide you with the same customizations during future visits.
Advertising Cookies
These cookies collect information about your activities on our sites as well as other sites to provide you targeted advertising. We may also allow our third-party service providers to use cookies on the sites for the same purposes identified above, including collecting information about your online activities over time and across different websites. The third-party service providers that generate these cookies, such as, social media platforms, have their own privacy policies, and may use their cookies to target advertisement to you on other websites, based on your visit to our sites.
How do I refuse or withdraw my consent to the use of Cookies?
If you do not want cookies to be dropped on your device, you can adjust the setting of your Internet browser to reject the setting of all or some cookies and to alert you when a cookie is placed on your device. For further information about how to do so, please refer to your browser ‘help’ / ‘tool’ or ‘edit’ section for cookie settings w.r.t your browser that may be Google Chrome, Safari, Mozilla Firefox etc.
Please note that if your browser setting is already setup to block all cookies (including strictly necessary Cookies) you may not be able to access or use all or parts or functionalities of our sites.
If you want to remove previously-stored cookies, you can manually delete the cookies at any time from your browser settings. However, this will not prevent the sites from placing further cookies on your device unless and until you adjust your Internet browser setting as described above.
For more information on the development of user-profiles and the use of targeting/advertising Cookies, please see www.youronlinechoices.eu if you are located in Europe or www.aboutads.info/choices if in the United States.
Contact us
If you have any other questions about our Cookie Policy, please contact us at:
If you require any information or clarification regarding the use of your personal information or this privacy policy or grievances with respect to use of your personal information, please email us at response@zeemedia.esselgroup.com.

Story 54
Ofcom is introducing changes to its codes on Electronic Programme Guides (EPGs) to make it easier for people with sight impairments to navigate through the guides.
The EPG Code applies to Sky, Virgin, YouView, Freesat, Digital UK for Freeview, BT, EE and TalkTalk.
The regulator wants the following features to be incorporated into EPGs as standard.
Text to speech. Channel information, and the text necessary for navigation, are available as speech;
Filtering and highlighting. Programmes with audio description, and those with signing, are highlighted or listed separately;
Magnification. Viewers can magnify or enlarge EPG information; and
High-contrast display. Viewers can switch between default and high-contrast displays
The proposed changes will apply to EPGs made available on all new models of TV receivers for which development begins after July 27, 2018.
Ofcom has worked with broadcasters and the Royal National Institute of Blind People (RNIB) on other ways to increase the accessibility of television to people with sight impairment.
It is also supporting the RNIB and broadcasters in an industry campaign to increase public awareness of audio description/ Broadcasters including the BBC, BT, Channel 4, ITV, Sky, UKTV and Viacom will be airing adverts to promote their audio description services throughout the summer and early autumn.
It was estimated in 2015 that 2 million people had partial sight or blindness, with one in five people aged 75 and older living with sight loss.

Story 55
Mohamed Omar, deputy minister of education and technical education for teachers' affairs, said that Fawry was selected because it offers the easiest payment methods, since its service is accessible 24 hours a day and seven days a week, and is available in “every street in all of Egypt governorates.”
Omar said that alongside the 105,000 physical Fawry outlets, parents and students can also pay the fees through all bank e-wallets, through mobile phones, and through the “MyFawry” application.
Mohamed Okasha, managing director of Fawry, said that the partnership with the ministry is a continuation of Fawry's plan to provide all government services electronically, and to back the government's plans to support financial inclusion.
Earlier this year, Education Minister Tarek Shawki announced that school fees would be paid through either Fawry or via the account of the Fund for Supporting and Financing Educational Projects at the Egyptian post office.
According to the ministry, school fees for the 2019/2020 school year are EGP 145 for kindergarten, EGP 160 for primary, EGP 150 for preparatory, EPG 190 for secondary, and EGP 170 for secondary technical schools. Fawry’s service fees are EGP 3.
Short link:


Story 56
Media headlines about MBUU stock have been trending extremely negative on Thursday, InfoTrie reports. InfoTrie rates the sentiment of news coverage by monitoring more than six thousand news and blog sources in real time. The firm ranks coverage of companies on a scale of negative five to positive five, with scores closest to five being the most favorable. Malibu Boats earned a news impact score of -4.0 on InfoTrie's scale. They also gave media coverage about the company a news buzz of 0.0 out of 10, indicating that recent news coverage is extremely unlikely to have an effect on the stock's share price in the near future. View News Stories for Malibu Boats.

Story 57
Hammerson plc (LON: HMSO) announced today the appointment of James Lenton as Chief Financial Officer and Executive Director.
James will become an Executive Director on joining the Company on 16 September 2019 and will take over the role of CFO with effect from 1 October 2019.
A Chartered Accountant, James has extensive experience in financing, rigorous capital allocation and business transformation, gained through senior roles at global financial and professional services organisations.
James joins Hammerson having recently left global insurer and investment business AIG, which he originally joined in 2013 as deputy CFO for EMEA. In 2014 he was promoted to CFO and board member1 of AIG’s European Group, a position he held for four years, delivering new profitability and financing strategies for the £5bn revenue business.
Prior to AIG, James worked at EY (formerly Ernst & Young). In 2006 he was appointed Partner, providing a range of assurance and advisory services including M&A, financing and external audit. From 2011, he was responsible for developing a new global strategy for the Insurance Assurance practice. His clients included FTSE 100 companies and financial services groups with leading retail brands.
James succeeds Timon Drakesmith, the current CFO and Managing Director, Premium Outlets, who as announced in May 2019, has decided to leave the Company. Timon will step down as an Executive Director and CFO on 1 October 2019 and leave on 15 November 2019, following a handover and transition period with James.
The Company also recently announced that Simon Travis has been appointed to the role of Group Investment Director & Managing Director, Premium Outlets. Premium outlets now accounts for 27% of Hammerson’s property portfolio and Simon reports directly to CEO, David Atkins.
David Tyler, Chair of the Hammerson plc Board, said:
“We look forward to welcoming James to the business. During his career he has demonstrated significant success in working with and managing complex organisations which are experiencing periods of substantial change. We expect his track record in this area, combined with his ability to bring a fresh perspective, to be very valuable to the on-going management and performance of Hammerson.”
There are no further matters in connection with this appointment to be disclosed under Listing Rule 9.6.13.
1 Directorships effective, following regulatory approval, to principal operating companies in 2014 and to European Group holding company board in March 2015.
Notes
· James started his career at PwC, where he qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 2001.
· At EY he become a Partner by the age of 30 in the EMEIA Financial Services Practice and was Global Co-ordinating Partner for the insurance assurance practice from 2011.
· James is 44 and is married with two children and lives in south west London.
Remuneration terms for James Lenton
· James will be paid in accordance with the Directors’ Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders.
· His annual salary will be £430,000 and his pension will be in line with that offered to Hammerson Group Management employees.
· Upon joining, he will receive a prorated 2019 LTIP award in line with Hammerson’s current remuneration policy.
· There is no buyout of or compensation for previous remuneration packages.
· Full details will be disclosed in the 2019 Directors’ Remuneration Report.

Story 58
Plus500 demonstrates when to get in and out, Russia’s sudden purging of retail FX, everything appears to be intuitive and I embark on a TransferWise test
In this weekly series, I look back on what stood out, what was bemusing, amusing and interesting during my weekly travels, interesting findings within the FX industry and interaction with an ever-shrinking big wide world. This is purely observational and for your enjoyment.
Monday: A flying start in London
Gatwick Airport may well have been anything but kinetic over the past week, but venture inside the M25 and away from the drones that have lingered over Gatwick airport, and things are a different story.
It may well have been the day before the vast majority of the world prepares for its most important and valued holiday period of the year, however Plus500’s stock market dominance, reported by stockbroker AJ Bell, was testimony to a continually buoyant London market whether you are a trader or actually buying stocks in FX firms.
The British retail trading sector is among the largest in the world, and consists of large, mostly publicly listed entities which have been established for the best part of three decades, and specialize in very domestic market-specific products including contracts for difference (CFDs) and spread betting which require dedicated proprietary platforms.
It is very hard to argue against the patently clear reality that evergreen British giants such as CMC Markets, IG Group, Hargeaves Lansdown are vast and highly well organized corporations that fully understand how to conduct business in Britain, their loyal domestic client base and abilities of their well-structured and highly experienced senior management being absolute testimony to this.
Two years ago, I looked at an opportunity that presented itself in London’s markets which represented a different view to that taken by many analytic British investors, which, around the time of the announcements by the FCA that the regulatory view favored leverage restrictions on CFD products, centered on buying stock in IG Group, Hargreaves Lansdown and at the time newly listed CMC Markets.
IG Group and CMC Markets are absolute household names in Britain, and whilst Hargreaves Lansdown is the largest financial services firm in the UK, its CFD platform HL Markets is a white label provided by IG Group.
just hours after the FCA’s announcement of its proposals in December 2016, IG Group, Britain’s second largest electronic trading and investments firm after Hargreaves Lansdown, which had a market capitalization of £2.25 billion, experienced a tremendous 21.9% drop in share prices which went down to 614p per share.
Also affected was Plus500, the evergreen example of efficiency with no sales staff, very light operating costs and a digital marketing solution that is the envy of the entire retail business. Plus500 took an astonishing 38% hit on its share prices on December 8, 2016 as a direct result of the FCA’s unpleasant and anti-business stance having been unveiled, taking its value down to £365 million. Just two years prior, this was a $1 billion company.
My assertion was that this presented a very good opportunity to buy into these companies, largely becaus electronic trading which is provided by what have now become very large companies with their own leading edge trading infrastructure and constant commercial innovation is the development ground for tomorrow’s financial infrastructure so we have arrived at an age where we don’t get to just trade via their platforms, but we get to actually invest in their companies, and I was right.
Monday’s preparations for the festive season for all except me and 13 million members of this tiny minority heralded AJ Bell’s report that Plus500 stock was the 2nd highest performing stock of the entire year 2018.
Out of the FTSE 350 stocks that AJ Bell calculated, Plus500 came in at number 2 for the entire year, falling behind only one company, that being multi-channel supermarket delivery firm Ocado which delivers food for British supermarkets to retail consumers on a nationwide basis.
Ocado aced the stock market this year, with a 96.2% capital return for investors, however Plus500 came in at number 2 with a 73.3% return for investors, beating every company on the entire FTSE 350 index in the entire country on that particular index apart from Ocado.
Smart investors got this right, and Monday’s revelation shows that if we are going to talk smart, we should look at the founders of Plus500. They got in at the right time, did it very cheaply and efficiently, kept their costs and headcount down whilst relying on a proprietary digital acquisition and marketing platform, listed their stock on London’s Alternative Investment Market, pumped the company up to its massive value in comparison to its tiny size and then mid-way through the year at which Plus500’s stock provided the 2nd highest return on the FTSE 350 index across all industry sectors in Britain, the world’s fifth large economy, they cashed out!
Thus I suppose it is fair to say that in terms of mentorship, It wouldn’t be a bad idea to follow what Plus500’s founders do. They appear to know exactly what they are doing.
Tuesday: Intuitive over and over again…..
A good friend of mine is busily engaged in developing new FX trading platform technology, and has been for some time. He and I share observational comedy quite often, as we both tend to lean toward the anorak-wearing, notepad-touting detail-orientated nit-picking that results in nerd-like laughter.
These things tend to range from inconsistencies in video editing, impedance of sound quality by combining non-high fidelity media to a high fidelity system, incorrect badging and deviation from manufacturer specifications by producers of advertisements when using products such as popular technology or cars.
On Tuesday, my kindred spirit’s discourse was created by an advertisement produced by a retail FX brokerage which had over-used the word ‘intuitive. Perhaps this particular company’s intuition had led its intuitive marketing department to attract the intuition of its intuitive future customers with regard to its intuitive new technology via intuitive methodology which can empower the aforementioned intuitive customers to be more intuitive when making intuitive decisions on market movements by using intuitive trading tools…. and so the nonsense could go on.
It does appear that this word is now the de-facto buzzword of the lower echelons of the marketing sector, perhaps on the grounds that it makes some sort of tenuous connection with the current trend for automating everything from home robots to autonomous cars, to Internet Of Things (IOT). By uttering the word ‘intuitive’ in a manner that could result in a Tourettes Syndrome diagnosis, the SEO packages on commercial website back ends such as Yoast, and website prioritizing technology such as Google crawlers would pick this up and lift it to a higher priority.
Do we really want to live in a world in which single words are repeated and retorted ad infinitum and often several times in one paragraph just so that visibility can be achieved?
If I cast my mind back to my childhood when all sales and marketing was analog and relied on a visit to the showroom, conversations were had in full, features and important aspects of a specific product were eloquently explained and very often a loyal customer experience was formed.
Imagine in 1979 if I had gone into the Jaguar showroom in Wavertree to look at the new Series 3 XJ6, and if I wasn’t sufficiently pre-versed in which specific model that was, and instead of a suited member of staff showing me the features and explaining them carefully, a soundbite repeated the same word over and over until the model concerned came to the front of the showroom.
Absurd? Yes of course, but that is the way this buzzword-repeating SEO style marketing is heading, even to the point of my pal who noticed it this week having gone to a furniture store last week and seeing a brochure for some porcelain plates. “A small bio of less than 50 words included the word intuitive 3 times. Its a damn plate!” he said. Quite right let’s avoid it.
Thursday. Russia slams the door on the establishment – Bye bye Alpari, Forex Club and Teletrade. Who’s next?
What a shocker. On Thursday, Russia decided to put an end to the operations of some of the longest standing retail FX companies in the entire existence of this industry, those being Alpari, TeleTrade and Forex Club, the latter of which is Russia’s most well known broker, with a massively high commercial profile, however the central bank stated in its complaint that all five brokers that it is targeting had only 2,000 clients in Russia. The rest of the clients were transferred abroad. That is, they worked as call centers for attracting clients to offshore brokers. Forex Club, Alpari Forex and TeleTrade were all just shells.
Just when we all think we have seen everything, another major milestone suddenly appears. Russia’s central bank making a sudden decision, reported on Thursday to simply revoke the licenses of pretty much its entire FX industry, all of which has been in establishment for almost 20 years, is as much of a massive game changer as the Swiss National Bank’s removal of the peg on the EURCHF pair in January 2015, and as much of a major regulatory event as the NFA’s actions against FXCM at the beginning of 2017 which stopped the company – at the time the United States’ most well known retail FX firm – from operating in its home market.
The magnitude of this may not be understated. Yes, Alpari and Forex Club are Russian companies, but they both had massive global presence with Alpari UK having been run by some of the world’s most well known retail FX business leaders such as Mushegh Tovmasyan and Daniel Skowronski. The company had operations in Japan and the United States, holding an NFA license until the mass exodus of firms who simply could not make the grade of the high-end material that the US market demands.
Forex Club also had a US arm, and respected names such as Alexey Pavlenko, Peter Tatarnikov and Pavel Khizhnyak, all of whom are permanent residents of the United States, had senior positions at Forex Club, and all three now have very senior recognition in the global FX industry. Forex Club also expanded to the Far East, its Shanghai-based mainland Chinese operations being very successful for the firm.
Russia’s explicit allegations regarding what these firms are supposed to have done to deserve a simultaneous clear-out have been published in absolute clarity and quite clearly there is no going back, hence it is fair to say that this is the end of the road for these companies, especially bearing in mind that they all have now reduced their customer databases and operational presence down from global coverage to domestic Russian market and the Commonwealth of Independent States.
No Russian license = no Russian customers. No Russian customers = no company.
Alpari, true to its stoic form, has now begun a fight against the Russian Central Bank in order to attempt to reverse the decision. Alpari’s efforts are to be commended for this approach, which reflects the company’s attempt to sue Tier 1 banks in London for their last-look execution procedures in the summer of 2017 which of course resulted in Alpari getting a bloody nose.
I personally agree with Alpari’s efforts to bring the Tier 1 banks to book for last-look execution practices, because whilst that is a very common practice among banks that is clearly written in Prime Brokerage Agreements with OTC counterparties, it is a one-way street because there is no way that a retail broker or a prime of prime would get away with picking and choosing which trades to reject. The reality of course, is that banks are the uppermost tier and the actual market maker which is at the highest end of the chain, hence they have to do last-look execution in order to make a stable market as otherwise it would be very difficult to manage order flow.
Of course, I personally don’t agree with it and never did. When I was deploying Cisco switches and CAT-5 connectivity architecture into banks in the mid 1990s for their trading desks, one of the important development specifications was that packets of data could be killed off if they are ‘blocking’ the transmission and receipt of information in the cables to and from routers and switches, the main reason being so that banks could get trade data to their servers as quickly as possible to see whether to accept or take a ‘last look’ at orders. I didn’t really agree with this practice then and I don’t now, even though I am fundamentally a technologist and not a trader, however until a new alternative comes up, this is the way to stabilize order flow from the top tier downwards so, hey-ho.
Inevitably, Alpari lost its fight against the banks but I applaud the David and Goliath battle it attempted.
I also believe that Alpari and anyone else who tries will lose against the Russian government. I am of course prepared to be proven wrong but let’s face the reality. Russia does not mess about and nor does it let its decisions on anything like this be reversed by those it acts against.
I also am sure that this is just the beginning. It seems that rather than apply any allegations of any misdeed to specific firms and allow them to either pay a fine or dispute it as in most regulatory and arbitration-based civil proceedings, the Russian authorities has decided to simply swoop in and get rid of major firms all in one go. The question is, which is next? It is likely that Russia is ridding itself of retail FX at a time when Moscow Exchange is growing its retail product range. Hmm, I sense a degree of deja vu. Exchanges with government connections and lots of lobbying power wanting retail customers without a meritocracy? Surely not?
Thus, we are now witnessing the end of the road for those firms, hence this is the end of an era in the retail FX sector as such long standing names vanish into the bleak depths of obscurity. In a year from now, I predict that attempting to find these firms online or anywhere in Moscow’s streets will be as easy as trying to see the bottom of a bowl of borscht.
Let’s see if any of these companies and their owners appear in Cyprus anytime soon and carry on as they have been. This is something the Cyprus authorities and ESMA should be looking out for instead of messing about with leverage restrictions for good quality companies.
Friday: Can I TransferWise?
I am not being paid to do this, nor do I have any commercial interest or bias, but I have for a few years now been a vocal proponent of borderless banking, and the empowerment of business and private customers via new channels that do not place them in the cold, corrupt hands of some of the world’s least respectable financial institutions.
I will be as of today conducting a one month test of TransferWise’s new debit card and ‘bank account’, and then comparing the cost of it and ease of operation to a standard Israeli and Cypriot bank. My initial belief is that the customer experience will be ten times higher, not that it is difficult to beat the appalling and corrupt Israeli and Cypriot banks who detest competition, threaten capital controls to anyone who dares to business abroad, and rip their customers off for outlandish fees whilst taking forever to carry out transactions, and when questioned spit fire and abuse instead of explaining their commercial terms correctly.
TransferWise is not a bank, and nor does it offer ‘bank accounts’ but you can load your debit card with money and quite honestly, in today’s electronic world, that is a sort of bank account in the absolute sense. Britain is leading the way with the establishment of non-bank alternatives to the high street for business and personal customers. I believe in it and understand that it will make a huge difference to firms which have to find client accounts and have been forced to open horrendously dangerous third tier bank accounts in places like Latvia, Georgia and parts of the CIS region, with no recourse over any fraud, lax security measures and subservience to corrupt governance.
Let’s see how it pans out. If it works, and saves for example $500 on $5000 worth of transactions, takes a second to process funds anywhere in the world and is free of any need to deal with banking call centers or obstacles placed intentionally in the way to cost time and money to customers, then it is worth it.
It’s time to put us in charge of the retail banks – after all, we are a global, technology focused financial services industry. Saxo Bank and Swissquote offer custodian services and investment banking, so does Hargreaves Lansdown – maybe everyone should and attach a debit card and personal account to it too. Banks in most countries are severely outmoded and disliked by long-suffering customers.
My aim is to try to prove a concept that having a commercial bank account in Britain with HSBC or Lloyds is ideal as these are among the best in the world for necessary, staple business transactions like invoicing customers and receiving funds, and to use a non-bank entity such as TransferWise or Revolut for everyday transactions globally.
My findings will appear here in a month’s time!
Meanwhile, I wish you all a happy new year and a prosperous 2019, and of course a well deserved day off on January 1.

Story 59
Stoneroos, specialised in making interactive television accessible, and XroadMedia, a provider of content discovery and personalisation services, have integrated Ncanto, XroadMedia’s AI driven personalisation solution, into Stoneroos’ products OTT Now! and EPGdata.
Through this partnership, XroadMedia’s cloud-based Ncanto back-end solution is now fully integrated into Stoneroos’ product and service portfolio, where it complements Stoneroos’ advanced user experiences and data services for content and service providers with machine-learning metadata enrichment, personalisation and analytics services.
The OTT Now! multi-platform solution from Stoneroos will benefit from this partnership by providing customers with recommendations based on their viewing behaviour and interests across multiple profiles and platforms.
The EPGdata metadata and services from Stoneroos are now also extended with personalisation and recommendations delivered from Ncanto.
“We are very happy to offer XroadMedia’s content discovery and recommendations solution with our white-label OTT Now! product to deliver a next generation TV experience which our customers can offer their subscribers. In addition, we have also integrated XroadMedia’s solution into our rich metadata service EPGdata, which now also offers, next to our best-in-class pictures and data, a better user experience with personalised recommendations,” says Annelies Kaptein, CEO and Founder of Stoneroos.
Adolf Proidl, Co-Founder and CEO of XroadMedia, adds “We are excited to work with Stoneroos and to extend their innovative offering with our powerful personalisation and recommendation services. With the first customer launching in the next couple of months, customers of our combined solution will be able to deliver highly advanced and personalised experiences to their users, increasing customer satisfaction rates and reducing churn.”
To learn more about the joint solution please visit Stoneroos at their stand at IBC (hall 14, stand C23).

Story 60
This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your experience and provide more personalized service to you. Both on your website and other media. To find out more about the cookies and data we use, please check out our Privacy Policy

Story 61
- hide
JD Supra Privacy Policy
Updated: May 25, 2018:
JD Supra is a legal publishing service that connects experts and their content with broader audiences of professionals, journalists and associations.
This Privacy Policy describes how JD Supra, LLC ("JD Supra" or "we," "us," or "our") collects, uses and shares personal data collected from visitors to our website (located at www.jdsupra.com) (our "Website") who view only publicly-available content as well as subscribers to our services (such as our email digests or author tools)(our "Services"). By using our Website and registering for one of our Services, you are agreeing to the terms of this Privacy Policy.
Please note that if you subscribe to one of our Services, you can make choices about how we collect, use and share your information through our Privacy Center under the "My Account" dashboard (available if you are logged into your JD Supra account).
Collection of Information
Registration Information. When you register with JD Supra for our Website and Services, either as an author or as a subscriber, you will be asked to provide identifying information to create your JD Supra account ("Registration Data"), such as your:
Email
First Name
Last Name
Company Name
Company Industry
Title
Country
Other Information: We also collect other information you may voluntarily provide. This may include content you provide for publication. We may also receive your communications with others through our Website and Services (such as contacting an author through our Website) or communications directly with us (such as through email, feedback or other forms or social media). If you are a subscribed user, we will also collect your user preferences, such as the types of articles you would like to read.
Information from third parties (such as, from your employer or LinkedIn): We may also receive information about you from third party sources. For example, your employer may provide your information to us, such as in connection with an article submitted by your employer for publication. If you choose to use LinkedIn to subscribe to our Website and Services, we also collect information related to your LinkedIn account and profile.
Your interactions with our Website and Services: As is true of most websites, we gather certain information automatically. This information includes IP addresses, browser type, Internet service provider (ISP), referring/exit pages, operating system, date/time stamp and clickstream data. We use this information to analyze trends, to administer the Website and our Services, to improve the content and performance of our Website and Services, and to track users' movements around the site. We may also link this automatically-collected data to personal information, for example, to inform authors about who has read their articles. Some of this data is collected through information sent by your web browser. We also use cookies and other tracking technologies to collect this information. To learn more about cookies and other tracking technologies that JD Supra may use on our Website and Services please see our "Cookies Guide" page.
How do we use this information?
We use the information and data we collect principally in order to provide our Website and Services. More specifically, we may use your personal information to:
Operate our Website and Services and publish content;
Distribute content to you in accordance with your preferences as well as to provide other notifications to you (for example, updates about our policies and terms);
Measure readership and usage of the Website and Services;
Communicate with you regarding your questions and requests;
Authenticate users and to provide for the safety and security of our Website and Services;
Conduct research and similar activities to improve our Website and Services; and
Comply with our legal and regulatory responsibilities and to enforce our rights.
How is your information shared?
Content and other public information (such as an author profile) is shared on our Website and Services, including via email digests and social media feeds, and is accessible to the general public.
If you choose to use our Website and Services to communicate directly with a company or individual, such communication may be shared accordingly.
Readership information is provided to publishing law firms and authors of content to give them insight into their readership and to help them to improve their content.
Our Website may offer you the opportunity to share information through our Website, such as through Facebook's "Like" or Twitter's "Tweet" button. We offer this functionality to help generate interest in our Website and content and to permit you to recommend content to your contacts. You should be aware that sharing through such functionality may result in information being collected by the applicable social media network and possibly being made publicly available (for example, through a search engine). Any such information collection would be subject to such third party social media network's privacy policy.
Your information may also be shared to parties who support our business, such as professional advisors as well as web-hosting providers, analytics providers and other information technology providers.
Any court, governmental authority, law enforcement agency or other third party where we believe disclosure is necessary to comply with a legal or regulatory obligation, or otherwise to protect our rights, the rights of any third party or individuals' personal safety, or to detect, prevent, or otherwise address fraud, security or safety issues.
To our affiliated entities and in connection with the sale, assignment or other transfer of our company or our business.
How We Protect Your Information
JD Supra takes reasonable and appropriate precautions to insure that user information is protected from loss, misuse and unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration and destruction. We restrict access to user information to those individuals who reasonably need access to perform their job functions, such as our third party email service, customer service personnel and technical staff. You should keep in mind that no Internet transmission is ever 100% secure or error-free. Where you use log-in credentials (usernames, passwords) on our Website, please remember that it is your responsibility to safeguard them. If you believe that your log-in credentials have been compromised, please contact us at privacy@jdsupra.com.
Children's Information
Our Website and Services are not directed at children under the age of 16 and we do not knowingly collect personal information from children under the age of 16 through our Website and/or Services. If you have reason to believe that a child under the age of 16 has provided personal information to us, please contact us, and we will endeavor to delete that information from our databases.
Links to Other Websites
Our Website and Services may contain links to other websites. The operators of such other websites may collect information about you, including through cookies or other technologies. If you are using our Website or Services and click a link to another site, you will leave our Website and this Policy will not apply to your use of and activity on those other sites. We encourage you to read the legal notices posted on those sites, including their privacy policies. We are not responsible for the data collection and use practices of such other sites. This Policy applies solely to the information collected in connection with your use of our Website and Services and does not apply to any practices conducted offline or in connection with any other websites.
Information for EU and Swiss Residents
JD Supra's principal place of business is in the United States. By subscribing to our website, you expressly consent to your information being processed in the United States.
Our Legal Basis for Processing: Generally, we rely on our legitimate interests in order to process your personal information. For example, we rely on this legal ground if we use your personal information to manage your Registration Data and administer our relationship with you; to deliver our Website and Services; understand and improve our Website and Services; report reader analytics to our authors; to personalize your experience on our Website and Services; and where necessary to protect or defend our or another's rights or property, or to detect, prevent, or otherwise address fraud, security, safety or privacy issues. Please see Article 6(1)(f) of the E.U. General Data Protection Regulation ("GDPR") In addition, there may be other situations where other grounds for processing may exist, such as where processing is a result of legal requirements (GDPR Article 6(1)(c)) or for reasons of public interest (GDPR Article 6(1)(e)). Please see the "Your Rights" section of this Privacy Policy immediately below for more information about how you may request that we limit or refrain from processing your personal information.
Generally, we rely on our legitimate interests in order to process your personal information. For example, we rely on this legal ground if we use your personal information to manage your Registration Data and administer our relationship with you; to deliver our Website and Services; understand and improve our Website and Services; report reader analytics to our authors; to personalize your experience on our Website and Services; and where necessary to protect or defend our or another's rights or property, or to detect, prevent, or otherwise address fraud, security, safety or privacy issues. Please see Article 6(1)(f) of the E.U. General Data Protection Regulation ("GDPR") In addition, there may be other situations where other grounds for processing may exist, such as where processing is a result of legal requirements (GDPR Article 6(1)(c)) or for reasons of public interest (GDPR Article 6(1)(e)). Please see the "Your Rights" section of this Privacy Policy immediately below for more information about how you may request that we limit or refrain from processing your personal information. Your Rights Right of Access/Portability : You can ask to review details about the information we hold about you and how that information has been used and disclosed. Note that we may request to verify your identification before fulfilling your request. You can also request that your personal information is provided to you in a commonly used electronic format so that you can share it with other organizations. Right to Correct Information : You may ask that we make corrections to any information we hold, if you believe such correction to be necessary. Right to Restrict Our Processing or Erasure of Information : You also have the right in certain circumstances to ask us to restrict processing of your personal information or to erase your personal information. Where you have consented to our use of your personal information, you can withdraw your consent at any time.

You can make a request to exercise any of these rights by emailing us at privacy@jdsupra.com or by writing to us at:
Privacy Officer
JD Supra, LLC
10 Liberty Ship Way, Suite 300
Sausalito, California 94965

You can also manage your profile and subscriptions through our Privacy Center under the "My Account" dashboard.
We will make all practical efforts to respect your wishes. There may be times, however, where we are not able to fulfill your request, for example, if applicable law prohibits our compliance. Please note that JD Supra does not use "automatic decision making" or "profiling" as those terms are defined in the GDPR.
Timeframe for retaining your personal information : We will retain your personal information in a form that identifies you only for as long as it serves the purpose(s) for which it was initially collected as stated in this Privacy Policy, or subsequently authorized. We may continue processing your personal information for longer periods, but only for the time and to the extent such processing reasonably serves the purposes of archiving in the public interest, journalism, literature and art, scientific or historical research and statistical analysis, and subject to the protection of this Privacy Policy. For example, if you are an author, your personal information may continue to be published in connection with your article indefinitely. When we have no ongoing legitimate business need to process your personal information, we will either delete or anonymize it, or, if this is not possible (for example, because your personal information has been stored in backup archives), then we will securely store your personal information and isolate it from any further processing until deletion is possible.
: We will retain your personal information in a form that identifies you only for as long as it serves the purpose(s) for which it was initially collected as stated in this Privacy Policy, or subsequently authorized. We may continue processing your personal information for longer periods, but only for the time and to the extent such processing reasonably serves the purposes of archiving in the public interest, journalism, literature and art, scientific or historical research and statistical analysis, and subject to the protection of this Privacy Policy. For example, if you are an author, your personal information may continue to be published in connection with your article indefinitely. When we have no ongoing legitimate business need to process your personal information, we will either delete or anonymize it, or, if this is not possible (for example, because your personal information has been stored in backup archives), then we will securely store your personal information and isolate it from any further processing until deletion is possible. Onward Transfer to Third Parties: As noted in the "How We Share Your Data" Section above, JD Supra may share your information with third parties. When JD Supra discloses your personal information to third parties, we have ensured that such third parties have either certified under the EU-U.S. or Swiss Privacy Shield Framework and will process all personal data received from EU member states/Switzerland in reliance on the applicable Privacy Shield Framework or that they have been subjected to strict contractual provisions in their contract with us to guarantee an adequate level of data protection for your data.
California Privacy Rights
Pursuant to Section 1798.83 of the California Civil Code, our customers who are California residents have the right to request certain information regarding our disclosure of personal information to third parties for their direct marketing purposes.
You can make a request for this information by emailing us at privacy@jdsupra.com or by writing to us at:
Privacy Officer
JD Supra, LLC
10 Liberty Ship Way, Suite 300
Sausalito, California 94965

Some browsers have incorporated a Do Not Track (DNT) feature. These features, when turned on, send a signal that you prefer that the website you are visiting not collect and use data regarding your online searching and browsing activities. As there is not yet a common understanding on how to interpret the DNT signal, we currently do not respond to DNT signals on our site.
Access/Correct/Update/Delete Personal Information
For non-EU/Swiss residents, if you would like to know what personal information we have about you, you can send an e-mail to privacy@jdsupra.com. We will be in contact with you (by mail or otherwise) to verify your identity and provide you the information you request. We will respond within 30 days to your request for access to your personal information. In some cases, we may not be able to remove your personal information, in which case we will let you know if we are unable to do so and why. If you would like to correct or update your personal information, you can manage your profile and subscriptions through our Privacy Center under the "My Account" dashboard. If you would like to delete your account or remove your information from our Website and Services, send an e-mail to privacy@jdsupra.com.
Changes in Our Privacy Policy
We reserve the right to change this Privacy Policy at any time. Please refer to the date at the top of this page to determine when this Policy was last revised. Any changes to our Privacy Policy will become effective upon posting of the revised policy on the Website. By continuing to use our Website and Services following such changes, you will be deemed to have agreed to such changes.
Contacting JD Supra
If you have any questions about this Privacy Policy, the practices of this site, your dealings with our Website or Services, or if you would like to change any of the information you have provided to us, please contact us at: privacy@jdsupra.com.
JD Supra Cookie Guide
As with many websites, JD Supra's website (located at www.jdsupra.com) (our "Website") and our services (such as our email article digests)(our "Services") use a standard technology called a "cookie" and other similar technologies (such as, pixels and web beacons), which are small data files that are transferred to your computer when you use our Website and Services. These technologies automatically identify your browser whenever you interact with our Website and Services.
How We Use Cookies and Other Tracking Technologies
We use cookies and other tracking technologies to:
Improve the user experience on our Website and Services; Store the authorization token that users receive when they login to the private areas of our Website. This token is specific to a user's login session and requires a valid username and password to obtain. It is required to access the user's profile information, subscriptions, and analytics; Track anonymous site usage; and Permit connectivity with social media networks to permit content sharing.
There are different types of cookies and other technologies used our Website, notably:
" Session cookies " - These cookies only last as long as your online session, and disappear from your computer or device when you close your browser (like Internet Explorer, Google Chrome or Safari).
" - These cookies only last as long as your online session, and disappear from your computer or device when you close your browser (like Internet Explorer, Google Chrome or Safari). " Persistent cookies " - These cookies stay on your computer or device after your browser has been closed and last for a time specified in the cookie. We use persistent cookies when we need to know who you are for more than one browsing session. For example, we use them to remember your preferences for the next time you visit.
" - These cookies stay on your computer or device after your browser has been closed and last for a time specified in the cookie. We use persistent cookies when we need to know who you are for more than one browsing session. For example, we use them to remember your preferences for the next time you visit. " Web Beacons/Pixels " - Some of our web pages and emails may also contain small electronic images known as web beacons, clear GIFs or single-pixel GIFs. These images are placed on a web page or email and typically work in conjunction with cookies to collect data. We use these images to identify our users and user behavior, such as counting the number of users who have visited a web page or acted upon one of our email digests.
JD Supra Cookies. We place our own cookies on your computer to track certain information about you while you are using our Website and Services. For example, we place a session cookie on your computer each time you visit our Website. We use these cookies to allow you to log-in to your subscriber account. In addition, through these cookies we are able to collect information about how you use the Website, including what browser you may be using, your IP address, and the URL address you came from upon visiting our Website and the URL you next visit (even if those URLs are not on our Website). We also utilize email web beacons to monitor whether our emails are being delivered and read. We also use these tools to help deliver reader analytics to our authors to give them insight into their readership and help them to improve their content, so that it is most useful for our users.
Analytics/Performance Cookies. JD Supra also uses the following analytic tools to help us analyze the performance of our Website and Services as well as how visitors use our Website and Services:
HubSpot - For more information about HubSpot cookies, please visit legal.hubspot.com/privacy-policy.
- For more information about HubSpot cookies, please visit legal.hubspot.com/privacy-policy. New Relic - For more information on New Relic cookies, please visit www.newrelic.com/privacy.
- For more information on New Relic cookies, please visit www.newrelic.com/privacy. Google Analytics - For more information on Google Analytics cookies, visit www.google.com/policies. To opt-out of being tracked by Google Analytics across all websites visit http://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout. This will allow you to download and install a Google Analytics cookie-free web browser.
Facebook, Twitter and other Social Network Cookies. Our content pages allow you to share content appearing on our Website and Services to your social media accounts through the "Like," "Tweet," or similar buttons displayed on such pages. To accomplish this Service, we embed code that such third party social networks provide and that we do not control. These buttons know that you are logged in to your social network account and therefore such social networks could also know that you are viewing the JD Supra Website.
Controlling and Deleting Cookies
If you would like to change how a browser uses cookies, including blocking or deleting cookies from the JD Supra Website and Services you can do so by changing the settings in your web browser. To control cookies, most browsers allow you to either accept or reject all cookies, only accept certain types of cookies, or prompt you every time a site wishes to save a cookie. It's also easy to delete cookies that are already saved on your device by a browser.
The processes for controlling and deleting cookies vary depending on which browser you use. To find out how to do so with a particular browser, you can use your browser's "Help" function or alternatively, you can visit http://www.aboutcookies.org which explains, step-by-step, how to control and delete cookies in most browsers.
Updates to This Policy
We may update this cookie policy and our Privacy Policy from time-to-time, particularly as technology changes. You can always check this page for the latest version. We may also notify you of changes to our privacy policy by email.
Contacting JD Supra
If you have any questions about how we use cookies and other tracking technologies, please contact us at: privacy@jdsupra.com.

Story 62
As if hoping that the stunning setting would help soften the harsh reality of the global economic and political (dis)order ten years on from the global financial crisis (see Spring Meetings 2018 CSPF session notes), this year’s IMF and World Bank Annual Meetings were held on the beautiful island of Bali, Indonesia.
Despite the idyllic setting and notwithstanding recent global growth, the meetings took place in a context of apprehension, which seemed unmatched by forceful action. As the Fund’s 2018 World Economic Outlook (WEO) stressed, economic growth has been more uneven than expected: “Not only have some downside risks that the last WEO identified [in April] been realized, the likelihood of further negative shocks to our growth forecast has risen.” The Fund once again revised its growth projections downward and warned that growth in the developed world and some important emerging economies is likely to trend downward in the medium-term. The impact of the ongoing trade dispute between China and the US and the continued threat to multilateralism featured prominently at the meetings, as did the role of China as an increasingly important creditor. On trade tensions the IMF Managing Director Christine Lagarde noted that, “If these tensions were to escalate, the global economy would take a significant hit.”
The Fund’s Global Financial Stability Report (GFSR) noted that, “an intensification of concerns about emerging markets, a broader rise in trade tensions, the realization of political and policy uncertainty, or a faster-than-expected tightening in monetary normalization could all lead to a sharp tightening in financial conditions.” Relatedly, the UN Conference on Trade and Development, in an October document stressed that, “by the end of March 2018, global debt stocks had reached $247.2 trillion, up from $168 trillion at the onset of the financial crisis of 2007–2008 and by nearly $25 trillion from a year earlier.” The Fund’s Fiscal Monitor (FM) also calls for caution in the medium term and recommends that countries put their deficits and debt firmly on a downward path to their mid-term targets. While the FM notes that approaches should be tailored, forthcoming research on IMF conditionalities demonstrate causes for concerns, as, despite the IMF’s claims to the contrary, the number of Fund conditionalities continues to increase.
The fact that these events took place on the side-lines of the Bank and Fund’s flagship event, under the spotlight of global media, where one would expect some protection of peaceful critical voices, illustrates very clearly the urgency of addressing persistent concerns about the closure of civil society space and silencing of critical voices
As climate change bites, Bank continues incremental progress
In addition to increasing concerns about underlying global macro-economic trends, the launch of an Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report on the eve of the meetings revealed the urgency and dramatic scale of the challenge that countries face in adapting to climate change – with The Guardian pointing out that the spectre of catastrophic climate change would provide less flexibility in the event of a new financial crisis. The IPCC report found that in order to achieve the Paris Agreement – and keep average global temperature rise at 1.5˚C relative to the pre-industrial average – drastic cuts in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are needed by 2030: GHG emissions need to fall by around 45 per cent by 2030 from 2010 levels, and reach net zero by around 2050. If states fail to achieve this deep cut in emissions, irreversible changes, including tipping points leading to exponentially higher warming, are probable, the report asserts. Given that countries’ current commitments to reduce emissions collectively amount to a trajectory of 3˚C projected warming, this is cause for grave concern.
The IPCC report was published on the same day that the International Finance Corporation (IFC, the Bank’s private sector lending arm) announced new measures to curb finance from IFC’s investments in financial intermediaries (FI; e.g. commercial banks and investment funds) being used to fund coal. In a blog published in development news outlet Devex, IFC CEO Philippe Le Houérou announced that over the past two years, the IFC had ring-fenced 95 per cent of its investments in FIs to prevent them from being used to fund coal projects. He also announced that the IFC would develop a ‘green equity’ approach in the coming months that would require new FI clients to publically disclose their exposure to coal and update this annually, with a commitment to reducing or exiting these investments.
Civil society organisations welcomed this announcement, but were cautious about the ultimate details of the green equity approach. A particular area of concern is that the ‘green equity’ approach will not cover financial intermediaries’ exposure to “upstream” oil and gas, at least initially, in line with the phase-out of finance for “upstream” oil and gas in the WBG’s direct lending at the end of 2019 (see Observer Spring 2018). At a Civil Society Policy Forum (CSPF) event on 9 October on FI lending, Kate Geary of Bank Information Center Europe also pointed out that the IFC’s legacy of coal investment through FI lending continues to harm communities. In October 2017, the Philippines Movement for Climate Justice filed a complaint with IFC’s independent accountability mechanism, the Compliance Advisory Ombudsman (CAO), in relation to support for 19 coal-fired power plants being built in the Philippines (see Observer Winter 2017-2018); Geary urged the IFC to intervene as a board member of the commercial banks building these plants, to prevent the 15 plants that received IFC finance, still under construction, from coming online.
At the Annual Meetings the World Bank also confirmed it will withdraw support from a coal project in Kosovo – the last legacy project in the WBG’s project pipeline that was potentially exempt from the Bank’s 2013 moratorium on project lending for coal (see Observer Autumn 2018). World Bank President Jim Yong Kim confirmed this at the CSO Town Hall event on 10 October. “We have made a very firm decision not to go forward with the coal power plant, because we’re required by our bylaws to go with the lowest-cost option, and renewables have now come below the cost of coal. So without question, we’re not going to do that,” Kim said, according to Devex. As with elsewhere, the Kosovar challenge now turns to scaling up renewable energy – and overcoming the political and logistical obstacles that stand in the way of deep decarbonisation. CSOs are concerned that despite incremental progress, the Bank isn’t moving quickly enough to support this shift, and have called on it to raise its ambition in the post-2020 climate goals it will announce later this year.
MFD, WDR, EPG and GCI: Can you spell instability?
Amid calls for enhanced measures to safeguard financial stability, Professor Daniela Gabor and other civil society participants cautioned that the World Bank’s Maximising Finance for Development (MFD) approach and the G20 and Bank’s drive to create infrastructure as an asset class are contradictory to this aim, in addition to raising significant human rights concerns as outlined by the UN. An October letter signed by nearly one hundred academics from around the world highlighted another critical concern about MFD (see Observer Summer 2017), namely that it brings shadow banking into development. The letter argued that the consequences of the MFD agenda go well beyond project-level impacts, stressing that “it seeks to re-engineer poor countries’ financial systems around capital markets that can attract global investors. This deliberate re-engineering of financial systems threatens progress on the SDGs.”
Pre-existing fears of a counter-productive, if potentially initially lucrative (for some), push for the securitisation of development finance through, for example, the transformation of infrastructure into an asset class, and an anti-democratic reordering of the multilateral system were reinforced by the G20 Eminent Persons Group’s (EPG) report on Global Financial Governance, which was submitted to the G20 finance ministers in Bali. As a Heinrich Boell Foundation report stressed, the proposed division of labour proposed by the EPG’s report would continue to side-line the UN system and would likely further “diminish country ownership and repress civil society” by, inter-alia, the “[streamlining of] decision-making within the system” as is the case in the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. Echoing concerns raised by the letter submitted by international academics, Heinrich Boell’s report stressed the threats posed by the proposed securitisation of development assistance, noting that, “Securitization is not possible without ‘de-risking’ development projects, but this can involve transferring unsustainable risks from the private to the public sector.”
The Bank’s much-criticised 2019 World Development Report on the changing nature of work further highlights contradictions between the call for greater financial stability that can only be achieved through more equitable and inclusive growth and the Bank’s continued bias toward de-regulated and increased financialised private sector ‘solutions’. The report’s many dubious assumptions and “fuzzy math” as critiqued by ITUC’s Peter Bakvis, (similar critiques of methodology apply to the Human Capital Index), and a Bank official’s casual comments that they don’t like using the term ‘decent work’ as it implies there is such a thing as ‘indecent work’, bring into question the degree to which the Bank is able to meet the Development Committee’s call for the provision of “evidence-based policymaking” (see Development Committee communiqué analysis). Meanwhile, the IMF emphasised worker protections in light of a new report on technological change disproportionately impacting women in the workforce. The divergence between IMF and Bank positions became even more awkward on a CSPF panel on the ‘rePPPeating’ failures of public private partnerships, where IMF staff largely acknowledged CSO concerns while the World Bank declined an invitation to attend.
Given the potentially significant negative developmental, human rights and macroeconomic consequences of the Bank’s approach, many within civil society were disheartened to see that the general capital increase for the IBRD and IFC (the Bank’s middle-income and private sector lending arms, respectively) continued to move forward without addressing the urgent need to review and realign staff incentives and to imbed the Bank’s operations within an explicit World Bank human rights policy (see Observer Summer 2018).
The Human Capital Project: What human rights and state obligations?
The Human Capital Project (HCP) and Index (HCI) were launched to much fanfare in Bali, where meetings and discussions on the very important topics of health and education financing managed the difficult task of avoiding a focus on human rights instruments and state obligations. While the HCI was criticised in some corners, as expected it received a largely positive reception among those who were willing to discount its methodological and theoretical shortcomings (see Observer Autumn 2018). There was little critical commentary on the historically dubious assertions that South Korea and Singapore (both of which do well in the Index, while Singapore scores in the bottom ten of Oxfam’s latest Commitment to Reducing Inequality Index) owe their current status to a focus on health and education or about how the HCP will help countries address the structural barriers to development that go well beyond human capital deficits. Neither was much made of the fact that the HCP was launched alongside an explicit drive for increased IFC support for private sector involvement in health and education and the Development Committee’s support for “new financing approaches” in light of “financial constraints”.
Bali: Imposed silence beyond the gilded halls
The situation in this year’s host country, which many blame on the long-term involvement of Bank and Fund policies, has left Indonesians with little to cheer, as made evident by recent reports, critiques and alternative events held at the side-lines of the meetings (see Observer Autumn 2018).
Indonesian civil society issues ranged from broad critiques to efforts to hold their government and the World Bank accountable for the deficient implementation of the old and new Environmental and Social Framework (ESF) in Indonesia. During a CSPF event, civil society raised myriad concerns, including on forced displacement, lack of access to relevant information, environmental harm and the intimidation by security forces during ESF consultations, only to be waved off by Bank officials as being “misinformed”.
Concerns about intimidation in response to criticism became increasingly poignant throughout the week, as reports flooded in accusing the Government of Indonesia and Balinese police forces for continually disrupting and intimidating the independent civil society initiative of the People’s Global Conference Against the IMF and World Bank (PGC). It was alleged that PGC participants and organisers received anonymous death threats and were tagged as ‘terrorists’. The fact that these events took place on the side-lines of the Bank and Fund’s flagship event, under the spotlight of global media, where one would expect some protection of peaceful critical voices, illustrates very clearly the urgency of addressing persistent concerns about the closure of civil society space and silencing of critical voices.
The Annual Meetings in Bali were marred by these repressive actions and the Bretton Woods Project stands in solidarity with civil society worldwide and the PGC in particular as they struggle to make their voices heard.
Demonstrating the resilience of civil society under pressure, civil society participants from feminist groups resisting the IMF and World Bank’s policies for their harm to women’s rights and gender equality closed the week on an uplifting and inspirational note with a feminist carnival on the sidelines of the official meetings.

Story 63
The 8th HbbTV Symposium and Awards will take place on November 21-22, 2019 in Athens, Greece.
The event will take place at the Megaron Athens Conference Centre in Athens, situated in the city centre yet surrounded by its own extensive landscaped gardens.
“With over 300 delegates from 27 countries, the HbbTV Symposium and Awards 2018 in Berlin reached a new record number of visitors and speakers. We will build on that during this year’s event in Athens which will again provide a great opportunity for sponsors to reach a large number of high-profile executives from around the world at the annual key event of the connected TV world,” said Vincent Grivet, Chair of the HbbTV Association.
The HbbTV Symposium and Awards 2019 targets platform operators, broadcasters, advertisers and adtechs, standards organisations and technology companies. The focus will include the first commercial rollouts of the game-changing HbbTV OpApp, the latest HbbTV deployments worldwide, new features of the HbbTV specifications, HbbTV as an enabler of targeted and addressable advertising and further opportunities offered by HbbTV to broadcasters and platform operators for expanding their business and opening new revenue sources.
This year‘s hosting partner is EPT (the Helenic Broadcasting Cooperation). ERT is the state-owned public radio and television broadcaster for Greece.
On December 4, 2017 ERT launched its Hybrid Services Platform, ERT Hybrid. ERT Hybrid is freely available to Smart TV sets HbbTV-ready, at the touch of one button. Amongst many more ERT Hybrid platform includes Catch-Up TV, exclusive broadcasts of sporting events on ERTPlay, VoD services, 27 ERT radio stations, ERT EPG, interactive weather platform, Subtitles, Multicamera viewing.
The event will also host the third edition of the HbbTV Awards, featuring a wide range of categories designed to acclaim best practice and excellence in the HbbTV community.

Story 64
Fiserv, Inc. with ticker code (FISV) have now 25 analysts covering the stock. The analyst consensus points to a rating of ‘Buy’. The target price ranges between 131 and 93 calculating the mean target price we have 116. Now with the previous closing price of 103.59 this is indicating there is a potential upside of 12.0%. The 50 day MA is 105.4 and the 200 day MA is 94.21. The company has a market cap of $70,490m. Find out more information at: http://www.fiserv.com
Fiserv, Inc., together with its subsidiaries, provides financial services technology worldwide. The company’s Payments and Industry Products segment provides electronic bill payment and presentment services; Internet and mobile banking software and services; account-to-account transfers; person-to-person payment services; debit and credit card processing and services; payments infrastructure services; and other electronic payments software and services. This segment also offers card and print personalization services; investment account processing services for separately managed accounts; and fraud and risk management products and services. Its Financial Institution Services segment provides account processing, item processing and source capture, loan origination and servicing products, cash management and consulting services, and other products and services that support various types of financial transactions. This segment also provides ACH and treasury management, case management and resolution, and source capture optimization services to the financial services industry. The company also provides bank payment and liquidity management solutions, as well as Internet based mortgage software and mortgage lending technology solutions. It serves banks, credit unions, investment management firms, leasing and finance companies, billers, retailers, and merchants. The company was founded in 1984 and is headquartered in Brookfield, Wisconsin.

Story 65
The 2019 Cord Cutting study from Roku predicts approximately 60 million TV households are expected to access video on their TV exclusively through streaming within the next five years.
If this happens, for the first time, streamers will surpass traditional Pay TV viewers.
Overall US market data suggests two million Americans have ‘cut the cord’ so far in 2019, moving from traditional Pay TV (cable or satellite television subscriptions). That’s after 3.5 million people gave up traditional pay-TV video subscriptions in 2018. Consumers who are already streaming include Cord Cutters, TV households that previously had pay-TV; Cord Shavers who may pay for traditional cable but have reduced their package in the last few years; and Cord Nevers, those who have never had pay-TV.
New findings from the 2019 Roku Cord Cutter study and analysis of behavioural usage on the Roku platform show that a new generation of Cord Cutters has emerged. Analysis indicates shifts in attitudes, behaviors and, most importantly, viewership among the new generation of Cord Cutters. Essentially, their viewing behavior more closely mirrors that of average mainstream TV viewers, but this new generation of Cord Cutters took the initiative to seek out better value and choice in how they consume TV.
The Roku Cord Cutting study points to five factors that are driving the acceleration of cord cutting including:
– Virtual multichannel video programming distributors (vMVPDs) offer a bridge for consumers who want to cut the cord but don’t want to miss out on network and live TV programming that traditional Pay TV services offer. When consumers become aware that they can stream the same live local channels, including sports, news, reality, and top network channels with an electronic programming guide (EPG) and video on demand (VOD) at a reduced price, some of their barriers to cord cutting are removed.
– An abundance of high-quality content is available through streaming. Companies who offer subscription video on demand services (SVOD) are spending billions on creating and promoting award-winning original content.
– Viewers are finding value in the ability to watch ad-supported video on demand (AVOD). In fact, 73 percent of all video streamers in the Roku study watch AVOD and 45 percent watch more free TV than any other streaming video option. Many Cord Cutters don’t mind viewing video ads in exchange for viewing free entertainment. In contrast, many traditional linear TV viewers reported in the study that there are too many ads within the content they watch.
– Of those surveyed for the Roku study, 74 percent say streaming is more convenient than Pay TV services and 89 percent report that using a streaming device is very easy.
– Increasingly, cable and satellite companies are devoting less effort to trying to retain low-margin video subscribers.
Roku’s analysis of the Cord Cutting study shows that 82 percent of all Cord Cutters who participated in the study are extremely satisfied with their decision to cut the cord while 92 percent of Roku customers shared the same sentiment.
“This report shows there is a huge, new generation of streamers who enjoy live and free TV and are extremely satisfied with the decision to watch TV without cable or satellite,” said Matthew Anderson, Roku chief marketing officer.
“Half of Roku’s US customers don’t have traditional cable and satellite subscriptions and they enjoy the value, ease and breadth of content we offer them. The Roku study shows that the shift to streaming is more popular and growing faster than ever before.”

Story 66
News coverage about AER stock has trended extremely negative this week, according to InfoTrie. InfoTrie rates the sentiment of press coverage by monitoring more than six thousand news and blog sources in real-time. The firm ranks coverage of public companies on a scale of negative five to positive five, with scores nearest to five being the most favorable. AerCap earned a coverage optimism score of -4.0 on InfoTrie's scale. They also gave news coverage about the financial services provider a news buzz of 0.0 out of 10, indicating that recent press coverage is extremely unlikely to have an effect on the company's share price in the next few days. View News Stories for AerCap.

Story 67
Advertisement
There are a few different types of IPTV add-ons for Kodi The 20 Best Kodi Add-Ons You Didn't Know You Needed The 20 Best Kodi Add-Ons You Didn't Know You Needed Here are the best Kodi add-ons you didn't know you needed but should install right now. Read More . Some are focused around a particular channel or network (such as BBC iPlayer), while others let you add your own playlists for a customized channel list.
In this article, we will introduce you to some of the best Kodi add-ons from each IPTV category.
Customized Kodi IPTV Playlists
Let’s start with three add-ons that let you add and customize your own M3U playlists, allowing for a personalized IPTV experience. If you need some background first, check out our IPTV overview What Is IPTV and Is It Legal? What Is IPTV and Is It Legal? What is IPTV? And, more importantly, is IPTV legal? As ever with legal questions, the answer is somewhat nuanced. Read More .
PVR IPTV Simple Client is the basic IPTV add-on that most Kodi users will use. It comes pre-built into the Kodi app.
The add-on supports live TV, radio channels, and electronic program guides (EPGs).
If the PVR IPTV Simple Client add-on has been disabled, you can reactivate easily. Head to TV > Enter add-on browser > PVR IPTV Simple Client > Enable. To add your own M3U playlists, go to Configure > General, change Location to Remote Path (Internet Address), select M3U Playlist URL, and enter the address.
PVR IPTV Simple Client supports multilingual channels and program guides.
The add-on forms part of Kodi’s broader ability to read PLS files, M3U files, and cue sheets, all of which allow you to create basic and smart playlists within the Kodi app.
2. Playlist Loader [No Longer Available]
Although PVR IPTV Simple Client is the default tool, it’s quite barebones compared to some of the other options out there.
The first alternative you should check out is Playlist Loader. Unlike the native tool, it allows you to add multiple M3U playlists at once then hop between them seamlessly. The feature is useful if you pull your IPTV services The Best Legal IPTV Service Providers in 2019 The Best Legal IPTV Service Providers in 2019 Here are the best legal IPTV services that won't get you in trouble with the law. Read More from lots of different sources; you’ll save time and frustration compared to overwriting a single URL every time you want to switch.
You will find Playlist Loader in the Avigdor repo. Download the ZIP file from GitHub then go to Add-ons > Add-on browser > Install from ZIP file to add it to your Kodi app.
One of the best aspects of watching IPTV on Kodi is the EPG. However, many EPGs offer incorrect information. If you’re trying to recreate a “cable TV experience,” this is far from ideal.
The solution is to download XMLTV files for the channels in your M3U playlist. XMLTV files contain the EPG data. You can grab EPGs for most mainstream channels around the world from webgrabplus.com.
However, to truly get that cable feeling, you need to combine the separate EPGs into a single user interface. That’s where XMLTV Meld comes in. It joins multiple XMLTV providers into one XMLTV file.
The setup process is a touch complex. Read the official XMLTV Meld wiki for more information.
Other Kodi IPTV Apps
There are dozens of IPTV apps out there which stream content illegally. We’re not going to discuss them here, as watching illegal con How Your Amazon Fire TV Stick and Kodi Could Cause Legal Issues How Your Amazon Fire TV Stick and Kodi Could Cause Legal Issues Kodi and the Amazon Fire TV Stick are insanely popular. However, although users are attracted to both Kodi and the Amazon Fire TV Stick's flexibility, they could easily land themselves in legal hot water. Read More tent on Kodi can land you in trouble How Your Amazon Fire TV Stick and Kodi Could Cause Legal Issues How Your Amazon Fire TV Stick and Kodi Could Cause Legal Issues Kodi and the Amazon Fire TV Stick are insanely popular. However, although users are attracted to both Kodi and the Amazon Fire TV Stick's flexibility, they could easily land themselves in legal hot water. Read More . If you’re curious, a quick Google search will reveal everything you need to know; make sure you know the legality of Kodi Exodus Is Kodi Exodus Legal? Is Kodi Exodus Legal? Is Kodi Exodus legal? It's complicated. In this article, we guide you through this legal minefield. Read More .
However, away from the illegal content, there are lots of IPTV add-ons for Kodi which are perfectly legitimate. Here are six of the best.
Although it’s not an official BBC app, the iPlayer add-on for Kodi uses the BBC service’s API key and is thus entirely legal.
Because the add-on uses official BBC feeds rather than dodgy third-party sources, it is only available to users in the U.K. If you want to watch from outside the British Isles, you will need to use a high-quality VPN service for Kodi 3 Free VPNs for Kodi (But the Best VPN for Kodi Is Paid) 3 Free VPNs for Kodi (But the Best VPN for Kodi Is Paid) Free VPNs for Kodi do exist, although they aren't the best. This article lists the best of the free VPNs that specialize in Kodi. Read More .
If you’re an American expat living outside the United States, you need to install the USTVnow add-on.
The free package offers five channels: ABC, CBS, The CW, PBS, and MyTV 9. For $19/month, you can increase the number of channels to 24, including ESPN, TLC, National Geographic, AMC, Discovery, and FOX. The $24 premium package adds unlimited DVR capabilities.
If you’re a musically-minded person, you can’t go wrong with The JukeBox add-on. As the name suggests, its focus is on music-based IPTV content.
You’re not going to find MTV or VH1, but the app does have IPTV feeds from second-tier channels, including London’s Capital TV, Magic, The Box, and Vevo. There’s also a healthy dose of EDM and live DJing channels.
There’s even some on-demand content and audio-only content. You can search by genres, decades, concert, or even by DJ.
If sci-fi is your thing, you need to have Comet TV in your life. It’s a live TV channel that only went live in 2015.
At the time of writing, it’s still only available in 75 percent of the US. If you live outside of the supported markets, Kodi is one of the best ways to access its IPTV feeds.
TBD is a US network with content that’s primarily geared towards younger audiences. Like Comet TV, it’s a new channel, having only started broadcasting in December 2016.
And, also like Comet TV, it’s a long way from achieving nationwide coverage. Just over 60 percent of American households can pick up the signal.
If you’re a millennial looking for a mix of comedy, animation, esports, and music, the TBD IPTV add-on for Kodi is definitely worth installing.
We’ve recommended Pluto on other streaming platforms, and the Kodi version of the app is no different.
Pluto does not focus on a single channel or network. Instead, it offers access to a range of IPTV content, including CNBC, Sky News, Bloomberg, and Cheddar. It also has its own native electronic program guide that’s accessible from within the add-on.
In recent years, NewsON has answered the prayers of cord cutters who were desperate for a way to watch live news on Kodi The 12 Best Kodi Add-Ons for Watching Live News The 12 Best Kodi Add-Ons for Watching Live News Cordcutters have always had a tough time watching live news. However, there are now some solid free Kodi add-ons dedicated to live news feeds. Read More .
Specifically, NewsON specializes in local news. It provides free access to live IPTV streams of 170 TV channels in 108 US cities.
In addition to live IPTV, you can also catch up with old streams for 48 hours after they air.
Add Your Kodi Add-On Recommendations
The Kodi add-ons for IPTV we have covered in this article will give you a broad selection of both customizable content and leading channels from the U.S. and Europe. If you’re a movie buff, you might also want to know about legal Kodi add-ons for free movies. If you know about any other IPTV add-ons worth mentioning, please let us know in the comments.
And if you’re new to the world of Kodi, be sure to check out our Kodi setup guide How to Use Kodi: The Complete Setup Guide How to Use Kodi: The Complete Setup Guide Our beginner's guide shows how to install the Kodi software, how to navigate through the initial setup, and how to load add-ons. Read More and check out some of the best Kodi skins and how to install them The 8 Best Kodi Skins and How to Install Them The 8 Best Kodi Skins and How to Install Them The best way to overhaul your Kodi experience is to install a new skin. Here are the best Kodi skins and how to install them. Read More . You can even customize popular Kodi skins How to Customize Popular Kodi Skins How to Customize Popular Kodi Skins Here's everything you need to know on how to customize the most popular Kodi skins to make Kodi look exactly as you want. Read More !

Story 68
Zeus Capital acted as Financial Adviser to Likewise Group plc (LIKE) in connection with its admission to trading on The International Stock Exchange and associated £7.0 million subscription.
Likewise is a distributor of floorcoverings and matting and is led by CEO Tony Brewer, the former CEO of Headlam Group plc for 16 years, and has the opportunity to consolidate the domestic and commercial floorcovering markets to develop an alternative to larger industry competitors.
The company was admitted to trading on 11 January 2019 with a market capitalisation (based on the issue price of 10 pence) of £12.0 million. Further information can be found here.
Likewise has raised net proceeds of approximately £6.5 million. These proceeds will be used for acquisitions and to provide general working capital for growth. Likewise intends to utilise the expertise and industry knowledge of its plc, executive and advisory boards to deliver organic growth, operational leverage and, where desirable, execute strategic acquisitions.
Zeus Capital is one of the leading advisers to small and mid-cap listed companies by IPO funds raised. In 2018, Zeus Capital has acted on IPOs and secondary transactions for 12 listed companies: those transactions were valued at over £700m for companies listed on both the LSE Main Market and AIM.

Story 69
Media coverage about FIS stock has trended extremely negative on Thursday, InfoTrie reports. InfoTrie rates the sentiment of news coverage by analyzing more than six thousand blog and news sources in real time. The firm ranks coverage of publicly-traded companies on a scale of -5 to 5, with scores nearest to five being the most favorable. Fidelity National Information Servcs earned a news sentiment score of -4.0 on InfoTrie's scale. They also gave media coverage about the information technology services provider a news buzz of 0.0 out of 10, indicating that recent news coverage is extremely unlikely to have an impact on the company's share price in the immediate future. View News Stories for Fidelity National Information Servcs.

Story 70
A few weeks ago at the Scottish National Party’s Spring Conference, something quite unusual happened. It was not the focus on liberal and social issues. It wasn’t that the thousands of party members gathered clapped in unison whenever a speaker mentioned Scottish independence. Instead, it was that a fringe event was organised to explore deeper Scotland-India relations.
It was the first time SNP had formally explored party interest in establishing a special interest group focused on developing relations with India. The seminar competed with concurrent events on the environment, social security, refugees, domestic abuse and other policy-led discussion forums, but a committed core of SNP members turned up to discuss closer cultural, civic, education and business links.
This follows on from the re-establishment of the Labour Friends of India group earlier this year, led by Rajesh Agrawal, deputy mayor for business of London, and Darren Jones MP. LFI had its heyday more than 15 years ago when its chair at the time, Barry Gardiner MP, presented then chief minister Narendra Modi with a cheque for £1m raised by British charity Sewa International for victims of the Gujarat earthquake.
Once the Conservative government of PM David Cameron came into power in 2010, LFI’s foothold in the Indian community fell precipitously, and the Indian vote transferred away from Labour. Conservative Friends of India was established and steadily grew its membership. Cameron coined the phrase ‘phir ek baar, Cameron sarkar’ a few years later in a temple in northwest London.
For the first time in Britain, all three major political partners today have a special interest group for India. This shows the increasing importance of India to Britain. There are subtle differences in approach from each of them. The narrative at the SNP conference was about shared liberal values, civic and educational exchanges. The Conservatives have a consistent focus on business and providing mentorship to younger candidates running for election. The membership base is largely upwardly-mobile entrepreneurs and professionals. LFI is just getting started, but seems to focus on grassroots engagement on business and community issues. The senior buy-in that earlier iterations of LFI enjoyed has yet provided elusive.
The latest Grant Thornton India Tracker shows that Indian companies employ 105,000 people in Britain, generating £48bn in revenues. India remains the country’s third-largest job creator and M&A transactions involving Indian companies hit a record level in 2018. Some of the big transactions included Indian government-owned Energy Efficiency Services Limited acquiring Edina Power Services for £57m and Bharat Forge’s investment of £10m into Tevva Motors. Oyo rooms entered the UK hotel market in its first expansion outside Asia, as did Ola, entering South Wales and Manchester.
London is the European hub of activity for UK-India economic opportunities. New Indian diaspora think tank Bridge India chose London as its first European office, ahead of Germany and Netherlands and there are at least three India-focused tech events during London Tech Week this month. There are almost daily stories of Indian-origin tech businesses flourishing in London, such as blockchain identity management startup MyEarthID or venture capital fund Pontaq, which has signed an agreement with Chinese developers ABP to create a designated co-working space for Indian tech right next to London City Airport.
The tag of ‘India-UK’ has become a sub-industry in its own right. London abounds with consultants and new initiatives claiming to be channelling success in this bilateral corridor. Middlemen see an opportunity for India-UK themed awards ceremonies where the level of sponsorship drives the accolade received. We seem to be at the peak of a cyclical market for such entrepreneurial ventures.
But other initiatives that are bottom-up and entrepreneur-led have seen the most growth, primarily because they have a clearer purpose. Network Capital, the global community of change-makers and entrepreneurs that is a partner for the Atal Innovation Mission, has a flourishing London chapter. The six-month old Bridge India, where i am an advisor, has generated remarkable interest in connecting diaspora Indians to public policy issues in India. There are several community-led WhatsApp groups in the Tamil, Maharashtrian, Gujarati and other communities that have shown similar patterns of growth with a mantra of being membership-led, focusing on no politics, just business. Each of these are communities that have grown through diligent growth hacking and with the assistance of social media.
As the political parties try to grow their India special interest groups and Indian government affiliated organisations continue to flourish in the UK, they are engaged in a battle for eyeballs, engagement and therefore relevance in a world of new, social media led communities. It is an exciting time to be an OCI in the UK.

Story 71
TUI AG (LON:TUI) today announced its third quarter results.
EUR million Q3 2019 Q3 2018
adjusted Var. % 9M 2019 9M 2018
adjusted Var. % Var. %
at constant
currency Turnover 4,745.0 4,576.7 + 3.7 11,421.4 11,142.6 + 2.5 + 2.8 Underlying EBITA 1 Hotels & Resorts 91.5 72.4 + 26.4 226.9 244.7 – 7.3 – 18.6 Cruises 101.5 88.7 + 14.4 207.9 182.4 + 14.0 + 14.0 Destination Experiences 15.3 17.4 – 12.1 4.9 4.1 + 19.5 + 17.1 Holiday Experiences 208.3 178.5 + 16.7 439.7 431.2 + 2.0 – 5.0 Northern Region – 58.6 14.2 n. a. – 263.7 – 111.6 – 136.3 – 134.8 Central Region 8.2 31.5 – 74.0 – 119.6 – 113.2 – 5.7 – 5.7 Western Region – 53.5 – 8.5 – 529.4 – 217.4 – 113.7 – 91.2 – 91.2 Markets & Airlines – 103.9 37.2 n. a. – 600.7 – 338.5 – 77.5 – 77.0 All other segments – 3.5 – 28.9 + 87.9 – 38.7 – 75.6 + 48.8 + 44.2 TUI Group 100.9 186.8 – 46.0 – 199.7 17.1 n. a. n. a.
EBITA 2, 3 84.1 176.0 – 52.2 – 262.6 – 27.4 – 858.4 Underlying EBITDA 3, 4 219.3 287.0 – 23.6 141.8 312.5 – 54.6 EBITDA 3, 4 210.4 281.2 – 25.2 103.7 285.4 – 63.7 EBITDAR 3, 4, 5 396.9 459.9 – 13.7 634.6 794.7 – 20.1 Net gain / net loss for the period 47.3 104.8 – 54.9 – 240.4 – 105.8 – 127.2 Earnings per share 3 EUR 0.04 0.17 – 76.5 – 0.54 – 0.31 – 74.2 Net capex and investments 238.8 378.4 – 36.9 890.4 585.7 + 52.0 Equity ratio (30 June) 6 % 19.8 21.4 – 1.6 Net debt / Net cash (30 June) – 994.6 589.4 n. a. Employees (30 June) 71,847 66,632 + 7.8
Differences may occur due to rounding.
This Quarterly Statement of the TUI Group was prepared for the reporting period 9M 2019 from 1 October 2018 to 30 June 2019.
The TUI Group applied IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 retrospectively from 1 October 2018. In contrast to IFRS 15, IFRS 9 was introduced without restating the previous year’s figures.
In Q1 2019, the Italian tour operators were transferred from All other segments to the Central Region. In addition, the Crystal Ski companies, which provide services in the destinations, were reclassified from Northern Region to Destination Experiences. Prior-year figures were adjusted accordingly.
1 In order to explain and evaluate the operating performance by the segments, EBITA adjusted for one-off effects (underlying EBITA) is presented. Underlying EBITA has been adjusted for gains / losses on disposal of investments, restructuring costs according to IAS 37, ancillary acquisition costs and conditional purchase price payments under purchase price allocations and other expenses for and income from one-off items. Please also refer to page 6 for further details.
2 EBITA comprises earnings before interest, income taxes and goodwill impairment. EBITA includes amortisation of other intangible assets. EBITA does not include ­measurement effects from interest hedges.
3 Continuing operations.
4 EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, income taxes, goodwill impairment and amortisation and write-ups of other intangible assets, depreciation and write-ups of property, plant and equipment, investments and current assets. The amounts of amortisation and depreciation represent the net balance including write-backs. ­Underlying EBITDA has been adjusted for gains / losses on disposal of investments, restructuring costs according to IAS 37, ancillary acquisition costs and conditional purchase price payments under purchase price allocations and other expenses for and income from one-off items.
5 For the reconciliation from EBITDA to the indicator EBITDAR, long-term leasing and rental expenses are eliminated.
6 Equity divided by balance sheet total in %, variance is given in percentage points.
Highlights
Our Holiday Experiences continue to deliver a strong performance, despite the challenges we currently face in our Markets & Airlines business, demonstrating the strength of our integrated business model.
Our Hotels & Resorts result in Q3 is supported by our asset portfolio of diversified destinations. Whilst Riu saw lower ­demand in Spain resulting from the continued shift of demand from Western to Eastern Mediterranean, our Turkish hotels saw a significant year on year earnings improvement as a result of this demand shift.
Our strong Cruises result reflects the capacity expansions across the fleet this Summer, with strong volumes in TUI Cruises, and strong increase in yields for both Marella and Hapag-Lloyd Cruises.
Destination Experiences continued to grow with our Musement integration well on track, with the basis set for the business to benefit from strong Summer season volumes in Q4.
Markets & Airlines continued to see a weak demand environment leading to a later booking behaviour by our customers, reflecting the ongoing knock-on impact of the Summer 2018 heatwave and Brexit uncertainty. Number of customers were marginally ahead of prior year however and the segment delivered a stable underlying result outside of the 737 MAX grounding impact.
As outlined in our ad-hoc announcement in March, Q3 was negatively impacted by the 737 MAX aircraft grounding. ­Resumption of the 737 MAX remains subject to the clearance decision of the civil aviation authorities and we have secured replacement aircraft leases out to the end of our Summer 2019 programme. We anticipate 737 MAX related costs of approximately up to EUR 300 m for the current financial year.
In the last quarter we made significant progress to deliver on our four strategic initiatives: Grow Hotel & Cruise business with vertical integration to drive premium returns; Retain and where possible extend strong positions in Markets & Airlines; Add scale in new markets, with our new GDN-OTA (Global Distribution Network Online Travel Agent) platform; and Add scale in Destination Experience markets with our new tours and activities platform.
Hotels & Cruises – we will continue to leverage our distribution scale to increase yields in our content businesses and further invest in portfolio diversification. We will both continue to be selective in our approach and apply a blended ROIC target rate of > 15 %.
Markets & Airlines – we have set up a Markets Transformation Programme to improve our market competitiveness. The programme will focus on CRM and digital upselling, harmonisation of purchasing, airline efficiency, mobile distribution and common IT platforms to retain and where possible, extend our market share.
New markets – we will build reach in complementary markets through our scalable GDN-OTA platform and have seen strong growth momentum already to date. Our target of 1 m additional customers from new markets by 2022 may be achieved earlier.
Destination Experiences – we will drive scale in our new digitalised platform by both expanding our product portfolio and by extending to further 3rd party distribution channels such as Ctrip.
As part of our ongoing review of our business portfolio, we are pleased to announce we have signed an agreement post balance sheet date relating to the disposal of two non-core German specialist businesses. The disposal of Berge & Meer and Boomerang reflects our drive to focus on clear synergistic businesses. We anticipate the disposal, for an agreed enterprise value of EUR 96 m to EUR 106 m (including EUR 10 m earn-out), to complete in the first quarter of the next financial year.
As expected, net debt as at 30 June 2019 reflects the full utilisation of disposal proceeds received over the past few years and the increase in financing related to our aircraft re-fleeting programme. TUI is in a robust financial position, with a considerable level of financing and liquidity headroom.
We therefore reiterate FY19 underlying EBITA guidance stated in our ad hoc announcement of 29 March 2019 of approximately up to – 26 % compared with underlying EBITA rebased in FY18 of EUR 1,177 m1.
1 Based on constant currency: FY18 result rebased in December 2018 to EUR 1,187 m to take into account EUR 40 m impact for revaluation of Euro loan balance within Turkish Lira entities, and adjusted further to EUR 1,177 m for retrospective application of IFRS 15.
At a glance
For further detail, please see Segmental Performance on pages 6 to 11.
Results at a glance EUR million Q3 2019 9M 2019 Underlying EBITA FY18 (originally reported) + 193 + 35 IFRS 15 impact – 6 – 18 Turkish Lira revaluation impact (prior year) + 8 + 18 Underlying EBITA FY18 (rebased) + 195 + 35 Holiday Experiences + 28 + 21 Markets & Airlines – 31 – 174 All other segments + 24 + 33 Special items Prior year: Riu gains on disposal (Hotels & Resorts) – 8 – 43 Prior year: Niki bankruptcy impact (Central Region) – + 20 Prior year: Airline disruptions (Markets & Airlines) + 13 + 13 Q1 FY19: Northern Region hedging gain – + 29 Q2 / Q3 FY19: 737 MAX grounding (Markets & Airlines) – 144 – 149 Q2 / Q3 FY19: Easter timing (Markets & Airlines) + 22 – Underlying EBITA FY19 at constant currency + 99 – 215 Foreign exchange translation + 2 + 15 Underlying EBITA FY19 + 101 – 200
Expected development and guidance
Holiday Experiences
Holiday Experiences continues to deliver a strong performance overall. The strength in our model lies not only in the investment we have made in recent years to expand our differentiated content and our integrated model (driving higher occupancies, rates and yields in our hotels and cruise ships), but also in our expansion of multiple hotel destinations. Our diversified destination strategy is delivering clear benefits from the shift in demand from Western to Eastern Mediterranean and we expect this benefit to continue in Q4.
We have opened 23 own hotels so far in FY19, and expect to open 26 in total. This will bring the total since merger to 70, slightly ahead of our original target of around 60 hotels. Around two thirds of our 70 openings since merger are of lower capital intensity, (operated under either a management or franchised contract or owned with JV partner), reflecting our disciplined approach in ownership.
In Cruises, we have launched three ships this year, new Mein Schiff 2, Marella Explorer 2 and Hanseatic nature. All our brands continue to perform well, driven by robust demand for our attractive itineraries and premium all-inclusive, as well as luxury and expedition product offerings.
Within Destination Experiences, we expect excursions and activities contributions to grow, with Musement integration costs in the year partly offsetting. In the coming months, we will expand the product portfolio and 3rd party distribution channels (such as with Ctrip) of our digitalised platform, driving further future growth.
Markets & Airlines
As previously communicated, we expect our FY19 full-year results to be impacted by the 737 MAX grounding. We have seen a later booking behaviour to date from the ongoing knock-on impact of last year’s extraordinary hot Summer with demand continuing to be impacted by Brexit uncertainty. In addition, overcapacity to Spanish destinations has resulted in increased competition, putting pressure on margins for the division.
For Summer 2019, 87 % of the programme has been sold compared with 88 % at this time last year. Bookings are down 1 %, with average selling price up 1 %1. As we approach August, we expect improvement in Summer trading as we lap the height of last year’s heatwave. Bookings and margins have improved year-on-year over the most recent weeks, however pricing remains behind cost ­inflation, therefore we continue to anticipate margins to be lower than prior year.
1 These statistics are up to 4 August 2019, shown on a constant currency basis, and relate to all customers whether risk or non-risk.
Guidance
We therefore reiterate FY19 underlying EBITA guidance stated in our ad hoc announcement of March 2019 of approxi­mately up to – 26 %, compared with underlying EBITA rebased in FY18 of EUR 1,177 m2.
2 Based on constant currency: FY18 result based in December 2018 to EUR 1,187 m to take into account EUR 40 m impact for revaluation of Euro loan balance within Turkish Lira entities, and adjusted further to EUR 1,177 m for retrospective application of IFRS 15.
Based on current foreign exchange rates, we expect approximately EUR 15 m positive impact on underlying EBITA compared with rates prevailing in the prior year.
Consolidated earnings
Turnover EUR million Q3 2019 Q3 2018
adjusted Var. % 9M 2019 9M 2018
adjusted Var. % Hotels & Resorts 154.5 161.0 – 4.0 425.5 448.9 – 5.2 Cruises 256.3 222.7 + 15.1 680.9 619.6 + 9.9 Destination Experiences 259.4 65.8 + 294.2 562.2 131.4 + 327.9 Holiday Experiences 670.2 449.5 + 49.1 1,668.6 1,199.9 + 39.1 Northern Region 1,599.6 1,616.0 – 1.0 3,722.9 3,842.6 – 3.1 Central Region 1,598.4 1,525.7 + 4.8 3,823.1 3,761.3 + 1.6 Western Region 804.3 846.6 – 5.0 1,861.4 1,911.2 – 2.6 Markets & Airlines 4,002.3 3,988.3 + 0.4 9,407.4 9,515.1 – 1.1 All other segments 72.5 138.9 – 47.8 345.4 427.6 – 19.2 TUI Group 4,745.0 4,576.7 + 3.7 11,421.4 11,142.6 + 2.5 TUI Group at constant currency 4,776.7 4,576.7 + 4.4 11,454.6 11,142.6 + 2.8
Underlying EBITA EUR million Q3 2019 Q3 2018
adjusted Var. % 9M 2019 9M 2018
adjusted Var. % Hotels & Resorts 91.5 72.4 + 26.4 226.9 244.7 – 7.3 Cruises 101.5 88.7 + 14.4 207.9 182.4 + 14.0 Destination Experiences 15.3 17.4 – 12.1 4.9 4.1 + 19.5 Holiday Experiences 208.3 178.5 + 16.7 439.7 431.2 + 2.0 Northern Region – 58.6 14.2 n. a. – 263.7 – 111.6 – 136.3 Central Region 8.2 31.5 – 74.0 – 119.6 – 113.2 – 5.7 Western Region – 53.5 – 8.5 – 529.4 – 217.4 – 113.7 – 91.2 Markets & Airlines – 103.9 37.2 n. a. – 600.7 – 338.5 – 77.5 All other segments – 3.5 – 28.9 + 87.9 – 38.7 – 75.6 + 48.8 TUI Group 100.9 186.8 – 46.0 – 199.7 17.1 n. a. TUI Group at constant currency 98.9 194.6* – 49.2 – 214.5 35.3* n. a.
* Rebased previous year’s numbers adjusted for EUR 8 m and EUR 18 m in 9 m 2018, arising from the revaluation of Euro loan balances within Turkish hotel entities.
EBITA EUR million Q3 2019 Q3 2018
adjusted Var. % 9M 2019 9M 2018
adjusted Var. % Hotels & Resorts 91.5 72.4 + 26.4 226.9 244.6 – 7.2 Cruises 101.5 88.7 + 14.4 207.9 182.4 + 14.0 Destination Experiences 11.8 16.9 – 30.2 – 7.5 3.0 n. a. Holiday Experiences 204.8 178.0 + 15.1 427.3 430.0 – 0.6 Northern Region – 63.2 9.4 n. a. – 290.9 – 125.0 – 132.7 Central Region 5.1 28.4 – 82.0 – 126.2 – 122.6 – 2.9 Western Region – 56.6 – 11.5 – 392.2 – 226.6 – 129.7 – 74.7 Markets & Airlines – 114.7 26.3 n. a. – 643.7 – 377.3 – 70.6 All other segments – 6.0 – 28.3 + 78.8 – 46.2 – 80.1 + 42.3 TUI Group 84.1 176.0 – 52.2 – 262.6 – 27.4 – 858.4 Discontinued operations – 41.4 n. a. – 41.4 n. a. Total 84.1 217.4 – 61.3 – 262.6 14.0 n. a.
Segmental performance
Holiday Experiences
Holiday Experiences EUR million Q3 2019 Q3 2018
adjusted Var. % 9M 2019 9M 2018
adjusted Var. % Turnover 670.2 449.5 + 49.1 1,668.6 1,199.9 + 39.1 Underlying EBITA 208.3 178.5 + 16.7 439.7 431.2 + 2.0 Underlying EBITA at
constant currency 206.8 186.3* + 11.0 426.8 449.4* – 5.0
* Rebased previous year’s numbers adjusted for EUR 8 m in Q3 2018 and EUR 18 m in 9 m 2018, arising from the revaluation of Euro loan balances within Turkish hotel entities.
Hotels & Resorts Q3 2019 Q3 2018
adjusted Var. % 9M 2019 9M 2018
adjusted Var. % Total turnover in EUR million 369.1 334.6 + 10.3 960.4 897.9 + 7.0 Turnoverin EUR million 154.5 161.0 – 4.0 425.5 448.9 – 5.2 Underlying EBITA in EUR million 91.5 72.4 + 26.4 226.9 244.7 – 7.3 Underlying EBITA at constant
currency rates in EUR million 90.0 80.21 + 12.2 214.1 262.91 – 18.6 Capacity hotels total 2 in ‘000 11,922 10,911 + 9.3 28,689 27,103 + 5.9 Riu 4,665 4,484 + 4.0 13,266 12,917 + 2.7 Robinson 958 823 + 16.3 2,241 2,070 + 8.3 Blue Diamond 1,149 944 + 21.6 3,169 2,712 + 16.9 Occupancy rate hotels total 3 in %
variance in % points 79.8 80.2 – 0.4 78.2 78.4 – 0.2 Riu 88.9 88.4 + 0.5 85.7 87.1 – 1.4 Robinson 66.9 64.4 + 2.5 67.4 63.6 + 3.8 Blue Diamond 77.2 83.4 – 6.2 77.9 80.4 – 2.5 Average revenue per bed
hotels total 4, 5 in EUR 60 57 + 5.4 67 64 + 4.0 Riu 58 58 + 0.1 65 65 + 0.2 Robinson 86 86 + 0.5 92 92 – 0.9 Blue Diamond 113 104 + 8.0 122 114 + 7.1
Turnover measures include fully consolidated companies, all other KPIs incl. companies measured at equity.
1 Rebased previous year’s numbers adjusted for EUR 8 m in Q3 2018 and EUR 18 m in 9 m 2018, arising from the revaluation of Euro loan balances within Turkish hotel entities.
2 Group owned or leased hotel beds multiplied by opening days per period.
3 Occupied beds divided by capacity.
4 Arrangement revenue divided by occupied beds.
5 Previous year revenue per bed restated to reflect revised PY rate at Blue Diamond.
Hotels & Resorts underlying EBITA for Q3 was up EUR 19 m on prior year at constant currency rates, excluding last year’s EUR 8 m gain on disposals in Riu. Occupancy remained high across the segment at 80 %. Average revenue per bed increased by 5 %, helped by the shift of demand to Eastern Mediterranean, reflecting improving rates in Turkey.
In Riu, as expected from the shift of demand from Western to Eastern Mediterranean, underlying EBITA decreased year on year as Riu came off record highs. Additionally, last year benefitted from EUR 8 m disposal proceeds in the same period. In spite of this destination shift, occupancy at Riu increased by 1 ppts to 89 %. Average rate remained at EUR 58.
Robinson saw a good operational performance in the quarter with occupancy increasing by 3 ppts to 67 % and average rate of EUR 86 in line with prior year. This was driven by increased demand for our clubs in Turkey, and the benefit of reopening our flagship club Jandia Playa in Fuerteventura, which was closed for renovation in the prior year. Underlying EBITA increased by EUR 1 m in the period.
Blue Diamond earnings declined by EUR 4 m in the period due to higher interest and depreciation costs of our new properties and lower occupancy rates across the portfolio, particularly in our new openings. Occupancy rate fell by 6 ppts to 77 %, and average rate is up 2 % excluding FX and up 8 % including FX.
As anticipated, our other hotels result increased by EUR 19 m versus prior year reflecting the return of demand to Turkey, delivering improving rates and occupancy.
Since merger, 67 new hotels have been opened, 66 % of which are in lower capital intensity models (managed, franchised or owned via joint venture).
Cruises Q3 2019 Q3 2018
adjusted Var. % 9M 2019 9M 2018
adjusted Var. % Turnover1 in EUR million 256.3 222.7 + 15.1 680.9 619.6 + 9.9 Underlying EBITA in EUR million 101.5 88.7 + 14.4 207.9 182.4 + 14.0 Underlying EBITA at
constant currency in EUR million 101.6 88.7 + 14.5 207.9 182.4 + 14.0 Occupancyin %
variance in % points TUI Cruises 99.5 98.8 + 0.6 99.3 99.2 + 0.2 Marella Cruises2 98.5 100.3 – 1.8 99.7 99.9 – 0.2 Hapag-Lloyd Cruises 74.7 75.6 – 0.9 76.3 76.1 + 0.2 Passenger daysin ‘000 TUI Cruises 1,609 1,239 + 29.9 4,427 3,753 + 18.0 Marella Cruises2 906 799 + 13.4 2,348 2,050 + 14.6 Hapag-Lloyd Cruises 81 87 – 5.9 232 254 – 8.8 Average daily rates 3 in EUR TUI Cruises 190 200 – 5.1 163 165 – 1.4 Marella Cruises 2, 4 in £ 144 138 + 4.8 144 135 + 6.9 Hapag-Lloyd Cruises 584 571 + 2.3 620 590 + 5.1
1 No turnover is carried for TUI Cruises as the joint venture is consolidated at equity.
2 Rebranded from Thomson Cruises in October 2017.
3 Per day and passenger.
4 Inclusive of transfers, flights and hotels due to the integrated nature of Marella Cruises.
Cruises underlying EBITA increased by EUR 13 m in Q3. All three brands saw growth in the quarter from additional capacity versus prior year.
TUI Cruises result was up by EUR 9 m versus prior year. As expected, the increase in capacity of 30 % (new Mein Schiff 1 launched H2 FY18 and new Mein Schiff 2 launched Q2 FY19) helped to deliver a strong contribution in the quarter. Average daily rate was down 5 % to EUR 190 compared to prior year, which reflects in part our itinerary mix and the significant increase in German ocean cruise capacity this year.
Marella Cruises underlying EBITA was up by EUR 3 m reflecting the addition of Marella Explorer 2 launched in May and average daily rate increasing by 5 %. The result was partially offset by the exit of Marella Spirit in Q1 of this financial year.
Hapag-Lloyd Cruises underlying EBITA increased by EUR 1 m on prior year, driven by average daily rate up 2 % across the fleet and the new Hanseatic nature joining the fleet in May, partially offset by the exit of Hanseatic at the start of FY19.
Destination Experiences EUR million Q3 2019 Q3 2018
adjusted Var. % 9M 2019 9M 2018
adjusted Var. % Total turnover 379.7 143.8 + 164.0 797.5 288.2 + 176.7 Turnover 259.4 65.8 + 294.2 562.2 131.4 + 327.9 Underlying EBITA 15.3 17.4 – 12.1 4.9 4.1 + 19.5 Underlying EBITA at constant currency 15.2 17.4 – 12.6 4.8 4.1 + 17.1
Q3 earnings growth, as in H1, was driven by the integration of last year’s acquisition of Destination Management, offset partly by start-up losses in Musement.
The number of excursions and activities sold in Q3 almost doubled versus prior year, reflecting the acquisition of Destination Management and Musement.
Markets & Airlines
Markets & Airlines Q3 2019 Q3 2018
adjusted Var. % 9M 2019 9M 2018
adjusted Var. % Turnoverin EUR million 4,002.3 3,988.3 + 0.4 9,407.4 9,515.1 – 1.1 Underlying EBITA in EUR million – 103.9 37.2 n. a. – 600.7 – 338.5 – 77.5 Underlying EBITA at
constant currency in EUR million – 103.2 37.2 n. a. – 599.1 – 338.5 – 77.0 Direct distribution mix1 in %
variance in % points 74 74 – 74 74 – Online mix2 in %
variance in % points 48 47 + 1 49 48 + 1 Customers3 in ‘000 6,028 6,024 + 0.1 12,574 12,732 – 1.2
1 Share of sales via own channels (retail and online).
2 Share of online sales.
3 In Q1 2019, the Italian tour operators were transferred from All other segments to the Central Region. In addition, the Crystal Ski companies, which provide services in the destinations, were reclassified from Northern Region to Destination Experiences.
As expected, the Markets & Airlines Q3 result reflects tougher prior year comparables (pre-heatwave), the flagged grounding costs for the Boeing 737 MAX, the continued weaker consumer confidence due to continued Brexit uncertainty, the knock-on impact of the Summer 2018 heatwave resulting in delayed customer bookings, compounded by reduced pricing and margin pressure from overcapacities to Spain.
Northern Region Q3 2019 Q3 2018
adjusted Var. % 9M 2019 9M 2018
adjusted Var. % Turnover in EUR million 1,599.6 1,616.0 – 1.0 3,722.9 3,842.6 – 3.1 Underlying EBITA in EUR million – 58.6 14.2 n. a. – 263.7 – 111.6 – 136.3 Underlying EBITA at
constant currency in EUR million – 57.8 14.2 n. a. – 262.0 – 111.6 – 134.8 Direct distribution mix1 in %
variance in % points 94 94 – 93 93 – Online mix2 in %
variance in % points 66 65 + 1 67 65 + 2 Customers in ‘000 2,159 2,211 – 2.4 4,405 4,574 – 3.7
1 Share of sales via own channels (retail and online).
2 Share of online sales.
In the UK, Q3 demand continued in the same theme as we saw during the first half, impacted by the same factors as outlined above, with no external change to this environment. Customer volumes declined 1 % on prior year, improving from the 5 % decline in H1, however margins remain significantly lower versus prior year.
For the Nordics, customer numbers saw a slight improvement, down 6 % for the third quarter, up from 8 % down in the first half. As previously communicated, the Nordics saw an acute knock-on impact from last Summer’s heatwave, with the region additionally influenced by the environmental discussions which has continued to weigh on customer decisions to travel.
Share of earnings for Canada decreased by EUR 8 m in the quarter, reflecting 737 MAX grounding costs.
Northern Region benefitted from the later Easter timing of EUR 14 m in the quarter, however this was fully offset by the grounding of the 737 MAX, costing the region EUR 84 m, with overall underlying EBITA declining by EUR 73 m.
Central Region Q3 2019 Q3 2018
adjusted Var. % 9M 2019 9M 2018
adjusted Var. % Turnoverin EUR million 1,598.4 1,525.7 + 4.8 3,823.1 3,761.3 + 1.6 Underlying EBITA in EUR million 8.2 31.5 – 74.0 – 119.6 – 113.2 – 5.7 Underlying EBITA at
constant currency in EUR million 8.1 31.5 – 74.3 – 119.7 – 113.2 – 5.7 Direct distribution mix1 in %
variance in % points 50 49 + 1 50 50 – Online mix2 in %
variance in % points 22 21 + 1 21 21 – Customers3 in ‘000 2,249 2,170 + 3.6 4,629 4,605 + 0.5
1 Share of sales via own channels (retail and online).
2 Share of online sales.
3 In Q1 2019, the Italian tour operators were transferred from All other segments to the Central Region. Prior-year figures were adjusted accordingly.
The Q3 result, driven primarily by Germany, saw a decline in underlying EBITA versus prior year, with the benefit of later Easter timing of EUR 7 m and positive trading in the region fully offset by replacement 737 MAX aircraft costs of EUR 17 m.
Customer volumes for Central Region increased by 4 % in Q3, reflecting the solid recovery in German customer bookings and the continued strong volume increase in Poland as we continue to drive growth in this market.
Distribution continues to be key to improving this low margin region. Both direct and online distribution for the Central Region grew by 1 ppt to 50 % and 22 % respectively.
Western Region Q3 2019 Q3 2018
adjusted Var. % 9M 2019 9M 2018
adjusted Var. % Turnoverin EUR million 804.3 846.6 – 5.0 1,861.4 1,911.2 – 2.6 Underlying EBITA in EUR million – 53.5 – 8.5 – 529.4 – 217.4 – 113.7 – 91.2 Underlying EBITA at
constant currency in EUR million – 53.5 – 8.5 – 529.4 – 217.4 – 113.7 – 91.2 Direct distribution mix1 in %
variance in % points 75 73 + 2 75 74 + 1 Online mix2 in %
variance in % points 56 53 + 3 58 56 + 2 Customers in ‘000 1,620 1,642 – 1.3 3,539 3,553 – 0.4
1 Share of sales via own channels (retail and online).
2 Share of online sales.
Western Region underlying EBITA was down EUR 45 m versus prior year, with little recovery in trading and margin remaining weak.
In Belgium, customer numbers improved by 3 % in the quarter driven largely by seat-only customers, with tour operator customers and underlying EBITA contribution down.
In the Netherlands, customer volumes were down 4 % year on year, with pricing and margin remaining weak throughout the period.
France, despite our best efforts to turn this region around, has experienced a contracting market, reducing the impact of our rebranding campaign last year. The knock-on impact of the extraordinary hot Summer last year continues to be a factor, with recent good weather in the region negatively impacting trading further.
Timing of Easter added EUR 1 m contribution to the quarter with the 737 MAX grounding costing the region EUR 43 m.
All other segments EUR million Q3 2019 Q3 2018
adjusted Var. % 9M 2019 9M 2018
adjusted Var. % Turnover 72.5 138.9 – 47.8 345.4 427.6 – 19.2 Underlying EBITA – 3.5 – 28.9 + 87.9 – 38.7 – 75.6 + 48.8 Underlying EBITA at constant currency – 4.7 – 28.9 + 83.7 – 42.2 – 75.6 + 44.2
The result for All other segments improved due to the phasing of Head Office costs year on year, which will be weighted towards the final quarter this year.
On 18 March 2019 TUI announced the disposal of a majority stake in Corsair. The non-repeat of Corsair Q3 losses helped to deliver a benefit in the All other segments result. On a FY basis, Corsair will show a negative impact versus prior year as positive Q4 earnings contribution will not be consolidated in this financial year’s results.
Cash flow / Net capex and investments / Net financial position
The cash inflow from operating activities decreased by EUR 578.7 m to EUR 700.8 m. As well as the lower earnings in 9M 2019. This was mainly driven by lower customer deposits from a later booking behaviour and higher prepayments.
Net debt is defined as financial debt less cash and cash equivalents and future short-term interest-bearing investments. As expected, net debt as at 30 June 2019 reflects the full utilisation of proceeds of disposals received over the past few years and the increase in financing related to our cruise and aircraft re-fleeting programme.
Net financial position 30 Jun 2019 30 Jun 2018 Var. % Financial debt – 2,637.0 – 2,030.5 – 29.9 Cash and cash equivalents 1,564.9 2,598.0 – 39.8 Short-term interest-bearing investments 77.5 21.9 + 253.9 Net debt / net cash – 994.6 589.4 n. a.
Net capex and investments EUR million Q3 2019 Q3 2018
adjusted Var. % 9M 2019 9M 2018
adjusted Var. % Cash gross capex Hotels & Resorts 73.7 78.8 – 6.5 260.3 193.9 + 34.2 Cruises 25.4 185.5 – 86.3 225.4 223.6 + 0.8 Destination Experiences 3.2 3.3 – 3.0 12.8 6.2 + 106.5 Holiday Experiences 102.3 267.6 – 61.8 498.5 423.7 + 17.7 Northern Region 10.5 19.6 – 46.4 41.0 43.0 – 4.7 Central Region 8.8 5.3 + 66.0 23.4 15.5 + 51.0 Western Region 3.9 12.1 – 67.8 24.9 25.1 – 0.8 Markets & Airlines 23.2 37.0 – 37.3 89.3 83.6 + 6.8 All other segments 17.4 23.7 – 26.6 98.6 116.5 – 15.4 TUI Group 142.9 328.3 – 56.5 686.4 623.8 + 10.0 Net pre delivery payments on aircraft 56.2 37.9 + 48.3 1.9 17.7 – 89.3 Financial investments 64.1 55.8 + 14.9 210.8 80.0 + 163.5 Divestments – 24.3 – 43.6 + 44.3 – 8.7 – 135.8 + 93.6 Net capex and investments 238.9 378.4 – 36.9 890.4 585.7 + 52.0
The increase in net capex and investments in 9M 2019 was mainly driven by the acquisition of Marella Explorer 2, openings in Hotels & Resorts related to our core hotel brands Riu, Robinson and TUI Blue as well as the openings of the online platform Musement and further companies from Hotelbeds. The development of divestments was related to the sale of the majority stake in Corsair, while the prior-year figure included the sale of three Riu entities.
Foreign exchange / Fuel
Our strategy of hedging the majority of our jet fuel and currency requirements for future seasons, as detailed below, remains unchanged. This gives us certainty of costs when planning capacity and pricing. The following table shows the percentage of our forecast requirement that is currently hedged for Euros, US Dollars and jet fuel for our Markets & Airlines division, which account for over 90 % of our Group currency and fuel exposure.
Foreign Exchange / Fuel
% Summer 2019 Winter 2019 / 20 Summer 2020 Euro 103 77 38 US Dollar 94 83 56 Jet fuel 95 92 72
As at 8 August 2019.
Interim financial statements
Financial position of the TUI Group as at 30 Jun 2019 EUR million 30 Jun 2019 30 Sep 2018
adjusted* 1 Oct 2017
adjusted* Assets Goodwill 2,974.7 2,913.1 2,889.5 Other intangible assets 673.5 643.2 548.1 Property, plant and equipment 5,651.9 4,876.3 4,253.7 Investments in joint ventures and associates 1,476.4 1,402.3 1,284.1 Trade and other receivables 62.5 103.3 138.7 Derivative financial instruments 44.6 83.2 79.9 Other financial assets 44.8 54.3 69.5 Touristic payments on account 192.0 157.3 185.2 Other non-financial assets 261.2 184.4 73.1 Income tax assets 9.6 9.6 – Deferred tax assets 331.2 228.0 326.0 Non-current assets 11,722.4 10,655.0 9,847.8 Inventories 124.0 118.5 110.2 Trade and other receivables 810.3 821.9 700.9 Derivative financial instruments 280.3 441.8 215.4 Other financial assets 77.5 18.7 11.9 Touristic payments on account 1,596.2 731.3 583.9 Other non-financial assets 129.4 140.2 81.7 Income tax assets 139.3 114.1 98.7 Cash and cash equivalents 1,564.9 2,548.0 2,516.1 Assets held for sale – 5.5 9.6 Current assets 4,721.9 4,940.0 4,328.4 Total assets 16,444.3 15,595.0 14,176.2
* Prior-year figures adjusted due to retrospective application of IFRS 15 and PPA adjustments.
Financial position of the TUI Group as at 30 Jun 2019 EUR million 30 Jun 2019 30 Sep 2018
adjusted* 1 Oct 2017
adjusted* Equity and liabilities Subscribed capital 1,502.9 1,502.9 1,501.6 Capital reserves 4,200.5 4,200.5 4,195.0 Revenue reserves – 3,143.4 – 2,058.4 – 2,798.3 Equity before non-controlling interest 2,560.0 3,645.0 2,898.3 Non-controlling interest 698.2 634.8 594.0 Equity 3,258.2 4,279.8 3,492.3 Pension provisions and similar obligations 1,049.0 962.2 1,094.7 Other provisions 693.5 768.1 801.4 Non-current provisions 1,742.5 1,730.3 1,896.1 Financial liabilities 2,435.0 2,250.7 1,761.2 Derivative financial instruments 53.2 12.8 50.4 Other financial liabilities 20.9 14.4 43.9 Other non-financial liabilities 90.0 89.0 106.3 Touristic advance payments received 0.1 – – Income tax liabilities 69.3 108.8 150.2 Deferred tax liabilities 116.3 187.9 106.4 Non-current liabilities 2,784.8 2,663.6 2,218.4 Non-current provisions and liabilities 4,527.3 4,393.9 4,114.5 Pension provisions and similar obligations 29.8 32.6 32.7 Other provisions 333.0 348.3 349.9 Current provisions 362.8 380.9 382.6 Financial liabilities 202.0 192.2 171.9 Trade payables 2,331.0 2,692.5 2,433.1 Derivative financial instruments 110.6 65.7 217.2 Other financial liabilities 101.8 93.3 103.8 Touristic advance payments received 4,985.4 2,824.8 2,700.4 Other non-financial liabilities 497.2 585.7 495.1 Income tax liabilities 68.0 86.2 65.3 Current liabilities 8,296.0 6,540.4 6,186.8 Current provisions and liabilities 8,658.8 6,921.3 6,569.4 Total provisions and liabilities 16,444.3 15,595.0 14,176.2
* Prior-year figures adjusted due to retrospective application of IFRS 15 and PPA adjustments.
Income statement of the TUI Group for the period from 1 Oct 2018 to 30 Jun 2019 EUR million Q3 2019 Q3 2018
adjusted* Var. % 9M 2019 9M 2018
adjusted* Var. % Turnover 4,745.0 4,576.7 3.7 11,421.4 11,142.6 2.5 Cost of sales 4,459.2 4,188.3 6.5 10,979.1 10,476.9 4.8 Gross profit 285.8 388.4 – 26.4 442.3 665.7 – 33.6 Administrative expenses 282.0 300.9 – 6.3 920.2 921.6 – 0.2 Other income 1.6 13.4 – 88.1 14.5 62.0 – 76.6 Other expenses 2.1 1.6 31.3 16.0 1.9 742.1 Impairment of financial assets – 7.0 1.2 n. a. – 9.8 28.2 n. a. Financial income 11.7 23.6 – 50.4 81.6 41.3 97.6 Financial expenses 39.8 56.5 – 29.6 118.9 124.6 – 4.6 Share of result of joint ventures
and associates 76.7 75.7 1.3 184.0 189.9 – 3.1 Earnings before income taxes 58.9 140.9 – 58.2 – 322.9 – 117.4 – 175.0 Income taxes 11.6 36.1 – 67.9 – 82.5 – 11.6 – 611.2 Result from continuing operations 47.3 104.8 – 54.9 – 240.4 – 105.8 – 127.2 Result from discontinued operations – 41.4 n. a. – 41.4 n. a. Group profit / loss for the year 47.3 146.2 – 67.6 – 240.4 – 64.4 – 273.3 Group profit / loss for the year
attributable to shareholders of TUI AG 21.7 140.6 – 84.6 – 320.1 – 140.3 – 128.2 Group profit / loss for the year
attributable to non-controlling
interest 25.6 5.6 357.1 79.7 75.9 5.0
* Prior-year figures adjusted due to retrospective application of IFRS 15 and previous year’s structure was adjusted due to the first time application of IFRS 9.
Condensed cash flow statement of the TUI Group EUR million 9M 2019 9M 2018 Cash inflow from operating activities 700.8 1,279.5 Cash outflow from investing activities – 948.8 – 584.8 Cash outflow from financing activities – 718.2 – 573.6 Net change in cash and cash equivalents – 966.2 121.1 Change in cash and cash equivalents due to exchange rate fluctuation – 17.7 – 39.2 Change in cash and cash equivalents due to changes in the group
of consolidated companies + 0.8 – Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 2,548.0 2,516.1 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 1,564.9 2,598.0
Alternative performance measures
Key indicators used to manage the TUI Group are underlying EBITA and EBITA.
EBITA comprises earnings before interest, taxes and goodwill impairments. EBITA includes amortisation of other intangible assets. It does not include the result from the measurement of interest hedges.
Underlying EBITA has been adjusted for gains on disposal of financial investments, restructuring expenses according to IAS 37, all effects from purchase price allocations, ancillary acquisition costs and conditional purchase price payments and other expenses for and income from one-off items.
The table below shows a reconciliation of earnings before taxes from continuing operations to underlying earnings.
Reconciliation to underlying EBITA (continuing operations) EUR million Q3 2019 Q3 2018
adjusted* Var. % 9M 2019 9M 2018
adjusted* Var. % Earnings before income taxes* 58.9 140.9 – 58.2 – 322.9 – 117.4 – 175.0 plus: Net interest expense 26.0 36.7 – 29.2 58.7 88.5 – 33.7 less: Income / plus: Expense from the measurement of interest hedges – 0.8 – 1.6 50.0 1.6 1.5 6.7 EBITA* 84.1 176.0 – 52.2 – 262.6 – 27.4 – 858.4 Adjustments: plus: Losses / less: Profit on disposals 0.6 – 0.6 11.7 – 0.6 plus: Restructuring expense 0.8 0.9 2.4 14.3 plus: Expense from purchase
price allocation 8.9 6.7 27.7 21.7 plus: Expense from other
one-off items 6.5 3.8 21.1 9.1 Underlying EBITA* 100.9 186.8 – 46.0 – 199.7 17.1 n. a.
* Prior-year figures adjusted due to retrospective application of IFRS 15.
One-off items carried here include adjustments for income and expense items that reflect amounts and frequencies of occurrence rendering an evaluation of the operating profitability of the segments and the Group more difficult or causing distortions. These items include in particular major restructuring and integration expenses not meeting the criteria of IAS 37, material expenses for litigation, gains and losses from the sale of aircraft and other material business transactions with a one-off character.
In the first nine months, adjustments (including individual items and purchase price allocations) totalling EUR 62.9 m (previous year: EUR 44.5 m) were made. The individual items adjusted in the period under review mainly relate to one-off expenses in connection with the conversion of the pension plan in the United Kingdom to a defined contribution plan and the loss on the Corsair disposal. In the prior-year period, in addition to expenses from purchase price allocations, restructuring costs for the integration of Transat in France and the restructuring of our German airline in particular had to be adjusted.
The TUI Group’s underlying EBITA ­declined by EUR 216.8 m to a loss of EUR- 199.7 m.
Key figures of income statement (continuing operations) EUR million Q3 2019 Q3 2018
adjusted Var. % 9M 2019 9M 2018
adjusted Var. % Earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation, impairment and rent (EBITDAR) 396.9 459.9 – 13.7 634.6 794.7 – 20.1 Operating rental expenses 186.5 178.7 + 4.4 530.9 509.3 + 4.2 Earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and impairment (EBITDA) 210.4 281.2 – 25.2 103.7 285.4 – 63.7 Depreciation / amortisation less ­reversals of depreciation* 126.3 105.2 + 20.1 366.3 312.8 + 17.1 Earnings before interest, income taxes and impairment of goodwill (EBITA) 84.1 176.0 – 52.2 – 262.6 – 27.4 – 858.4 Earnings before interest and income taxes (EBIT) 84.1 176.0 – 52.2 – 262.6 – 27.4 – 858.4 Expense from the measurement of interest hedges 0.8 1.6 – 50.0 – 1.6 – 1.5 – 6.7 Net interest expense – 26.0 – 36.7 + 29.2 – 58.7 – 88.5 + 33.7 Earnings before income taxes (EBT) 58.9 140.9 – 58.2 – 322.9 – 117.4 – 175.0
* On property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, financial and other assets.
Other segment indicators
Underlying EBITDA EUR million Q3 2019 Q3 2018
adjusted Var. % 9M 2019 9M 2018
adjusted Var. % Hotels & Resorts 118.9 96.9 + 22.7 305.0 318.5 – 4.2 Cruises 127.0 107.4 + 18.2 273.6 234.5 + 16.7 Destination Experiences 19.0 19.7 – 3.6 16.4 10.6 + 54.7 Holiday Experiences 264.9 224.0 + 18.3 595.0 563.6 + 5.6 Northern Region – 43.1 26.0 n. a. – 222.3 – 76.7 – 189.8 Central Region 13.4 36.6 – 63.4 – 103.1 – 98.1 – 5.1 Western Region – 48.4 – 5.3 – 813.2 – 202.4 – 102.3 – 97.8 Markets & Airlines – 78.1 57.3 n. a. – 527.8 – 277.1 – 90.5 All other segments 32.5 5.7 + 470.2 74.6 26.0 + 186.9 TUI Group 219.3 287.0 – 23.6 141.8 312.5 – 54.6
EBITDA EUR million Q3 2019 Q3 2018
adjusted Var. % 9M 2019 9M 2018
adjusted Var. % Hotels & Resorts 118.9 96.9 + 22.7 304.9 318.4 – 4.2 Cruises 127.0 107.4 + 18.2 273.6 234.5 + 16.7 Destination Experiences 17.9 19.1 – 6.3 11.5 9.5 + 21.1 Holiday Experiences 263.8 223.4 + 18.1 590.0 562.4 + 4.9 Northern Region – 44.7 24.1 n. a. – 240.6 – 81.3 – 195.9 Central Region 11.2 34.3 – 67.3 – 107.4 – 105.1 – 2.2 Western Region – 50.4 – 7.1 – 609.9 – 208.3 – 115.0 – 81.1 Markets & Airlines – 83.9 51.3 n. a. – 556.3 – 301.4 – 84.6 All other segments 30.5 6.5 + 369.2 70.0 24.4 + 186.9 TUI Group 210.4 281.2 – 25.2 103.7 285.4 – 63.7 Discontinued operations – 41.4 n. a. – 41.4 n. a. Total 210.4 322.6 – 34.8 103.7 326.8 – 68.3
Employees 30 Jun 2019 30 Jun 2018
adjusted Var. % Hotels & Resorts 29,363 27,173 + 8.1 Cruises* 349 304 + 14.8 Destination Experiences 9,863 6,223 + 58.5 Holiday Experiences 39,575 33,700 + 17.4 Northern Region 12,652 12,537 + 0.9 Central Region 10,653 10,485 + 1.6 Western Region 6,620 6,614 + 0.1 Markets & Airlines 29,925 29,636 + 1.0 All other segments 2,347 3,296 – 28.8 TUI Group 71,847 66,632 + 7.8
* Excludes TUI Cruises (JV) employees. Cruises employees are primarily hired by external crew management agencies.
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements
The present Quarterly Statement contains various statements relating to TUI’s future development. These statements are based on assumptions and estimates. Although we are convinced that these forward-looking statements are realistic, they are not guarantees of future performance since our assumptions involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. Such factors include market fluctuations, the development of world market prices for commodities and exchange rates or fundamental changes in the economic environment. TUI does not intend to and does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or developments after the date of this Statement.

Story 72
Completing the CAPTCHA proves you are a human and gives you temporary access to the web property.
What can I do to prevent this in the future?
If you are on a personal connection, like at home, you can run an anti-virus scan on your device to make sure it is not infected with malware.
If you are at an office or shared network, you can ask the network administrator to run a scan across the network looking for misconfigured or infected devices.

Story 73
Preamble
1. We, the Leaders of the G20, met in Osaka, Japan on 28-29 June 2019 to make united efforts to address major global economic challenges. We will work together to foster global economic growth, while harnessing the power of technological innovation, in particular digitalization, and its application for the benefit of all.
2. Building on work done by previous presidencies, we will strive to create a virtuous cycle of growth by addressing inequalities and realize a society where all individuals can make use of their full potential. We are resolved to build a society capable of seizing opportunities, and tackling economic, social and environmental challenges, presented today and in the future, including those of demographic change.
3. We will further lead efforts to foster development and address other global challenges to pave the way toward an inclusive and sustainable world, as envisioned in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Global economy
4. Global growth appears to be stabilizing, and is generally projected to pick up moderately later this year and into 2020. This recovery is supported by the continuation of accommodative financial conditions and stimulus measures taking effect in some countries. However, growth remains low and risks remain tilted to the downside. Most importantly, trade and geopolitical tensions have intensified. We will continue to address these risks, and stand ready to take further action.
5. We reaffirm our commitment to use all policy tools to achieve strong, sustainable, balanced and inclusive growth, and safeguard against downside risks, by stepping up our dialogue and actions to enhance confidence. Fiscal policy should be flexible and growth-friendly while rebuilding buffers where needed and ensuring debt as a share of GDP is on a sustainable path. Monetary policy will continue to support economic activity and ensure price stability, consistent with central banks’ mandates. Central bank decisions need to remain well communicated. Continued implementation of structural reforms will enhance our growth potential. We also reaffirm the exchange rate commitments made by our Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors in March 2018.
6. Global current account imbalances have narrowed in the aftermath of the global financial crisis, notably in emerging and developing economies and they have become increasingly concentrated in advanced economies. However, they remain large and persistent, and stock positions continue to diverge. In assessing external balances, we note the importance of monitoring all components of the current account, including services trade and income balances. In the spirit of enhancing cooperation, we affirm that carefully calibrated macroeconomic and structural policies tailored to country-specific circumstances are necessary to address excessive imbalances and mitigate the risks to achieving the G20 goal of strong, sustainable, balanced and inclusive growth.
7. Demographic changes, including population aging, pose challenges and opportunities for all G20 members, and these changes will require policy actions that span fiscal, monetary, financial, labour market and other structural policies. To strengthen financial inclusion in the aging society, we endorse the G20 Fukuoka Policy Priorities on Aging and Financial Inclusion.
Fostering robust global economic growth
Trade and Investment
8. We welcome the G20 Ministerial Statement on Trade and Digital Economy in Tsukuba. We strive to realize a free, fair, non-discriminatory, transparent, predictable and stable trade and investment environment, and to keep our markets open. International trade and investment are important engines of growth, productivity, innovation, job creation and development. We reaffirm our support for the necessary reform of the World Trade Organization (WTO) to improve its functions. We will work constructively with other WTO members, including in the lead up to the 12th WTO Ministerial Conference. We agree that action is necessary regarding the functioning of the dispute settlement system consistent with the rules as negotiated by WTO members. Furthermore, we recognize the complementary roles of bilateral and regional free trade agreements that are WTO-consistent. We will work to ensure a level playing field to foster an enabling business environment.
Excess Capacity
9. While we note the progress made so far by the Global Forum on Steel Excess Capacity (GFSEC), we ask relevant Ministers of the members of the GFSEC to explore and reach a consensus by fall 2019 on ways to further the work of the Forum.
Innovation: Digitalization, Data Free Flow with Trust
10. Innovation is an important driver for economic growth, which can also contribute to advancing towards the SDGs and enhancing inclusiveness. We will work toward achieving an inclusive, sustainable, safe, trustworthy and innovative society through digitalization and promoting the application of emerging technologies. We share the notion of a human-centered future society, which is being promoted by Japan as Society 5.0. As digitalization is transforming every aspect of our economies and societies, we recognize the critical role played by effective use of data, as an enabler of economic growth, development and social well-being. We aim to promote international policy discussions to harness the full potential of data.
11. Cross-border flow of data, information, ideas and knowledge generates higher productivity, greater innovation, and improved sustainable development, while raising challenges related to privacy, data protection, intellectual property rights, and security. By continuing to address these challenges, we can further facilitate data free flow and strengthen consumer and business trust. In this respect, it is necessary that legal frameworks, both domestic and international, should be respected. Such data free flow with trust will harness the opportunities of the digital economy. We will cooperate to encourage the interoperability of different frameworks, and we affirm the role of data for development. We also reaffirm the importance of interface between trade and digital economy, and note the ongoing discussion under the Joint Statement Initiative on electronic commerce, and reaffirm the importance of the Work Programme on electronic commerce at the WTO.
12. To further promote innovation in the digital economy, we support the sharing of good practices on effective policy and regulatory approaches and frameworks that are innovative as well as agile, flexible, and adapted to the digital era, including through the use of regulatory sandboxes. The responsible development and use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) can be a driving force to help advance the SDGs and to realize a sustainable and inclusive society. To foster public trust and confidence in AI technologies and fully realize their potential, we commit to a human-centered approach to AI, and welcome the non-binding G20 AI Principles, drawn from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Recommendation on AI. Further, we recognize the growing importance of promoting security in the digital economy and of addressing security gaps and vulnerabilities. We affirm the importance of protection of intellectual property. Along with the rapid expansion of emerging technologies including the Internet of Things (IoT), the value of an ongoing discussion on security in the digital economy is growing. We, as G20 members, affirm the need to further work on these urgent challenges. We reaffirm the importance of bridging the digital divide and fostering the adoption of digitalization among micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and all individuals, particularly vulnerable groups and also encourage networking and experience-sharing among cities for the development of smart cities.
Quality Infrastructure Investment
13. Infrastructure is a driver of economic growth and prosperity. We endorse the G20 Principles for Quality Infrastructure Investment as our common strategic direction and high aspiration. These emphasize that quality infrastructure is an essential part of the G20’s ongoing efforts to close the infrastructure gap, in accordance with the Roadmap to Infrastructure as an Asset Class. We stress the importance of maximizing the positive impact of infrastructure to achieve sustainable growth and development while preserving the sustainability of public finances, raising economic efficiency in view of life-cycle cost, integrating environmental and social considerations, including women’s economic empowerment, building resilience against natural disasters and other risks, and strengthening infrastructure governance. We look forward to continuing advancing the elements to develop infrastructure as an asset class, including by exploring possible indicators on quality infrastructure investment.
Global finance
14. We reaffirm our commitment to further strengthening the global financial safety net with a strong, quota-based, and adequately resourced International Monetary Fund (IMF) at its center. We remain committed to concluding the 15th General Review of Quotas no later than the 2019 Annual Meetings, and call on the IMF to expedite its work on IMF resources and governance reform as a matter of the highest priority. We support the progress made on work to follow up the Eminent Persons Group (EPG) proposals, including on country platforms, and efforts by the World Bank Group (WBG) to enhance risk insurance in development finance. We welcome the work undertaken by the international organizations on capital flows. The OECD has completed a review of its Code of Liberalization of Capital Movements. We will continue our work on the EPG’s proposals, recognizing their multi-year nature.
15. We reiterate the importance of joint efforts undertaken by both borrowers and creditors, official and private, to improve debt transparency and secure debt sustainability. We call on the IMF and WBG to continue their efforts to strengthen borrowers’ capacity in the areas of debt recording, monitoring, and reporting, debt management, public financial management, and domestic resource mobilization, including under their multi-pronged approach. In the context of the review of the Debt Limits Policy and Non-Concessional Borrowing Policy, we encourage the IMF and WBG to continue their efforts to deepen their analysis of collateralized financing practices. We welcome the completion of the voluntary self-assessment of the implementation of the G20 Operational Guidelines for Sustainable Financing and the IMF-WBG note on the survey results and policy recommendation. We applaud G20 and non-G20 members who completed the survey and call for continued discussion of the issues highlighted by this note, aiming to improve financing practices. We support the work of the Institute of International Finance on the Voluntary Principles for Debt Transparency to improve debt transparency and sustainability of private financing and look forward to follow up. We support the ongoing work of the Paris Club, as the principal international forum for restructuring official bilateral debt, towards the broader engagement of emerging creditors and welcome India associating voluntarily with the Paris Club to cooperate in its work on a case-by-case basis.
16. We will continue our cooperation for a globally fair, sustainable, and modern international tax system, and welcome international cooperation to advance pro-growth tax policies. We reaffirm the importance of the worldwide implementation of the G20/OECD Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) package and enhanced tax certainty. We welcome the recent progress on addressing the tax challenges arising from digitalization and endorse the ambitious work program that consists of a two-pillar approach, developed by the Inclusive Framework on BEPS. We will redouble our efforts for a consensus-based solution with a final report by 2020. We welcome the recent achievements on tax transparency, including the progress on automatic exchange of information for tax purposes. We also welcome an updated list of jurisdictions that have not satisfactorily implemented the internationally agreed tax transparency standards. We look forward to a further update by the OECD of the list that takes into account all of the strengthened criteria. Defensive measures will be considered against listed jurisdictions. The 2015 OECD report inventories available measures in this regard. We call on all jurisdictions to sign and ratify the multilateral Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters. We reiterate our support for tax capacity building in developing countries.
17. Technological innovations can deliver significant benefits to the financial system and the broader economy. While crypto-assets do not pose a threat to global financial stability at this point, we are closely monitoring developments and remain vigilant to existing and emerging risks. We welcome on-going work by the Financial Stability Board (FSB) and other standard setting bodies and ask them to advise on additional multilateral responses as needed. We reaffirm our commitment to applying the recently amended FATF Standards to virtual assets and related providers for anti-money laundering and countering the financing of terrorism. We welcome the adoption of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) Interpretive Note and Guidance. We also welcome the FSB’s work on the possible implications of decentralized financial technologies and how regulators can engage other stakeholders. We also continue to step up efforts to enhance cyber resilience.
18. We welcome the United Nations Security Council Resolution 2462, which stresses the essential role of the FATF in setting global standards for preventing and combatting money laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation financing. We reiterate our strong commitment to step up efforts to fight these threats, including by strengthening the FATF’s global network of regional bodies. We call for the full, effective and swift implementation of the FATF Standards.
19. An open and resilient financial system, grounded in agreed international standards, is crucial to support sustainable growth. We remain committed to the full, timely and consistent implementation of the agreed financial reforms. We ask the FSB to continue to evaluate their effects. We will continue to monitor and, as necessary, address vulnerabilities and emerging risks to financial stability, including with macroprudential tools. While non-bank financing provides welcome diversity to the financial system, we will continue to identify, monitor and address related financial stability risks as appropriate. We welcome the work on market fragmentation, and will address its unintended, negative effects, including through regulatory and supervisory cooperation. We continue to monitor and address the causes and consequences of the withdrawal of correspondent banking relationships. Mobilizing sustainable finance and strengthening financial inclusion are important for global growth. We welcome private sector participation and transparency in these areas.
Anti-corruption
20. We remain committed to play a leading role in the global efforts to prevent and fight against corruption, as well as promoting integrity, by implementing the G20 Anti-Corruption Action Plan 2019-2021 while strengthening synergies among related international instruments and mechanisms. Recognizing that countering corruption is an important requisite for ensuring quality and reliability of infrastructure, we welcome the Compendium of Good Practices for Promoting Integrity and Transparency in Infrastructure Development as part of our further work. We endorse the High Level Principles for Effective Protection of Whistleblowers. We renew our commitment to pursuing high level international cooperation between G20 members in the fight against corruption and to lead by example through the effective implementation of the United Nations Convention against Corruption, including its review process. We will intensify our efforts to combat foreign bribery and to ensure that each G20 country has a national law in force for criminalizing foreign bribery as soon as possible. We take note of the efforts towards adherence to the OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions. We will continue practical cooperation to fight corruption and reaffirm our commitment to deny safe haven to persons sought for corruption and their proceeds of corruption consistent with our G20 and international commitments and our domestic legal systems and will work more closely on asset recovery cooperation. We look forward to the scoping paper on international cooperation dealing with serious economic offenders and recovery of stolen assets in relation to corruption to be prepared by relevant international organizations. In addition, we also welcome the work on the linkages between corruption and gender being undertaken by relevant international organizations.
Creating a virtuous cycle of growth by addressing inequalities
Labour and Employment
21. Population ageing is progressing in G20 members at different rates. Taking into account the commonalities and differences among G20 demographics, we recognize the importance of promoting an healthy and active ageing society that enables workers to participate in the labour market at older ages, while continuing to increase participation of youth, women and persons with disabilities in economic activities. We will boost job creation and flexible work arrangements, seek to raise quality of employment and enhance employability of workers through lifelong learning as working lives are expected to be longer, and strive towards improving the working conditions for all including, long-term care workers in accordance with national circumstances. We will also continue to promote employment opportunities for and employability of the young population. We ask Ministers of Labour and Employment to identify possible policy priorities for adapting to demographic trends when they meet in Matsuyama in September. We recognize that emerging new forms of work, particularly those driven by technological innovation can be a source of job opportunities but may also pose challenges for decent work and social protection systems. We encourage Labour and Employment Ministers to further exchange experiences and good practices as we endeavor to develop adequate policy responses to these new forms of work, taking into account the view of the private sector. We remain committed to promote decent work and reaffirm our commitment to take actions to eradicate child labour, forced labour, human trafficking and modern slavery in the world of work, including through fostering sustainable global supply chains.
Women’s Empowerment
22. Gender equality and women’s empowerment are essential for achieving sustainable and inclusive economic growth. We reconfirm their importance in all aspects of our policies and as a cross-cutting issue at upcoming Summits. We note that further progress has been made towards the Brisbane Goal, to reduce the gap in labour force participation between men and women by 25 per cent by 2025. We take note of the progress report Women at Work in G20 Countries prepared by the International Labour Organization (ILO) and OECD, and acknowledge the need to accelerate our efforts. Building on the continued efforts by Labour and Employment Ministers, we will exchange our respective progress and actions taken in the G20 towards the Brisbane Goal, including the quality of women’s employment, on the basis of the annual report. We will also address the gender gap in unpaid care work which remains a major obstacle to women’s participation in the labour market. We commit to take further action to improve the quality of women’s employment, reduce gender pay gaps, and end all forms of discrimination against women and combat stereotypes and to recognize women as agents of peace, and in the prevention and resolution of conflict.
23. We commit to continue support for girls’ and women’s education and training, including providing quality primary and secondary education, improved access to STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) education and raising awareness toward eliminating gender stereotypes. In order to close the digital gender gap, we will continue enhancing girls’ and women’s access to digital technology with a focus on the needs of those in poverty and rural areas. We reaffirm the importance of taking measures to eradicate all gender-based violence, abuse and harassment, including in the digital context. We welcome efforts, particularly by the private sector, to promote women’s access to managerial and decision making positions and foster women business leaders and entrepreneurship. We reaffirm the importance of taking measures to support skills development and provide access to funding to promote women’s entrepreneurship and welcome the continued implementation of the Women Entrepreneurs Finance Initiative (We-Fi) in support of women’s entrepreneurship in developing countries including in Africa. We recognize the importance of encouraging efforts by the private sector including by acknowledging companies that are taking measures to increase the number of women in management and decision making positions and making gender responsive investments. We welcome the launch of the private sector alliance for the ‘Empowerment and Progression of Women’s Economic Representation (EMPOWER)’ and call upon the alliance to advocate for the advancement of women in the private sector, and we will take stock of their progress and share their concrete efforts at our upcoming Summits.
Tourism
24. Tourism accounts for a significant share of the world’s GDP and is expected to continue to be an important driver of global economic growth. We will work to maximize the sector’s contribution to the creation of quality jobs and entrepreneurship, especially for women and youth and in the creative industry; economic resilience and recovery; the preservation of natural resources through sustainable tourism planning and management; and the achievement of inclusive and sustainable development.
Agriculture
25. In order to achieve food security and improve nutrition for the growing world population, agricultural productivity needs to increase and distribution needs to be more efficient, including by reducing food loss and waste, in a way more compatible with the sustainable management of natural resources. To this end, we highlight the importance of access to and utilization of existing, new and advanced technologies, such as Information and Communication Technology (ICT), Artificial Intelligence (AI) and robotics among others, and encourage cross-sectoral collaboration among stakeholders. We also encourage innovation, skills training and lifelong education for all, in attracting new entrants and empowering youth and women in the agro-food sector. We recognize the importance of developing sustainable, science-based and resilient agro-food value chains, in an inclusive and equitable manner, including family farming and small scale farmers, which will also contribute to revitalizing rural areas. We emphasize the need for continued and enhanced information sharing and research collaboration to respond to existing and emerging animal and plant health issues. We will further encourage voluntary exchange of good practices and knowledge towards more sustainable agro-food sector.
Realizing an inclusive and sustainable world
Development
26. With a view to the United Nations High Level Political Forum and High-level Dialogue on Financing for Development in September, we remain resolved to playing a leading role in contributing to the timely implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Addis Ababa Action Agenda. We recognize that international public and private finance for development as well as other innovative financing mechanisms, including blended finance, can play an important role in upscaling our collective efforts. Building on the G20’s Action Plan on the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the Osaka Update underscores the G20’s collective and concrete actions contributing to the implementation of the 2030 Agenda and helping to ensure that “no one is left behind”. We welcome the Osaka Comprehensive Accountability Report.
27. We support developing countries in their efforts to advance progress towards the timely implementation of the SDGs in such areas as poverty eradication, quality infrastructure investment, gender equality, health, education, agriculture, environment, energy, and industrialization, using all means of implementation, such as the mobilization of private sector resources and capacity building assistance. We reiterate our continued support to the G20 Africa partnership, including the Compact with Africa (CwA), with strengthened bilateral engagement by G20 members and enhanced roles for WBG, African Development Bank, and IMF in implementing the CwA, and G20 initiative on supporting the industrialization of Africa and other relevant initiatives that contribute to the realization of the African vision as set out in the African Union’s Agenda 2063. We remain committed to address illicit financial flows and will take stock at future Summits.
28. We reaffirm our commitment to invest in human capital and promote inclusive and equitable quality education for all as emphasized in the G20 Initiative on Human Capital Investment for Sustainable Development. Recognizing the importance of science, technology and innovation (STI) for SDGs, we endorse the Guiding Principles for the Development of STI for SDGs Roadmaps. We recognize the importance of further efforts on North-South, South-South and triangular co-operation as well as disaster risk reduction including disaster risk financing and insurance schemes as a means to promote financial resilience against natural disasters.
29. We will continue our work towards achieving a successful 19th replenishment of the International Development Association, as well as a 15th replenishment of the African Development Fund. We call for full and timely implementation of the capital increase package of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the International Finance Corporation in view of their expanded roles.
Global Health
30. Health is a prerequisite for sustainable and inclusive economic growth. We recall our commitment to moving towards achieving universal health coverage according to national contexts and priorities. We look forward to the United Nations General Assembly High Level Meeting on Universal Health Coverage (UHC). Primary health care including access to medicines, vaccination, nutrition, water and sanitation, health promotion and disease prevention is a cornerstone for advancing health and inclusion. We will strengthen health systems with a focus on quality including through enhancing health workforce and human resources for policy development and promoting public and private sector innovation, such as cost-effective and appropriate digital and other innovative technologies. Recognizing the importance of sustainable financing for health, we will call for greater collaboration between health and finance authorities in accordance with the G20 Shared Understanding on the Importance of UHC Financing in Developing Countries, to which our commitment was affirmed by our Finance and Health Ministers at their Joint Session. We encourage international organizations and all stakeholders to collaborate effectively and we look forward to the upcoming presentation of the global action plan for healthy lives and well-being for all.
31. We will promote healthy and active ageing through policy measures to address health promotion, prevention and control of communicable and non-communicable diseases, and through people-centered, multi-sectoral, community-based integrated health and long-term care over the life course in accordance with national context including demographic trends. We will implement comprehensive set of policies to address dementia, including promoting risk reduction and sustainable provision of long-term care as well as inclusive societies aiming to improve quality of lives of people with dementia and caregivers.
32. We are committed to improving public health preparedness and response including strengthening our own core capacities and supporting capacities of other countries in compliance with the World Health Organization (WHO) International Health Regulations (2005). We will support countries suffering from the current Ebola outbreak in Africa, through both timely financial and technical assistance and in line with the central coordination responsibility that WHO has for international responses to health emergencies. We will work for the sustainability and efficiency of global health emergency financing mechanisms. We reaffirm our commitment to eradicate polio as well as to end the epidemics of AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria and look forward to the success of the sixth replenishment of the Global Fund to fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria.
33. We will accelerate efforts based on the One-Health approach to tackle antimicrobial resistance (AMR). Recognizing the UN Secretary-General’s report on AMR, which was informed by the recommendations of the UN Interagency Coordination Group on AMR and other relevant initiatives, we encourage all stakeholders including international organizations to act and coordinate on those items relevant to their missions that contribute to global efforts to combat AMR. We recognize the need for policy measures for infection prevention and reduction of excessive antimicrobial usage. Further action should be taken to promote stewardship of and access to antimicrobials. Noting the ongoing work done by Global AMR R&D Hub, we will promote R&D to tackle AMR. We call on interested G20 members and Global AMR R&D Hub to analyze push and pull mechanisms to identify best models for AMR R&D and to report back to relevant G20 Ministers.
Global Environmental Issues and Challenges
34. Noting the important work of the International Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and Intergovernmental Science-policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Sources (IPBES), and in the light of recent extreme weather events and disasters, we recognize the urgent need for addressing complex and pressing global issues and challenges, including climate change, resource efficiency, air, land, fresh water and marine pollution, including marine plastic litter, biodiversity loss, sustainable consumption and production, urban environmental quality and other environmental issues, and for promoting and leading energy transitions, with the best available science, while promoting sustainable growth. A paradigm shift is needed where the virtuous cycle of environment and growth is accelerated through innovations, and with business communities playing an important role, in synergy with the public sector. To this end we stress the importance of accelerating the virtuous cycle and leading transformations to a resilient, inclusive, and sustainable future. We emphasize the importance of taking concrete and practical actions and collecting international best practices and wisdom from around the world, mobilizing public and private finance, technology and investment and improving business environments.
Climate Change
35. To this end, we strive to foster inclusive finance for sustainable development, including public and private financing mobilization and alignment between them, as well as innovation in a wide range of areas for low emissions and resilient development. Climate actions at all levels with broad participation, including by non-state actors, will be the key to realizing such a paradigm shift. In further enhancing this effort, as appropriate to each country’s circumstances, we will look into a wide range of clean technologies and approaches, including smart cities, ecosystem and community based approaches, nature based solutions and traditional and indigenous knowledge. We need to enhance efforts to support actions and cooperation in adaptation and disaster risk reduction, in particular, for the most vulnerable communities, and to elaborate further and foster coherence between mitigation action, adaptation measures, environmental protection, and resilient infrastructure. We note the successful adoption of the implementation guidelines for the Paris Agreement and the completion of the stocktaking of the Talanoa Dialogue at the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change Conference of Parties (UNFCCC COP) 24 and the outcomes of the meeting of G20 energy and environment ministers in Karuizawa, subsequent to the successful G20 Buenos Aires Summit. We are determined to make best use of this momentum, and thus look forward to a successful Climate Action Summit of the UN Secretary-General and concrete outcomes at UNFCCC COP 25 in Santiago, Chile. Signatories to the Paris Agreement who confirmed at Buenos Aires its irreversibility and are determined to implement it, reaffirm their commitment to its full implementation, reflecting common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities, in the light of different national circumstances. By 2020 we aim to communicate, update or maintain our NDCs, taking into account that further global efforts are needed. We emphasize the importance of providing financial resources to assist developing countries with respect to both mitigation and adaptation in accordance with the Paris Agreement.
36. The United States reiterates its decision to withdraw from the Paris Agreement because it disadvantages American workers and taxpayers. The U.S. reaffirms its strong commitment to promoting economic growth, energy security and access, and environmental protection. The U.S.’s balanced approach to energy and environment allows for the delivery of affordable, reliable, and secure energy to all its citizens while utilizing all energy sources and technologies, including clean and advanced fossil fuels and technologies, renewables, and civil nuclear power, while also reducing emissions and promoting economic growth. The United States is a world leader in reducing emissions. U.S. energy-related CO2 emissions fell by 14% between 2005 and 2017 even as its economy grew by 19.4% largely due to the development and deployment of innovative energy technologies. The United States remains committed to the development and deployment of advanced technologies to continue to reduce emissions and provide for a cleaner environment.
Energy
37. We acknowledge the importance of energy transitions that realize the “3E+S” (Energy Security, Economic Efficiency, and Environment + Safety) in order to transform our energy systems into affordable, reliable, sustainable and low GHG emissions systems as soon as possible, recognizing that there are different possible national paths to achieve this goal. Recalling the G20 Ministerial Meeting on Energy Transitions and Global Environment for Sustainable Growth Communique, we acknowledge the role of all energy sources and technologies in the energy mix and different possible national paths to achieve cleaner energy systems. We also recognize opportunities offered by further development of innovative, clean and efficient technologies for energy transitions, including hydrogen as well as, depending on national circumstances, the Carbon Capture, Utilization and Storage (CCUS) taking note of work on “Carbon Recycling” and “Emissions to Value”. We acknowledge the G20 Japanese Presidency’s initiative called Research and Development 20 for clean energy technologies (“RD20”). In light of recent events highlighting concern about safe flow of energy, we acknowledge the importance of global energy security as one of the guiding principles for the transformation of energy systems, including resilience, safety and development of infrastructure and undisrupted flow of energy from various sources, suppliers, and routes. We recognize the value of international cooperation on a wide range of energy-related issues including energy access, affordability and energy efficiency, and energy storage. We reaffirm our joint commitment on medium term rationalization and phasing-out of Inefficient Fossil Fuel Subsidies that encourage wasteful consumption, while providing targeted support for the poorest.
Environment
38. We recognize that improving resource efficiency through policies and approaches, such as circular economy, sustainable materials management, the 3Rs(reduce, reuse, recycle) and waste to value, contributes to the SDGs, as well as to addressing a wide range of environmental challenges, enhancing competitiveness and economic growth, managing resources sustainably, and creating jobs. We encourage work with the private sector towards innovation in the cooling sector. We will also work with stakeholders in order to increase the demand for recycled products. We look forward to the development of a roadmap of the G20 Resource Efficiency Dialogue under the Japanese Presidency.
39. We reiterate that measures to address marine litter, especially marine plastic litter and microplastics, need to be taken nationally and internationally by all countries in partnership with relevant stakeholders. In this regard, we are determined to swiftly take appropriate national actions for the prevention and significant reduction of discharges of plastic litter and microplastics to the oceans. Furthermore, looking ahead beyond those initiatives and existing actions by each member, we share, and call on other members of the international community to also share, as a common global vision, the “Osaka Blue Ocean Vision” that we aim to reduce additional pollution by marine plastic litter to zero by 2050 through a comprehensive life-cycle approach that includes reducing the discharge of mismanaged plastic litter by improved waste management and innovative solutions while recognizing the important role of plastics for society. We also endorse the G20 Implementation Framework for Actions on Marine Plastic Litter.
40. As illegal, unreported, and unregulated (IUU) fishing remains in many parts of the world a serious threat to the sustainability of the ocean, we recognize the importance of addressing IUU fishing for ensuring the sustainable use of marine resources and conserving the marine environment including biodiversity, and reaffirm our commitment to end IUU fishing.
Displacement and Migration
41. We note the 2019 Annual International Migration and Displacement Trends and Policies Report to the G20 prepared by the OECD in cooperation with ILO, International Organization for Migration (IOM) and United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). We will continue the dialogue on the various dimensions of these issues in the G20.
42. Large movements of refugees are a global concern with humanitarian, political, social and economic consequences. We emphasize the importance of shared actions to address the root causes of displacement and to respond to growing humanitarian needs.
43. We thank Japan for its Presidency and for hosting a successful Osaka Summit and its contribution to the G20 process, and we look forward to meeting again in Saudi Arabia in 2020, in Italy in 2021 and in India in 2022.

Story 74
PITTSBURGH — CMMI Institute today expanded its Capability Maturity Model Integration (CMMI)® V2.0 product suite, adding Services and Supplier Management views to the model’s globally recognized set of best practices, benchmark tools, appraisal and performance measurement guidance. The CMMI V2.0 product suite enables organizations to analyze and appraise internal operations, and helps organizations measure their capabilities against best practices, pinpoint areas of improvement and achieve higher performance.
Designed to optimize business performance and achieve measurable results, CMMI Development V2.0 was first released in March of this year. In addition to product development, CMMI V2.0 now includes views that advance selection and management of suppliers as well as delivery and management of internal and external services. Today’s announcement continues CMMI Institute’s commitment to advance CMMI V2.0 and help organizations understand and improve their capabilities—in people, processes and technologies—across every facet and function of the enterprise.
Keeping with the goal to gain better, faster business results, additional product suite improvements include:
• Significant enhancements to the CMMI V2.0 model viewer user experience • Improvements and clarifications to the performance-based appraisal method, along with a brand-new appraisal toolkit • New training courses and materials that teach new and existing users how to assess, improve, and sustain process capability and performance, including an eLearning model upgrade course to complement the instructor-led option.
“In today’s business environment, it is essential for all organizations to understand their capabilities, gauge where and how to boost those capabilities aligned to business needs, and focus resources on continuous improvement,” said Kirk Botula, CMMI Institute CEO. “The CMMI V2.0 model and resources provide the critical foundation for that work, helping leaders extract improved performance, leverage best practices and benchmarks, and get the results they seek efficiently and effectively.”
The updates to CMMI V2.0 provide the following benefits in each area of concentration:
• Development: Improve an organization’s capability to develop quality products and solutions that meet the needs of customers and end users. • Services: Improve an organization’s capability to efficiently and effectively deliver quality service offerings that meet market and customer needs. • Supplier Management: Reduce enterprise risk and improve supply chain management capability.
Organizations that build and leverage capabilities see decreases in defects, re-work, cost, time-to-market, and risk. They also see increases in quality, productivity, customer satisfaction, performance and new/repeat business.
“With CMMI V2.0 we’ve reduced appraised preparation time by 50 percent across 90 percent of our projects,” said Hong Ou, head of EPG Group Information Technology Department for China Merchant Bank. “As a result, we were able to meet senior management’s request to conduct an appraisal to cover all teams, and it made it much easier for us to adopt Agile. We like V2.0 and it helped to produce a better assessment.”
According to McKinsey & Company data, more than 50 percent of companies do not have standard processes, process assets and jobs aids to measure what matters in their companies, while a third cite difficulties in monitoring plans and making needed adjustments. To address these challenges, the core of the CMMI V2.0 model is organized by the critical capabilities of every organization that, when properly leveraged, improve business performance and resiliency:
• Ensure Quality • Engineering and Developing Products • Delivering and Managing Services • Selecting and Managing Suppliers • Planning and Managing Work • Managing Business Resilience • Managing the Workforce • Supporting Implementation • Sustaining Habit & Persistence • Improving Performance
For more information about CMMI Institute and CMMI V2.0, visit cmmiinstitute.com/cmmi.
About CMMI® Institute
A subsidiary of ISACA Enterprises, CMMI Institute (cmmiinstitute.com) is the global leader in advancing best practices in people, process, and technology. CMMI Institute enables organizations to elevate and benchmark performance across a range of critical business capabilities, including product development, service excellence, workforce management, data management, supplier management, and cybersecurity.
For over 25 years, thousands of high-performing organizations in a variety of industries have achieved sustainable business success through CMMI adoption and demonstrated their ability as capable business partners and suppliers.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20181204005745/en/
Contacts
CMMI Institute
Laurel Nelson-Rowe, +1.847.660.5566, lnelsonrowe@isaca.org
David Okubo, +.1.213.248.9126, David.okubo@ogilvy.com

Story 75
Image source: The Motley Fool.
Honeywell International Inc (NYSE: HON)
Q2 2019 Earnings Call
, 8:30 a.m. ET
Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Honeywell's Second Quarter 2019 Earnings Release Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference, Mark Macaluso, Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mark Macaluso -- Vice President of Investor Relations
Thank you, April. Good morning, and welcome to Honeywell's second quarter 2019 earnings conference call. With me here today are Chairman and CEO, Darius Adamczyk; and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Greg Lewis. This call and webcast, including any non-GAAP reconciliations, are available on our website at www.honeywell.com/investor.
Note that elements of this presentation contain forward-looking statements that are based on our best view of the world and of our businesses as we see them today. Those elements can change, and we ask that you interpret them in that light. We identify any principal risks and uncertainties that may affect our performance in our annual report on Form 10-K and other SEC filings. For this call, references to adjusted earnings per share, adjusted free cash flow and free cash flow conversion and effective tax rate exclude the impacts from separation cost related to the two spin-offs of our Homes and Transportation Systems businesses in 2018, as well as 2018 pension mark-to-market adjustment and U.S. tax legislation, except or otherwise noted. References to 2019 adjusted free cash flow guidance and associated conversion exclude impact from separation costs related to the 2018 spin-offs.
This morning, we will review our financial results for the second quarter of 2019, share our guidance for the third quarter and provide an update to our full-year 2019 outlook. And of course, we'll leave time for your questions at the end.
With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Chairman and CEO, Darius Adamczyk.
Darius Adamczyk -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Thank you, Mark, and good morning everyone. We're excited to be hosting our call this morning from Charlotte, North Carolina, which will officially become our Corporate Headquarters on August 1st. It is an exciting time to be part of the Honeywell team, as we continue to transform our business into a premier technology company with Charlotte as our home base.
Let's begin this morning on Slide 2. It was another very strong quarter for Honeywell. We again delivered on our commitments generating earnings per share of $2.10 at the high-end of our second quarter guidance, up 9% excluding the impact of spin-offs in 2018. This strong earnings result was driven by organic sales growth of 5% and 170 basis point of segment margin expansion. Notably our segment profit excluding the spins on a comparable basis for 2018 was up 9% this quarter, and was the largest contributor of EPS growth. For the first half of 2019, organic sales growth reached 7%, which is a proof point to the investments we've made in our business, in our sales force and new technologies that are winning in the marketplace.
We continue to see the benefits from our strong positions on key platforms in our long-cycle business aviation and defense portfolios in aerospace, in our warehouse automation business, which is up over 20% organically year-to-date, and now generates approximately $2 billion in annual sales. In our Building Technologies business, which had another great quarter. Our Process Solutions and UOP businesses, which principally serve the oil and gas industry also both grew 5% organically this quarter. As we continue to be encouraged by the progress we are making the Honeywell Connected Enterprise, which drove double-digit organic sales growth of our software in the quarter. In fact, this quarter, we signed a framework agreement to deliver Honeywell Forge asset performance management and improve the reliability and performance of over 1,000 industrial assets for large Middle Eastern refineries.
Segment margin exceeded 21% in the second quarter, up 170 basis points, driven by smart portfolio enhancements we made in 2018, our investments in the commercial organization and the benefits of previously funded restructuring to improve our operations. Excluding the favorable margin impact from the spin-offs, segment margins expanded 80 basis points, which was 30 basis points above the high-end of our guidance. Building on the progress we have seen for several quarters, we delivered 100% free cash flow conversion, and we remain on path to approximately 100% for the second year in a row. I am encouraged by our progress in this area and remain focused on continuing to drive improvements in working capital.
Story continues
We also continue to execute in our capital deployment strategy, repurchasing $1.9 billion shares and closing four new Honeywell ventures investments in the quarter, bringing our total to 12 new investments in the first two years of the fund. As a result of our first half performance, we are raising the low end of our full-year organic sales guidance by 1 point to a new range of 4% to 6% and raising the low end of our full-year earnings per share guidance to a new range of $7.95 to $8.15. We expect to generate approximately $6 billion in free cash flow for the year. We have narrowed our free cash flow guidance to reflect this.
While we are encouraged by our performance this quarter, we're continuing to plan cautiously for the second half of the year, given the uncertain macro environment in which we operate. We've seen some slowing in certain short-cycle businesses that has been overcome by the strong performance in rest of the portfolio. We think it is prudent to plan conservatively in the event of a broader slowdown, given that nearly 60% of our business is short-cycle in nature. I'm very pleased by our performance in the first half. We still have substantial work to do to achieve our plan, but I'm confident that the team will continue to execute.
I'll stop there, and turn the call over to Greg, who will discuss our second quarter results and updated 2019 guidance in more detail.
Greg Lewis -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Thanks, Darius, and good morning, everyone. I'd like to begin on Slide 3. As Darius highlighted, we delivered on our commitments again in the second quarter, building on a strong start we had in Q1. Organic sales growth and margin expansion performance across the majority of the portfolio was very good. A few highlights to mention, Defense and Space grew 20% organically and the commercial aftermarket in aerospace grew 8% organically, with strong demand across both air transport and business aviation.
Building Technologies grew 5% organically after 9% in the first quarter and Process Polutions and UOP which encompass our oil and gas portfolio both grew 5%. The impact of the spin-off of Garrett and Resideo, both lower margin businesses, contributed 90 basis points of segment margin expansion. The remaining 80 basis points was the result of our strong operational performance, primarily in Aerospace and Performance Materials and Technologies. We continue to effectively manage the impact of tariffs through well executed mitigation efforts, and are in the final stages of eliminating all spin related stranded costs before year-end.
Notwithstanding, our strong performance across most of the portfolio, as we message in April and again in May, we did experience challenges in Safety and Productivity Solutions and more specifically in the Productivity Products business, which drove a sales in segment margin decline this quarter. I will address that in more detail in a minute. Consistent with last quarter, the majority of our earnings growth of $0.16 came through segment profit improvement. We realized a $0.06 benefit from our share repurchase program, which resulted in a weighted average share count of 733 million shares this quarter. Our effective tax rate was 21.5%, largely consistent with the outlook we provided of 22%.
Importantly, we are also able to fund a substantial amount of fast payback repositioning in the quarter, more than $80 million that will support our continued productivity focus, functional transformation and supply chain initiatives that we discussed at our Investor Day in May. These proactive measures will be helpful in the event of a slower economy in the coming quarters. Finally, adjusted free cash flow in the quarter was $1.5 billion with conversion of a 100%. The strong cash generation with most notable in Aerospace and Building Technologies. We're very pleased with our results and are focused on continuing the strong performance in the second half.
Let's turn to Slide 4 now to briefly discuss the second quarter EPS bridge. Slide 4 walks our earnings per share from the second quarter of 2018 to the second quarter of 2019. As Darius mentioned, segment profit growth was the main driver for the quarter. That acceleration was most prominent in Aerospace and PMT due to combination of higher organic sales volumes, commercial excellence and our continued focus on productivity. We also continue to utilize our balance sheet to lower our share count. We deployed nearly $2 billion toward the repurchase of Honeywell shares, consistent with our plan to reduce the share count by at least 1% during the course of this year.
Finally, we had a $0.05 headwind on an adjusted basis from below the line expenses, primarily due to the proactive restructuring actions I mentioned earlier, and lower pension income year-over-year, as a result of the de-risking actions we took in 2018. That was partially offset by benefits from net interest expense and foreign exchange. Funding a strong pipeline of future repositioning continues to be a key lever for our productivity playbook, and will serve us and our shareholders well as we go forward. The punch line here is, we had another high-quality quarter delivering EPS at the high-end of our guidance range.
Now let's turn to Slide 5, and we can discuss our segment performance. Starting with Aerospace, sales were up 11% organically. This marks the fourth consecutive quarter of double-digit organic growth and capped off an outstanding first half for 2019. Defense and Space grew 20% organically, led by global demand for guidance and navigation systems, as well as increased spares volumes on U.S. DoD programs, including the F-18 and F-22. The Defense business is well positioned. More than 50% of firm orders with delivery through 2020 are already booked.
In Commercial OE, sales were up 4% organically driven by continued strength across the business jet platforms, which more than offset declines stemming from the timing of air transport shipments. Notably, we saw increased deliveries across all Gulfstream platforms, and strong avionics deliveries on certain Dassault platforms. Regarding the Boeing 737 MAX situation, we remain aligned to Boeing stated production schedule, and we'll continue to monitor the situation closely. But as we stated previously, we do not anticipate a significant impact to Honeywell's operational results in 2019.
Aftermarket sales were up 8% organically, driven by demand across both air transport and business aviation and growth in retrofit, modifications and upgrades, including related to the ADSP safety mandates. We continue to see good adoption of our connected aircraft technologies, which drove strong software sales growth in aerospace and continue to gain traction for our JetWave solution across all Aerospace verticals, as demonstrated by the C-17 when we announced in May, our first in Defense business.
Aerospace segment margin expanded 330 basis points, driven by commercial excellence, higher sales volumes and margin accretion from the spin of Transportation Systems. The spin contributed approximately 60 basis points to Aero's total margin expansion. The Aero business continues to execute well, investing in future technologies, driving productivity and commercial excellence, and as a healthy long-cycle backlog heading into the third quarter.
In Honeywell Building Technologies, sales were up 5% organically, driven by global demand for commercial fire products. As Vimal Kapoor and his team displayed at our Investor Conference in May, we are innovating and launching new products in this business at a much faster rate than we had in the past, and we continue to see good acceptance from our customers and strong growth as a result. We saw good growth across building management software platforms, including [Indecipherable], which as you may remember is our platform for integrating building management systems and data, using open and proprietary communication protocols. In Building Solutions, we drove growth in global projects across the Americas and in the airport vertical in the Middle East.
HBT segment margins expanded 390 basis points in the second quarter, driven by the favorable impact from the spin-off of the Homes business. The team continues to make steady progress on our goal to eliminate the remaining stranded costs by year-end stemming from the homes spin. Segment margins, excluding the favorable impact from the spin accretion were roughly flat this quarter, a big improvement from the first quarter, and we continue to make progress on supply chain optimization post the spin. Overall, it was another great quarter for the HBT business with double-digit projects backlog growth in Building Solutions position the business well for the second half of 2019.
In Performance Materials and Technologies, sales were up 4% on an organic basis. Process Solutions sales were up 5% organically driven by continued strength in our short-cycle businesses, primarily in software, maintenance and migration services and field instrumentation devices. We also saw growth in Smart Energy, primarily in North America. The short- cycle backlog across Process Solutions is up over 12%, giving us confidence that the growth in the automation portfolio should continue into the second half.
UOP sales were up 5% organically driven by growth in licensing and engineering, as well as refining catalyst. We saw particular strength in North America with reinvestment in existing refining infrastructure and select new investments in petrochemicals and strong backlog conversion in the Middle East. UOP orders and backlog were both up over 10% for the quarter. Additionally, on a year-to-date basis, UOP orders in China were up double-digits, primarily driven by growth in equipment, licensing and catalysts.
Organic sales growth in advanced materials of 2% was driven by demand for our Solstice line of low global warming refrigerants and blowing agents. However, this was partially offset by lower pricing due to the impact of a legal HFC imports in Europe. Enforcement and monitoring of the EU F-Gas Regulation has been an emerging challenge and we're working diligently in partnership with other producers, EU regulators and EU member countries to address the harmful illegal imports. Overall, PMT segment margins expanded by 140 basis points in the second quarter, driven by commercial excellence across all lines of business, direct material productivity and further improvements in our supply chain.
Finally, in Safety and Productivity Solutions, sales were down 4% on an organic basis in the quarter as segment margins contracted 420 basis points. The weakness we saw this quarter was principally in our short-cycle high, margin Productivity Products business. Similar to the first quarter, we saw a combination of continued distributor inventory destocking, fewer large project rollouts in the Mobility space and lower channel sell-through.
The second quarter sales mix in SPS negatively impacted our margins, as the volume declines we experience were in more profitable parts of the business. We continue to see growth in our Sensing and IoT business and robust demand for voice solutions and aftermarket maintenance and services and warehouse automation. As Darius mentioned during last quarter's earnings release, Intelligrated is beginning to face tougher and tougher comps as we get deeper into the year following five quarters of approximately 20% plus growth. We are seeing timing of new major system rollouts push into the second half of the year. This effect coupled with tougher sales comps in the second quarter, drove flatter sales in Intelligrated in 2Q. The large project order push outs we saw in Q2 are consistent with our customers' latest planning and not an indication of project losses.
Intelligrated's aftermarket business, which enhances customer outcomes through consultative engagements to improve productivity was up strong double-digits organically driven by demand for comprehensive life cycle support and service. The business is benefiting from the large installed base growth in the core Intelligrated portfolio. The outlook for this business overall remains very strong and we delivered organic sales growth of over 20% for the first half of 2019. And we continue to expect this to be a growth business long-term.
Within the Safety business, organic sales growth was 1%. We saw continued demand for Gas Detection products, which grew low single-digits organically and retail footwear, which was up high digits -- high single-digits organically. That was largely offset by decreased volumes of general safety and personal protective equipment. In our key end markets for the Safety business, we see solid demand for portable gas detection in the U.S., but slower activity in the industrial sector, given distributor inventory levels.
Let's now turn to Slide 6, and discuss our third quarter outlook. Our planning assumptions are largely consistent with the second quarter dynamics, with some further caution on short-cycle. We expect our growth this quarter will be driven by a combination of continued long cycle strength and Aerospace and Defense, coupled with short-cycle demand and Building Technologies and healthy backlog in UOP and Process Solutions. The Aerospace business, as I mentioned, has grown 10% or more organically in the past four quarters, and we expect continued strong performance due to the order growth rates and backlog in Defense.
We've established a significant backlog of new major system awards for Intelligrated over the past year that will drive growth into 2020 and allow for an expansion of our shorter-cycle aftermarket and service businesses. We are taking a cautious view on the short-cycle growth, as many of the macro signals, the China GDP, U.S.-China trade tensions and Brexit, just to name a few are still clouding the economic outlook. We think it's prudent to plan conservatively given the uncertainties, and our 3Q and second half guidance reflect that.
As it relates to the sale of weapons to Taiwan by the U.S. government and potential sanctions from China, we see no reason why Honeywell would be potentially sanctioned by the Chinese government, and we have received no official word from the Chinese government that Honeywell is on a sanction list of entities.
Now, let's discuss our segment outlook. In Aerospace, we continue to see robust demand in both business aviation and in U.S. and international Defense, supported by a robust orders growth and firm backlogs for orders with delivery into 2020. Air transport shipments should increase sequentially, driven by demand for A350 and A320 aircraft and lower customer incentives. We will see tougher comparisons in business aviation, given the significant organic sales growth in the third quarter of 2018. Consistent with last quarter, we expect the commercial aftermarket activity will be driven by flight hours, airlines demand and further tailwinds from the adoption of safety and compliance mandates, principally in business aviation.
In Building Technologies, we expect good growth with strength primarily in commercial fire products in Americas and EMEA, and growth in building management software in high growth regions and for Tridium. On the service side, we expect to see Building Solutions growth continue, given the large order funnel and considerable backlog growth in projects and services. As a reminder, HBT does have significant short-cycle exposure, particularly in the products vertical. And although we haven't seen order rates slow, we are planning cautiously here in the second half.
In Performance Materials and Technologies, we expect to see short-cycle demand for Products and Services and Process Solutions and growth in equipment, adsorbents and refining catalyst in UOP. We saw good bookings and equipment in catalysts in the second quarter, and growth in the Process Solutions service bank for new contracts and renewals, which we believe sets PMT up for another good quarter in the third quarter.
Finally, given the challenges we experienced in Productivity Products and our assumption that the inventory destocking continues for the balance of 2019. We are expecting to see continued headwinds in SPS from both a sales and segment margin perspective, but anticipate that will moderate in the fourth quarter. We expect Intelligrated third quarter performance to be similar to 2Q with 20 plus percent growth in the aftermarket business, but slower large project growth. We maintain a robust backlog of project awards from blue chip customers and see a very strong pipeline of potential awards in the third and the fourth quarters.
The net below-the-line impact, which is the difference between segment profit and income before tax will be minimal this quarter. The difference year-on-year is driven primarily by lower pension income, the benefit from spins indemnification payments partially offset by higher repositioning funding.
Now let's move to Slide 7 to discuss our revised full-year guidance. As Darius noted, we are raising the low end of our full-year organic sales, earnings per share and free cash flow guidance. Our organic sales guidance moves 1 point on the low end to a new range of 4% to 6%, while our segment margin guidance is unchanged. Revised earnings per share guidance of $7.95 to $8.15 represents earnings growth of 8% to 10% adjusted, excluding the impact from the spins in 2018. We remain on track to deliver approximately 100% free cash flow conversion.
Our position on tariffs is unchanged. We expect no significant impact in 2019 given the proactive measures we have taken to mitigate. We also continue to closely monitor the Brexit situation and are communicating regularly with our customers, partners and suppliers. As we stated last quarter, we're planning for various potential Brexit outcomes, including a no deal Brexit scenario to ensure that as the terms of the U.K. departure from the EU are finalized, we are well positioned to continue meeting our customers' needs. Our guidance continues to reflect the weighted average share count of 731 million shares, and an effective tax rate of approximately 22%. Our net below-the-line expenses are now expected to be approximately $120 million in 2019. This reflects slightly higher reposition expense charges, partially offset by greater interest income.
We continue to be confident in our ability to execute and in our outlook. We're sticking to the playbook around short-cycle caution, given the macro uncertainties that remain in the second half of the year.
With that, I'd like to turn the call back over to Darius, who will wrap it up on Slide 8.
Darius Adamczyk -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Thanks, Greg. We are encouraged by the performance from our businesses thus far in 2019. We continue to execute on our commitments to share owners, are generating strong organic growth in many end markets and have multiple levers to enable further margin expansion. Our operational performance is generating strong free cash flows and conversion, while investing in the business to ensure we are well positioned for the future. I'm also encouraged by our progress with the business transformation initiatives we've discussed at our Investor Day, particularly given the -- because of the significant opportunity I see in these areas in the future of Honeywell.
Let's be clear, we have a lot of work to do to execute these initiatives. But I continue to be excited by the energy and enthusiasm I see across the employee population to move the ball forward and truly differentiate Honeywell from our competitors.
With that, Mark, let's move to Q&A.
Mark Macaluso -- Vice President of Investor Relations
Thanks, Darius. Darius and Greg are now available to answer your questions. April, if you could, please open the line for Q&A.
Questions and Answers:
Operator
Thank you. The floor is now open for questions. (Operator Instructions) Thank you. Our first question is coming from Joe Ritchie from Goldman Sachs.
Joseph Alfred Ritchie -- Goldman Sachs -- Analyst
Thanks. Good morning, everyone.
Darius Adamczyk -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Good morning, Joe.
Joseph Alfred Ritchie -- Goldman Sachs -- Analyst
So look nice quarter. I guess the -- obviously, there's going to be lot of questions around the short-cycle commentary. I heard you guys say cautious a few times during the prepared comments. I guess maybe, as I think about your business today in the Safety and Productivity Solution side. Maybe talk a little bit more why you expect the destock to last and what's really driving that through the fourth quarter? And then secondarily in that business, the commentary around new major system rollouts being pushed out. I'm just curious whether you guys are seeing any saturation in that market?
Darius Adamczyk -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Let's maybe take that kind of two segments. So number one is, we anticipated some level of destocking to occur. I mean, obviously at the distributor levels we weren't supported by the level of business. So what we've projected for Q3 and Q4 is some level of moderation. But certainly a continuation of the trend in terms of softness in that end-market as the destocking continues, where obviously our plans are a bit better than that. But what I don't want to do is, in the short-cycle business, I don't want to be forecasting too aggressively and then end up disappointing. So that's kind of what we do have baked in particularly into the Q3 outlook, which is still negative and moderating a bit more into the Q4.
Because one of the things we're trying to really assess, and how much of this is market and how much of this is us. I mean that's still unclear. Some of the early indications we had that in the market is getting softer, but again, until we see all the data points and some of our competitors report and put all that piece -- all that together, we're really not sure. For now, we're going to assume it's us. Because I think, I don't want to just say, well, it's the market so we don't need to do anything. I can tell you we have a very aggressive commercial program to address some of these challenges and to drive business at the end user level.
The good news here on Productivity Products is, this is not a technology issue. We actually have very good technologies. They've been successfully launched, most recently in Q2 around our warehouse business and our TLC, which is our strongest segment. So I'm very encouraged by that. So that's really the story on SPS or I should say on Productivity Products.
In terms of Intelligrated, it's a very different story. Intelligrated has been growing by strong double-digits like think well north of 20% on average for the last several quarters. And what's happening there is, simply some of the orders that we expected in Q2 got pushed out a little bit. They're still out there, we expect to book them in Q3, Q4. We didn't lose them, I know that for a fact and the business is going to continue to grow and we're very bullish on the business. So there isn't a greater or different story here. The businesses gaining share, it's performing extraordinarily well. We see a little bit of a blip in delay in terms of the order bookings and that's what we accounted for in our outlook.
Greg Lewis -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Yeah, I would also just add that the aftermarket business which as you know, you know capturing the installed base and then going and mining the aftermarket is a big part of that whole thesis is doing terrific. We're up over 20% on the LSS business and have been for multi quarters. And as you know, that also carries a higher margin profile. So I think that part of the playbook is working nicely.
Joseph Alfred Ritchie -- Goldman Sachs -- Analyst
That's helpful to hear. And obviously, we prefer for you guys to be prudent as you're planning assumptions go for the second half of the year. I guess on that -- in that vein, right, like you started the year off with roughly 7% organic growth above where your organic guidance for the year. Long-cycle backlog still plus 10%. I guess what is then the embedded planning assumption for the short-cycle business is? It seems like -- it seems like you're planning for very, very low growth, if any growth in short-cycle in the second half of the year. And what are some of the puts and takes you got there?
Greg Lewis -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Well, again, Joe, the Productivity Products one is a big contributor to that. But you're right, for the remainder of the short-cycle businesses, I would say outside of maybe the Aerospace aftermarket, we're planning for low-single digits. And again, as we've seen that can turn very quickly, so we don't want to get too far out ahead of our skis there.
Darius Adamczyk -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, I mean, I think we have it right, Joe. I mean, I think, LSD for short short-cycle, think MST to maybe even a touch higher for the longer cycle, depending upon the segments. But that's sort of the rough math. So the punch line is, we are planning somewhat cautiously for the second half, because the geopolitical and the economic movements are pretty volatile right now. And what we try to do is, we try to guide that somewhat cautiously based on what we're seeing today, and the short-cycle is somewhat unpredictable and can turn very quickly.
Joseph Alfred Ritchie -- Goldman Sachs -- Analyst
Got it. Thanks, guys. I'll let others get on the call. I appreciate.
Mark Macaluso -- Vice President of Investor Relations
Thanks, Joe.
Darius Adamczyk -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Thank you.
Operator
And our next question is coming from John Inch with Gordon Haskett.
John George Inch -- Gordon Haskett -- Analyst
Good morning, everybody.
Darius Adamczyk -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Hi, John. Good morning.
John George Inch -- Gordon Haskett -- Analyst
Hi, guys. I think Greg you had mentioned that you are taking proactive steps for Brexit. What exactly -- in the case of hard Brexit, what exactly does that mean? Does it mean you're sort of...
Greg Lewis -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Yeah, it's really about certifications, John.
John George Inch -- Gordon Haskett -- Analyst
Okay.
Greg Lewis -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Yeah, it's really about certifications and making sure that certified bodies in the EU are going to allow the product flow to continue. So we've been basically recertifying our products with other EU bodies as opposed to the U.K. bodies that we had many of our certifications through, and that's been an ongoing effort and we're substantially complete at this stage which is very good, and then we're just also setting up additional triage in terms of actual movement of goods in the event we need to do anything special or different in terms of air freight or premium freight in that sense to get product to flow.
So those are really the two things that the teams have been working most closely on. And you can imagine too when you think about that even from our own internal wiring, there's system changes and so on that need to allow those things to be true for us internally as well. So that's what the teams have been furiously preparing for, so that we're ready no matter which way this goes.
John George Inch -- Gordon Haskett -- Analyst
And then how did Europe and China do as regions? I remember China was down a little bit last quarter, obviously given sort of some of the shorter cycle stuff going on there. I think Europe was more resilient. Was there any sort of real change and change in terms of China and the kind of a regional impact, like the Malaysia sort of Middle East impact. Is there anything else that you would call out there?
Darius Adamczyk -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, I'll take that one. John, I mean I think overall, we're kind of pleased. I mean, I'll highlight a couple of things. For example, our PMT bookings in China were around 20% in Q2. So I mean some real strength. We had some tough comps, I think flattish to slightly up for China for Q2. But that's driven by particularly some of that tough comps that we had in PMT. So overall, I mean, obviously there's some level of concern for the China economy. But overall, given the bookings we saw in PMT, that was strong.
Europe stayed strong, I think low to mid single digit for us, sort of some spotty in places. Germany was strong, Italy not so much, but overall fairly good growth rate for us. Middle East was very, very strong. We're very encouraged by that. India was up double-digit, very strong growth there. LATAM doing well, so for the most part, we're still seeing pretty good growth around -- across the globe. Granted China maybe wasn't what it was last year, but also not a complete meltdown and move downward. So overall, we're still encouraged by what we're seeing out there.
John George Inch -- Gordon Haskett -- Analyst
Darius, do you feel that the backlog of restructuring projects that you have would be more than sufficient if sort of the cadence of the global economy continues to soften a little bit? Or would you actually be looking to do more projects. Obviously you guys are pretty aggressive in terms of your you're playbooks historically..
Darius Adamczyk -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Yeah. Well, I think, John, I think that's highlight. That's maybe one of the highlights of the quarter. I think we really invested in our future this quarter. We had some very, very attractive restructuring projects and we wanted to make sure we fund them, because we probably could have delivered even higher EPS result in Q2 if we didn't fund those. But we thought it was prudent particularly in this level of economic uncertainty to fund those restructuring projects now, particularly given the kind of paybacks we saw on those.
But the real answer to your question is, I guess it all depends upon how much of economic hit we would take. We're kind of protected to the levels we're forecasting. If those economic cycles are deeper than that, then obviously, we would have to do more. So it's a bit of a wild ride as you can see it right now with sort of news items coming every day. But we do what we do all the time, which is we plan cautiously for productivity. And if the environment is worse than we anticipate, then we're going to take another round of cost actions to offset those.
Greg Lewis -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Yeah. I mean just so, the repositioning pipeline is a process, just like a sales pipeline or an R&D pipeline. We're working that at all times, so that we are ready when the opportunities present themselves from a funding perspective, and obviously as the economic environment moves. So that's absolutely part of our routine all times.
John George Inch -- Gordon Haskett -- Analyst
Got it. Thanks very much, guys. Appreciate it.
Greg Lewis -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Thanks, John.
Operator
Our next question comes from Deane Dray with RBC Capital Markets.
Deane Michael Dray -- RBC Capital Markets -- Analyst
Thank you. Good morning, everyone.
Greg Lewis -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Good morning, Dean.
Deane Michael Dray -- RBC Capital Markets -- Analyst
Hey. Maybe we can follow-up on some of Joe's beginning questions on the push outs that you're seeing. And so for Intelligrated the push outs, are they attributed to anything in particular?Is that macro uncertainty? Do you just have sense of what's driving the delay and capital commitment? And then similarly, one of your competitors in process has been talking about seeing big project push outs out of the second quarter into the third and fourth quarter. I would be interested in, if you're seeing some of those dynamics as well?
Darius Adamczyk -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Yeah. Let's started with Intelligrated. I'm not sure there is a single cause for that. Some of these projects are fairly substantial from a capital perspective and there is timing around Board meetings and so on. But we have an indication from our customers that these projects will happen. So I don't anticipate that will result in cancellations. The timing is always unpredictable on large projects. We expect some of those to land in Q3. It wouldn't shock me if they land in Q4, but they're not disappearing and they're not being canceled.
In terms of the large projects. I mean, PMT had a pretty good booking quarters overall. It was stronger in UOP than it was in HPS. We're seeing something somewhat similar on the large projects, per se. Those are getting sliding to the right a little bit. But we saw some other strong bookings, particularly on the shorter-cycle, some of our services build business, our advanced solutions, our software businesses. So it's been a bit of a mixed story when it comes to larger projects here, maybe perhaps those are sliding a little bit to the right. But in our backlog grew, our bookings were good in PMT and we anticipate pretty, pretty strong second half of the year.
Deane Michael Dray -- RBC Capital Markets -- Analyst
And then across the shorter cycle portfolio and the softness that you're seeing, are you seeing any competitors beginning to use price as a weapon here to drive some volume? And take us through the portfolio and where pricing may have seen some of that pressure.
Darius Adamczyk -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Well, I think all short cycle isn't the same. As we look at HBT, I think our short cycle has actually stayed fairly strong. I think the results speak for themselves, it's been a really good first half for our HBT business, and we actually are expecting that to continue into Q3, where the business is doing very, very well. In SPS, it's the Productivity Products issue that we talked about earlier. I can't really necessarily point to price. I mean, as the market is softer, pricing becomes more of a challenge, some of that is definitely true, but I don't want to point at competition, that this is necessarily any kind of a pricing thing. I mean, yeah, there is greater level of competition when markets get softer that's true.
Greg Lewis -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
But we've had--I mean, we're getting price and we're getting growth still in the short cycle currently. Again with the exception of the productivity products story. And then as we mentioned in the prepared remarks, in the HFC business, that's one place where we're seeing a very specific competitive move going on with some of the illegal imports coming in, into Europe. So that's really the only place that I would highlight as something really visible that we can see competitively.
Darius Adamczyk -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Yeah.
Deane Michael Dray -- RBC Capital Markets -- Analyst
Thank you.
Greg Lewis -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Thanks, Dean.
Operator
And we'll take our next question from Scott Davis with Melius Research.
Scott Reed Davis -- Melius Research -- Analyst
Hi. Good morning, guys.
Greg Lewis -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Good morning, Scott.
Scott Reed Davis -- Melius Research -- Analyst
You guys are putting up pretty predictable numbers each quarter, and it just begs a question, you spent a good chunk of the investor day talking Forge and connectivity and all these interesting things you're working on, and also the supply chain stuff. Is there any way to measure kind of your progress in these areas, like for example the big margin gains you had this quarter, could you ascribe any of that to supply chain? Or is that still out there or to come?
Darius Adamczyk -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, I think, let me start taking this. I think in terms of a lot of our ISC transformation, I can't-- we are in the -- we're not even in the top or the first. We're grabbing the bat at this juncture, so that's something that you're going to see a lot more pronounced really in 2020 and beyond. We're just getting started, so I'm not going to tell you there's a lot attributed to the ISC transformation. You probably shouldn't expect much until 2020 and beyond. In terms of Forge and our software play, I think that really the best way to measure that business is growth. That's the single biggest metric I use and is it profitable growth, and I was very pleased with what we're seeing -- double digit software growth, margin that's accretive to Honeywell, margin that's very attractive, and we're gaining traction, we're winning jobs.
We pointed to a large Middle East win that we had, which is very large in scope, and our customers trust us, so I'm very pleased with the strategic progress we're making. But our measures are typically financial in nature, because you can make yourself feel good by looking at actions. If you look at financials, and especially for Forge and connected enterprise, ultimately we look at the growth rates and they've been double digits, which is good, which is around expected.
Greg Lewis -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Yes, and the other thing I guess I would highlight is internally, we're looking obviously at recurring revenue streams and trying to continue to enhance our recurring revenue streams, so that's something that as we measure the progress in the connected, that'll be one that we watch as well pretty closely.
Scott Reed Davis -- Melius Research -- Analyst
Okay, makes sense. And I just have a question about Intelligrated and the sales-cycle. When you install -- when you do the big project, presumably there's some sort of warranty period. I mean, when do you start getting aftermarket from those installs?
Darius Adamczyk -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
It's after the completion and turning over the project over to the user, because a lot of times we'll get the service contract as soon as the job is complete, and yeah, and granted, there are some things that are on warranty, but we're trying to have the same approach with the Intelligrated business, as we do with our HPS business, where we have these longer cycle, the Assurance 360-type of contracts, and we've had great traction in that, over 20% growth in Q2. This -- by the way, I'm not indicating any kind of a slowdown in this business. I don't think we can expect the 20%-plus growth rates that we've seen, but we think that this is going to be a high single digit, double digit growth kind of business.
What we've seen that although the push-outs of the orders, although disappointing, the good news and the fact that our strategy is working is this, which is our services business was up over 20%. It enabled that business to have an accretive margin to what it had last year, and the strategy we're trying to execute is working. Unfortunately we can't control the timing of when the orders land, but I can tell you that they're not due to losses.
Scott Reed Davis -- Melius Research -- Analyst
Yeah. I mean, just a quick follow-up on that. At what point does aftermarket become a bigger piece than the install revenues? Is it three years out, five years...
Darius Adamczyk -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Well, to be honest, Scott, I hope not for a while, right? Because that means that our project cycle is slowing. But, it's a bit of a function that still the projects business is the predominant component in that business, so what would have to occur is the services businesses are already growing at over 20%, the projects business slowed a little bit this past quarter. I actually hope that we get more of the projects, and I think that will happen. I don't think that this is now the sign of, oh God, the warehouse automation segment is slowing. I think that this could be a blip for a quarter or two and it will resume. But that's really kind of how things will work, is ultimately the projects business will slow down, I don't think that's necessarily now. And the LSS is going to become a bigger growth component of the business. We kind of saw a little bit of a preview of that in Q2, but I don't think that's a long term trend yet.
Scott Reed Davis -- Melius Research -- Analyst
Okay. Good luck, thank you guys.
Greg Lewis -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Thanks, Scott.
Operator
Our next question is coming from Steve Tusa with JP Morgan.
Charles Stephen Tusa -- JP Morgan -- Analyst
Hey, guys, good morning.
Greg Lewis -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Good morning, Steve.
Darius Adamczyk -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
How are you? Good morning .
Charles Stephen Tusa -- JP Morgan -- Analyst
Just so we're all on the same page here on the SPS thing. How should we think about kind of the absolute profit for the third quarter, and then I guided to something like a $1.1 billion or something like that for the year. Are we kind of just south of a billion for the year now when it comes to profitability? Then just as a follow-up, a pretty big miss -- you guys were out at EPG not too late, but late May. Did something change significantly in June, or was this something that you knew about but there was enough offset in the rest of the portfolio that you didn't feel the need to call it out?
Darius Adamczyk -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Yeah. Well, I think, Steve, let me start with the second comment and then I'll turn it over to Greg. In terms of SPS and more specifically Productivity Products, I think we called it out both in our Q1 earnings reports and John talked about it at our Investor Day. I think that we were pretty clear that this is going to be another quarter, where we're going to see destocking and some challenges on sort of commercial. So I think that-- you know, was this a little bit greater than we anticipated? Yes. Was -- did we signal it? I think we did, and maybe specifically haven't talked about it at EPG, but we certainly did at our Q1 earnings call, and John talked about it specifically at Investor Day. So I'm not sure that we're shocked by what we saw. So it, like I said, it's a little bit more pronounced than we anticipated, but not totally out of whack with our expectations.
Mark Macaluso -- Vice President of Investor Relations
Yeah, then on the profitability front, Steve, I think given the mix of sales that we're seeing in the second quarter, I think it's going to look fairly similar in Q3, so I would expect margin rates to be in that same range of 11%, 12% type margins in the third quarter. Fourth quarter should get a little bit better, but that's how we're thinking about it as we exit the second half.
Charles Stephen Tusa -- JP Morgan -- Analyst
Okay. So, like $225 million to $250 million in the fourth quarter, something to that extent on -- on segment profit?
Greg Lewis -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Yeah, the margin rates are going to be in that--again, similar range.
Charles Stephen Tusa -- JP Morgan -- Analyst
Okay. One last quick one. Just -- when you guys talk about short-cycle. I mean, to me when I look at the results at commercial, aftermarket, and some of the shorter cycle stuff in PMT, Building Technology is perfectly fine, you're really -- you're not necessarily talking about all short cycle. It seems like it's an SPS type of dynamic, and how bad was the scanning and mobility side, the stuff that you compete with Zebra on? How negative was that in the quarter?
Darius Adamczyk -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, I think that's right, Steve. This story is really about Productivity Products. That was what we signalled, a little bit worse than we thought, it wasn't a good outcome, and it was down for the quarter. So it was a little bit down than -- more down than we thought. Some of that is, my guess, although I want to emphasize I don't know yet, because I always assume it's our issue, not a market issue. I think there was obviously some issues in the market and market slowing. We've had some early data points which would indicate that and some commercial execution things that we need to fix, as well as really the destocking thing was the biggest factor.
Frankly, the inventory levels really exiting 2018 are unsupported by the business levels, and some of our distributors are taking actions to do that. So that's really -- it's really kind of the negative story. It's not -- you're right. It's not widespread, it's predominantly limited to one business which didn't have a great Q2.
Charles Stephen Tusa -- JP Morgan -- Analyst
Yeah, and that's why you guys planned conservatively for the second half. Thanks a lot, appreciate it.
Darius Adamczyk -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
That's right. Yeah. Thanks, Steve.
Operator
Our next question is coming from Gautum Khanna with Cowen and Company.
Gautam J. Khanna -- Cowen and Company -- Analyst
[Technical Issues] $1.9 billion of stock in the Q, I think that's a multi-year record or close to it. Are you still thinking $4 billion repo in the year, and then also another, second question is, if you could please just speak about the M&A pipeline and whether or not you're seeing anything attractive? Thank you.
Mark Macaluso -- Vice President of Investor Relations
I'm sorry. This is Mark. Can you resay question? We missed the first part of it.
Darius Adamczyk -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
You got cut off in the beginning.
Gautam J. Khanna -- Cowen and Company -- Analyst
I'm sorry about that. So, my question was related to the stock repurchase. You bought $1.9 billion in the quarter. Are you still thinking about $4 billion for the year? The second question was, if you could just give some color about the M&A pipeline and whether you're seeing anything attractive? Thank you.
Greg Lewis -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Sure. You're right, $1.9 billion was a fairly healthy amount of repo in the quarter. I think we're about $2.6 billion on a year-to-date basis, and all of that is still aiming at getting the 1% reduction from year to year, so $4 billion for the year is probably in the right neighborhood of where we'll land. Obviously, some of that depends on the share price performance for the remainder of the year, but I think that's a reasonable assessment of what the end of the year will look like. And then as it relates to the M&A pipeline. I mean, we continue to be active.
I wouldn't say we had -- other quarters, we've come in and talked about having things that were right at the one yard line that didn't happen. I don't think we had anything that was quite that close in this particular quarter, but we continue to be very active across all four of the businesses, and then as we've talked about, we're ramping up the activity particularly in HPT, given the fact that business is now on much firmer footing.
Gautam J. Khanna -- Cowen and Company -- Analyst
Okay, thanks. If I can squeeze one more in here. What are your -- what are the demand trend expectations for PMT in the second half? Kind of -- or what sort of growth are you looking at for those, for UOP, HBS and Advanced Materials?
Greg Lewis -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Think about that as mid single-digits. Again, with the backlogs that we have entering the back half of the year, we think mid single digits is a very reasonable spot for PMT.
Gautam J. Khanna -- Cowen and Company -- Analyst
Okay. Thanks, guys.
Operator
And our next question is coming from Jeffery Sprague with Vertical Research Partners.
Jeffrey Todd Sprague -- Vertical Research Partners -- Analyst
Thank you, good morning everyone.
Greg Lewis -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Good morning, Jeff.
Darius Adamczyk -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Good morning, Jeff.
Jeffrey Todd Sprague -- Vertical Research Partners -- Analyst
Good morning. We've spent a lot of time on SPS for good reason, but let's talk Aero for a moment. The margins were extraordinarily strong there, stronger than I might have guessed given the mix. I know you've got some commercial-like margins in part of your Defense and Space business, but can you give us a little bit more color on what really played out in the margins in the quarter and how you see the rest of the year playing out there?
Darius Adamczyk -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, I mean, I think that margin growth is really a testament to the execution prowess of the Aerospace team and a lot of our strategies that we are working. I think sometimes we forget that our software business isn't just in Honeywell connected enterprise, it's also in our avionics franchise, and that group has done a tremendous job in really shifting its focus through RMUs and upgrades and enhancements, and we saw the benefits in that because it obviously has accretive margin rates. They've done a great job at driving productivity in the business. So although -- this is that ultimate combination we also want to see, which is you can drive productivity while getting good growth and you really, then you really expand the margins.
We're obviously focus on the connected enterprise and connected aircraft is helping margins as well, good growth on spares. The BGA market is very, very strong right now, both in terms of OE and aftermarket. It's a testament to a lot of the great wins we've had on the platforms, but also supporting our customers in flight. So overall -- and then lastly, but certainly importantly, Defense and Space has just been on fire and just about any segment to want to look, we've been there, whether it's helos, whether it's the U.S., international defense, all those segments are doing well. I think this is really an important fact, Jeff, that as we look from now through the end of 2020 -- end of 2020, we have more than 50% of the business already booked, so we're really in -- at really nice shape as we look into the future.
Jeffrey Todd Sprague -- Vertical Research Partners -- Analyst
Right. Thanks for that. Just back to this China question, I fully understand your position and statement this week as it relates to this. I wonder if you have seen or how you would keep an eye out for maybe more subtle pressures, not only on your but obviously your -- you would see it in your own business, but any indication that U.S. or western companies are just getting a little bit of the cold shoulder around the edges or any other kind of behavior change in the business that you've picked up.
Darius Adamczyk -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
No, I don't. I think as Greg pointed out -- I know we've received interesting press on this subject, but we have seen no indication from China Authorities that there are any sanctions coming our way. We have received no sanction. I think I'll point to a couple of things. Number one is, we've received our first Jetway order in China, which is very promising. I mentioned the PMT bookings in China were very, very strong in Q2. China is an important market for us, we play it locally, we have a lot of manufacturing, a lot of R&D facilities in China, it's a market that we take great pride in serving local for local, and we expect that to continue.
Jeffrey Todd Sprague -- Vertical Research Partners -- Analyst
Great. Thanks a lot.
Darius Adamczyk -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Thank you.
Operator
Our next question is coming from Julian Mitchell with Barclays.
Julian Mitchell -- Barclays -- Analyst
Hi, good morning and thank you.
Greg Lewis -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Good morning, Julian.
Darius Adamczyk -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Good morning, Julian.
Julian Mitchell -- Barclays -- Analyst
Maybe just a first question around overall cadence of demand in recent months. Your organic sales growth was 8% in Q1, it's guided at the midpoint at 3% in Q3, so a pretty severe slowdown with comps that are not that different. Aside from what you've talked about in SPS, have you seen any changes in demand in recent months? Several companies talked about June being materially worse than the rest of Q2. Just wondered what you'd seen recently in that respect.
Greg Lewis -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Hey, Julian, this is Greg. We haven't seen any really clear patterns like that across the portfolio that would cause us to say that June is the beginning of a huge slowdown. So across the portfolio, I would say the answer is no. But as Darius mentioned earlier, the portfolio is not one thing, and so I expect that we're going to see different dynamics across the different parts of the portfolio and across different parts of the globe. Darius talked about the strength in Europe earlier, and there's a lot of strength there because the Aerospace business is doing particularly well.
And as long as flight hours stay strong, we expect to see Europe continuing to do well there. The dynamics in China, as we mentioned, are strong on the long-cycle side with UOP orders, so we've got a very strong backlog in PMT in the short cycle businesses. So, far the answer, no real pattern down, but it's something we absolutely watch as you would expect.
Darius Adamczyk -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, and just to maybe add to that. Actually if you look at June, it's a year-over-year organic growth basis, it was our best month. Now granted, we saw some softness in SPS which was pronounced, and that's why we have a bit more of a cautious guide for Q3. That's really the reason, is we're not expecting a miraculous turnaround in SPS in Q3. Some of the softness we saw in June, we actually anticipate may continue and that's why you see our guide. But overall if you look at total Honeywell organic, June on a year-over-year basis was actually our best month of the quarter.
Julian Mitchell -- Barclays -- Analyst
Great, thank you for that detail. Maybe just picking up on your last point, Darius. Within SPS, the warehouse and workflow solutions piece, revenue growth there was 7% in Q2 after 50% growth in Q1. What should we expect in the second half in terms of warehouse and workflow solutions sales trends specifically? Do you expect to pick up from Q2 as some of those orders get realized or you're leaving it as sort of a single digit growth assumption for now?
Darius Adamczyk -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, I mean, if you're referring to Productivity Products, which I think there's kind of two different components. We don't expect a major turnaround here in Q3. Like I said, we still expect that to be negative for Q3 and some level of moderation in Q4. When it comes to Intelligrated, we're still expecting high single digit, double-digit growth for the year. Q3 is a little bit dependent upon exactly when we land some of the orders, but think about, we're now getting into the tougher and tougher comps, so we're thinking about single digit kind of growth rates for the second half.
But again, just to be clear, that's depending upon when those orders come, because we're ready to execute those, and we have every indication that they'll land. Obviously, getting those sooner in Q3 would be better, getting them later or pushed out to Q4 would be worse, and that's a little bit tough to predict. But I'm very bullish on our ability to secure those orders when they do land. That, I'm not that concerned about.
Julian Mitchell -- Barclays -- Analyst
Perfect. Thank you.
Greg Lewis -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Thanks, Julian.
Operator
The final question is from Josh Pokrzywinski from Morgan Stanley.
Joshua Charles Pokrzywinski -- Morgan Stanley -- Analyst
Hi, good morning, guys.
Greg Lewis -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Good morning, Josh.
Joshua Charles Pokrzywinski -- Morgan Stanley -- Analyst
Just a couple of, I guess, more clean-ups than anything else. I think we've beaten SPS to death, so hopefully John can take the rest of the day off. On Aerospace specifically, clearly commercial Aero aftermarket doing very well. I want to make sure that there's nothing unsustainable there, particularly as it pertains the Max grounding, maybe with some of these older aircraft filling the schedule that aftermarket gets a little bit of boost and we shouldn't expect all of that to continue. I know the trend line is good, I just didn't' know if there was a little extra that you got out of the quarter.
Darius Adamczyk -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, I would say this -- there is probably a little bit of that, where you had more older aircraft flying vis-a-vis, but that's not going to have the kind of dramatic impact on our results. So I wouldn't say that that's really the cause and effect. I think as long as the air miles stay strong, as long as the economy stays in reasonable shape and people continue to fly business aircraft and buy business aircraft. Defense and Space business, like I said, we're already more than half booked for the next 18 months. Things can always change, but overall we're not -- this is not an area where we're concerned. We should have very good visibility to Q3 and Q4.
Obviously this is a long-cycle business. Short-cycle continues to look strong, so overall I don't think that this is some kind of a blip or unusual event here in Q2. I think this is evidence that our strategies are working the Aero team is executing.
Joshua Charles Pokrzywinski -- Morgan Stanley -- Analyst
Got it, that's helpful. Then just back on the topic of inventory, I know that that's clearly driving some of the activity in SPS. But as you look back on maybe the second half of '18, are there any businesses that now with the benefit of hindsight you can say, maybe we -- we saw distributors take on more inventory than perhaps they were selling through and it's something we're watching a channel here and there, that you can share with us or we should keep in mind as we go into the second half?
Darius Adamczyk -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, like you said, hindsight is always 20/20. I think the distributors to some extent play the same role we do, is they want to be prepared for good markets and they want to be prepared to sell out product, so could you say that they took on a bit more inventory than they should have? Well, yes. Hindsight, that's clearly the case. And yeah, and you're right, we are watching days of inventory. We are bringing that down. It came up out Q1, it came down in Q2, we're planning to have it again come down in Q3 and get it to a much more lower level. That's really -- that's really -- if we want to focus around the negative punch line of the quarter, and overall I think this was a very strong quarter for Honeywell.
But if we want to focus on the negative, which is fair, that's really the punch line. As we've got to get those inventory levels moderated to levels that our distributors are comfortable with, and we planned that for the first half. We've got a little bit more to do in Q3, and we'll see around Q4. Obviously, the variable we don't know is sales out, because if that goes up, then we have leftover product, if it goes down, we'll have more work to do. So short of -- so shorter answer is, yes, we're monitoring it and we're going to be very closely watching it here for, well forever, but certainly for the second half of this year.
Joshua Charles Pokrzywinski -- Morgan Stanley -- Analyst
Great. Thanks. I'll leave it there.
Darius Adamczyk -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Thank you.
Operator
That concludes today's question and answer session. At this time, I would like to turn the conference back to Mr. Darius Adamczyk for any additional closing remarks.
Darius Adamczyk -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
I want to thank our share owners for their trust and support of Honeywell. We have made great strides in 2019, but we still have a long runway to continue our progress. We are focused on continuing to outperform for our share owners, our customers, and our employees. This quarter marks the start of a new era for Honeywell in Charlotte, North Carolina, and I could not be more excited about what lies ahead for this company. Thank you all for listening, and have a wonderful, relaxing and safe rest of the summer. Take care, thank you.
Operator
[Operator Closing Remarks]
Duration: 66 minutes
Call participants:
Mark Macaluso -- Vice President of Investor Relations
Darius Adamczyk -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Greg Lewis -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Joseph Alfred Ritchie -- Goldman Sachs -- Analyst
John George Inch -- Gordon Haskett -- Analyst
Deane Michael Dray -- RBC Capital Markets -- Analyst
Scott Reed Davis -- Melius Research -- Analyst
Charles Stephen Tusa -- JP Morgan -- Analyst
Gautam J. Khanna -- Cowen and Company -- Analyst
Jeffrey Todd Sprague -- Vertical Research Partners -- Analyst
Julian Mitchell -- Barclays -- Analyst
Joshua Charles Pokrzywinski -- Morgan Stanley -- Analyst
More HON analysis
All earnings call transcripts
AlphaStreet Logo More
More From The Motley Fool
This article is a transcript of this conference call produced for The Motley Fool. While we strive for our Foolish Best, there may be errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in this transcript. As with all our articles, The Motley Fool does not assume any responsibility for your use of this content, and we strongly encourage you to do your own research, including listening to the call yourself and reading the company's SEC filings. Please see our Terms and Conditions for additional details, including our Obligatory Capitalized Disclaimers of Liability.
Motley Fool Transcribers has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.

Story 76
NEW YORK — EPG Insurance, a leading provider of insurance sold through heavy equipment dealers, manufacturers and finance companies, and Assurant Inc., a global provider of risk management solutions, today announced they will partner to provide insurance and equipment protection. The companies will offer point of sale property insurance solutions and extended service contracts for customers of construction, agriculture, logging and trucking industries.
Joint offerings from EPG and Assurant will include loss damage waivers, property insurance, gap insurance, liability and equipment service contract programs, all made available during the sale or rental transaction. The products and services will be sold through EPG’s network of dealer and manufacturer partners and will be integrated into dealership finance and manufacturer dealer portal systems.
“Partnering with Assurant will enable EPG to continue providing innovative products to serve our current industries while opening up new opportunities to continue our growth and develop new offerings and serve new categories,” said Dale Hendrix, CEO of EPG.
"EPG is a leader that has earned the trust of their dealer and manufacturer partners in all of their industries," said Dina Olsen, SVP of Global Specialty Products at Assurant. “Together we will deliver a comprehensive line of products that can grow and be customized quickly to best serve our clients and customers.”
The EPG and Assurant partnership is effective immediately and product offerings are already in place. Customers can find more details at EPGInsurance.com or Assurant.com.

Story 77
Broad power-management company Eaton said during its annual investor conference that it will spin out the lighting business unit that was once called Cooper Lighting with that new business becoming an independent publicly-traded company.
Eaton (NYSE:ETN) has announced its intention to spin out its LED-centric lighting business into an independent publicly-traded entity by the end of 2019. The company made the announcement at its annual investors conference and further said that Goldman Sachs is serving as a financial advisor on the transaction. Eaton is a broad power-management company with 2018 sales of $21.6B (billion), and the Eaton Lighting Division (formerly Cooper Lighting) had seemed a symbiotic part of the larger power-management conglomerate. But the spin-off will follow the recent trend of solid-state lighting (SSL) businesses separating from a parent including Current, powered by GE and Signify (formerly Philips Lighting).
Eaton acquired Cooper Industries including Cooper Lighting for $11.8B in mid-2012. For several years, Cooper retained its name but at LightFair International 2015 in New York the company adopted the Eaton Lighting brand. We interviewed Kraig Kasler at LightFair that year and Kraig would go on to become president of the Eaton Lighting Division.
Now Kasler will apparently lead the yet-to-be-named new public company. The spin-off action will be a tax-fee transaction for the parent Eaton, according to the announcement. In a letter to customers and its supply chain, Kasler said the new business will include Eaton’s lighting business, its Airport Lighting business, and the Mains Lighting and Intrusion Systems businesses. The Crouse-Hinds Industrial Lighting business and the Life Safety Division’s Emergency Lighting business will remain a part of Eaton. Eaton said the spin-off will include businesses with total sales of $1.7B in 2018.
Eaton has been a relatively aggressive mover in connected lighting and the Internet of Things (IoT) in both residential and commercial sectors. And that IoT focus seemed be the thread that connected Eaton Lighting to many other parts of the broad Eaton portfolio. Ironically, we hosted a webcast on cybersecurity in connected lighting in late January, and speakers from both Eaton Lighting and the corporate parent participated, and the IoT technology approach discussed clearly crossed the broad Eaton portfolio.
Still, large corporations seem to sense that LED-centric lighting businesses will grow at a different pace relative to other parts of the companies. Philips, for instance, seemed more bullish on its medical- and health-focused sectors when it spun Philips Lighting out. That company became Signify last year.
And we recently covered the news that the Current unit was being sold by GE to American Industrial Partners (AIP). That Current situation more closely aligns with the Eaton move in terms of structure. GE had formed Current to be IoT focused and to span many energy sectors including lighting. But that plan fizzled and prior to the announced sale to AIP, Current had been reduced to solely the GE commercial lighting business. Then again, the Current sale was driven by GE needing cash.
It’s not apparent what the motive is for the Eaton move. But in his letter to the supply chain, Kasler said independence will afford the Lighting unit more flexibility to respond to customer needs while it will allow Eaton to focus on its core businesses.

Story 78
Saxo Bank’s Søren Kyhl and Stig Tørnes examine how the electronic financial sector will look in the future in a very detailed research piece
What fintech companies and traditional banks can learn from each other
By Søren Kyhl and Stig Tørnes at Saxo Bank
Introduction
Fintech has become the buzzword for a group of companies bringing efficiency to financial services with varying underlying degrees of innovation, infrastructure or scale. The prevailing argument for the proponents of fintech has so far been that the industry has the potential to challenge and eventually replace traditional financial services companies.
Fintech firms perceive banks as being burdened by legacy technology and focused on complying with post-crisis regulations rather than meeting the needs of their clients via digitalisation. Banks, on the other hand, argue that fintech companies lack the trust of the end customers due to the fact that they are broadly unregulated; they also claim that fintech companies lack the ability to scale their offering due to use of immature and relatively unproven technology.
The truth is perhaps somewhere in between. In this paper, we outline the areas in which fintech companies and banks retain their competitive advantage, and where their seemingly very different starting positions are likely to converge in the future financial ecosystem. In other words, if fintech is defined as the reinvention of financial services through digitisation, then this new ecosystem cannot be simply the preserve of new fintech startups, but of any bank or financial institution that effectively adapts its business model to the digital age.
Context: regulation, competition and technology
The recent financial crisis has brought about a sway of new regulations which have increased regulatory requirements on banks.
These requirements include not only greater capital buffers to help preserve the stability of banks in times of market stress, but also other requirements such as anti-money-laundering (AML) and know-your-customer (KYC) requirements which have made it more expensive to run a bank. At the same time, regulators have pressed ahead with the agenda of bringing greater competition to the financial services marketplace by lowering the barriers to entry.
One such example is the EU Payment Services Directive (PSD2) which allows third parties to tap into banks’ account and payment information and display and handle the information on their own platforms. Another example is the intervention of the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) in the UK which has recently recommended the creation of open application programming interfaces (APIs) and data sharing in order to force greater transparency for account holders and to increase competition between the banks.
However, regulation is only part of the challenge. Exponential technological development is also impacting banks’ competitiveness. By taking advantage of the most modern and advanced technologies, fintech companies are able to offer compelling user experiences and address financial needs faster than traditional banks. They are unburdened by legacy IT systems and expensive branch networks, and, equally importantly, they do not need to protect existing businesses.
At the heart of this battle between the old and the new is not only the desire to bring efficiency to financial services but a battle for customers and an estimated profit pool of $4.5trillion.
It is therefore unsurprising that a number of banks are conducting strategic reviews of their businesses to ensure that they protect their market share and remain equally relevant in the financial ecosystem of the future.
The battle between the old and the new: unbundling the value chain
We often hear that fintech companies have the potential to disrupt the banking industry in the same way that Airbnb and Über have already done in the hotel and taxi industry. To understand this possibility, it is important to understand some of the competitive advantages of fintech companies relative to banks.
Until recently, the comprehensive infrastructure which supports traditional banks was viewed as an asset for the banks. However, in the new sharing economy, that asset can turn into a burden and a liability. This is because the infrastructure is based on yesterday’s technology, and therefore it is expensive to maintain and enhance. In the long run, the legacy infrastructure is even likely to become redundant due to the introduction of new and more effective network solutions.
Fintech companies, on the other hand, are able to provide access to the existing banking infrastructure without owning the infrastructure themselves. This is where the accusations that fintech companies are ‘free riding’ on banks’ infrastructure come from and some of those claims are understandably justified from the banks’ perspectives who feel that they are no longer competing on a level playing field.
What makes fintech companies nimble is that they utilise the most modern technology to build intuitive and user friendly interfaces to deliver their services. They have proved better at extracting valuable customer insight from structured and unstructured data (Big Data), which makes the customer experience even more seamless and compelling.
Furthermore, fintech companies do not only tap into a larger pool of relevant data than banks usually do, they are also better at extracting new insight via advanced data analytics. By way of example, fintech companies are able to make faster and more accurate credit assessments for lending than traditional banks; in the world of investments they can create an interface which automates investment advice, etc. Despite these advantages, while fintech companies are well placed to capture the customer interface of many financial services, they will not necessarily be able to replace banks altogether. What will likely happen is that by unbundling existing value chains, they will move traditional banks further down the value chain, and – for banks that do not adapt their business model – threaten their value chain altogether.
The challenge for banks: realise how you best defend your customer interface
The combination of regulatory and technological change together with changes in expectations among the banks’ customers has already impacted the competitive landscape for banks. Banks are no longer only competing against other banks – but also against fintech companies. As we already outlined above, fintech companies which are unburdened by legacy IT systems, expensive branch networks and existing businesses to defend are well placed to benefit from this change.
For banks looking to address this threat to their business and revenues, the challenge is not trivial. First, they need to realise that they can only defend their customer interface by being relevant to their customers. The products and services as such are merely hygiene factors whereas the customer experience will be the key differentiator. In that respect, digitisation is an opportunity to protect and grow their business rather than a threat.
Second, as the value chain becomes unbundled, the costs associated with defending the entire value chain increase significantly. In fact, when banks only allow their customers to use their banking services via their own proprietary platforms and engines, they also miss out on potential scale effects. For example, processing financial transactions on behalf of customers of other banks or fintech companies is in fact an effective way to reduce unit costs. Doing the opposite – defending the entire value chain – leads to increasing costs and therefore fewer resources to support existing businesses and exploit new technologies.
Third, the vast majority of banks have legacy IT systems which were designed decades ago when banking customers were serviced in branches between 9am and 4pm five days a week. These systems rely on hefty batch flows running between opening hours to make sure customer files and accounts are updated and reconciled the following day.
However this fits poorly with today’s banking customers who engage with their bank 24/7 via mobile, tablets, desktop and, to some extent, over the phone. Making these legacy IT systems work in today’s environment is costly, with IT maintenance costs only likely to increase year after year. On top of this, many banks suffer from fragmented IT platforms which have never been properly integrated.
Consequently, a significant part of banks’ IT budget is allocated to maintenance making it difficult to allocate the resources required to keeping up with the fintech companies able to adopt the newest technologies.
There are some banks that have embraced digitisation and been able to allocate enough resources to invest in IT to keep up with fintech companies. However, to succeed, those banks also need to change the mind-set away from waterfall coverage – where they try to be all things to all people – to an environment where they can be more nimble.
The ‘figure it all out first’ approach is time consuming and it only works well in a predictable environment. However, in an unpredictable environment characterised by disruption and exponential technological development, a ‘fail fast’ approach fits much better.
Fintech companies tend to master this approach very well and banks need to adopt this approach too. If they don’t, they will end up spending too many resources on time consuming IT projects and constantly find themselves lagging behind when launching new services or deploying new technologies.
To summarise, when banks attempt to defend their customer interface they are faced with a two dimensional challenge. First of all, the possibility that the entire value chain will be unbundled and this will make it more costly and more demanding for banks to defend the entire value chain within all product lines. Secondly, owning the entire technology stack is in many instances becoming a liability for banks, due to hefty maintenance costs and inflexible platforms which are not geared for the new digital reality.
The winning strategy for banks: finding what they are good at
Despite the challenges they face, banks retain a few significant advantages compared to fintech companies. They already have long lasting relationships with their customers, they are regulated, and they have deep insight into the global financial infrastructure.
The latter is important, because, if you are to provide financial services to customers, you need to understand the existing financial infrastructure to be able to tap into it and/or act as a gateway to it. Therefore, based on customer relationships and insight into the financial infrastructure, by applying the right strategy banks can achieve an advantageous competitive position.
A strategy which allows banks to utilise this competitive advantage is one which is open to partnerships with other banks or fintech companies and thereby includes elements of ‘Banking as a Platform’ (BaaP).
There are many reasons why this strategy could be the winning one for banks. The primary reason is that it becomes less costly for banks to protect their customer interface (i.e. the customer relationship) if they utilise the technology stack or selected product engines from partners who have the size to benefit from scale effects. Further, banks will gain from the specialised skills and competencies from said partners to bring competitive services to their customers.
This strategy has been very successful in other industries, however, so far, within banking and financial services only the likes of Visa and MasterCard have applied it successfully.
One of the reasons behind this lack of adoption is that many banks find it extremely difficult to identify their true core competences. They tend to embrace the entire value chain and view it as core. However, the flip side of this is that it becomes extremely expensive to run the bank and difficult (or impossible) to identify potential partners. Many banks also have a hard time truly identifying which products and services they are really good at and in which areas their customers would be better off receiving that service or product via a sub-provider.
Further, successful execution of this strategy requires an open IT platform which is able to integrate with external platforms. The majority of banking legacy IT systems are far from open and they are simply not geared for integration with the rest of the financial ecosystem.
These challenges aside, this strategy remains the best possible solution for the banks looking to be part of the future financial ecosystem.
Banks need to address their technology challenges for a number of reasons. First, maintaining legacy IT systems that are poorly integrated is costly and the costs of doing so will continue to rise as fintech companies enter new areas of the value chain. Second, by not taking action, banks are also exposing themselves to greater operational risks which are linked to poorly integrated IT systems, increasing the risk of outages and reducing the ability to patch old IT systems based on outdated code language.
Finally, the ability to extract structured and unstructured data and apply advanced data analytics as well as the ability to connect to or integrate with other platforms will require more flexibility and speed than the banks’ legacy platforms usually perform.
That said, replacing the entire technology stack along the entire value chain in all markets can be extremely costly and time consuming. By viewing banking as a platform and deciding on which parts of the technology stack the banks will own themselves and which parts they will outsource and use on a white labelled basis is a cost efficient way of staying relevant to their clients and protecting their revenues.
The successful bank of the future – an open platform
The successful bank of the future should therefore aim to have a ‘modern’ and ‘open’ IT platform which allows it to realise the benefits offered by the massive economies of scale characterising the financial services industry. In our view, it is essential that banks employ a dual partnership strategy:
The first one is to engage directly with customers via the bank’s customer interface as well as attracting flow or business from other partners, e.g. banks or fintech companies, within their core areas.
By doing both, the bank maximises the scale of its proprietary platforms (or engines) to the benefit of the bank itself as well as the partners in the form of lower unit costs and increased competitiveness. When the bank sells its own platform (or engine) as a white label to other banks or fintech companies, the bank has a strong selling proposition because it uses the platform (or engine) itself. The bank has skin in the game.
The second one is to engage in partnerships with other banks/fintech companies within the bank’s non-core areas. It is equally important to utilise other banks’/fintech companies’ services and products outside the bank’s core areas. It is simply too expensive to bring non-core offerings to the market and the bank will have a hard time being competitive due to lack of either competencies, scale or quality in services.
This two-way partnership strategy based on BaaP has the potential to become a win-win situation for the bank who offers its own platform to other partners (as a facilitator) as well as for the partners who utilise the platform on a white labelled basis.
However, as stated earlier, this is easier said than done. Many banks find it extremely difficult to identify their true core competences and the true core parts of the value chain. When banks are unable to make tough decisions, it becomes expensive to run a bank and the customers receive poor quality at a high cost.
BaaP alone is far from being the solution to all of the banks’ challenges. An additional element, which is probably the most challenging part of the strategy, is operational and cultural change. Banks need to be wholly focused on their customers in everything they do. It probably goes without saying that true digitalisation does not only include technology in the strictest sense.
Simplification and rationalisation of internal processes is equally important – not only to benefit from the advantages of modern technologies (speed and flexibility), but, even more importantly, to be able to deliver a coherent customer centric experience across the entire value chain.
Timely and cumbersome internal processes are not only costly – they seriously hurt the customer experience.
Simple processes and flexible platforms are a prerequisite to staying agile. Agility is probably the most important attribute to ensure that banks can be disruptive rather than being disrupted by others. Any bank which claims to be disruptive should continually ask itself ‘how would I do this if I were to start all over’ with the new technologies at hand. However, if the current structures or technologies obstruct the necessary changes, soon the bank will be disrupted by others.
Last but not least, the banks’ willingness and ability to be open and transparent towards their customers is a significant lever for banks to gain back trust. Traditionally, banks have been perceived as lacking in transparency. In our view, this will change. Banks must learn to be more open. Customers expect to be able to follow their credit applications (track and trace) in much more detail. They also want to understand the reasoning behind any decisions made by the bank. In this regard, digitisation will provide the tools to enable banks to rebuild the trust with their customers.
Conclusions
By adopting an open platform strategy, banks can deliver their customers with better, cheaper and more user-friendly services. More specifically, retail customers will experience a more compelling interface or gateway into the financial ecosystem and corporate customers will experience a more seamless integration with their existing enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems. Ultimately, this approach would lead to a true democratisation of the financial ecosystem – whether it is access to advisory services, provision of credit/liquidity, payment infrastructure or trading and investing. For the financial industry, the possibilities resulting from partnering with other banks and fintech companies are equally compelling.
We will see more strategic partnerships and a higher degree of specialisation within specific services, markets or customer segments. Consequently, by tapping into the same banking platform and same financial infrastructure, small franchises – be it small local banks that are close to their customers in the physical world or highly specialised fintech companies that are close to their users in virtual world – will be able to compete on equal terms with the global or regional universal banks.
So far, only few banks have successfully executed on this strategy. However, in our view, the changing dynamics in the financial industry call for a change in the mind-set which sees digitisation as an opportunity rather than a threat. And as with everything else, first movers will likely benefit the most in this new environment.

Story 79
Although individual complaints about binary options can be referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service and consumers will have access to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme, there will be no compensation for losses suffered from binary options trading.
The UK Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) confirmed today that it will be taking over the oversight of the binary options sector effective January 3, 2018. This sector is currently regulated by the Gambling Commission.
From January 3, 2018, firms offering binary options will be authorised and supervised by the Financial Conduct Authority. In addition:
individual complaints can be referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service;
consumers will have access to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
However, those protections will not compensate investors for any losses from trading. The FCA reiterates its warning about binary options scams and the high risks associated with trading binary options.
Binary options are also regulated as investment products in many other European Union (EU) countries. Therefore, under EU financial services law, firms which are legally established and authorised in the European Economic Area (EEA) are entitled to do business in any other EEA country once certain procedural safeguards are met.
Although the FCA does not currently regulate binary options, firms offering binary options trading and operating as financial services firms in other EEA countries, are currently able to do business in the UK and will continue to be after January 3, 2018. If they are, they will appear on the FCA Register of financial services firms. In most cases the firm will still be regulated by its home-state regulator.
The UK authorities have recently sought to clamp down on binary options fraud. On October 17, 2017, the City of London Police conducted a day of action, which involved visiting 20 offices with the City of London Corporation’s Trading Standards. At the end of October, the UK High Court wound up binary options scam firms behind Magnum Options, following an investigation by the Insolvency Service. And early this month, the UK Insolvency Service announced that two binary options firms – Right Corp Limited and Curve Point Limited, had been placed in provisional liquidation. The action followed an investigation by Company Investigations of the Insolvency Service.
Today’s FCA warning about the binary options was accompanied by one about cryptocurrencies, indicating that, exactly as FinanceFeeds predicted, the FCA lumps cryptocurrency investment into same category as binary options fraud.

Story 80
Lloyd’s insurance broker Shepherd Compello has expanded into the Netherlands.
Announcing the opening of its international company Shepherd Compello B.V., the London-based coverholder said the move not only supports its plan to branch out in Europe but also prepares it for whatever the UK’s divorce with the European Union will bring. The new entity is located in Assen.
“Opening the Assen office is an important milestone in our growth strategy,” noted Shepherd Compello chief executive John Shepherd. “This enhances our global footprint and enables Shepherd Compello to focus on the identification and development of European opportunities regardless of what happens with Brexit.”
Read more: Forget Ireland, France, and Luxembourg – another country is reaping the rewards of Brexit
Earlier this year the Netherlands Autoriteit Financiële Markten (Authority for the Financial Markets) granted Shepherd Compello B.V. a licence to trade as an insurance agency prior to the Dutch firm receiving passport permissions to service clients across Continental Europe from March 15.
“This allows the current European client bases of Shepherd Compello Limited and EPG Administration Services to be handled by a fully authorised insurance agency,” explained the brokerage, “regardless of the outcome of the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union.”
Shepherd Compello specialises in classes like physical damage, motorsport, extended warranty & GAP (guaranteed asset protection), transportation, property, financial lines, sports, media & entertainment, specialty & cyber, and marine.

Story 81
Sky Television's half-year profit has dropped 19.7 per cent to $53 million for the six months to December 31, 2018.
MORE: Spark Sport pricing, launch date revealed
The company's profit was down from $66.7m in its half-year results from the previous year.
Revenue was also down 8.4 per cent to $403m over the same period.
Advertisement
Sky CEO John Fellet said the results were pleasing in the context of a competitive environment.
"We are proud to serve more than 750,000 customers, and our market penetration of 43 per cent is solid by global standards," he said.
LATEST: Sky TV hikes prices after losing customers
Sky has seen a slowing in the decline of overall subscriber numbers. It currently has 750,321 subscribers, which is down 28,455 from 779,776 a year earlier.
This drop in customer numbers is more moderate than the 40,000 who were reported to have left during the previous result.
This comes off the back of major strategic changes to Sky's pricing structure in 2018.
The company released a number of more affordable options in a bid to win back consumers who were drifting toward cheaper online options.
Among the changes, Sky stripped back its basic starter package, offering it for $25 per month. Subscribers were then able to tag on a sports package for an additional $30 - offering access to sport for $55 rather than the previous figure of $80.
Advertisement
Sky went even further after that, launching the $15.99-a-month Fan Pass Mobile, which allows customers to Sky Sport channels One through Four on their phones.
These pricing changes continued today, with Sky announcing that it would be dropping $9.99 HD fee, which customers have previously had to pay to access content in high definition.
The change will come into effect on April 1, with customers who pay the $9.99 per month charge seeing a decrease in their subscription price. The move also enables all of Sky's customers to access the HD content in their subscription at no extra cost.
"We believe complementary HD will be a welcomed added value service for our customers. It will sit nicely alongside our other added value services including Sky Go, Sky On Demand, the Sky Perks App, EPG App and Sky Sport Highlights App," Fellet said.
Sky's pricing moves were largely made in response to continued complaints from customers that its sports packages were too expensive to justify.
But they have also been made in the face of growing competition from the likes of Spark, which is set to launch its Spark Sport app.
This competition has also had the knock-on effect of increasing the price of content for Sky.
"Sky's programming expenses now equate to 40.1 per cent of revenue, compared to 37.9 per cent of revenue for the previous period, and 32 per cent in 2016, Fellet said.
This is the final result announcement that will be made with Fellet at the reins. Fellet will be making way for new boss Martin Stewart, who is set to step into his role tomorrow.
Stewart will face a number of tough challenges in stemming subscriber losses and keeping Spark's hands off its remaining portfolio of key sports content.
Over the last year, Spark has indicated its sports ambitions, acquiring the rights for the Formula 1, the Premier League and, most significantly, the Rugby World Cup.
That said, Sky had lost sporting rights before, only to win them back again from competitors at a later stage.
Stewart will surely hope the same thing happens this time.

Story 82
Image source: The Motley Fool.
Fortive Corporation (NYSE: FTV)
Q2 2019 Earnings Call
July 25, 2019, 5:30 p.m. ET
Operator
My name is Jason, and I will be your conference facilitator this afternoon. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to Fortive Corporation's Second Quarter 2019 Earnings Results Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speaker's remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. If you would like to ask a question during that time, simply press *1 on your telephone keypad. If you would like to withdraw your question, press #. I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Griffin Whitney, Vice President of Investor Relations. Mr. Whitney, you may begin your conference.
Griffin Whitney --Vice President of Investor Relations
Thank you, Jason. Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us on the call. With us today are Jim Lico, our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Chuck McLaughlin our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. We present certain non-GAAP financial measures on today's call. Information required by SEC Regulation G relating to these non-GAAP financial measures are available on the Investor section of our website www.fortive.com under the heading financial information.
A replay of the webcast will be archived on the Investors section of our website later today under the heading Events & Presentations and will remain archived until our next quarterly call. A replay of the conference call will be available shortly after the conclusion of this call until Friday, August 9, 2019. Instructions for accessing this replay are included in our first quarter 2019 earnings press release.
More From The Motley Fool
We completed the divestiture of the Automation & Specialty business on October 1, 2018, and accordingly, have included the results of the A&S business as discontinued operations for current and historical periods. The results presented on this call are based on continuing operations. During the presentation, we will describe certain of the more significant factors that impacted year-over-year performance. All references to period-to-period increases or decreases and financial metrics are year-over-year on a continuing operations basis.
During the call, we will make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, including statements regarding events or developments that we expect or anticipate will, or may, occur in the future. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual results might differ materially from any forward-looking statements that we make today. Information regarding these factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements is available in our SEC filings, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date that they are made, and we do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Jim.
James A. Lico -- President and Chief Executive Officer
Thanks, Griffin and good afternoon everyone. Today we reported adjusted diluted earnings-per-share of $0.90 for the second quarter of 2019 representing an increase of 18% year-over-year and hitting the high-end of our guide despite evidence of slowing in our short-cycle businesses as we progressed through the quarter. In the face of these headwinds which negatively impacted core growth in our professional instrumentation's segment, the Fortive team delivered high teens total revenue growth including continued outperformance in Gilbarco Veeder-Root and another quarter of strong free cash flow conversion driven by disciplined execution and the strength of the Fortive business system.
Our strong earnings and cash flow performance reflected the momentum of our capital deployment strategy as acquisitions continue to enhance the growth profile and reduce the cyclicality of our portfolio. Importantly, the integration of Advanced Sterilization Products has gotten off to a good solid start as a delivered a greater than expected earnings contribution during our first quarter of ownership. We look forward to providing additional updates as integration progresses and we exit the majority of our transition services agreement with Johnson & Johnson to the first half of 2020.
Story continues
At the same time, the earlier acquisitions of ISC and Landauer continue to deliver strong results increasing the resilience of the portfolio as a generated high single-digit core growth and 360 basis points of core OMX on a combined basis. Gordian and Accruent also continue to perform well and will be additive to core growth in the professional instrumentation segment when they turn core during the third quarter. Consistent with the broader digital strategy that we highlighted during our May investor conference, we recently completed three additional acquisitions within field solutions. The acquisitions of Intellex and SaverSysytems, as well as Pruftechnik, demonstrate our ability to continue to find high-quality companies to accelerate our digital strategy and bring connected workflow solutions to our customers.
With that, I'd like to turn to the details of the quarter. Adjusted net earnings for $322.3 million, up 19.2% over the prior year and adjusted diluted net earnings per share were $0.90. Sales grew 16.4% to $1.9 billion, reflecting a core revenue increase of 2%. Core revenue growth was highlighted by strong performance in the Varco Bitterroot, EMC and industrial scientific, which is partially offset flat quarter from fluke and a decline in Tektronix.
Acquisitions, including Gordian, Accruent, and ASP contributed 1,650 basis points of top-line growth, while unfavorable foreign exchange rates reduced growth by 210 basis points. Geographically high-growth markets core revenue decreased low-single digits due to weaker market conditions in Asia and Latin America. In India, strong growth in fluke was more than offset by timing on some large orders at GVR that pushed into the second half of the year. We continue to expect strong growth in India for the full year.
China posted low-single-digit growth with strong performances at ISC and sensing technologies, the more modest growth across Fluke, Tektronix, and GVR. Developed markets core revenue grew low-single digits as strength in North America was partially offset by weakness in Western Europe. Core revenue growth in North America was mid-single digits, led by GVR, EMC and Industrial Scientific, while Western Europe decreased low-single digits with continued growth at GVR. Reported operating margin was 13.4%, reflecting 540 basis points of dilution from acquisitions, and 180 basis points of dilution for deal-related costs. Core operating margins increased 30 basis points as continued strong volume at GVR and the disciplined application of FBS help offset headwinds within professional instrumentation.
During the second quarter, we generated $236 million of free cash flow and a conversion ratio of 134%. While we anticipate a continuation of the uncertain macroeconomic environment, we expect sustained strong free cash flow generation and conversion of greater than 125% for the full year.
Turning to our segments, Professional Instrumentation posted sales growth of 27.5% on relatively flat core revenue. This growth performance reflected the continued transformation of Professional Instrumentation over the past few years, with acquisitions driving growth, contributing 2,930 basis points during the quarter. Unfavorable foreign exchange rates reduced growth by 190 basis points. Reported operating margin of 10.8% reflected 1,220 basis points of dilutive operating margin associated with acquisitions and deal-related costs, including purchase accounting adjustments, and transaction expenses from the initial closing of ASP.
Core operating margins decreased basis points, reflecting slower revenue performance, the impact of tariffs, and unfavorable foreign exchange. Advanced Instrumentation and Solutions core revenue was flat as a strong performance at EMC and Industrial Scientific was offset by the slowing in Fluke and Tektronix.
Field Solutions core revenue was flat with developed markets growing slightly paced by the continued strong performance of ISC. High growth markets decrease low-single digits as slightly positive growth is Fluke, and a strong performance from ISC in China were more than offset by the expected weakness at Qualitrol.
While not yet core, we were very pleased with the continued performance of Accruent and Gordian. Accruent continues to see strong growth in North America across a variety of end markets, driven by demand for its lease management and space optimization offerings. Gordian's growth continues to be paced by its procurement platform, driven by increased construction volumes for new customers, including the Hawaii Department of Education and the City of Atlanta.
Fluke's core revenue was flat, as low-single-digit growth at Fluke industrial and calibration, and mid-single-digit growth and Fluke Networks was offset by declines in tomography, process instruments, and Health Solutions. Fluke Digital Systems grew 30% as eMaint generated high-single-digit net new customer growth, and a greater than 20% increase in annual recurring revenue. Fluke generated low-single-digit growth in China, and we remain watchful for more potential slowing in that market through the second half.
As we highlighted at the investor conference in May Fluke recently launched a new Sonic Industrial Imager, a revolutionary product which enables maintenance teams to quickly and accurately locate air, gas and vacuum leaks, utilizing Fluke's state of the art sound site technology. Fluke also completed the bolt-on acquisition of Pruftechnik, a leader in vibration monitoring, alignment, and testing equipment and services. The acquisition of Pruftechnik accelerates Fluke's asset, liability and condition monitoring strategy, which now accounts for greater than $200 million in total revenue, with a combination of industry-leading measurement tools, and best in class domain expertise.
ISC delivered mid-single-digit core revenue growth; this was led by North America and Asia Pacific, including strong performance in China, which more than offset some slowing in Western Europe. iNet registered another strong quarter with high-teens growth, while rental generated high-single-digit growth against a tough compare from the prior year. ISC delivered 290 basis points of OMX in the quarter as a strong mix, and PPV execution through the application of the Fortive Business System continues to drive consistent operational improvement.
Industrial Scientific recently completed the acquisition of Intellex, a leading provider of the HNF software, and safer systems, who's leading cloud-based platform provides real-time hazard analysis and risk assessment to the chemical, oil and gas and transportation sectors. These acquisitions significantly advanced ISC's safety as a service strategy to provide a comprehensive real-time connection between its customer's workforce and assets and the management of their environmental, health, and safety-related workflows.
Qualitrol's core revenue declined low-double digits in line with our expectations. Qualitrol continues to see early signs of a more stable conditions in certain markets, as it generated positive bookings growth for the first time in eight quarters. While North America remains challenged due to lower retrofit project spending, the Middle East increased low-double digits, the first positive performance in the region in seven quarters, driven by the release of some previously delayed projects.
Product realization core revenue was flat as strong double-digit growth at EMC was offset by weakness in Tektronix. EMC generated broad-based growth across its core aerospace and defense product lines, as well as its commercial satellite offering. A record backlog at the end of the quarter as EMC well-positioned for continued growth, supported by the scaling up of key customer programs and market share gains. Tektronix registered a mid-single-digit decrease in core revenue; much of this weakness was driven by continued slowing at KEITHLEY. Weakness in Western Europe, and the negative impact associated with Huawei's inclusion on the U.S. restricted entity list in May. The slowing macro conditions in Western Europe led to a high-teens decrease and had a broad-based impact across Tektronix's product lines.
We expect headwinds at KEITHLEY and in Western Europe to persist in the coming quarters, as will challenges from Huawei status, pending any resolution of ongoing trade hostilities between the U.S. and China. Tektronix's investments are driving growth mid-range scopes, as its new offerings continue to perform well growing high-single digits and marking 10 consecutive quarters of strong growth. The successful launch of the new three and four series MSOs added to the continued success of the five and six series including several large deals with enterprise customers. Tektronix recently closed the previously announced transaction to contribute its video tasks and monitoring business to a new entity form with Telestream and Genstar Capital.
Core revenue for sensing technologies increased low-single digits, the platform saw solid growth across the medical and critical environment end markets, driven by new product introductions and continued share gains. However, headwinds from semiconductor equipment customers continued, and sensing also saw broader slowing across its core industrial end markets toward the end of the quarter. China continues to perform well with greater than 20% growth but was partially offset by weakness in North America and Western Europe. We're also seeing good early traction in Sensing's IoT offerings, including SBT's AccuBin platform for supply chain applications, and the oil condition monitoring system from Gems.
Turning to Advanced Sterilization products, the company got off to a solid start in the second quarter and were pleased with how the integration is progressing. ASP grew low-single digits in line with our expectations led by strong performance in China. ASP also saw improved growth in Japan, led by strong performance in Terminal Sterilization, as well as growth in high-level disinfection, supported by the successful introduction of the ENDOCLENS cleanse, Neo D are new automatic endoscope reprocessor product for the Japanese market. North America was slightly positive and up sequentially from the first quarter, driven by Terminal Sterilization consumables. During the quarter, ASP saw several large orders from a range of new and existing integrated delivery network customers.
Moving to Industrial Technologies, revenue grew 2.6%, including core revenue growth of 4.4%, acquisitions contributed 50 basis points, while unfavorable foreign exchange rates reduced growth by 230 basis points. Reported operating margin was 20.9%, and core operating margin increased 210 basis points driven by continued strong volume at GVR and solid performance at Matco.
Our Transportation Technologies platform core revenue grew mid-single digits, led by high-single-digit growth in North America. GVR delivered high single-digit core revenue growth highlighted by a low-double-digit increase in developed markets, strength in North America reflected the continuation of strong EMV related sales, while Western Europe reflected share gains and strong spending by BP's Aral subsidiary.
Gilbarco also completed outdoor EMV capable software releases of its passport point of sale system on the Citgo and Shell Networks. Passport is now available on more than 70% of Gilbarco's install base, well ahead of other point of sale competitors. In high growth markets, GVR posted a mid-single-digit decline compared to greater than 30% growth in the prior-year period, as the timing of tenders in China and India shifted volume into the second half of the year.
GVR is up high-single digits year-to-date in high growth markets paced by momentum from Orpak's leading automation offering with strong orders and a healthy backlog that will support strong growth in the coming quarters. GVR also launched its new high growth markets dispenser platform Latitude, which has been very well received by customers thus far and is expected to drive additional growth going.
In-line with expectations TeletracNavman's core revenue decrease low-double digits in the second quarter and strong growth across Asia Pacific was more than offset by a decline in North America and Western Europe. While North America remains a significant headwind, the TeletracNavman teams continued to focus on stabilizing the businesses resulted in a reduction in customer churn. We expect to see continued improvement in the coming quarters for bookings in ACV and on the backs of new product launches as well as better performance across large enterprise customers and the SMB sales channel.
Moving to franchise distribution, the platforms core revenue increased low-single digits during the second quarter. As mid-single-digit growth at Matco was partially offset by a mid-single-digit decline in Hennessy. Matco is outperforming in the quarter paced by strong growth in diagnostics and hardline tools. High-teens growth in diagnostics was due in part two new additions to Matco's Maximus family of diagnostic products. The Maximus Flash Plus, which provides OEM level live diagnostics expertise, and the Max Flex a full-featured diagnostic tablet offered with a highly customizable monthly subscription plans.
Turning to the guide. We are updating our full-year 2019 adjusted diluted net EPS guidance to $3.45 to $3.60, representing year-over-year growth of 13% to 18% on a continuing operations basis. The revised annual guidance has been reduced to reflect the short cycle slowing trends that emerged during the second quarter, which we expect to impact demand through the second half of the year. The revised guidance assumes 2.5% to 3.5% core revenue growth and an effective tax rate of 16.1% and free cash flow conversion of greater than 125% for the year. We are also initiating our third-quarter adjusted diluted net EPS guidance of $0.83 to $0.88, representing year-over-year growth of 19% at the high-end. This includes an assumption of 2% to 4% core revenue growth, 25 basis points of core OMX, and an effective tax rate of 16.1%.
To wrap up, we delivered another quarter of double-digit earnings growth and strong free cash flow conversion, despite some slowing across the short cycle elements of our portfolio. Disciplined execution and the application of FBS delivered 30 basis points of core OMX in the face of both the anticipated challenges from tariffs and foreign exchange and the lower than expected volume from Fluke and Tektronix during the quarter. The strong performance of our acquisition from the past few years continues to enhance the growth and resilience of the overall portfolio, positioning us well to deliver -- continue to deliver top quartile child earnings growth.
With that, I'd like to turn it over to Griffin.
Griffin Whitney -- Vice President of Investor Relations
Thanks, Jim. That concludes our formal comments. Jason, we are now ready for questions.
Questions and Answers:
Operator
Yes, sir. As a reminder, if you would like to ask a question press *1, again, that's *1, and please limit your questions to one question and one follow-up. Our first question comes from the line of Julian Mitchell of Barclays.
Julian Mitchell -- Barclays -- Analyst
Hi, good afternoon.
James A. Lico -- President and Chief Executive Officer
Hi Julian.
Julian Mitchell -- Barclays -- Analyst
Hey, maybe the first question just around some of the phasing of earnings in the second half. So, just taking the midpoint of the third quarter midpoint of the full-year guide, it looks like you have about a 25% EPS increase sequentially in Q4. So, just wanted to check if that's roughly and what drives such a big uplift. I understand last Q4 had a big sequential increase, but there was a lot of pre-buy helping that.
Charles McLaughlin -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Yeah, I think there's a few things when you look at the way you're looking at it. One is there's normal seasonality between Q3 and Q4, so, you get more volume there. There's also the year on year core growth that we've got between 2% and 4%, and then there's the year on year WIP of Gordian, Accruent, and ASP, and I think those two things, those three things, get you to the year on year WIP. The way I look at it is when I look at it from your on your last year; I think we were $0.91 at the -- I think the high-end of our guide we're talking about around 15% high-teens to 18% increase in the fourth quarter.
Julian Mitchell -- Barclays -- Analyst
Understood, thank you. And then maybe just following up on the free cash flow, that was under some pressure in the second quarter. It looks like working capital for the half as a whole, particularly on receivables was a bit of an outflow. So, maybe talk through how quickly that free cash flow recovers.
Charles McLaughlin -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Certainly, so the main thing that -- first of all most the businesses are performing very well and delivering a lot of cash flow, but the big outlier here is ASP that we just recently acquired as part of the deal acquired deal that we signed. And we got no receivables NAP, so there is going to be this one-time hole as we refill that -- those receivables that can put us behind on cash flow, but except for that one-time thing that will be roughly done halfway through Q3. I think that we see our ongoing free cash flow, growing roughly in line with the growth we see in adjusted earnings.
Julian Mitchell -- Barclays -- Analyst
Great, thank you.
Charles McLaughlin -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Thanks, Julian.
Operator
And your next question comes from Scott Davis from Melius Research.
Scott Davis -- Melius Research LLC -- Analyst
Hi. Good afternoon, guys.
James A. Lico -- President and Chief Executive Officer
Hi, Scott.
Scott Davis -- Melius Research LLC -- Analyst
Just as a big-picture observation looking at slide four and the SG&A deltas. Are there any structural reasons Jim and Chuck why the newer assets, once they get fully on-boarded, can have SG&A levels more traditional Fortive call 25% ballpark?
Charles McLaughlin -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Scott its Charles, a couple of things that one, the whiffed you are seeing year-on-year is primarily about the amortization that was added as well as the deal cost that's going on. So that's pretty close to 290 basis points.
James A. Lico -- President and Chief Executive Officer
And I think relative to the businesses we're acquiring, and I would look at the software businesses are having a little bit more SG&A that typically goes with higher gross margins. And even in the G&A, they tend to have a little bit more IT expense because we have IT expense related to some of the capability that you built to house the data and all those things.
So probably a little bit more estimated driven by a little bit more engineering, a little bit more sales cost just because of direct selling, but the higher gross margin certainly pays for that. And if you're just purely look at G&A in some of the new businesses, particularly, the software businesses you tend to see a little bit more G&A because of a little bit more IT expense. But I think in general when you look at in ASP where businesses that look a little bit more like the business we have today, you see no reason why over time they would have a similar cost structure to what we've been able to achieve in other businesses.
Scott Davis -- Melius Research LLC -- Analyst
Okay, I think that answers it. And then, just trying to get a sense of channel visibility, do you have particularly. I guess when you think what about ISC and Landauer I guess to a lesser extent ASP, do you have a good sense of any given time where inventory levels are versus the sell-through?
James A. Lico -- President and Chief Executive Officer
We have decent visibility on ASP, so as we get the business more in line, we get off of some of these transition service agreements. We will have a better ability to see into those channels with some of the key channel partners. In the neighborhood of how we see things in other parts of the portfolio. Some of the others, ISC we're starting to achieve that as we continue to work with some of the similar channel partners that we have currently with other parts of Fortive.
So ultimately we'll have a little bit more visibility than we do today, but it won't reside with the kind of visibility say that we get at Fluke where we get a pretty decent chunk of the U.S. and European distribution channel partners.
Scott Davis -- Melius Research LLC -- Analyst
Okay. Super helpful, thank you, guys.
James A. Lico -- President and Chief Executive Officer
Thanks, Scott.
Operator
Our next question comes from Steve Tusa of JP Morgan.
Stephen Tusa -- JPMorgan Chase & Co -- Analyst
Hey, guys. How's it going?
James A. Lico -- President and Chief Executive Officer
Good.
Stephen Tusa -- JPMorgan Chase & Co -- Analyst
Just on the different deals, can you give us like the actual revenue numbers for ASP, ISC and what's the other one, ASP, Gordian, and Accruent?
Charles McLaughlin -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
So for ASP on an annualized basis, I'm going to give you the end market numbers, it's a little over $800 million this year maybe call it $820 million, and I think that you asked about ISC, is it's north of 200.
Stephen Tusa -- JPMorgan Chase & Co -- Analyst
Yes, sorry, I was asking more about the quarter the actual quarter. So how much in ASP contribute in a quarter and then Gordian and Accruent in the quarter?
Charles McLaughlin -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
So nothing on core revenue, obviously. But I think the number -- I want to make sure you understand about the day two countries, that our distributors sets a little bit haircut from what we saw in our numbers. So I think that -- let me just get that number for you really quick now. And then I'll come right back to you.
Stephen Tusa -- JPMorgan Chase & Co -- Analyst
So you are saying you guys have -- the distributors have changed buying patterns something in the near-term?
Charles McLaughlin -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
No, so outside the U.S., ASP is still being managed by J&J. And they're acting as the distributor. So therefore while you'd expect us to have a little over $200 million in this quarter because ASP takes a haircut off of their portion of it, say maybe a third of the business. This quarter, we had $167 million hit our reported numbers.
Stephen Tusa -- JPMorgan Chase & Co -- Analyst
Okay. Got it. And then what about Gordian and Accruent?
Charles McLaughlin -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Yes, they're just a little bit about -- those two are about a little over $100 million.
Stephen Tusa -- JPMorgan Chase & Co -- Analyst
Okay. And is there -- I guess, when it comes to the kind of shorter cycle businesses, any trends through the quarter that more notable? I mean, did you exit worse than you started? And are you seeing anything so far in July that changes your views on that at all?
Charles McLaughlin -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Yes, I think Steve, when we talked at EPG, we talked about North America being pretty good. And I think in total that was true. Although it was more Gilbarco and less Fluke and Tek. And we saw June sort of changed it for both Fluke and Tek. So I would say, what we really think about when we think about the second half guide for Fluke and Tek, we really sort of looked at the weeks of supply of inventory, we looked at point of sale, and really reflected that in the revenue drop. So we really think that's probably what we'll see in the second half.
I think the other thing that's probably the bigger change is Europe, we -- I think I said flattish for what we probably think in Europe, we are obviously down low-single digit. And again, that was principally at Fluke and Tek, and they were down more than 2.5, or low-single digits. So what we really ended up seeing is a slower Europe until a point-of-sale in June. So it's really what we try to account for in the second half forecast is that as well. And probably the more precipitous drop between say two, three months ago for the second half, is how -- is our view in Professional Instrumentation for Europe?
Stephen Tusa -- JPMorgan Chase & Co -- Analyst
Okay. And then one last one-third quarter operating margins, what where should that kind of range be for the segments? Because it feels like we have to hit some pretty hard to kind of get to where your guide is.
Charles McLaughlin -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
So I'd say one I don't think we have to hit them particularly hard. Are you talking about core operating margins, or you just want to --
Stephen Tusa -- JPMorgan Chase & Co -- Analyst
Yes, segment margins for 3Q, however you want to talk about them?
Charles McLaughlin -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
In the 22-23 range.
Stephen Tusa -- JPMorgan Chase & Co -- Analyst
Yes. Okay, great. Thanks a lot.
Charles McLaughlin -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Thanks.
Operator
And our next question comes from the line of Andrew Obin from Bank of America.
Andrew Obin -- Bank of America Merrill Lynch -- Analyst
Hi, good afternoon.
James A. Lico -- President and Chief Executive Officer
Hi, Andrew.
Andrew Obin -- Bank of America Merrill Lynch -- Analyst
Hi, just a follow up on Steve questions, you did highlight that Fluke and Tek is driving sort of European weakness. So what exactly is happening in Fluke and Tek, any specific industry trends that are causing the slowdown? And how does it get better, and why?
James A. Lico -- President and Chief Executive Officer
Well, I'll answer the second one, how does it get better I think is much a macro question probably as any right. That's a -- we really decided to put it to be prudent and not assume that it will get better in the second half, Andrew. More specifically, to your first question, I think we saw a more precipitous drop at Tek. Definitely, it was channel destocking, but we also saw demand go down. We saw -- so I think from that standpoint, it was across all the product lines, there was certainly an automotive component to that. While that's -- so that's not an enormous exposure to us, but we do sell into the R&D labs of automotive and that was slower for sure. Just as one example of what we saw.
Relative to Fluke, I think it was -- we saw June drop in point-of-sale. And, to be honest with you, that's also reflected in how we think about the second half as well. So, and it was relatively broad-based as well. So I think from that standpoint, it feels more macroeconomic, end-user demand, if you will, then it feels just destocking. And, so I think that's how we're going to reflect that's what's reflected and how we see everything right now, and we'll look for signs for improvement. And, Steve asked how -- and how July looks and that kind of thing, and we're seeing nothing in July at this point that would tell us any different than where we're at right now. It's very early days in July as you know, particularly in the U.S. because of the holiday week.
Andrew Obin -- Bank of America Merrill Lynch -- Analyst
And they're just sort of also margin you had good pricing in PI this quarter; I think 1.3%, PI core was down 140 bps. So how does core margin and pricing trend in the second half in PI?
Charles McLaughlin -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Hey Andrew, this is Chuck. So, you're right, the pricing was good, but it was a little bit more it was offset by the slowing volume. Although down 140 basis points of core OMX in Q2 has sequentially improved from Q1, I would expect that -- if we -- first of all if we hadn't had the slowdown, we probably would have been 100 basis points better in Q2 on OMX at PI. I would expect because we're going to start lapping some of the tariffs and continued discipline in FDS and improving margins that will continue to see sequential improvements from Q2 to Q3 and then again from Q3 to Q4. But I don't think it has -- it will get positive in Q3, but in Q4, I believe that PI has a good chance too.
Andrew Obin -- Bank of America Merrill Lynch -- Analyst
And pricing is sustainable?
Charles McLaughlin -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
I think I think we put in a lot of price last year. So I think we'll -- the price metric might be a little bit less first half to second half because of all the price we put in last year for the tariffs, but that'll be offset by the tariffs being in the comp. So I think you'll see, the difference between those two things probably isn't much, first half to second half.
Andrew Obin -- Bank of America Merrill Lynch -- Analyst
Thanks a lot. Appreciate it.
Charles McLaughlin -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Thanks, Andrew.
Operator
And our next question comes from Deane Dray of RBC Capital Markets.
Deane Dray -- RBC Capital Markets -- Analyst
Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone.
James A. Lico -- President and Chief Executive Officer
Good evening, Deane.
Deane Dray -- RBC Capital Markets -- Analyst
Hey. I would assume that you all follow the same practice that was established at Danaher, that after the 100 days of an acquisition, you reevaluate there -- assess how the integration is going and maybe for ASP you could share what you've learned, positives, negatives, what's gone well, any kind of surprises along the way? And then I've got a couple of follow-ups there.
James A. Lico -- President and Chief Executive Officer
Well, a couple things. We about 100 days, about 100 some days, so we haven't quite finished it. But I've been pretty close to what we've seen and what we've been doing. So I think I've either been with ASP team, either with customers or with them, pretty much every week over the last several weeks. We'll see their 100 day here shortly.
But I think at the end of the day, what we've seen is, is in some of it we really felt we saw in the quarter we really like the market position, it's very clear that the Terminal Sterilization aspects of the market are really important to the hospital, and our ability to sort of expand on that I think we see some real opportunities for FBS, particularly in salesforce management, funnel management. We've put in a number of those tools here recently.
I think we see a lot of supply chain opportunities, which is consistent with how we saw some of the value creation. So I think strategically, the growth in China was something that we saw in the quarter. And we also think we have a good opportunity in China. That's an important part of how we'll see the future. So I think when you think about it, our U.S. position is good, our Terminal Sterilization position globally is good. And the high growth markets represent some opportunities are three important strategic priorities.
But also the opportunity for FBS to add value is, I think, very consistent, probably even more than we thought. Although it's really early days, we have a lot of work, as we said in the prepared remarks, Deane, around getting through some of these transitions service agreements. So that's going to take us a little while, but we're really excited about the team there and our opportunity to work together with them to really create a really great business over time.
Deane Dray -- RBC Capital Markets -- Analyst
That's helpful. Just can you comment on those transition services that in answering Steve's question, Chuck talked about the J&J services outside the U.S. when will that end? And then maybe I missed this in the deal closing, but the receivables were not part of the acquisition, was that reflected in the purchase price was that a post-closing adjustment?
James A. Lico -- President and Chief Executive Officer
We can tag team this one; I think the transition services agreement, we've got a lot of work between now and the end of the year. So I would say a big number -- while a lot of little things will occur between now and the end of the year. What we will start to see is that the takeover of a lot of those countries really starting to occur more accelerating into 2020. And as we said in the prepared remarks toward the end of the first half of 2020 is kind when we get this -- get that most of those things completed.
So a lot of work between now and then, we took on Canada as a country that was just recently, but I think a lot of the work from here to the end of the year is really about to do the spadework the foundational work to be set up systems and things like that. So, it's really good to be in 2020, where you start to see a number of those things occurring.
Deane Dray -- RBC Capital Markets -- Analyst
About the receivables?
Charles McLaughlin -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Yes, that was contemplated in the deal from the 0:37:39. So we knew about that I think everybody there was happy with the deal we struck with them that was very fair, but that wasn't a port deal adjustment.
Deane Dray -- RBC Capital Markets -- Analyst
Got it. Why don't you do it with the payables instead?
Charles McLaughlin -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
To be clear, it was receivables then payables. So it is both of those.
Deane Dray -- RBC Capital Markets -- Analyst
Good to hear. Thank you.
Operator
And our next question comes from Andy Kaplowitz of Citi Bank.
Andrew Obin -- Bank of America Merrill Lynch -- Analyst
Good afternoon, guys.
James A. Lico -- President and Chief Executive Officer
Hi, Andy.
Andrew Obin -- Bank of America Merrill Lynch -- Analyst
As we think about the walk to go from $3.06 in 2018 to new guide of $3.45 to $3.60, the big piece of that change from last quarter's guide just the lowering of the $0.30 in core revenue growth contribution and maybe some FX. Was there any lowering of Gordian and Accruent under ASP and then how much did Pruftechnik add if anything into the core EPS growth?
James A. Lico -- President and Chief Executive Officer
And so Andy, the only lowering that we've done is really about the slowing in our short cycle, primarily in PI. The acquisitions are all performing at or above what we expected. And there has been no change -- we're not changing anything in our guide about that nor do we expect to. So I think that's the main point of your question.
Andrew Obin -- Bank of America Merrill Lynch -- Analyst
Yes, it is and Pruftechnik did they add anything into the EPS?
James A. Lico -- President and Chief Executive Officer
Not this year, they are -- we -- five months to go there is some deal costs associated with that, but no meaningful earnings up or down for those deals.
Andrew Obin -- Bank of America Merrill Lynch -- Analyst
That's helpful. And then, Jim, you mentioned GVR in high growth markets slowed down a bit it looks like it's just pushouts as we talked about, did you guys expecting push outs and we know there is going to be some difficult comps at some points there had to be in the growth markets. Did you see any slowing in the business other than you saw the push outs which have been happening in the second half of the year?
James A. Lico -- President and Chief Executive Officer
Well, I think it's really two countries. And I think GVR -- the India story I think is very much one -- we won a significant number of tenders, and it's just getting things through the contract process and really getting things installed and all that. So we have a very good color on the backlog and feel very good, I wouldn't read anything into the India thing, and high growth markets growth year-to-date for Gilbarco is still growing. So it's really the second quarter dynamics of some things in India that are pushing.
There is probably a little bit of slowing in China, but that really has to do with just really substantial growth last year through the double wall tank upgrades, and we're still seeing some wins that will be in the second half. So we still see growth in China for Gilbarco for the year, but again a tender or two pushed into the quarter, and that's not unusual in this business quite frankly, for it to happen in India and China at the same time maybe that's a little bit unusual. But we feel really confident about high-growth market growth for GVR in the year.
Andrew Obin -- Bank of America Merrill Lynch -- Analyst
Thanks, guys. Appreciate it.
James A. Lico -- President and Chief Executive Officer
Thanks, Andy.
Operator
And our next question is from John Inch of Gordon Hasket.
John George Inch -- Gordon Haskett Research -- Analyst
Hey, guys. By the way, I was thinking considering recent events; you should be congratulated again on the ANF deal. So I am just going to throw that out there.
Hey, just in terms of the quarterly growth, organic growth forecast kind of the two to four for the second half, and I think you're assuming two to four for the third quarter and implicitly two to four for the fourth quarter. Third-quarter has a lot easier comparisons; if I recollect right, because fourth quarter, you had the pre-buy, you had the deferral of Gilbarco Veeder-Root from third quarter to fourth quarter. Is there any sort of assumption you're making that fourth quarter is somehow going to get better or what's really sort of baked into the assumptions here?
James A. Lico -- President and Chief Executive Officer
I think when we get to the fourth quarter, some of our acquisitions, particularly, Gordian and Accruent, are going to turn core and so that does help us against a more difficult comp for sure. And I think that in the third quarter, I think that there is easier comp to last year. But, we've got a little bit wider range than we normally talked about. So I think you can figure out how that might go up from -- we expected at this point from Q3 to Q4. But we're watching what's going on here pretty intently.
John George Inch -- Gordon Haskett Research -- Analyst
So there's no presumption of any kind of natural pickup or order trends that come in or something like that. It's just -- just take away the way that chips fall, right?
James A. Lico -- President and Chief Executive Officer
Yes, there's a little bit there -- as I was just answering Andy's questions, where the India tenders falling, could help a little bit here and there. And so there's a little bit of where those fall. But I think as Chuck mentioned, as you said, a little bit tougher comp in the fourth quarter, but we really get a full quarter of Gordian and Accruent in the fourth quarter. So that sort of makes up for a little bit of that slightly tougher comp. But there's really no expectation regionally or by business of any big pickup within the year relative to core grow.
John George Inch -- Gordon Haskett Research -- Analyst
And those businesses are doing well Gordian and Accruent, so that's just kind of make sense.
James A. Lico -- President and Chief Executive Officer
Yes, as we said in the prepared remarks, we're really happy with the take rate and things that are going on there. And we're so far so good.
John George Inch -- Gordon Haskett Research -- Analyst
In last quarter, I think you said point of sale trends kind of began to improve as the quarter progressed and into March, did that all of a sudden just kind of hit a wall and sort of drop and hold or what actually kind of happen from first quarter to second quarter, that might give us kind of a little thought processes as to how we kind of move through the rest of the year?
James A. Lico -- President and Chief Executive Officer
Yes, you have a good memory. So March, it's really the -- particularly the Fluke point-of-sale trends. The Fluke point-of-sale trends turned up in March, and that made us feel pretty good about things, and even in the first part of April, they were pretty good. And they held in there a little bit through May. But they did slow a little bit, particularly in the U.S., or particularly in Europe, they slowed in June for sure a big time.
And what we also saw was just a more days' supply of inventory starting to change and channel partners starting to make some decisions around slowing sell in and even in cases where we might have had consistent sales out. We still saw people -- we typically see an inventory build first quarter to second quarter. So days' supply this is in Fluke days' supply typically goes up a little bit in the second quarter. And then -- and what we saw this year was not that at all.
So clearly, people were managing inventory tighter, and I suspect it had a lot to do with the uncertainty. So in the case of Europe, we definitely saw sales out go pretty down pretty quickly in June. And in the case of U.S., we started down a little bit, but we saw sell in go slow down and weeks of supply pop-up. So we've put all of those assumptions into the second half.
John George Inch -- Gordon Haskett Research -- Analyst
Just last decremental margins and Fluke and Tek I think they are down in some regions globally, right that you guys have called out. What sort of decremental are you seeing in those businesses? Again, where there is a little bit of softness today?
Charles McLaughlin -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Well, in the short run, when it goes down as a decremental. They're pretty consistent across around the world. There's not one margin that's really that much different than the others. But they will in the short run go down over 50%.
James A. Lico -- President and Chief Executive Officer
Yes, particularly when most of it was in June, John. Just a little bit more on that, we're really -- particularly in Fluke, we're really consistent around the world relative to margin structure. So when that stuff happens in the short run. We're obviously working very hard in June and right now to make sure that we improve those as we go through the year.
John George Inch -- Gordon Haskett Research -- Analyst
Awesome. Thanks, guys. Appreciate it.
James A. Lico -- President and Chief Executive Officer
Thank you.
Operator
And our next question comes from Richard Eastman of Baird.
Richard Eastman -- Robert W. Baird & Co. -- Analyst
Yes. Thank you. Hey, Jim, could you just follow up on the question once around tech. I'm curious; I presume KEITHLEY softness is due to the semi market. But you did reference Huawei's impact there. Can you just kind of parse that out a little bit I would think there were their R&D tools at tech are probably what's a problem for the Huawei entity list? But could you just kind of parse out the growth rate? I think you said tech was down mid-single digit. And what piece was maybe KEITHLEY, and their half and half or is Huawei outweighed there overweighted.
James A. Lico -- President and Chief Executive Officer
Yeah so, what I would say first and foremost is you're right around the KEITHLEY really is, as you well know. KEITHLEY is very much -- has more semiconductor exposure than the tech as a whole, and it has more electronics, manufacturing exposure, as well and More Asia exposure. And so I think the slowing at KEITHLEY was more broad-based than just China and more than just semiconductors, but very much, I would say an Asia story. And the Asia, sort of electronics manufacturing story where we saw the slowing. And exactly right it was Huawei; it's mostly R&D tools, and mostly scope.
So I'll check and go through the math. I think the one thing we were very pleased with, as I said in the prepared remarks was the strength of scopes, particularly in the midrange. We continue to grow our sole scope platform if you will, particularly the new platform very well.
Charles McLaughlin -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
And I think that when you will put numbers to that, I think Huawei was a little over $10 million, let's called 1.25%. And then I think that -- and roughly KEITHLEY was down about twice that.
James A. Lico -- President and Chief Executive Officer
So two thirds and three quarters of the miss is those two. And then the other rest of it is really Western Europe, kind of broadly defined.
Richard Eastman -- Robert W. Baird & Co. -- Analyst
Okay. And then just a really quick question around the IT margins op margins when I look at that the incremental was literally 100% there. And is that largely just -- is that GVR volume absorption? Is that pretty much which delivering that or?
Charles McLaughlin -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Well, I think there is certainly volume always helps and can concierge. But also, what's in there is there's always one-timers, both good and bad last year was probably a little easier compared the ebbs and flows. Try not to focus on any one quarter and back it up and just say, that business when it's growing well, 50 basis points is a good OMX number, but that can do just what they did this score. You see something stronger; I just remember that when goes to zero, one quarter doesn't mean anything either so.
Richard Eastman -- Robert W. Baird & Co. -- Analyst
Okay, fair enough.
James A. Lico -- President and Chief Executive Officer
And if you look at the segment of Matco had a good quarter as well. And obviously, that's a good business for us. So I think the other part of the story probably is we saw some nice -- saw some good things in Matco this quarter as well.
Richard Eastman -- Robert W. Baird & Co. -- Analyst
Okay. And then just real quick, Jim, did you say Gordian accruing their core growth, I know it's not included in yours, but their core growth was high-single digits did it hold that both?
James A. Lico -- President and Chief Executive Officer
Yes. The combined number is probably high-single digits. That's right.
Charles McLaughlin -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
And that's tracking that this year is why we're very excited. Yeah, we're encouraged it does playing out like we expected.
Richard Eastman -- Robert W. Baird & Co. -- Analyst
Perfect. Okay, thank you.
James A. Lico -- President and Chief Executive Officer
Thanks, Rick.
Operator
And our next question comes from John Walsh of Credit Suisse.
James A. Lico -- President and Chief Executive Officer
Hey, John.
John Walsh -- Credit Suisse -- Analyst
Hi, good afternoon and evening. Actually, following up on that question, one of the things when you got it, you talked about macro uncertainty of the short-cycle businesses. We always think of CapEx projects. But as you think about some of these more software businesses, Gordian and Accruent, for example. What are the factors you're tracking, whether it's leads or coding activity to have confidence that they can sustain this kind of high-single-digit growth rate when there is kind of this industrial uncertainty out there? But that's not to say you can't spill into other parts of the economy.
James A. Lico -- President and Chief Executive Officer
Yes, so I would say we look at a couple of things. And Gordian and Accruent a little bit different. And maybe we'll talk about eMaint as well. And eMaint would have a little bit more industrial exposure. But as you know with these high recurring revenue businesses, they're not going to necessarily move tomorrow kind of stuff. And so, what we're really looking is the new order bookings, the new customer bookings, to see as we said in the case of eMaint, we had very significant new customer bookings.
So we're really looking at new customer bookings because that's going to move the needle down the road. We're looking at churn to see if customers are canceling. Sometimes in an economic slowdown, you might start to see people say, well, I don't need all of this, I'll maybe use less seats or whatever, for lack of a better term. So we're looking at those metrics very closely. And quite frankly the people in those businesses are looking at them every day.
So when you look at those metrics, and that's why we mentioned some of the things like iNet new bookings are really good. So, we're really looking for these high recurring revenue businesses, we're really looking at those annual bookings numbers, and we're looking at the average contract value, what we call ACV, and we're looking at churn. And we look at those three metrics to really understand what is it really gives us a good view of how the business is going to be in a couple of quarters.
John Walsh -- Credit Suisse -- Analyst
Okay. And then I think the capacity number as it stands right now north of $1.4 billion, maybe just kind of talk us through the pipeline, and if there's kind of anything do you expect in the near-term?
James A. Lico -- President and Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, well, I hate to comment anything in the near-term, and quite frankly, we commented on near-term, because some of the deals we were talking about, we've obviously closed in the last 30 days. We're really --, and maybe I'll use the last few as an example, we're incredibly pleased at the deals we got done. The -- this quarter, I mean, when you look at, obviously ASP is a transformational business for us in many respects. And we're really excited about that. You look at the two businesses, two years ago, we bought ISC, because we're really excited about this, the workflows around safety, and now we close two deals that one is a bolt-on safer systems. It really helps them really gives us a new set of modules to sell on top of the iNet platform, and then Intellects really gives us a great new adjacent market for EH&F software.
So we're really well-positioned in the workflows one with a bolt-on the other with an adjacency. And then obviously proof technique, a classic bolt-on for Fluke significantly raises our game and condition monitoring and gives us a team that's incredibly experienced at understanding condition monitoring, particularly around vibration. So that's -- those are those are the kinds of deals that are still in the funnel and I think what we've done in the second quarter and early in the third is really when I talk about is a great example of when I talk about breath of the funnel John, we're really -- and that funnel continues to have good breath. Obviously very much in field solutions this quarter, in particular, the last three I just mentioned, but we feel good about the funnel and the breadth of the funnel.
Deane Dray -- RBC Capital Markets -- Analyst
All right, thank you.
James A. Lico -- President and Chief Executive Officer
Thank you
Operator
And our next question comes from Nigel Coe of Wolf Research.
James A. Lico -- President and Chief Executive Officer
Hey, Nigel.
Nigel Edward Coe -- Wolfe Research -- Analyst
Good afternoon, James. Hey guys. Just want to revisit ASP, we've added that one a fair bit so far, but I do want to talk about the EBITDA contribution. I think Chuck this might be to you. I'm calculating EBITDA margin on acquisitions about 24%. That's similar to last quarter, I'm guessing Gordian, and Accruent stepped up on higher revenues to maybe the upper 20s, with ASP in the teens, is that sort of the right math? And my real question is, if that's the case, given that the TSA doesn't really roll off until 2020, should we expect higher EBITDA from ASP through the back half of the year, or that now more of a 2020 story?
James A. Lico -- President and Chief Executive Officer
Well there'll be -- so a couple of things, I'm not sure I caught the last part about the teams of ASP on EBITDA, but I think when we get to the other side, which is the nature of your question, in the starting out in the mid-20s is a good place for us to be mid to upper 20s is I think where we're going to go. I think that there'll be some accretion from TSAs in the back half of the year. I think we closed Canada, but that's not a -- they're going to start slow, and then they're going to pick up speed. Fourth-quarter, there'll be a little bit of whiffed and then continue to accelerate closing more of those in Q1 and Q2 of next year.
So that's the day two-country TSAs, and then there's an IT system that stands up, and that's not a gradual, that's more of a cutover, that'll happen sometime in the first half of next year.
Nigel Edward Coe -- Wolfe Research -- Analyst
And this is all to do with making sure that you're crossing the checking the boxes on the regulatory side to more than anything else, is that correct?
James A. Lico -- President and Chief Executive Officer
We're really carving a business right out of ASP. So with that, we're recreating more than just the RA QA systems but also several of the other systems in the business, like the financial system, ERP, a lot of those things we already have, but in other places, we're adding -- we're creating those things. We're recreating what they have. So, that's a good part of it, but it's spadework we've got to get done.
Nigel Edward Coe -- Wolfe Research -- Analyst
Yes. And then just a quick follow on, Jim, you mentioned that trend got kind of progressing well through the quarter, I'm not sure if you address whether it seems elements of stabilization in Q3. And maybe just characterize what you have seen in China right now and how is the behavior from your customers in China?
James A. Lico -- President and Chief Executive Officer
I think when we look at -- as I said that the changes that we saw and really we're talking about PI here. We saw a little bit slowly in the U.S. it's probably too early to tell whether or not the first couple of weeks of July have really seen a difference. I would say we've seen consistently in Europe, and what we saw in June we're still seeing, so that's probably color and China probably a similar story. We haven't seen anything that would tell us that the things are moving around to the good or that are getting more negative at this point. But I caveat that with July is generally the first part -- first two weeks, first three weeks of the quarter aren't always the best view of things. Certainly, as we have a few more weeks here, we'll have a better sense.
Nigel Edward Coe -- Wolfe Research -- Analyst
Thanks, guys. Appreciate it.
James A. Lico -- President and Chief Executive Officer
Thanks, Nigel.
Operator
And our next question comes from Jo Giordano of Cowen.
Joseph Giordano -- Cowen And Company -- Analy
Hey, guys. Thanks for taking my question. One thing I am trying to figure out is kind of reconcile commentary for like the Tektronix scope type business across some of your competitors. And I'm not sure if it's end-market variance or geographic, but it seems to be consistent like kind of different commentaries at different times for the three major players within that oscilloscope business. And curious to see your take on that and anything you'd highlight as to what might be causing different trends at different times for you guys?
James A. Lico -- President and Chief Executive Officer
I would say end market exposure generally is some folks have more 5G exposures, as an example and they may be more tied to the 5G market, but I think we were pretty consistent with our business over the last two or three years at least in our case, we've been growing. So it's been on the backs of the investments we made on the new platform, and we just launched the three and four series. And so that's how I think two years of launches that we had this was our third launch we did the five series two years ago around this time, we did the sixth series about a year ago. Now the three and four.
And those product lines are all growing and are continuing to deliver growth. So end market exposure will maybe push those numbers up a little bit more, certain customers that kind of things. So I don't dive into the details of what others say in this case, I can only tell you with great confidence what's happening in our business.
Joseph Giordano -- Cowen And Company -- Analy
Fair enough. There is also some news recently your main competitor on the GVR side, making a deal with ADD and EV charging and I know you guys have made some ventures into EV as well, just curious as to an update on how those two markets will melt over time and what the outlook is there for further investment into that avenue?
James A. Lico -- President and Chief Executive Officer
Yes, I think we're really happy with the Tritanium investment that we made. I was actually out in Europe a couple of months ago with our sales team make calling on customers in Europe. We announced in May our relationship with Identity where I had met with them, which is I think a great relationship and a great partnership for fast charging. We just got a very large order in the UK to be the largest supplier of chargers in the UK to box energy over the next several years. We've announced 2,500 charging locations over the next several years.
So we're really happy with the relationship and exposure we're certainly learning the market from them, they're a great team, we're also exposing them to new customer base and at the same time, our investment is helping fund some of the operational improvements that are going to be helpful to building the business long-term. So, we feel very good about our position. I think we all know EV is probably aren't going to happen as fast as maybe we thought a few years ago, but I think the position we're in and the place we're in right now, we're certainly seeing accelerated growth and accelerated position through the partnership with tritium.
Joseph Giordano -- Cowen And Company -- Analyst
And then, Chuck, just real quick on the lower tax rate guide is there anything structural there or anything specific cause that and how should we think about that going forward into 2020?
Charles McLaughlin -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
No, I think we were slightly -- I think for the year at 16% for 2019. So in 2020 16%, so probably pretty good -- is a good number to use. What's happened in the first half as some discrete items that are unique to Q1 and Q2 that drove it a little bit lower, but ongoing for the year 2020 is 16%.
Joseph Giordano -- Cowen And Company -- Analy
Okay, thanks, guys.
Charles McLaughlin -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Thanks, Jo.
Operator
And there are no further questions at this time; I'd like to turn the call back over to Mr. Jim Lico.
James A. Lico -- President and Chief Executive Officer
Thanks, Jason. And thanks, everyone, for taking the time today. We appreciate all your support. And the time you take to understand our story. As we highlighted in May, we are incredibly proud of the work we're doing to change the portfolio. And I think we saw a lot of great transformation really play out in the quarter for us. And we're certainly excited about some of the new things we've done around the capital allocation front with several of the new companies that will join the Fortive family.
We realized that the second quarter was a lower macroeconomic environment for us, I would call it a little bit of higher uncertainty, and some slowdown that we talked about. And so we've been prudent we believe in the second half to really make sure we're managing the business both for the long-term, and also continuing to deliver outstanding EPS growth and free cash flow. So we thanks -- we think we're in a very good position right now. And while we're not trying to predict the outcome of what the next couple of quarters will be from an economic standpoint, we think we're well prepared for what's out there. We'll obviously continue to have conversations around that, and obviously, Griffin and Chuck and our team are available for questions after the call. Thank you, and have a great rest of the summer. Thanks, Jason.
Operator
Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's call. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect..
Duration: 64 minutes
Call participants:
Griffin Whitney -- Vice President of Investor Relations
James A. Lico -- President and Chief Executive Officer
Charles McLaughlin -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Julian Mitchell -- Barclays -- Analyst
Scott Davis -- Melius Research LLC -- Analyst
Stephen Tusa -- JPMorgan Chase & Co -- Analyst
Andrew Obin -- Bank of America Merrill Lynch -- Analyst
Deane Dray -- RBC Capital Markets -- Analyst
John George Inch -- Gordon Haskett Research -- Analyst
Richard Eastman -- Robert W. Baird & Co. -- Analyst
John Walsh -- Credit Suisse -- Analyst
Nigel Edward Coe -- Wolfe Research -- Analyst
Joseph Giordano -- Cowen And Company -- Analy
More FTV analysis
This article is a transcript of this conference call produced for The Motley Fool. While we strive for our Foolish Best, there may be errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in this transcript. As with all our articles, The Motley Fool does not assume any responsibility for your use of this content, and we strongly encourage you to do your own research, including listening to the call yourself and reading the company's SEC filings. Please see our Terms and Conditions for additional details, including our Obligatory Capitalized Disclaimers of Liability.
More From The Motley Fool
Motley Fool Transcription has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.

Story 83
The G24 is a grouping of some of the most influential developing countries in the World Bank and IMF. It includes G20 countries such as India, Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, and South Africa, and also Egypt, Iran, Nigeria, Venezuela, as well as a number of other countries. The G24 communiqué is traditionally the first statement of the meetings.
The Intergovernmental Group of Twenty-Four on International Monetary Affairs and Development (G24) held its 100th meeting in Indonesia during the IMF and World Bank Annual Meetings and published its communiqué on 11 October. In a similar vein to the it’s predecessor in April, and in line with growing concerns from civil society about the uneven distribution of growth, the communiqué stressed that, “While the recovery of global growth continues, risks have shifted to the downside.”
The G24 was far from alone in using the Bali Annual Meetings to highlight its concern at the global economic outlook. Yet despite the difficulties ahead, from the diversification of global creditors to unsustainable debt levels, geopolitical tensions dominated the meetings – particularly concerning the capacity of emerging market and developed economies (EMDEs) to adapt to the risks that are materialsing – signalling troubled waters ahead amidst a growing crisis of multilateralism. Sadly, the G20 Eminent Persons Group’s (EPG) report on Global Financial Governance, which was submitted to the G20 finance ministers in Bali, seems to indicate that the G20 plans to address the crisis of multilateralism through its own version of the ‘race to the bottom’ in terms of anti-democratic global governance, as highlighted by a recent Heinrich Boell Foundation report.
Given that EMDEs are likely to continue to shoulder the lion’s share of the consequences of the trends that preoccupied the meetings, significant portions of the communiqué were dedicated to urging greater and more equitable support from developed economies and more equitable power distribution within the Bank and Fund. Demands for change ranged from long-standing calls for quota reform benefiting EMDEs in both the Fund and Bank (and the establishment of a third chair for Sub-Saharan Africa without it being at the expense of an EMDE chair), increased access limits to the IMF’s Poverty Reduction and Growth Trust, a call for a reversal of falling official development assistance to low-income countries (LICs) and the elimination of the accelerated clause for International Development Association (IDA, the Bank’s low-income lending arm) graduates.
geopolitical tensions dominated the meetings - particularly concerning the capacity of emerging market and developed economies (EMDEs) to adapt to the risks that are materialsing
In recognition of existing challenges, the G24 stressed that, “We are concerned with the uncertainty from the trade tensions and protectionist sentiments that further cloud our growth outlook”, adding that it recognises the urgency of domestic policy actions to strengthen resilience and stating that it is “ready to participate in global efforts to improve the global trading system so that it facilitates sustainable development, ensures a fair distribution of benefits and keeps pace with technological change.”
Rising concerns about global debt vulnerabilities feature heavily in the communiqué, which urges the international financial community to strengthen its support of developing countries’ efforts to deal with the interrelated challenges of debt and growth, calling for “stronger and faster action from the IMF, World Bank Group (WBG), multilateral partners and donors on capacity building for fiscal and debt management, improving debt transparency and developing domestic capital markets.” As the Bretton Woods Project Annual Meetings Preamble highlighted, ten years on from the 2008 global financial crisis, global debt stands at $250 trillion and, according to IMF research, only one in five LICs has a low risk of plunging into a debt crisis, as average debt-to-GDP ratios in LICs exceed 40 per cent with no sign of retreat.
The call for great support to EMDEs on the debt management front has been strongly supported by civil society throughout the years. Progress to date however remains decidedly mixed. Despite the IMF embarking on a 2017 Debt Sustainability Review in an effort to alleviate some of these concerns amidst mounting debt, its outcome was heavily criticised by debt justice campaigners who accused the IMF of tinkering around the edges in the face of the looming debt crisis (see Observer Winter 2017-2018). Additionally, this year the IMF published the outcome of its LICs facilities review. While some of the demands set out by a joint civil society consultation response were met, others – such as the creation of an independent debt relief mechanism – were not, leaving lingering concerns about soaring levels of global debt and economic volatility.
The communiqué does however call for IMF and WBG to support developing countries vulnerable to natural disasters, including by “utilizing innovative approaches to help countries build resilience and unlock climate change financing.” The recommendation chimes with the LICs facilities review consultation response which calls on the IMF to support countries vulnerable to natural disasters.
On private finance, in spite of the array of civil society concerns on the current approach, such as those articulated in a letter signed by eminent international academics, the G24, noting that “private financed for infrastructure and development is unlikely to reach the scale [needed]… to support the Sustainable Development Goals,” called on multilateral development banks (MDBs) to “harness the untapped potential to pool and diversify risks across the MDB system, create new asset classes for private investors and draw on their respective strengths to maximize development impact in supporting country-led programs” adding a call to “urgently scale up their financing ambition and development effectiveness.” This call is disturbingly in line with the EPG report, which was heavily critised by the Heinrich Boell Foundation for its detrimental focus on counter-productive, if potentially lucrative initially (for some), promotion of the securitisation of development finance through, for example, the transformation of infrastructure into an asset class. The EPG report was also criticised by Heinrich Boell for endorsing an anti-democratic reordering of the multilateral system at the expense of the UN and the likelihood it would further “diminish country ownership and repress civil society” by, inter-alia, the “[streamlining of] decision-making within the system” as is the case in the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. Echoing concerns raised by the letter submitted by international academics, the report stresses the threats posed by the proposed securitisation of development assistance, noting “Securitization is not possible without “de-risking” development projects, but this can involve transferring unsustainable risks from the private to the public sector.”
The communiqué’s call for the creation of new asset classes to attract (mostly foreign) investment follows two damning reports released in January and March, exposing the scale of damage caused by public private partnerships (PPPs) in the UK and Europe and civil society report detailing the consequences of 10 failed PPP projects. These reports add more weight to broader concerns around private finance, from debt sustainability to the creation of extractivist and dependent economies, ultimately posing a threat to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) (see Observer Winter 2017).
With regards to IMF surveillance, the communiqué noted that “a continued even-handed and context-based assessment of macro-prudential and capital flow management measures is important to support countries in implementing appropriate measures to ensure financial stability.” This is particularly important given the upcoming IMF surveillance review. The surveillance review takes place in light of this year’s conditionality review, which saw over 50 civil society organisations send a letter calling on the IMF to drastically rethink its conditionality stating that, “restrictive fiscal and monetary policies prescribed in IMF loan conditionality squeeze the fiscal space needed for public investment and too often result in devastating consequences – particularly for marginalised groups – at high political cost.” This year alone, mass demonstrations specifically targeting IMF programmes have taken place in, amongst others, Argentina, Egypt, Haiti, Sri Lanka and Tunisia (see Observer Summer 2018).
The communiqué further states that the G24, “look forward to the Fund’s actions to enhance engagement with fragile states”, giving further weight to the recent Independent Evaluation Office report on fragile states, like Haiti, which found that the IMF’s financial toolkit is “not inherently well suited to the circumstances of fragile states” (see Observer Summer 2018).
Of particular importance to the upcoming delayed 15th general review of quota, the G24 finished by stressing concern for the delayed process and calling on the IMF and the WBG to “strengthen their efforts toward addressing the severe under-representation of some regions and countries in recruitment and career progression, including at the managerial levels.” Civil society has long called for a voting system that moves away from the unequal weighting that prioritises wealth over democracy, fuelling a sense of lost confidence from low income member states and squeezing the space for a diversity of voices.

Story 84
Barclays Plc (LON:BARC), today announced Final results
Performance Highlights
·Delivering improving earnings for shareholders
·Improving operating leverage and investing in medium term growth initiatives with a particular focus on capital light activities with attractive returns
·Common equity tier 1 (CET1) ratio of 13.2% is at the end-state target of c.13%, with future profit generation supporting both investment and cash returns to shareholders
Returns
Group RoTE targets of >9% in 2019 and >10% in 2020
· Earnings per share (EPS) of 21.9p (2017: negative 3.5p) and Group return on tangible equity (RoTE) of 8.5% (2017: negative 1.2%), with profit before tax (PBT) up 20% to £5.7bn
· Barclays UK RoTE of 16.7% (2017: 17.8%), as PBT decreased 3% to £2.4bn
· Barclays International RoTE of 8.7% (2017: 4.4%), as PBT increased 10% to £3.9bn
Cost efficiency
Group cost guidance of £13.6-13.9bn1 in 2019, and cost: income ratio of <60% over time
· Group operating expenses decreased 2% to £13.9bn in line with guidance after excluding a charge for Guaranteed Minimum Pensions (GMP)
· The cost: income ratio, excluding litigation and conduct charges, improved to 66% (2017: 68%)
· Creating capacity within the cost base through elimination of legacy costs and productivity savings via Barclays Execution Services (BX) to improve operating leverage and investment in medium term growth initiatives, while delivering a reduction in absolute costs in 2018
Capital and dividends
At end-state CET1 ratio target of c.13%
6.5p total dividend for 2018
· Generated 140bps of capital from profits, more than offset by 71bps impact from litigation and conduct charges, 53bps from ordinary dividends and Additional Tier 1 (AT1) coupons paid and foreseen, and 33bps from the decision to redeem Preference Shares and Additional Tier 1 (AT1) securities in December 2018
· Capital returns policy updated – progressive ordinary dividend, supplemented by share buybacks as and when appropriate
·Barclays Group profit before tax was £3.5bn (2017: £3.5bn) which included litigation and conduct charges of £2.2bn (2017: £1.2bn) principally related to a £1.4bn settlement with the US Department of Justice (DoJ) with regard to Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities (RMBS) and charges of £0.4bn (2017: £0.7bn) due to Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) in Q118
·Excluding litigation and conduct charges, Group profit before tax increased 20% to £5.7bn despite the adverse effect of the 3% depreciation of average USD against GBP. Income was stable and operating expenses reduced 2%. The cost: income ratio improved to 66% (2017: 68%) which included a £140m charge to reflect the estimated increase in pension obligations due to GMP. Credit impairment charges reduced 37% to £1.5bn including updates for consensus-based macroeconomic forecasts in the UK and US during the year and the prudent management of credit risk. This improvement was partially offset by a Q418 £150m specific charge for the impact of the anticipated economic uncertainty in the UK
·Barclays UK profit before tax increased to £2.0bn (2017: £1.7bn). Excluding litigation and conduct, profit before tax decreased 3% to £2.4bn reflecting a 5% increase in impairment charges, due to a £100m charge for the anticipated economic uncertainty in the UK. Income was stable as lower interest margins were offset by strong balance sheet growth. Expenses increased 1% reflecting continued investment to grow the business and improve future operating efficiency. RoTE excluding litigation and conduct was 16.7% (2017: 17.8%)
·Barclays International profit before tax increased to £3.8bn (2017: £3.3bn). Income growth in Markets and the Consumer, Cards and Payments business was offset by the non-recurrence of prior year one-offs, from a US asset card sale and a valuation gain on Barclays’ preference shares in Visa Inc, and lower Banking income. Credit impairment charges decreased 56% primarily due to single name recoveries, updates for consensus-based macroeconomic forecasts in the UK and US, non-recurrence of single name charges in 2017 and the repositioning of the US cards portfolio towards a lower risk mix. Total operating expenses decreased 2% as continued investments in business growth, talent and technology were offset by lower costs for restructuring and structural reform. RoTE excluding litigation and conduct was 8.7% (2017: 4.4%), with the Corporate and Investment Bank (CIB) and Consumer, Cards and Payments delivering 7.1% and 17.3% (2017: 2.2% and 16.8%) respectively
·Attributable profit was £1.4bn (2017: loss of £1.9bn). This reflected the non-recurrence of a £2.5bn loss related to the sell down of Barclays Africa Group Limited (BAGL) and a tax charge of £1.1bn compared to a 2017 charge of £2.2bn which included a one-off net charge of £0.9bn due to the re-measurement of US deferred tax assets (DTAs). Basic earnings per share was 9.4p (2017: loss per share of 10.3p) and excluding litigation and conduct was 21.9p (2017: loss per share of 3.5p)
·Tangible net asset value (TNAV) per share was 262p (December 2017: 276p) as 21.9p of earnings per share, excluding litigation and conduct, was more than offset by the implementation of IFRS 9, impact of litigation and conduct charges, the redemption of Preference Shares and AT1 securities, as well as dividend payments. In Q418 TNAV increased by 2p, the third consecutive quarter of TNAV accretion.
Group Chief Executive Officer’s Review
“2018 represented a very significant period for Barclays. In the course of the year, having resolved major legacy issues and reduced the drag from low returning businesses, we started to see the earnings potential of the bank, as the strategy we have implemented began to deliver. This was evident in the improved performance across the Group compared to 2017. Excluding litigation and conduct, profits before tax were up by 20% to £5,701m and our Group Return on Tangible Equity was 8.5% for the year – close to our 2019 financial target of greater than 9%. Earnings per share excluding litigation and conduct for the full year was 21.9p. Our CET1 capital ratio of 13.2% is at our target of around 13%, and we have grown tangible book value for three quarters in a row. The progress made on these key measures demonstrates that our plan is working and we have a strong foundation on which to achieve our returns targets for this year and next. The fundamental strength of our Group rests on a diversified, though connected, portfolio of businesses. Barclays is well diversified by geography, by product and by currency between our consumer and wholesale businesses, designed to produce consistent and attractive returns through the economic cycle. The results for 2018 demonstrate this. Our overriding priority for 2019 and 2020 is the attainment of our returns targets. Beyond those we are also focusing on medium term revenue growth opportunities – opportunities which rely on technology rather than capital. Such investment and focus beyond the immediate was simply not a viable option during the many years of reshaping this company. The efficiencies we have driven have created the capacity to invest to strengthen and grow our business within our cost guidance of £13.6-13.9bn for 2019, although we have the ability to flex that investment to a degree to support our RoTE targets if the environment requires us to do so. In 2018, based on our strong capital generation, Barclays restored the dividend to 6.5p and redeemed expensive preference shares dating from the financial crisis. This is excellent progress, but not sufficient. Going forward the principal calls on future earnings should now be returns to shareholders and investing to grow the business. We will use the strong capital generation of the bank to return a greater proportion of those earnings to shareholders by way of dividends and to supplement those dividends with additional returns, including share buybacks. I am optimistic for our prospects to do more in 2019 and beyond.” James E Staley, Group Chief Executive Officer
Group Finance Director’s Review
Results for the year reflected good progress against our strategy. Excluding litigation and conduct charges, the Group return on tangible equity was 8.5% with earnings per share of 21.9p. Stable income and a reduction in operating expenses drove positive jaws and an improved cost: income ratio of 66%, with a 37% improvement in credit impairment charges resulting in a 20% increase in profit before tax despite the 3% depreciation of average USD against GBP.
The CET1 ratio of 13.2% is at the end-state target, and Barclays declares a total dividend of 6.5p for 2018.
Group performance
· Profit before tax was £3,494m (2017: £3,541m). Excluding litigation and conduct charges, profit before tax increased 20% to £5,701m driven by an improvement in credit impairment charges and a reduction in operating expenses. The 3% depreciation of average USD against GBP adversely impacted profits
· Total income was £21,136m (2017: £21,076m). Barclays UK income was stable as lower interest margins were offset by strong balance sheet growth. Barclays International income growth in Markets, which increased 9%, was offset by lower Banking income, primarily from a 20% decrease in Corporate lending income reflecting the strategy of redeploying Risk Weighted Assets (RWAs) to higher returning businesses. Consumer, Cards and Payments income growth was offset by the non-recurrence of prior year one-offs, from a US asset card sale and a valuation gain on Barclays’ preference shares in Visa Inc. Head Office income was a net expense of £273m (2017: £159m), and the Group benefited from the non-recurrence of negative income associated with the former Non-Core division, which was closed on 1 July 2017
· Credit impairment charges decreased 37% to £1,468m primarily driven by single name recoveries, updates to consensus-based macroeconomic forecasts in the UK and US during the year, the non-recurrence of single name charges in 2017, portfolio adjustments as IFRS 9 has continued to embed and the prudent management of credit risk, including the impact of repositioning the US cards portfolio towards a lower risk mix. This decrease was partially offset by a Q418 £150m specific charge for the impact of the anticipated economic uncertainty in the UK. The Barclays Group loan loss rate was 44bps (2017: 57bps)
· Operating expenses of £13,896m (2017: £14,249m) reduced 2% as continued investment to grow the business and improve future operating efficiency was more than offset by elimination of legacy costs, productivity savings and a lower bank levy charge due to a reduction in the levy rate and the impact of prior year adjustments. The cost: income ratio, excluding litigation and conduct, reduced to 66% (2017: 68%)
· Total operating expenses of £16,243m (2017: £15,456m) included litigation and conduct charges of £2,207m (2017: £1,207m) and a £140m charge for GMP in relation to the equalisation of obligations for members of the Barclays Bank UK Retirement Fund (UKRF). There was no capital impact of the GMP charge as, at 31 December 2018, the UKRF remained in accounting surplus
· Other net income declined to £69m (2017: £257m) primarily reflecting the non-recurrence of gains on the sales of Barclays’ share in VocaLink and a joint venture in Japan in Q217
· The Group’s effective tax rate reduced to 32.1% (2017: 63.3%). The 2017 rate included a one-off net charge due to the re-measurement of DTAs as a result of the reduction in the US federal corporate income tax rate. The underlying effective tax rate was 20.9% (2017: 29.4%), due to the lower US federal corporate income tax rate and the beneficial impact of adjustments to prior periods recognised in 2018
· The Group’s underlying effective tax rate for future periods is expected to be in the low-to mid-20 percents, excluding the impact of the future accounting change that will require tax relief on payments in relation to AT1 instruments to be recognised in the income statement, as opposed to retained earnings
· Attributable profit was £1,394m (2017: loss of £1,922m). This reflected the non-recurrence of a £2.5bn loss related to the sell down of BAGL and a tax charge of £1,122m compared to a 2017 charge of £2,240m which included a one-off net charge of £0.9bn due to the re-measurement of US DTAs
· RoTE was 8.5% (2017: negative 1.2%) and earnings per share was 21.9p (2017: loss per share of 3.5p), excluding litigation and conduct. Statutory RoTE was 3.6% (2017: negative 3.6%) and basic earnings per share was 9.4p (2017: loss per share 10.3p)
· TNAV per share was 262p (December 2017: 276p) as 21.9p of earnings per share, excluding litigation and conduct, was more than offset by the implementation of IFRS 9, impact of litigation and conduct charges, the redemption of Preference Shares and AT1 securities, as well as dividend payments. In Q418 TNAV increased by 2p, the third consecutive quarter of TNAV accretion
Group capital and leverage
· Barclays’ CET1 ratio ended the year at 13.2% (December 2017: 13.3%), at our end-state target of c.13%
· CET1 capital decreased £0.5bn to £41.1bn as underlying profit generation of £4.2bn, was more than offset by £2.1bn of litigation and conduct charges, as the bank resolved major legacy matters, £1.7bn for ordinary dividends and AT1 coupons paid and foreseen, and £1.0bn from the redemption of capital instruments
· RWAs remained broadly stable at £311.9bn (December 2017: £313.0bn). The Group continued to actively manage capital allocation to businesses during the year, including the redeployment of RWAs within CIB to higher returning businesses, while targeting growth in selected consumer businesses in Barclays UK and Consumer, Cards and Payments. Within Barclays UK, the increase in RWAs included the impact of a change in the regulatory methodology for the Education, Social Housing and Local Authority (ESHLA) portfolio which was partly offset by a reduction in Head Office due to the regulatory deconsolidation of BAGL
· The UK leverage ratio remained flat at 5.1% (December 2017: 5.1%). The UK leverage exposure increased marginally to £999bn (December 2017: £985bn) including securities financing transactions (SFTs), due to the CIB utilising leverage balance sheet more efficiently within high returning financing businesses. The average UK leverage ratio decreased to 4.5% (December 2017: 4.9%)
Group funding and liquidity
· The liquidity pool increased to £227bn (December 2017: £220bn) driven largely by net deposit growth across businesses. The liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) increased to 169% (December 2017: 154%), equivalent to a surplus of £90bn (December 2017: £75bn) to the 100% regulatory requirement. Barclays Group also continued to maintain surpluses to its internal liquidity requirements. The strong liquidity position reflects the Barclays Group’s prudent approach given the continued macroeconomic uncertainty
· Barclays Group issued £12.2bn of minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities (MREL) instruments from Barclays PLC (the Parent company) in a range of tenors and currencies. Barclays Group is well advanced in its MREL issuance plans, with a Barclays PLC MREL ratio of 28.1% as at 31 December 2018 relative to an estimated requirement including requisite buffers of 30.0% by 1 January 2022
· Barclays Bank PLC continued to issue in the shorter-term markets and Barclays Bank UK PLC issued in the shorter-term and secured markets, helping to maintain their stable and diversified funding bases
· The overall funding structure has improved further – Barclays Group has continued to reduce its reliance on short-term wholesale funding, where the proportion maturing in less than 1 year fell to 30% (December 2017: 31%)
Other matters
· In Q118 Barclays reached a settlement with the US DoJ to resolve the civil complaint brought by the DoJ in December 2016 relating to RMBS sold by Barclays between 2005 and 2007. Barclays paid a civil monetary penalty of $2.0bn (£1.4bn)
· In May 2018 Barclays announced that the Crown Court had dismissed all of the charges that had been brought by the Serious Fraud Office (SFO) against Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC regarding matters which arose in the context of Barclays’ capital raisings in 2008. In October 2018, the High Court denied the SFO’s application to reinstate the charges, which were consequently dismissed
· Additional charges of £0.4bn (2017: £0.7bn) relating to PPI were recognised in Q118. The remaining PPI provision as at 31 December 2018 was £0.9bn (December 2017: £1.6bn) to cover claims through to the deadline of 29 August 2019. Management views its current PPI provision as appropriate, but will continue to closely monitor complaint trends and the associated provision adequacy
· On 1 April 2018 Barclays successfully established its ring-fenced bank, Barclays Bank UK PLC, after receiving approval from the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and the High Court of Justice of England and Wales to implement the ring-fencing transfer scheme under Part VII of the Financial Services Markets Act 2000
· In Q418 Barclays Bank Ireland PLC (BBI) received confirmation of its extended banking licence as part of Barclays’ plans to expand BBI in anticipation of the UK’s departure from the EU in March 2019. On 29 January 2019 Barclays received approval from the High Court of Justice of England and Wales for its banking business transfer scheme application under Part VII of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000
Dividends
· A half year dividend of 2.5p per share was paid on 17 September 2018. Barclays declares a full year dividend of 4.0p per share, resulting in a total dividend of 6.5p per share for 2018
· Barclays understands the importance of delivering attractive cash returns to shareholders. Barclays is therefore committed to maintaining an appropriate balance between total cash returns to shareholders, investment in the business and maintaining a strong capital position. Going forward, Barclays intends to pay a progressive ordinary dividend, taking into account these objectives and the earnings outlook of the Group. It is also the Board’s intention to supplement the ordinary dividends with additional cash returns, including share buybacks, to shareholders as and when appropriate
Outlook and guidance
· Barclays is on track in the execution of its strategy and continues to target a RoTE1 of greater than 9% for 2019 and greater than 10% for 2020 and operating expenses1 guidance in the range of £13.6-13.9bn for 2019. The Group’s 2018 results reflect good progress towards these targets
Tushar Morzaria, Barclays Finance Director

Story 85
SA Rugby chief executive Jurie Roux believes that the Independent Communications Authority of South Africa (ICASA) could kill sport in the country with a proposed amendment to sport broadcasting regulations.
Roux made his beliefs known on the second day of hearings on the draft sports broadcasting service amendment regulations in Centurion on Tuesday morning.

ICASA have made plain their intent to amend the broadcasting services regulations of sporting events that are of national importance to receive full live coverage on free-to-air TV. That would mean sporting bodies could no longer sell the rights to their events.
Olympic Games‚ Paralympics‚ Fifa World Cup‚ Africa Cup of Nations (men and women)‚ Rugby World Cup‚ ICC Cricket World Cup‚ International Boxing Federations‚ national Netball‚ Commonwealth games and IAAF will all fall under the proposed sport broadcasting regulations amendment.
Roux said the move would kill not only professional rugby but all sport in South Africa, bankrupting organizing bodies who rely on the money they make from selling TV rights.
“Our doors will close in the next five years if these regulations are implemented‚” Roux told hearing chairperson Palesa Kadi. “Exclusivity is key in sport and the current regulations strike a good balance. “But at this rate there won’t be sport in five years and there won’t be the Springboks.”
The CEO revealed that 57% of SA Rugby’s revenue comes from TV rights and the proposed changes would be catastrophic for rugby.
“Rugby is a business‚ we don’t receive money from government [0.3% of SA Rugby’s revenue comes from government funding]‚ we don’t have charitable status and we have zero donors‚” he said. “We don’t have a rich uncle or a trust fund‚ we don’t pay dividends or make payment profits for shareholders. “The income we earn is reinvested for the benefit of rugby and South Africans. “Sponsorships will never cover the value of broadcasting revenue and without income and funding we will have no sport. “Our plea is to protect the sport which is a national asset because it will not survive. “We will not have funding to start grassroots projects and in sport around the world‚ exclusivity is the basis on which rights are sold.”
Premier Soccer League representatives are expected to make their representations on Wednesday. The PSL have already issued a similar warning to the message sent by Roux.

Story 86
May 16, 2019 , 9:56PM Nepal urges Indian companies for more investment for mutual benefits AIR Pics

Speaking at the closing ceremony of the two-day Nepal-India Franchise Investment Expo and Conclave in Kathmandu today, Finance Minister Yuvraj Khatiwada said, there is a big scope for investment in the country from both domestic as well as foreign investors.

He also said Nepal's youth should venture their own business by forging franchise collaboration with the renowned companies of India instead of searching for employment opportunities in foreign countries.

Present during the occasion, Indian Ambassador to Nepal Manjeev Singh Puri, also emphasized the need for more collaborations between Nepalese and Indian companies for mutual benefits.

The event was organised by the Indian embassy in collaboration with the Federation of Nepalese Chamber of Commerce and Industries. It focused on building the relations between India and Nepal through entrepreneurship development.


Story 87
Media stories about BR stock have trended extremely negative on Thursday, InfoTrie Sentiment Analysis reports. InfoTrie ranks the sentiment of media coverage by reviewing more than six thousand blog and news sources in real-time. The firm ranks coverage of public companies on a scale of -5 to 5, with scores nearest to five being the most favorable. Broadridge Financial Solutions earned a daily sentiment score of -4.0 on InfoTrie's scale. They also assigned news stories about the business services provider a news buzz of 0.0 out of 10, meaning that recent media coverage is extremely unlikely to have an effect on the stock's share price in the next several days. View News Stories for Broadridge Financial Solutions.

Story 88
Over-the-Top (OTT) platform Kartina TV will be broadcasting a bouquet of Russian-language TV channels across Western Europe.
The channels will be available on a new Free-to-View encrypted DTH platform on the Astra 1N satellite at 19.2 degrees East, but will also continue to be available over IP networks.
One of the leading pay TV operators in Europe and the US for Russian-language programming, Kartina TV caters to the Russian-speaking diaspora who can access Russian-language content via OTT set-up boxes and apps.
“As OTT content providers, we want to be delivering content to everyone, but there are limitations when it comes to terrestrial networks. By combining our offering with satellite, we will be able to broadcast channels for viewers who have limited broadband connectivity, and open up a new market for Kartina,” said Oleg Jecov, Head of Satellite Project of Kartina TV.
Håkan Sjödin, Vice President, Sales Nordic, Baltic and Eastern Europe of SES Video, said, “At SES, we increasingly see how OTT players are keen to expand their markets by leveraging the superpower of satellite – reach. This deal with Kartina TV is an example of that, and sets a new standard for OTT platforms in expanding the reach, viewership and value of multi-genre content. Given SES’s leading satellite broadcasting position in Europe, we are in a unique position to support Kartina TV with its new strategy to work with satellite distribution to expand their business by offering multi-genre, free-to-view Russian package in Europe via satellite.”
The new Kartina Satellite Verimatrix encrypted FTV platform will carry around 30-40 SD Channels in HEVC encoding and is available for users who have a dedicated 4K/UHD HDR Android based hybrid cardless STB with categorised lists of FTA channels and extended EPG support.

Story 89
Discovery Networks Denmark has appointed mediatech specialists Clipsource, to provide a comprehensive metadata and press platform for its linear and on demand channels in Denmark.
The new platform allows Discovery Networks Denmark to automatically structure and share metadata and PR content across a range of recipients.
“We were looking for a provider able to deliver agile and flexible solutions demanded to serve the many new digital media outlets, such as news publishers, EPG’s and TV guides, and Clipsource was able to deliver on all parameters,” said Lena Bøgild, Manager PR & Digital, Discovery Networks Denmark. “The automation of internal collection and external sharing of rich metadata allow us to distribute more attractive information about our content, to a larger number of recipients, which is crucial in a changing media landscape.”
The delivery to Discovery Networks Denmark includes the collection and merging of data from various internal systems into one coherent metadata structure and sharing process for all Discovery channels and programs, and the automated distribution of schedules and marketing metadata to external parties.
“We are very happy to welcome Discovery Networks Denmark as a customer, and will make sure their teams get super efficient and smooth workflows for their metadata and PR. They will have full access to our platform, to which we constantly introduce new features and functions to serve the fast-changing market for TV and VOD”, said Ola Scholander, Chief Commercial Officer at Clipsource.
Discovery Networks Denmark runs 13 channels in the Danish market including Kanal 5, Kanal 4, 6’eren, Canal 9, Eurosport 1 & 2 and Discovery-branded Discovery Channel, TLC and Animal Planet as well as the streaming services Dplay and Eurosport Player.

Story 90
PayPal conducted cross-selling pilot campaigns (intended to target customers in France and Germany) that led to it contacting UK potential customers in the face of assurances it would not do so.
The UK Competition & Markets Authority (CMA) has earlier today published a notice of penalty concerning PayPal Holdings, Inc., PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA and PayPal SE. The regulator has decided to impose a fine of £250,000 on PayPal after finding the company has breached an Initial Enforcement Order (IEO) issued by the CMA under section 72 of the Enterprise Act 2002 on September 19, 2018.
The regulator has investigated the completed acquisition by PayPal of iZettle AB. On April 2, 2019, the CMA informed PayPal that it was investigating a potential breach of the IEO, in particular paragraphs 4 and 5 of the IEO, and that it was considering taking enforcement action. In June 2019, the CMA informed PayPal that it was of the preliminary view that PayPal had failed to comply with the IEO. The CMA has now decided to issue the decision of a penalty.
The regulator explains that, in some circumstances, it may be willing to grant a derogation to allow the integration of the parts of the merging parties’ businesses that have no relevance to their relevant activities in the UK. In the case at hand, PayPal sought a derogation from the IEO to permit it to engage in international integration activities that included conducting cross-selling pilot campaigns involving its non-UK businesses. In support of its derogation request, PayPal submitted that any integration activities would be confined to non-UK potential customers and would not impact on the UK. Subsequently, the CMA granted the derogation on the basis that any international activities did not affect the UK and were confined to non-UK jurisdictions.
In the face of its assurances and contrary to the derogation, PayPal conducted cross-selling pilot campaigns (intended to target customers in France and Germany) that led to it contacting UK potential customers. Having assessed the approach taken by PayPal to these cross-selling pilot campaigns for a sample of the customers contacted, the CMA has identified that 76 UK potential customers, 16 of which had an online and offline presence in the UK, were contacted as part of the campaigns.
Furthermore, because PayPal failed to implement sufficient safeguards to ensure that only non-UK potential customers were included in its cross-selling pilot campaigns, there remains a risk that significantly more UK potential customers were contacted given the total number of customers contacted, the CMA notes.
According to the CMA, by contacting UK potential customers PayPal risked impairing the ability of iZettle and PayPal to compete independently, contrary to paragraph 4(c) of the IEO; it risked undermining the separate sales or brand identities of PayPal, PayPal Here and iZettle, contrary to paragraph 5(a) of the IEO; and, by directing potential UK customers to the iZettle offering, PayPal was not operating the customer lists of the two businesses in the UK separately contrary to paragraph 5(g) of the IEO.
Because of the breach, UK potential customers could have perceived that the two businesses were integrated and were not being maintained separately.
The CMA finds that PayPal has no reasonable excuse for its failure to comply with the IEO.

Story 91
SVB Financial Group found using ticker (SIVB) have now 19 analysts covering the stock with the consensus suggesting a rating of ‘Buy’. The target price ranges between 300 and 210 and has a mean target at 250.89. Now with the previous closing price of 206.77 this indicates there is a potential upside of 21.3%. There is a 50 day moving average of 204.18 and the 200 moving average now moves to 218.45. The market cap for the company is $10,748m. You can visit the company’s website by visiting: http://www.svb.com
SVB Financial Group, a diversified financial services company, provides various banking and financial products and services. The company operates through three segments: Global Commercial Bank, SVB Private Bank, and SVB Capital. The Global Commercial Bank segment offers deposit products, such as business and analysis checking, money market, multi-currency, in-country bank, and sweep accounts, as well as merchant, remote capture, lockbox, electronic deposit capture, and fraud control services; credit products and services comprising term loans, equipment loans, asset-based loans, revolving lines of credit, accounts-receivable-based lines of credit, capital call lines of credit, and credit cards; and payment and cash management products and services, including wire transfer and automated clearing house payment, bill pay, debit and credit cards, account analysis, and disbursement, as well as online and mobile banking services. This segment also provides foreign exchange services; export, import, and standby letter of credit; investment services and solutions; investment advisory services; vineyard development loans; and equity valuation services, as well as invests in debt funds. The SVB Private Bank segment offers private banking services, such as mortgages, home equity and capital call lines of credit, restricted stock purchase loans, and other secured and unsecured lending products. The SVB Capital segment provides venture capital investment services that manage funds on behalf of third party limited partner investors. The company also offers asset and private wealth management, and private equity investment services. It operates through 27 offices in the United States; and offices in Hong Kong; Beijing and Shanghai, China; Frankfurt, Germany; Bengaluru, India; Herzliya Pituach, Israel; and London, England. SVB Financial Group was founded in 1983 and is headquartered in Santa Clara, California.

Story 92
Close Get email notifications on {{subject}} daily!
Your notification has been saved.
There was a problem saving your notification.
{{description}}
Email notifications are only sent once a day, and only if there are new matching items.

Story 93
BARCELONA, Spain, Jan. 28, 2019 /PRNewswire/ -- Forward Networks, the industry leader in network assurance and intent-based verification, today announced at Cisco Live 2019 in Barcelona support for Cisco ACI (Application Centric Infrastructure). Organizations that use Cisco ACI as an SDN/network automation solution can incorporate Forward Enterprise into their environments. Forward's advanced software delivers a "digital twin" of the network, enabling network operators to verify intent, predict network behavior, avoid outages, and simplify network management.
The nature of Forward Networks' solution is to provide deep and intelligent analysis about network behavior based on device configurations and operating details. With the support for Cisco ACI, expected to be released in Forward Enterprise in Q2 of 2019, the company can provide insight into how the virtual networking platform works as well as the policies that are in place. Forward Enterprise analyzes networks based on ACI to confirm error-free network designs overall. This includes correctness for ACI infrastructure, as well as other network devices such as firewalls and load balancers that are connected to ACI, for an end-to-end multi-vendor solution across all network services.
"We continue to support leading network technologies, focusing on providing full coverage of our customers' networks with our Forward Enterprise platform. The growing market presence and level of innovation that ACI brings to the industry are reflected in our decision to support it," said David Erickson, CEO at Forward Networks.
ACI allows customers to define policies by assigning virtual applications to security groups, called end-point groups (EPGs). Virtual network policies are assigned to EPGs. Forward Enterprise verifies policies and displays how the network will behave and can translate the EPG policies from ACI into the Forward Networks' system and show or verify the resulting network behavior. Forward Networks' technology can then go on to compare the resulting behavior to intent and see if there are any deviations that should be addressed.
"With this new support for ACI, we are bringing the benefits of intent-based networking to all networks, no matter what vendors, technology, and protocols exist in the network environment," said Chiara Regale, VP of Product at Forward Networks. "Accurately modeling the behavior of each device in a large network, across vendors, is an enormous problem. No other vendor is addressing this problem to the extent and scale that Forward Networks has, with a significant portion of the company's engineering team dedicated to modeling third-party devices and technology."
Forward Networks is vendor-agnostic, providing support for all major networking and security vendor devices. Forward Networks simplifies management of the entire network, by supporting not only on-premises data centers, but also public cloud and hybrid cloud networks.
For more information on Forward Networks and its solution, visit www.forwardnetworks.com or stop by Booth B36 at Cisco Live in Barcelona to hear more about the announcement from Forward Networks' experts.
About Forward Networks:
Forward Networks provides a robust network assurance and verification platform to reduce business risk and improve network operations. By enabling network and applications teams to verify intent and predict network behavior, Forward's solution brings the benefits of intent-based networking to large enterprises: agility, predictability, and scalability.
Forward Networks was founded in 2013 by four Stanford Ph.D. graduates and is headquartered in Palo Alto, California. Investors include Andreessen Horowitz, DFJ, and A.Capital. For more information, visit forwardnetworks.com.
For further information, please contact:
Lisa Garvey, VP Marketing Jacqueline Velasco Forward Networks Lumina Communications for Forward Networks lisagarvey@forwardnetworks.com ForwardNetworks@luminapr.com 408.439.1377 408.680.0564
SOURCE Forward Networks
Related Links
http://www.forwardnetworks.com


Story 94
News coverage about PSEC stock has been trending extremely negative on Thursday, InfoTrie Sentiment Analysis reports. The research group scores the sentiment of press coverage by analyzing more than six thousand news and blog sources in real time. The firm ranks coverage of public companies on a scale of -5 to 5, with scores closest to five being the most favorable. Prospect Capital earned a news sentiment score of -4.0 on InfoTrie's scale. They also gave media headlines about the financial services provider a news buzz of 0.0 out of 10, meaning that recent press coverage is extremely unlikely to have an impact on the stock's share price in the near future. View News Stories for Prospect Capital.

Story 95
News stories about PEP stock have trended extremely negative recently, InfoTrie reports. The research group scores the sentiment of media coverage by analyzing more than six thousand blog and news sources in real time. The firm ranks coverage of publicly-traded companies on a scale of -5 to 5, with scores nearest to five being the most favorable. PepsiCo earned a daily sentiment score of -4.0 on InfoTrie's scale. They also gave media coverage about the company a news buzz of 0.0 out of 10, indicating that recent media coverage is extremely unlikely to have an impact on the company's share price in the next few days. View News Stories for PepsiCo.

Story 96
In contrast to claims made in tweets in 2017, the building did not comply with building regulations, Mr Dalrymple said.
'Non-compliant material'
Use of the combustible cladding at that height of the building - when its use is not allowed above three levels in residential buildings - meant it did not comply with building regulations, he said.
"You can be quietly confident that we know it's a non-compliant material that's there," he told the Financial Review.
"You can't use combustible material or cladding on a building of this size. It has to be non-combustible façade."
Residents of the 372-apartment building in Melbourne's CBD were evacuated. Jason South
Mr Dalrymple told a Senate inquiry in July 2017 that while the full number was unknown, Australia was likely to have "a lot" of residential buildings with non-compliant cladding. Since then, state and territory governments have been conducting their own audits of buildings at risk, but have not made them public.
In a tweet on June 22, 2017, @Neo200SpencerSt – an account representing the building's owners corporation – said its cladding complied with Victorian Building Authority rules.
Advertisement
"While most of the Building is not clad at all, where any cladding is used it is compliant with VBA standards," it said.
A 2015 assessment of the building by the VBA and City of Melbourne identified combustible cladding on the building but on Monday VBA chief executive Sue Eddy said notices to rectify the building had only been issued to the building since July last year.
She did not know if the building complied with the state building rules.
"That's a matter for the Municipal Building Surveyor," she said. "I can't comment in relation to that technical assessment."
A City of Melbourne spokeswoman said the building was deemed safe for occupation prior to Monday's fire but could not say on Monday afternoon whether it was deemed compliant.
The building – completed in 2007 – was built by LU Simon, builder of the troubled Lacrosse Tower in nearby Docklands, which also suffered a fast-spreading fire in November 2014 as a result of combustible cladding. Judgment in a damages claim made by Lacrosse apartment owners against the builder is expected this month.
A spokeswoman for LU Simon declined to comment.
Residents face the prospect of spending the next 48 hours at least out of their homes until essential safety measures such as smoke control, sprinkler and emergency warning systems are working normally.
Advertisement
The City of Melbourne said about 200 people were attending a relief centre set up at Melbourne Town Hall to assist residents.
While the building's completion more than 10 years ago meant residents could not make a warranty insurance claim against LU Simon, the likely cost of rectifying the limited amount of cladding on the building would come to an estimated $1 million, or about $2700 per apartment, said Sahil Bhasin, national general manager of building services company Roscon.
The total could be reduced to about $600,000 if cladding were only replaced on every second level, which would create acceptable fire breaks, he said.
"All in all the building's made out of concrete, so it's not too bad," Mr Bhasin said.
Designed by architects Hayball Leonard Stent, the initial developer was Estate Property Group. Becton took over as developer when it bought all of EPG's assets in September 2007 following the latter's collapse. Becton itself was hit by the global financial crisis and credit crunch and ultimately delisted. It no longer exists.
Resident Tobias Widjaja, who lives with his wife Jobelle Gaspar in an apartment on level eight, said they were woken by a fire alarm shortly after 6am.
"The alarm went off about 6.10," Mr Widjaja, a business analyst, told the Financial Review. "We were out by 6.20."

Story 97
À quatre mois du bouclage de son nouveau véhicule d’investissement panafricain, le gestionnaire de fonds indique avoir dépassé sa cible initiale.
Pour son « closing intermédiaire », Amethis Fonds II a obtenu 305 millions d’euros. L’objectif initial était de 300 millions d’euros. Aussi, pour le « closing final » attendu en mai, Amethis espère mobiliser plus de 350 millions d’euros.
Fondé en 2012, Amethis est dirigé par Luc Rigouzzo et Laurent Demey, deux anciens de Proparco (la filiale de l’Agence française de développement dévolue au secteur privé).
Fin 2015, Amethis revendiquait une capacité d’intervention de 530 millions de dollars, incluant toutefois une ligne de financement de 150 millions de dollars signée avec l’institution américaine de développement OPIC. La société met désormais l’accent sur les trois véhicules dont il assure la supervision : Amethis Fonds I (250 millions d’euros), Amethis Maghreb Fonds I (75 millions d’euros) et Amethis West Africa (45 millions d’euros).
Ils ciblent respectivement l’ensemble du continent, l’Afrique du Nord et l’Afrique de l’Ouest. Ces trois fonds ont, selon les informations de Jeune Afrique, achevé leur phase d’investissement et sont, désormais focalisés sur la croissance des entreprises du portefeuille, parmi lesquelles figurent l’ivoirien NSIA (banque et assurance), le marocain CFG Bank et le mauricien Ciel Finance.
Acquisition de participations minoritaires stratégiques
Amethis Fonds II ciblera l’ensemble du continent. Amethis continuera également d’acquérir des participations minoritaires stratégiques principalement dans des entreprises familiales, fournissant des biens et des services aux consommateurs africains.
« Nous restons dans des pays et des entreprises qui ne sont pas dépendantes des matières premières, avec une croissance endogène, détachée des fluctuations macroéconomiques mondiales », explique Luc Rigouzzo, associé de Amethis. Le nouveau fonds aura, toutefois, des tickets d’investissements compris le plus souvent entre 15 millions et 30 millions d’euros, contre 10-25 millions d’euros pour les précédents fonds.
Le nouveau fonds a déjà réalisé deux prises de participation dans le distributeur marocain d’équipements automobile Premium, et le minotier mozambicain Merec.
Parmi les investisseurs au nouveau fonds d’Amethis figurent Proparco (15 millions d’euros), la Banque européenne d’investissement (25 millions d’euros) et la Société financière internationale (IFC, 15 millions d’euros). Le malgache Axian Group, holding de la famille Hiridjee, a également participé à ce nouveau fonds.
C’est – au moins – le cinquième investissement d’Axian dans un fonds d’investissement africain, depuis 2017, après ses prises de participations dans les nouveaux véhicules de Emerging Capital Partners (ECP), Adenia, Partech Africa et Miarakap, fonds malgache de la société Investisseurs & Partenaires.
Amethis compte vingt-cinq salariés et cinq bureaux (Paris, Luxembourg, Nairobi, Casablanca et Abidjan).

Story 98
Under open banking, financial institutions will have to adopt customer loyalty solutions in order to stay ahead of competition.
One in two UK consumers would be happy to use open banking and share transaction data with third parties if they are offered a more personalised service, a recent study has found.
One in three would be happy to use banking services from technology companies because of the personalisation they offer, it said.
The study said UK banks that missed January deadline for open banking are now facing the end of their extension period and the deadline for HSBC and Nationwide to implement compliant payments functionality will also end in February 2018.
So far, established financial services providers have relied on large, static customer bases. However, with the implementation of open banking, customers will be able to allow third-party access to their accounts and financial data, facilitating tech companies to offer direct financial services and providing increased visibility to consumers.
According to the study, open banking is expected to change the rigid rules of the game, make the financial services market more transparent and put new and established service providers on an equal footing.
While new players are likely to attract customers by offering better deals and ultra-personalised service, established providers will be required to communicate in an increasingly personalised way to prove that they are making efficient use of the data they hold.
Furthermore, the study said that under open banking, financial institutions will have to adopt customer loyalty solutions to stay ahead of competition and smart and precise communication alone could create such a relationship between a bank and its clients.
Relationship marketing hub Optimove CEO Pini Yakuel said: “Banks and financial services providers will have to focus on giving the best possible value to the customer, to stop them switching to their competitors. Offering highly tailored communications will be key to this.
“Financial services firms will be looking at their existing data to find out what value means to each person, and adapting marketing strategies in an emotionally-intelligent way to make every customer feel special.
“Consumers are likely to see an increasingly personalised experience, as old and new financial companies move to distinguish their brand with promotions and rewards tailored to each individual, like retailers.”

Story 99
This series will give attendees new insights into how modern voice technologies can be integrated with WMS solutions while addressing some of the biggest questions business leaders have during the evaluation phase. -- Scott Deutsch, EPG
Ehrhardt Partner Group (EPG), a leading global provider of supply chain execution and voice software solutions, today announced the EPG Lunch and Learn Webinar Series. The short webinars focus on key questions being asked about implementing voice technology in today’s modern distribution center, providing answers to frequently asked questions and insights into how the evolution of voice technology enables smarter connected logistics.
“The capabilities and use cases of voice in the warehouse have changed dramatically compared to when many businesses made their initial technology investments,” said Scott Deutsch, President, Americas, EPG. “Modern voice solutions provide more productivity – in some cases, customers have experienced a worker productivity increase of more than 10 percent. In addition, the use of deep neural network technology, which continuously ‘learns’ as it is used, provides more than a 25 percent increase in voice recognition accuracy; this is vital for supporting challenging dialects in noisy industrial environments and helps eliminate the need of previous generation voice template training. This webinar series is intended to help give attendees new insights into how modern voice technologies can be integrated, risk free, with a multitude of WMS solutions while addressing some of the biggest questions business leaders have during the evaluation phase.”
To view the full webinar agenda and to register, visit EPG 19 Minute Lunch and Learn. Each EPG Lunch and Learn Webinar will begin at 12:00pm Eastern. Webinar topics include:
February 20, 2019: Voice in Your Warehouse: Prove It! Learn how to take project risk off the table quickly by proving that Lydia Voice™ integrates with virtually any WMS solution and validating the voice recognition in your environment before making any major financial and resource commitments.
March 20, 2019: Execute a Two-Vendor Voice Strategy: Vocollect Voice™ and Lydia Voice Co-Exist. If you are an existing Vocollect Voice customer, learn how to successfully execute a two-vendor voice strategy by using Vocollect Voice and Lydia Voice together – see for yourself how Lydia Voice can provide an additional 8 percent to 12 percent gain in worker productivity!
April 17, 2019: Lydia Voice and SAP™ eWM and WM: The Premier Voice Warehouse Solution. Learn how Lydia Voice, the premier voice solution for SAP customers, can rapidly optimize your workflow processes and help take SAP to new performance heights.
May 22, 2019: Next Generation Productivity: Lydia Voice and Zebra® Smarter Together. Learn how Zebra Technologies and EPG’s Lydia Voice solution are leading the way forward for next-generation voice strategies in distribution centers.
June 19, 2019: Using Voice Technology Without Headsets in Distribution Centers: Fact or Fiction. Learn how customers are using voice technology without requiring headsets.
June 17, 2019: Next Generation Voice Recognition for the Noisy Distribution Center Environment. Learn how deep neural network technology is continuously learning will providing more than a 25 percent increase in voice recognition accuracy and eliminates the need of previous generation voice template training.
To learn more about Lydia Voice, visit http://www.lydia-voice.com.
About Ehrhardt Partner Group
Ehrhardt Partner Group (EPG) is the leading provider of comprehensive supply chain execution and voice software solutions for smarter connected logistics. EPG’s highly configurable and scalable logistics solution, LFS, delivers Tier I functionality inclusive of: warehouse management, warehouse control and automation, resource management, transportation management, advanced business intelligence analytics and its industry leading iBrowser ensures ongoing support for all major browsers, delivering flexibility and platform independence. Our Lydia Voice solution offers unparalleled voice recognition with its deep neural network technology and eliminates the need for voice template training, while interfacing with a multitude of WMS and ERP solutions. EPG is the only company to offer a lifetime WMS integration guarantee to voice customers. To learn more, visit http://www.epg.com.

Story 100
The Bretton Woods Project's selection of the best books, reports and other resources on the World Bank and IMF from 2018.
BOOKS
Enforcing the rules in a global economy: The emergence of structural conditionality in the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund Pauly, L., 2018; In: Indart, G., Critical Issues in International Financial Reform, New York: Routledge, Chapter 9
International finance institutions are known for suggesting structural conditionality; a tactic which this chapter suggests has the motive of initiating interaction amongst international political economies.
One size for all? policy advice of the World Bank and the OECD on quality assurance and evaluation of school education in Russia, Brazil, and China Takala, T., Kallo, J., Kauko, J., Rinne, R., 2018; in Wiseman, A.W., Davidson, P.M., (ed.), Cross-nationally Comparative, Evidence-based Educational Policymaking and Reform (International Perspectives on Education and Society, Volume 35) Emerald Publishing Limited, pp.301-319
This chapter discusses the impact of transnational education policy agendas made by the World Bank and Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD).
World Bank Urban Shelter projects in East Africa: matching needs with appropriate responses? Campbell, J. 2018; in: Housing Africa’s Urban Poor, London: Routledge, Chapter 11
This chapter reviews the success of the World Bank-sponsored urban shelter programmes in East Africa since 1974 and whether similar shelter projects would be successful in meeting the needs of the urban poor.
REPORTS AND BRIEFINGS
A toolkit for advocacy at the World Bank Group Eurodad, October 2018
This report provides a toolkit for those interested in development finance issues within the context of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. An overview of the Bank is provided before giving guidance on possible advocacy and campaign work.
A toolkit for advocacy at the International Monetary Fund Eurodad, April 2018
This report provides a toolkit for those interested in development finance issues within the context of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The report focusses on how the IMF influences international finance architecture and the effects of this.
Argentina goes back to the IMF. Neo-Liberalism, crisis and protest Tricontinental: Institute for Social Research, November 2018
After 15 years of independence from the IMF, Argentina once again sought help from the IMF after devaluation of the peso. This report discusses the turbulent relationship between Argentina and the IMF.
Assessing austerity: Monitoring the human rights impacts of fiscal consolidation Center for Economic and Social Rights, February 2018
This briefing assesses the impact of austerity measures in the decade since the 2008 financial crisis on human rights. Suggestions for policy makers, oversight bodies, and civil society actors are offered to ensure there is not another lost decade for human rights due to fiscal consolidation.
Broken promises: The World Bank, international investors and the fight for climate justice in the Philippines Inclusive Development International, Bank Information Center Europe, Philippine Movement for Climate Justice, April 2018
The Philippines is becoming increasingly vulnerable to threats posed by climate change, especially typhoons. Though the government signed the Paris Agreement in 2017 and adopted the Renewable Energy Act, they are also pushing through coal expansion projects financed by domestic banking centres. This paper discusses the implications of this.
Climate scheme hands $105 million profit to global insurance industry Jubilee Debt Campaign, November 2018
In over 80% of the most economically damaging climate disasters of the 21st century, government debt was higher two years after the disaster. This report critiques the current model of climate risk insurance, arguing that currently the victims of disasters are the one’s that must foot the bill of climate change.
Coming out of the dark: Is the IFC investing in a fossil free future? BIC Europe, November 2018
By tracking 148 financial intermediaries (FIs) investments made by the International Finance Corporation (IFC), the World Bank’s private sector arm, this report aims to assess whether the IFC has really reformed its FI lending.
Extreme poverty and human rights United Nations General Assembly, September 2018
This report discusses the trend to encourage privatisation popular amongst governments and international actors and the subsequent implication on human rights.
Gender equality and macro-level economics: recommendations for action Gender & Development Network, May 2018
GADN make recommendations on the ways macro-level economic policy can be transformed to achieve gender equality.
History RePPPeated – How public private partnerships are failing Eurodad, October 2018
Public private partnerships are promoted by the World Bank and other multilateral development banks as the solution to promoting SDGs, however this report discusses PPPs shortfalls with reference to both developed and developing countries.
Lighting the way? Assessing the World Bank’s Climate Action Plan and energy access BIC Europe, October 2018
The WBG has made commitments towards both resolving the unacceptable situation of unequal access to electricity and climate change goals, however sufficient progress has not been made on either goal. This paper discusses the shortfalls of the WBG in this area.
Powering the transition World Bank and other IFI energy lending in Asia Oxfam, October 2018
The Climate Vulnerable Forum of countries has made commitments to reach 100% renewable energy by 2050 in Pacific Island nations putting IFI energy sector support plans to shame. This paper suggests how IFIs can improv
Realising women’s rights: The role of public debt in Africa Gender & Development Network, August 2018
Public debt in the African continent undermines the ability for governments to meet their commitments on gender equality and the promotion of women’s rights. GADN suggests a reform of the global financial system is required to ensure the costs of debt are not disproportionately born by women.
Report of the Special Rapporteur on extreme poverty and human rights United Nations General Assembly, July 2018
This report discusses the IMF stance on social protection and suggests that in light of the Funds involvement in low-income countries it ought to include social protection in its considerations.
Reward work, not wealth Oxfam, January 2018
Last year saw the biggest increase in billionaires in history, one more every two days. This huge increase could have ended global extreme poverty seven times over. 82% of all wealth created in the last year went to the top 1%, and nothing went to the bottom 50%. Dangerous, poorly paid work for the many is supporting extreme wealth for the few. Women are in the worst work, and almost all the super-rich are men. Governments must create a more equal society by prioritizing ordinary workers and small-scale food producers instead of the rich and powerful.
Seven reasons why feminists say no to World Bank-IMF Neoliberalism APWLD, October 2018
The report highlights the ways in which World Bank infrastructure projects and IMF conditional loans impact women’s human rights.
Shortchanging energy access: A progress report on multilateral development bank finance Oil Change International, October 2018
This report discusses the success of financing energy access projects by MDBs. It finds that whilst half energy access finance went to energy poor countries, more directed targeting needs to occur in order to reach the most energy poor communities.
Short-changed: How the IMF’s tax policies are failing women ActionAid UK, October 2018
The report examines the gendered impact of the IMF’s promotion of regressive, indirect taxes like VAT compared with progressive taxes that are directly linked to income and wealth. It recommends that gender responsive tax and expenditure policies should be at the heart of the IMF’s efforts to tackle gender inequality.
The IMF and fragile states evaluation report 2018 Independent Evaluation Office of the International Monetary Fund, 2018
Countries facing persistent fragility, conflict, and violence have been deemed an international priority because of the potential implications for global stability. This report discusses the role the IMF should play in improving this situation.
Time for a reboot at a critical time for multilateralism Independent Evaluation Office (IEO) of the International Monetary Fund, July 2018
Provides an evaluation of the impact of the IEO in the work of the IMF in relation to current global developments.
ACADEMIC PAPERS
An evaluation of the feedback loops in the poverty focus of world bank operations Fardoust, S., Kanbur, R., Luo, X., Sunderberg, M., 2018, Evaluation and Program Planning, Volume 67, pp.10-18
Feedback loops are used by the Independent Evaluation Group of the World Bank to enhance operations and give more focus to work, however this article argues that they are currently weak and ineffective with regard to poverty focus.
Disequilibrium in development finance: The contested politics of institutional accountability and transparency at the World Bank Inspection Panel Sovacool, B., Naude Fourie, A., Tan-Mullins, M., 2018, Development and Change, pp.1-29 [Online]
Focusing on the World Bank independent inspection panel this article reviews how independent accountability mechanisms operate.
Empowering women through agricultural extension: A global perspective Tiwari, R.K., 2018, Indian Rural Market: Opportunity and Challenges in the Global context, 1(1), pp.68-75
This article critically discusses the push from IFIs to increase female labour force participation.
The politics of transnational accountability policies and the (re)construction of corruption: The case of Tunisia, Transparency International and the World Bank Murphy, J., Brindusa Albu., O., 2018, Accounting Forum, 42(1), pp.32-46
This paper discusses how transnational actors like the World Bank define acceptable governance and assume that corruption is endemic in developing countries. The effects of such policies are discussed.
The role of the World Bank in middle-income countries Kabur, R., 2018, Issues in Indian Public Policies, [Online] pp.167-180
Paper provides a discussion of World Bank relationships with MIC’s. It points out that MIC’s are a diverse category and therefore should be considered differently.
ARTICLES, CAMPAIGN LETTERS, PRESS RELEASES AND BLOGS
Argentina: new austerity, old neoliberalism Green Left, February 2018
Protests in Argentina after the coalition government, Cambiemos, presented a bill in congress proposing cuts to social security by $3.4 billion.
Budha Ismail Jam, et al v. IFC: An Indian fishing community takes on the World Bank EarthRights International, 2018
The World Bank’s private sector arm, the International Finance Corporation (IFC), is taken on by fishing communities and farmers for the role it played in funding Tata Mundra Ultra Mega coal fired power plant, which has destroyed natural resources relied upon by locals.
Civil society wishlist for the World Bank’s post-2020 climate goals Civil society letter signed by 37 organisation, September 2018
Civil society groups from around the world issued eight recommendations for the World Bank’s consideration, ahead of its announcement of its new 2025 climate targets in December 2018 at COP24.
Illicit financial flows and the tax haven and offshore secrecy system Tax Justice Network, February 2018
Reducing and eventually eliminating illicit financial flows has been recognised by the Addis Ababa Action Agenda of the United Nations as important for achieving Sustainable development goals. However, what is covered by the term ‘illicit’ is unclear.
IMF conditionality: still undermining healthcare & social protection? Eurodad, May 2018
Despite previously denying claims that conditionalities connected to IMF lending worsen health outcomes, Eurodad hopes that 2018 reviews of its conditionalities regarding health care will be considered.
Letter by Independent Expert on Foreign Debt and Human Rights to Jim Yong Kim on 2019 WDR OHCHR, August 2018
Letter to president of the World Bank expressing views on the draft World Development Report 2019.
Newly adopted UN resolution shows growing consensus to improve regulation of education in accordance with human rights law The Global Initiative, July 2018
UN Human Rights Council issued a public statement highlighting the need to further regulate the commercialisation of education in respect to human rights principles.
Response to The Guardian’s opinion piece on Tunisia IMF, February 2018
IMF defend advice given to Tunisia, claiming that they do not advocate austerity but instead promote ‘well-designed, socially balanced reforms’.
Role of IMF-backed elimination of universal social protection in protests Development Pathways, 2018
Iranian population suffers after IMF encourages government to end universal cash transfers.
S. Government opposes “absolute” immunity for World Bank Group in brief to SCOTUS EarthRights International, August 2018
US Supreme Court reverses ruling that international organisations like the Word Bank Group are entitled to ‘absolute immunity’ for lawsuits in US courts. Instead, these institutions are ruled to be subject to the same ‘restrictive’ immunity faced by foreign governments.
The fiscal costs of PPPs in the spotlight Investment Policy, March 2018
PPPs are becoming an increasingly popular way to finance development, however they come with higher risks and often higher costs to governments.
The World Bank’s fetish for ranking: The case of Doing Business rank for Chile Oakland institute, February 2018
Discussion of debate as to whether ‘methodological changes’ to the World Bank’s Doing Business Ranking system were a deliberate ploy to disfavour Chile in rankings because of their new socialist president, Michelle Bachelet.
The World Bank’s incoherent approach to taxes Oxfam, January 2018
Article provides a critique of the World Bank’s Doing Business Rankings which it argues are flawed on a variety of grounds including subjectivity, tax indicators and labour components.
Whither democratization and sustainability? Heinrich Boll Stiftung, October 2018
A critique of the 22 proposals on broad areas for increasing the power of the current development finance system listed in the G20 EPG Report.

Story 101
Chinese President Xi Jinping (R) and US President Donald Trump at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing on November 9, 2017.
Trade tensions are showing no signs of easing, but that's not stopping analysts from finding hidden gems to bolster your portfolio. While the U.S. and China continue their back and forth analysts say there are plenty of ways to invest.
CNBC examined the most recent Wall Street research to find stocks to invest in and around the ongoing trade battle. Companies with buy ratings include Best Buy, Fabrinet, Big Lots, Zebra Technologies, Dover Corporation and Cabot.
The tariff battle has certainly taken its toll on the markets. Since President Donald Trump's May 5th tweet storm the Dow Jones Industrial Average and S&P 500 are both down over 6%. The sell-off deepened on Friday after Trump threatened to slap a 5% tariff on all Mexican imports.
When Best Buy reported second quarter earnings last week, analysts were squarely focused on the impact that tariffs would have on the electronics retailer. The retail sector has had many analysts on edge due to the sector's broad exposure to tariffs.
Not only did the company report a solid quarter but analysts at Raymond James said the tariff impact was "minimal" -- for now. "The key risk in the near-term, however, is what items could potentially be on a new list of ~ $100 billion in tariffs that be could be announced in June or July," they wrote. The firm maintained their strong buy on the stock.
Shares of Best Buy are down 3.74% on the week.
Big Lots reported better-than-expected earnings on Friday and raised its guidance. The discount retailer has also been caught up in the tariff war with the stock down 25% this month.
"In our view, this presents a particularly attractive buying opportunity," Bank of America said. The analyst is also bullish on the discount retailer's "underappreciated transformation opportunity with its 'store of the future' remodel program."
One analyst recently heard something which surprised him during a recent investor conference. The CEO of Dover Corporation went out of his way to say that his company was actually benefiting from the tariff battle, according to analysts at Gordon Haskett.
"This is the only company we have heard in the multi-industry space to call this out," analyst John Inch said of Dover, which manufactures industrial products.
"Dover has been winning more business as Chinese products have become more expensive – primarily component type products (product example: pumps) – and as North American companies have been looking for alternate suppliers (to China). Dover is not significantly that exposed (directly) to Chinese tariffs as it is leveraged toward domestic production," Inch told CNBC.
Dover is down 1.03% on the week
Here are buying opportunities amidst the U.S.-China trade war:

Story 102
LONDON, Oct. 15, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Today at Elite Petro & Gas headquarters in the City of London, Dr. Faisal Khazaal (Chairman) and Mr. George Matharu (President) announced the official launch of this new Division within Elite Capital & Co. Limited, which was setup to provide Finance, Trading and Advisory services in the global Oil and Gas markets.

“Elite Petro & Gas is a Finance, Trading and Advisory firm with a focus on downstream activities in the global Oil and Gas markets. We are a results-driven business, working closely with our clients to deliver tangible solutions and outcomes.” Mr. George Matharu, President of Elite Petro & Gas, said.
The oil and gas industry is facing challenging times, particularly from changes in the political landscape and increased price volatility. Understanding the nuances of working internationally, often in emerging economies and less stable regimes, is key to ensuring that business risks are appropriately managed.
The Elite Petro & Gas (“EPG”) team is made up of very senior and highly experienced professionals, with “hands-on” practical knowledge of doing business across all five continents. EPG have political relationships with many countries, allowing us to navigate through complex problems at the highest level. EPG also have direct relationships with the largest oil and gas producing companies around the world, and with global trading companies in the sector.
Dr. Faisal Khazaal, Chairman of Elite Petro & Gas commented “Elite Petro & Gas is a wholly owned Division of Elite Capital & Co. Limited, a company that provides turn-key solutions for the Engineering, Procurement, Construction and Finance of major infrastructure projects all over the world”.
Elite Petro & Gas provides boutique services for buyers and sellers of Crude Oil, Oil Products and LNG by working with government agencies, oil and gas majors, commodity traders and private firms in the energy industry.
They also provide advisory services or facilitate the introduction of their clients to principal counterparties related to Oil and Gas transactions or projects to build and/or widen market reach.
EPG dedicated and experienced team maintains and fosters links to market participants who are active in the commodities and geographies they focus on, and where they have a deep network of local contacts.
Elite Petro & Gas Key Commodities:
CRUDE OIL (including ESPO/REBCO/BONNY/BASRAH/LIBYAN)
GASOIL (50ppm, 10ppm)
AVIATION (JET A1, JP54)
NAPHTHA
LIQUIFIED PETROLEUM GAS
LIQUIFIED NATURAL GAS
Dr. Faisal Khazaal and Mr. George Matharu concluded their statement by saying “we are now in the process of drawing up the three-year plan for Elite Petro & Gas and we are determined to make this trademark a pre-eminent name in the oil and gas sector.
Elite Petro & Gas – Contact Details –
Elite Petro & Gas
(Trademark by Elite Capital & Co. Limited)
33 St. James Square
London, SW1Y4JS
United Kingdom
Telephone: +44 (0) 203 709 5060
Facsimile: +44 (0) 203 709 5061
SWIFT Code: ELCTGB21
Website
petro.uk.com

Story 103
The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) on Friday issued a statement clarifying that consumers have freedom to choose the SD (standard definition) channels they can get as part of its new rules and regulations for DTH and cable operators.The customers can also avail paid channels that have become free to air.“Consumer has complete freedom to choose their desired 100 SD channels within the network capacity fee of maximum Rs 130. The desired channels could be in a-Ia-carte free to air channels or Pay channels or bouquet of pay channels or any combination thereof. The choice completely rests with the consumers,” The TRAI release said.With January 31 being the last date to subscribe pre-tariff order packs TRAI has asked consumers to exercise their options well before this period to continue to view their favourite channels. “Subscribers are also advised not to wait for the last minute to avoid any inconvenience,” TRAI notification said.After that date, the existing packs and prices are set to lapse. Further the consumers who have not migrated to the new packs are likely to face interruption.According to the TRAI note, the maximum retail price (MRP) of a channel on a-la-carte can be viewed in the Electronic Programme Guide (EPG) or Menu of their TV screens. “Distribution Platform Operator (DPO) such as cable operators, DTH operators may provide discount on the MRP displayed on the EPG,” TRAI said.

Story 104
News stories about TSC stock have been trending extremely negative this week, InfoTrie reports. The research firm ranks the sentiment of media coverage by reviewing more than six thousand news and blog sources in real-time. The firm ranks coverage of companies on a scale of negative five to positive five, with scores nearest to five being the most favorable. Tristate Capital earned a media sentiment score of -4.0 on InfoTrie's scale. They also assigned news articles about the financial services provider a news buzz of 0.0 out of 10, indicating that recent media coverage is extremely unlikely to have an impact on the company's share price in the near term. View News Stories for Tristate Capital.

Story 105
The approval is granted about a month after the CMA provisionally cleared the deal.
The UK Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) today announces that it has cleared PayPal’s completed takeover of rival mobile payments company iZettle. The approval is granted about a month after the regulator provisionally cleared the deal and follows an in-depth, Phase 2, investigation.
The CMA notes that both companies provide mobile point of sale (mPOS) devices that enable businesses to take ‘offline’ payments through a card reader connected to a smartphone or tablet. The two companies are also active in the emerging market for ‘omni-channel’ payment services, through which businesses can take ‘offline’ and ‘online’ payments through a single provider.
The Phase 1 investigation by the CMA had triggered concerns that PayPal’s purchase of its rival might reduce competition in the supply of mPOS devices in the UK. This led to the deal being referred for a comprehensive, Phase 2, probe. The CMA then announced in April that it had provisionally found the deal should be cleared. Having consulted on this provisional finding, the CMA has now confirmed the merger has been cleared.
The CMA reviewed extensive evidence relating to PayPal’s rationale for the merger and what the commercial strategies of PayPal and iZettle would have been if the merger had not taken place. It also considered how customers choose between the more novel mPOS devices, and ‘traditional’ point of sale devices.
The investigation has shown that, while iZettle and PayPal are two of the largest suppliers of mPOS devices, their customers are also willing to switch to ‘traditional’ POS devices. The two largest suppliers of payment services to smaller merchants, Worldpay and Barclaycard, account for almost 60% of the market at present and will continue to constrain the merged company. The merged company will also face significant competition from other mPOS-only players, such as Square and SumUp, which have both grown significantly in recent years.
In omni-channel services, the CMA found that iZettle would only have been able to develop its offering slowly and would have remained a marginal player for the foreseeable future. The CMA also found that other significant competitors would be more important constraints on PayPal.
PayPal’s $2.2 billion takeover of Swedish mobile payments company iZettle was completed in September 2018.

Story 106
Source: equensWorldline
Mobi Direct, one of the leading Payment System Operators (PSO)/Payment Service Providers (PSP) in Pakistan contracted Worldline [Euronext: WLN], the European leader in the payment and transactional services industry, to provide its state-of-the-art digital payment infrastructure platform in Pakistan.
Following the integration and implementation, Mobi Direct will have the capability and capacity to deliver a wide range of issuing and acquiring transactions for its customers and the banking industry as a whole. The platform will allow Mobi Direct to offer a variety of innovative products and solutions to the banking community, merchants/consumers, public sector enterprises and digital players.

Mobi Direct is the first PSO/PSP authorized by the State Bank of Pakistan to establish an Electronic Payment Gateway (EPG) in Pakistan and is developing an eco-system for various types of digital payments and e-commerce products. This will not only enable the fulfillment of digital banking needs for bank customers but will also play a significant role in the financial inclusion of the unbanked population, especially in the rural economy, as well as allowing the export community to offer Pakistani products to overseas markets.

Wolf Kunisch, Member of the Executive Committee at Worldline and Deputy CEO at equensWorldline, says: "Mobi Direct’s digital payments project will play a vital role in the modernization of Pakistan’s finance sector and of the country’s economy as a whole, and Worldline is proud to be part of these developments. This partnership is our first project in Pakistan and this market will benefit strongly from our proven and comprehensive solutions for digital payments in terms of performance, flexibility, modularity and cost effectiveness.”

Aarij Ali, CEO of Mobi Direct, says: “We want to take the lead in modernizing the payments infrastructure in Pakistan in order to improve efficiency and be prepared for future developments in the payments industry. Based on its excellent track record, experience and readiness for digital payments processing, Worldline was the obvious choice. We are pleased and proud that, by partnering with Worldline, we will be the frontrunner for the implementation of digital payments in Pakistan.”

Story 107
You'd be forgiven for thinking this long awaited and highly revered era of 21st Century 'Open banking' that's just been ushered into the UK with a spirited shove-in-the-back by its Competition & Markets Authority (CMA) hasn't exactly captured the public's interest.

Open Banking is the central plank of the second most significant payments directive to come out of Europe this Millennium (PSD2). Like its forerunner nearly a decade before, its principal aim is to loosen the vice like grip large retail banking giants hold over their customers and perhaps more specifically their customers financial doings, by fostering an ecosystem in which new young FinTechs can not only land but be given an adequate share of the oxygen for long enough to potentially thrive.

Two key enablers here. First to make sure that old boys play fair with the new kids and then provide the big banks' customers with the freedom to safely engage: to try and test out the spectrum of compelling ideas brought to market by the young breed of FinTechs, whilst the seasoned custodian bank keeps watchful eye.

So, it hasn't started well.

That is to say, putting aside the delayed start by the significant majority of the so called CMA9 (Allied Irish, Bank of Ireland, Barclays, Danske, HSBC, Lloyds, Nationwide & Santander) the way the UK's Open Banking Implementation Entity or OBIE has devised the 'Consent Model' (that's the process by which the customer gives the FinTech permission to access their bank account) will have the conspiracy theorists spinning and the scammers working nights.

Let's look at the 'Open Banking Consent Model' (source: openbanking.org.uk)

New FinTechs that want to engage in Open Banking: either for the purposes of delving deeply into a customer's account information (AIS) or to make and take payments on their behalf (PIS) are collectively known as Third Party Providers (TPPs). The process by which the bank account holder gives consent to one of these new TPPs in order for them to access their account starts in the TPP's own domain.

When the customer clicks the consent box and indicates which of their bank accounts they wish to permit TPP access to they are handed off (digital auto-redirect) to their bank login page by the TPP's own application. Next thing they see is their bank's website which should look broadly familiar. It's not their usual login screen (which for a significant proportion would be their bank app) it's a new landing page on the banks online banking website that has been specially built for the purpose of Open Banking 2018.

An illustration is provided on the Open Banking Consent Model. In the example on page 5 (included at the bottom of this blog) 'Treequote' is the FCA Authorised AIS looking to access the customer's financial doings from 'Greenview Bank'. Having selected their bank account and confirmed consent, the next thing the account holder knows they're at their bank's website. Figure 2.3 depicts the Greenview bank's mobile web page.

Next the customer enters their sensitive bank login credentials to prove they're the account holder (referred to in Fig 2.3 as 'the authentication step'). Once authenticated the bank then serves up a list of the various consents the TPP has told the bank the account holder has given them and asks the account holder to confirm this. After that the same mechanism that got them there delivers the customer back to the TPP's domain (in this example they are returned to Treequote).

According to OBIE these new landing pages (URLs) created by each of the CMA9 replicate the current online banking login routine of each account holder. So depending upon the bank you use this login (authentication step) may be knowledge-only based (using a User-ID and password as in the Greenview Bank example) or may require a SecureKey or some other physical token which arrived on the scene in the last Millennium. However, a significant amount of online browser logins in the UK , such as NatWest, still use the single factor knowledge-only approach known as One Factor Authentication (1FA).

A scammer's delight

Not only does this consent flow include two session breaks which are ideal phishing attack vectors but there's a greater scamming opportunity created here …

Now please shout out in the Comment box if you know of any other use cases where a third party organisation redirects the account holder to his/her own bank login page and asks them to verify themselves by logging into their bank account before being transported back to the third party's domain. Since I'm not aware of any I'm keen to hear as fostering such behaviour, which puts customers login credentials at risk seems plain irresponsible.

It would be trivial for scammers using a lure and having ghosted up a suite of exact replicas of each of the banks login pages to capture customer login credentials. Although it feels like and looks like you've been securely taken to your bank's login site, you of course hadn't actually left the scammer's domain. A few keystrokes later and they're away with your login credentials. This kind of scam using false website links to click on or bank fraud hotline numbers to ring (which present as the real thing) have been around a while because they've been successful. Haven't we learnt from this? People unfortunately fall for this stuff.

In attempts to combat such a risk, banks state: "you are urged to first establish that the TPP is authorised by the FCA by checking the register". Despite such alerts typically being unhelpfully buried in up-issued T&Cs, have you actually tried checking the FCAs register to see if the supposed TPP is 'Authorised' as an AIS or PIS? Have a go here if you like.

You fall deep into the dark vaults of the FCA where you're expected to use their vast corporate catch-all registry and left to make some assumptions. Logic would suggest a separate 'Open Banking' registry might have been created but this is all there is and from the public's perspective it's as clear as it is user-friendly (hint: not fit for purpose).

Adding to the confusion: in their recent customer advisories on Open Banking banks are suggesting that Authorised TPPs may actually ask for your bank login credentials. I kid you not: Barclays wrote to customers recently on Open Banking advising "an alternative option is to share your bank account details directly. This is where any company can request your personal login details. If you give them your login details the company will then log into your bank account as if they were you in order to use your data". In their updated T&Cs on 13 January (the day Open Banking went live in the UK) RBS advises: "Some TPPs might ask for you for your digital banking login details and passwords to provide their service to you."

Whatever their rationale it seems totally irresponsible for such misinformation to be circulating on any 'Open Banking' informers as the Implementation Entity (OBIE) has confirmed to me this week: "none of the TPPs has a use case under the new Open Banking Standards to ask a customer to share their login credentials".
Whilst that's great to hear the public are being recklessly misinformed ... by their own banks.

Looking at the Consent Model itself it's a woefully low-tech design for what's supposed to be the bleeding edge way forward. The all-important customer journey (user experience) will inevitably be frustrating and it will wholly underwhelm the significant proportion of would be customers that bank-by-app and log in using smartphone sensors. They will feel like they've be teleported back to a dark age when bounced back to their old online banking login URL which was never their friend. I expect many may struggle to even remember their online login routine and just drop out.

So why has it been designed like this?

Inevitably that cursed blend of time, cost, inertia and apathy. The CMA's timeline for UK banks was just unrealistic. Furthermore, the Open Banking Standards that OBIE produced was completed before even the 'transition period' for PSD2. Even though the law is in place, the important Regulatory Technical Standards (RTS) for 'Open Banking' are not: they are essentially still in flux and don't apply until officially approved by the European Parliament & Council (EPC) and published in the Official Journal of the EU. That's 18+ months away.

These are the key standards that govern the way in which secure communication between the new TPPs, the account holder and their bank is managed and the manner in which the customer authenticates themselves: the new system's blood and oil if you like.

With so much of the workings still in the air and subject to change (at least until 2019) it's no great surprise that banks have managed to adopt a minimum viable product approach.

Okay, let's look at possible alternatives?

Governed by the same imposed pressures from the CMA, I'm sure the good folks at the Implementation Entity (OBIE) are in a tight spot and have been working very very hard. That said they need to rethink their Consent Model pretty soon.

I'm going to field an alternative, but the Comment box is ready waiting for yours!

The bank account provider authenticating its own customer is a sensible plank of the RTS, but that doesn't mean it has to be done in the same flow and the sequencing's wrong. The first establishment of trust in the tripartite is the customer verifying themselves to their bank (whilst the TPP stands by) when the new and most untrusted party in the transaction is the TPP.

It would be more sensible, more secure and more scam proof for the CMA9 to build and maintain a drop-down list of the FCA authorised AIS and PIS companies in their apps and websites and keep the TPP out of the authentication flow.

When a customer hears of a compelling new TPP service they want to try they login to their bank account (themselves) using their normal routine. Then they select the TPP from the dropdown box of 'Authorised TPPs'; click the activities they wish to permit the TPP to carry out (another drop-down: one each for AIS and PIS) and they're done. Their bank then runs an algorithm which spits out a unique code: which is profiled to the TPP, the customer and all the personalised mix of consents they've just granted. This Consent Code let's call it can then be passed by the customer to the Authorised TPP (useless to others should it fall into the wrong hands).

When the TPP presents the code to the bank's API, the bank can compare the access rights they're requesting to their records from the Consent Code the bank generated and stored on the customer's account. This securely removes any involvement of the TPP in the customer login process (authentication) and should the customer wish to revoke any aspect of the consent they've granted they know exactly where to go to remove it. The account holder has much greater control.

Clearly this alternative model would be a fair bit slicker again on the smartphone app scenario (mirroring common verification loops using 2FA and OTCs delivered by App Notifications not SMS). By the time the TPP Consent Code arrives on the customer's screen (via Bank App Notification service) the customer has closed their bank app and opened up the TPP app and it's there ready to copy and drop.

[ worth reminding that Open Banking isn't available to those that don't bank online. It's a separate debate: but there's a strong argument backed by considerable advantages for all stakeholders to make Open Banking a feature that's only available App-to-App ]


Is the current Consent Model even PSD2/GDPR compliant?

It's questionable whether the current consent model is even compliant to PSD2 Article 97(5): "protecting the confidentiality and integrity of an account holders personalised security credentials". Beyond that, the extent to which the customer's sensitive customer login credentials are endangered by the model might also fail scrutiny of new GDPR regulations which come into force in May 2018, where the leading mantra there is "data integrity by design". By design.

We'll have to see how those play out.

Where do we go from here?

The overarching claim here is that CMA has been too hasty in propelling UK banks into Open Banking (as part of their retail banking sector remedies) and before the environment was actually ready. This is the CMA's doings and critics would say they've pushed UK banks under the bus. In bringing Open Banking to the UK they should have understood the wider relevance of having PSD2's RTS in force.

Due to the highly complex nature of devising all the necessary components around the secure communication between the customer, the new FinTech and the incumbent banks; including the obvious need to set up a new API interoperable platform and the sensible requirement (now that everyone has a smartphone) for online transactions to be authenticated to a higher standard, the RTS doesn't come into force in Europe (including the UK) until the end of next year. Even 18 months is challenging to build, test, and refine all the components.

The customer authentication piece within the RTS is known as 'Strong Customer Authentication' (SCA). Frequently also referred to as 2FA (two factor authentication) and replacing its weaker alternative of 1FA (described earlier) it's designed to prevent anyone other than the account holder(s) from accessing their account as login must include either 'something they have' (possession: token, smartphone, digikey etc) or, better still: 'something they are' (Inherence: biometric or behavioural biometric etc). It's a requirement of PSD2 that all bank account logins use 2FA when the RTS goes live.

This lets the bank know the account holder, the human, is present (AHP) and since it removes any risk of a third party logging in it essentially kills off screen scraping activities at that point. This is an example of how the RTS has been carefully compiled to include a number of changes choreographed to work in unison.

In forcing UK banks to go live with Open Banking before the RTS goes live the CMA has not just turned the UK into a nursery for the rest of Europe but has unwisely opened the show with a consent model which has the potential to put the UK public off the idea of Open Banking for a very long time.

Let's hope they use the premature entry, the delayed start, the low public awareness and the remaining transition period to their advantage and redesign the consent model very soon.



Story 108
Freesat has appointed David Thomas as its new head of product.
Thomas joins the free-to-air satellite platform from fintech start-up, Novastone Media, where he was also head of product, responsible for strategic vision and the development of a web, iOS and Android app; as well as integrations with external public IM channels such as WhatsApp and WeChat, and developing new features in areas including machine learning, AI, chat bots and data leakage protection.
Prior to Novastone, Thomas worked as a consultant at mobile web development specialist, Atlas Mobile, and worked as a product lead in Sky’s interactive team.
He started his career in the operations department of broadcaster, Cellcast, where, over eight years, he moved from technician to VP, Services.
Alistair Thom, Managing Director at Freesat, said: “David’s appointment is key in this crucial year for Freesat. His diverse experience is invaluable as we look to connect with both new and existing customers in a number of innovative and exciting ways.”

Story 109
Opera TV has introduced a new and modern EPG that manufacturers of smart TVs and STBs can use to transform their end-consumer experiences to address current market trends and requirements.
The EPG mixes broadcast and catalogue content while supporting market-specific profiles. It also supports catch-up TV in EPG, as well as upcoming content in a standard format.
Opera TV has in addition announced that the first out-of-the-box market profile to be supported is Freeview Play, the UK’s hybrid platform which brings together live and catch-up content to viewers.
The Freeview Play profile of the EPG was developed in technical collaboration with Digital UK, the company supporting Freeview Play. It fully supports Freeview Play rules and requirements, allowing device manufacturers to deploy a Freeview Play compliant product without requiring their own custom software development. The Opera TV EPG is also fully integrated with the Freeview Play meta-data service and the Freeview Play players.
According to James Jackson, technology director, Digital UK, “Freeview Play is meeting modern consumers’ desire to move seamlessly between watching live and on-demand with fully integrated guides and menus. Opera TV’s out-of-the-box solution will make it easier than ever for manufacturers to develop Freeview Play products and launch them into the UK market.”
Aneesh Rajaram, CEO, Opera TV, added: “When we analysed the market for EPGs, we saw a market that was heavily fragmented, failed to put the modern viewer first, and lacked scalability in a fast-changing industry.
“We’re proud to introduce a new breed of EPG, one that engages consumers keeping in mind their content consumption habits, while at the same time embracing industry initiatives that will continue to evolve. Manufacturers selecting our EPG can lower the cost of launching such a feature, while gaining time-to-market advantages, especially when launching Freeview Play-certified devices.”
The new EPG will be showcased jointly with Digital UK at IBC 2017 in Hall 14, Stand A20

Story 110
Starling defrauded investors of nearly £3 million in relation to unauthorised investment schemes he operated between 2008 and 2017.
The UK Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has marked a victory in fighting investment scams, as Mark Barry Starling was today sentenced at Southwark Crown Court to 5 years of imprisonment.
Starling defrauded investors of nearly £3 million in relation to unauthorised investment schemes he operated between 2008 and 2017. During this 9-year period, Starling purported to run investment funds and obtained investment monies from his friends and acquaintances. They entrusted him with just under £3 million of their money.
In sentencing, HHJ Bartle QC said that Starling had defrauded investors in an ‘appalling way’. The Judge said that ‘not one word of what [Mr Starling told investors] was true’ and characterized Starling’s claims to his victims as ‘a pack of lies’.
Starling purported to be running three funds, the ‘Pilot Dax Fund’, the ‘Shadow Dax Fund’ and the ‘Pilot Eurostoxx Fund’, and claimed he was a ‘proprietary futures trader’. He traded meager £8,000 of the £3 million invested with him, on which he made a loss of £2,450, yet managed to spend over £1 million maintaining his own lifestyle.
Starling now and then paid money back to his investors on request to keep the illusion of running a successful investment business. In reality, however, these payments were just funded from other victims’ investment money – a typical feature of a pyramid scheme.
In order to cover up his deception and prolong the fraud, Starling also forged documents and correspondence purporting to be from brokerages, and bank statements. He also registered web domain names and created email addresses in names similar to a legitimate brokerage, and for an entirely fictitious brokerage. The Judge noted that the forgeries were ‘sophisticated’ and the whole scheme demonstrated the way that Starling had ‘abused a position of trust’.
Starling was never authorised by the FCA to carry out any regulated activity.
A total of 24 investors are found to have invested money into the funds, of whom 17 lost a total of around £1.8 million. At the hearing, the FCA commenced confiscation proceedings against Starling, and it is expected that the victims will get some limited compensation from funds restrained by the FCA in April 2017.
Starling received a sentence of 5 years imprisonment for an offence of Fraud by False Representation under Section 1 of the Fraud Act 2006 and a concurrent sentence of 12 months imprisonment for Breach of the General Prohibition under S19 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 in that he operated a collective investment scheme without being FCA authorised or exempt.

Story 111
Sky is introducing a ‘Kids Safe Mode’ on its Sky Q platform.
The new setting is being added to the Kids section of the Sky EPG. Parents can then select the setting and enter their PIN. Once activated all non-kids’ content including live TV channels, recordings, on-demand shows and apps will be blocked, meaning that the little ones will only be able to see and explore content suitable for ages up to 12.
Other boxes within a household remain unaffected.
Stephen van Rooyen, Chief Executive UK & Ireland said: “At Sky, we go further than anyone else to ensure we put families first when developing our services. Sky Q’s new Kids Safe Mode is a super simple way for parents to have ultimate peace of mind when their children are watching TV.”
A new guide for parents, produced by Sky and Common Sense Media, will be published later this year. Its purpose is to help parents make more informed choices about what their children watch.

Story 112
Dutch interactive TV specialist Stoneroos is launching its EPG Manager product as Software as a Service for broadcasters, distribution platforms and content owners to manage the distribution and monitoring of the metadata, from import to export.
With EPG Manager broadcasters and content providers have a tool, which enables them to fully control and distribute their TV listings. The EPG Data Manager consist of four tools: import, editorial enrichment, export, an image database, and export.
Stoneroos subsidiary EPG Data offers accurate and rich programme data for every platform and device, and already serves over three million TV homes in the Netherlands with programme information. The developer is now offering its EPG Manager as an SaaS product for third parties, also for those who already have access to their own EPG data, but who want to enrich the information, and add high resolution images.
“To gather and enrich scheduling data into a complete EPG we have developed a software tool that is able to import, enrich and export data: EPG Manager. We offer the possibility to use our EPG Manager to import, enrich and export EPG yourself or use this tool to enrich the data from your current EPG provider,” says Annelies Kaptein, founder and CEO of Stoneroos.
“Metadata is the driving force behing smart OTT applications. Without rich EPG data and without rich VOD data an OTT it is impossible to create OTT apps. Rich EPG data makes your apps attractive and smart, it is the fuel for the guide, for search, for recommendations, and for personalising.”
Stoneroos will be showcasing EPG Manager as SaaS during this year’s IBC in Amsterdam in Hall 14, Stand L.24.

Story 113
Advertisement
It’s easier than ever to watch on-demand TV shows and movies on your Android device. But what about live TV?
Yes, there are services like Sling and PlayStation Vue. However, if you know where to look, you don’t need to subscribe to their expensive plans. You can use free IPTV instead; you just need an IPTV app and an IPTV source.
What Is an IPTV App?
We’ve looked at IPTV in detail What Is IPTV and Is It Legal? What Is IPTV and Is It Legal? What is IPTV? And, more importantly, is IPTV legal? As ever with legal questions, the answer is somewhat nuanced. Read More before, but we’ll summarize briefly here.
IPTV apps are a bit like Kodi; they are empty shells that can’t stream any content without some user input. You have the responsibility for adding channels, playlists, and other sources.
Typically, you cannot use the apps to watch Netflix, Hulu, or direct content from other third-party providers.
Here, we’re not interested in the best on-demand streaming apps Canceled Cable? 8 Streaming TV Apps to Fill the Void Canceled Cable? 8 Streaming TV Apps to Fill the Void If you have canceled cable you may be wondering what to watch next. These streaming TV apps may be the answer, as they offer a traditional viewing experience. Read More or places to watch TV online. We are only looking at the IPTV apps themselves—see our piece on IPTV service providers The Best Legal IPTV Service Providers in 2019 The Best Legal IPTV Service Providers in 2019 Here are the best legal IPTV services that won't get you in trouble with the law. Read More for more. Specifically, we want to know what the best IPTV apps on Android are.
1. Lazy IPTV
Our first pick is Lazy IPTV. It supports M3U playlists in open-view, ZIP, and GZ formats. The app can also read playlists in the XSPF (XML Shareable Playlist) format.
Adding new content to Lazy IPTV is easy. You access content on your local file system and paste URLs directly from the web or your device’s clipboard. The app works with HTTP and UDP streams, and can play videos directly from YouTube and social network VK. There’s also a built-in audio player for internet radio channels.
Importantly for an IPTV app, it supports electronic program guides (EPGs). It can read XMLTV EPGs saved as open-view, ZIP, or GZ.
From a usability standpoint, Lazy IPTV lets you add favorites, supports nested folders, and allows you to create playlist groups. You can export your playlists if you ever decide to switch to an alternative app.
Lastly, the app’s home screen is fully customizable. You can add shortcuts to your most-watched channels and change how the content is displayed.
Download: Lazy IPTV (Free)
2. GSE Smart IPTV
GSE Smart IPTV is one of the most popular IPTV apps in the Google Play Store. It’s been downloaded more than one million times and has a 4.5-star average rating.
The app is popular for good reason. Firstly, it’s arguably the most visually pleasing IPTV app for Android. Its crisp design and cable TV-like EPG layout make it easy to forget you’re even using an app.
Second, GSE Smart IPTV is available on far more platforms than most of its competitors. You’ll find versions for Android, Android TV, iOS, and Apple TV. The app is also Chromecast-compatible. And remember, you can even install Android apps on Amazon Fire TV devices How to Sideload Apps on an Amazon Fire TV Stick How to Sideload Apps on an Amazon Fire TV Stick Here's how to install Fire Stick apps that aren't available on Amazon. Read More if you know how to sideload APK files.
Features-wise, GSE Smart IPTV supports EPG content in the XML, ZIP, and GZ format. It also offers native parental controls and subtitle (SRT files) support.
GSE Smart IPTV can play live streams from HTTP, HSL, M3U8, MMS, RTSP, and RTMP sources. The app is ad-supported.
Download: GSE Smart IPTV (Free)
3. Perfect Player IPTV
Perfect Player IPTV is another hugely popular app. It’s especially popular among Android TV users who are looking for an alternative to the native Live Channels app.
The app supports M3U and XSPF playlists. And if you want to add an electronic program guide, you can use XMLTV (ZIP, GZ, XZ) and JTV.
There are also a few different decoder options to choose from: Native, Software, Hardware, and Hardware Accelerated. Other features include the ability to watch locally saved content, UDP-to-HTTP proxy server support, and automatic syncing with the desktop version of the app for a consistent experience.
Like GSE Smart IPTV, Perfect Player uses a theme that’s easy on the eyes and draws its design cues from cable and satellite TV EPGs.
Note: If you’re thinking of buying an Android TV device, check out our list of essential Android TV questions before you start shopping.
Download: Perfect Player IPTV (Free)
4. IPTV
The straightforwardly named IPTV app is the most downloaded IPTV app for Android; more than 10 million users have installed it.
As you’d expect, you can add both M3U and XSPF playlists to the app. EPG support comes in the form of XMLTV and JTV. If you have a UDP proxy (installed via your local area network), you can use the IPTV app to play multicast streams.
The app offers some customization options too. It can display the channels you’ve added in a list, grid, or tile view, depending which you prefer.
Finally, if you have a dedicated Android set-top box that you use for watching IPTV, it’s worth upgrading to the pro version. This includes a feature that allows the app to auto-start when its host device boots up. The pro version also removes ads and adds a “resume watching” feature that can auto-play your most recently watched channel.
Download: IPTV (Free) | IPTV Pro ($3)
5. OttPlayer
OttPlayer comes pre-installed on some smart TVs. It should be familiar to anyone with a Sharp, Hisense, or Sony set.
A Russian developer created the app. For a long time, it was only available in Russian. Thankfully, there’s now an English version.
OttPlayer supports four streaming protocols (HLS, RTSP, TS by UDP, RTMP) and M3U playlists. It does not work with XSPF playlists. You can also customize your channel icons and add your content sources to the OttPlayer website. Adding one to the site will sync it across all your devices.
Note: You need to make an account on the website before you can use the app.
Unlike many other free IPTV apps on Android, OttPlayer is not ad-supported. It means you won’t have to wait for a channel to load while you watch those annoying “Your video will play in five seconds” messages count down to zero.
Download: OttPlayer (Free)
What About Free IPTV on Kodi?
In this roundup, we wanted to focus on apps that specialize in IPTV. Kodi can play IPTV content, but also can do so much more that we didn’t feel it was a fair comparison.
If you prefer to use Kodi, you won’t need to install any third-party Kodi add-ons. M3U playlist support is a native part of the Kodi app—you just need to add the right component.
To get up and running, head to Add-ons > My Add-ons > PVR > PVR IPTV Simple Client > Configure. Enter your M3U playlist address when prompted.
To learn more about watching live TV, check out how to watch free TV on Android TV How to Watch Free Live TV on Android TV How to Watch Free Live TV on Android TV Want to watch live TV from your Android TV device? Here are the best Android TV apps you can use to stream TV after cutting the cord. Read More . You can also set up Google Chrome on your Android TV How to Install Google Chrome on Android TV How to Install Google Chrome on Android TV Is it possible to install Google Chrome on your Android TV device? Yes it is, and in this article we show you how... Read More and live stream shows from your bookmarks.

Story 114
IIM-K in association with TSW has announced admission to their 11th batch (2018-2020) of Executive Post Graduate Programme (EPGP) for working professionally with 3 Years of experience and a minimum of 50% in graduation.IIM-Kozhikode is one of the leading management schools in India, holding 5th position in nation's best management institutes. Sprawling over the beautiful hillocks of Kunnamangalam, Kerala, IIM-K is one of the fastest growing institutes in India. They launched the Interactive Distance Learning Program, EPGP for working executives in India, offering a one of its kind management education in the Asia-Pacific region.Introduced by IIM-K, in 2001, EPGP is a conscientious two-year management education program, to enable strong business leadership skills among working professionals and help them stay ahead in the growth curve. The programme is accredited by AMBA and will help you build a rewarding relationship through the AMBA network. The curriculum is disseminated via a two module learning methodology. The executives are given lessons on business techniques, market trends, insights through Live Virtual InteractiveThe on-campus module comprising of practical industrial applications enables better understanding of the global business environment. Facilities like real-life case discussions with senior industry professionals to expand technical knowledge and easily accessible off the class learning sessions via Learning Management Portal, make this program different from the traditional courses. The executive will have access to the premium IIM-K library along with the e-library.A revolutionary initiative by Times Professional Learning, The Second Wind (TSW) aims at providing innovation-driven, engaging learning environment for working professionals to polish their skills and achieve greater career heights. EPGP is provided by Times Professional Learning technology platform at 50 TSW location across India.The cutting-edge infrastructure of TSW when combined with the pioneering education system of IIM-K, results in a stimulating learning system yielding successful output.For information regarding the programme or any further query, visit https://timestsw.com/course/iimk-epgp Media Contact:Amruta Rithun Ail, Senior Manager - Public Relations, 9819945670, Amruta.Ail@timesgroup.com

Story 115
Trace has acquired the UK-based music channels Chart Show TV, Chart Show Hits, Starz and The Vault from Sony Pictures Television (SPT).
With this agreement, the media group has acquired, amongst other assets, four Sky EPG (electronic programme guide) positions and the associated brand assets.
Through this deal, Trace signals its return on the UK market, 22 years after the brand was first launched there as an iconic print magazine.
Since then, Trace has grown into a global multimedia brand for Afro Urban music and lifestyle, operating 24 themed pay TV channels as well as radios, events, content, mobile and digital services in 180 countries.
“Trace is extremely excited to be back in the UK, one of the world’s largest and most dynamic markets for both music and urban culture,” said Olivier Laouchez, Chairman, CEO and co-founder of Trace Group.
“We are looking forward to bringing the Trace brand, touch and expertise to these 4 UK music channels as well as synergies with the rest of the Trace ecosystem. This new and strong UK presence will ideally complement and strengthen our existing operations in Africa, France, the USA, the Caribbean and the Indian Ocean.”
“With this strategic acquisition, we will bring together the best of Trace and the best of the UK Afro Urban scene,” said Laurent Dumeau, Managing Director Trace UK.
“Having four Trace-owned channels in the UK is a great asset on which to build the future of Trace music networks, just as Trace channels are transitioning from simple linear TV feeds to hybrid platforms with strongly integrated broadcast, digital, mobile and social components.”

Story 116
An insolvency practitioner has lost a High Court case after the judge ruled that there was a breach of fiduciary duty due to the defendant failing to act with single-minded loyalty to the company
In Brewer & Anor v Iqbal [2019] EWHC 182 (Ch) the joint liquidators of ARY Digital UK Ltd, Richard Brewer and Mark Wilson, brought breach of duty claims against the former administrator of the company, Zafar Iqbal.
The court heard how Iqbal had sold the company’s business and assets back to the directors in a pre-pack. These included Electronic Programming Guides (EPG), Sky TV channels, which Iqbal sold at an undervalue. The EPGs were acquired on a fixed-term basis by agreement between ARY Digital UK and British Sky Broadcasting Limited.
Iqbal became administrator of the company on 19 May 2011 and sold the company’s assets to a company incorporated by ARY Digital UK’s directors for the purpose of acquiring the assets during the administration, however the creditors failed to approve the administration proposals.
The company later entered insolvent liquidation and Iqbal was discharged as administrator under the Insolvency Act 1986.
The liquidators alleged that by selling the company’s assets shortly after he was appointed administrator, Iqbal acted negligently or in breach of his duty of care, breach of trust, fiduciary duty or statutory duty.
Iqbal continued to trade ARY Digital UK although he was aware that British Sky Broadcasting was pressing for payment but ARY Digital UK had paid a £69,618 deposit for broadcasting services. On this basis, Iqbal did not consider that ARY Digital UK would increase its debt during an administration and that an extended period of trading would help him ‘realise a better price for its assets, in particular the EPGs’.
Chris Laughton, partner at Mercer & Hole, gave evidence on what a reasonably competent administrator would have done. The judgment pointed out three interesting points:
the admission by Iqbal that he kept no attendance notes of any kind in respect of any meeting;
Iqbal knew of Statements of Insolvency Practice (SIP) 16 but thought that it did not apply and accepted, again with candour, that he did not consider SIP 13; and
the statements made in the report [to creditors in his proposals], regarding the sale of the company's assets while it was in administration, bore no resemblance to the truth.
On breach of duty of care and skill the judge said: ‘I have taken account of Laughton's report and negligence is manifest in Iqbal's failure to (i) take specialist advice from a person in the EPG industry; (ii) advertise in publications or websites likely to attract purchasers of EPGs and not plant and machinery; and (iii) expose the assets to a proper market for a reasonable period of time.’
The judgment states that a competent administrator having had time to advise the company prior to administration should have made reasonable investigations as to the market for EPGs. It says ‘Iqbal had not so much as undertaken an internet search to ascertain if there was a specialist market, and if there was, the identity of the leading sellers of EPGs.
‘A competent administrator would have taken independent advice as to the marketing and selling from more than one agent, as the asset class was unusual and unfamiliar; would have made inquiries as to how much time the assets should be marketed for in order to obtain the best price.’
Breach of fiduciary duty arose through the administrator failing “to act with ‘single-minded’ loyalty to the company.
As a result of the breaches of fiduciary duty, the award was for equitable compensation, which is assessed on the value of the assets at the date of the judgment, with no requirement for mitigation of loss. The judge awarded £743,750, plus costs.
Iqbal's lawyers declined to comment on whether they would appeal.
Brewer & Anor v Iqbal [2019] EWHC 182 (Ch) is here.
Report by Amy Austin

Story 117
The BBC has renewed its ‘Digital Testing Services Framework II’ contract with Mindtree, the technology company has announced.
The contract continues a four-year relationship with the broadcaster to deliver and support the testing of digital products, applications and services. This includes the iPlayer in the UK and Britbox, the streaming service for US and Canadian viewers, owned by BBC Studios and ITV plc.
“We are excited to build on our strong relationship with the BBC with this new contract,” said Guita Blake, Senior Vice President and Head of Europe at Mindtree. “Over the past six years of working with the broadcaster, we have seen a continued evolution of their offerings, providing their audience with richer and better customer experiences, no matter the location or device.”
The new Framework includes providing functional and non-functional testing and test management for various products, applications and websites, and is across all departments, including TV, Radio, Platforms, North and Nations, and Studios.

Story 118
Direct Line Insurance Group plc (LON: DLG) announced today that Penny James, DLG’s Chief Financial Officer, has been selected to succeed Paul Geddes as Chief Executive with effect from the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 9 May 2019. Paul will step down as a member of the Board following the AGM on 9 May 2019 and will leave the Group at the end of July 2019.
The company has launched the search for a new CFO.
Mike Biggs, Chairman of Direct Line Group, said: ‘The Board is delighted to appoint Penny James as Chief Executive of DLG. She combines a deep understanding of our sector with outstanding leadership skills, financial and risk expertise, and deep strategic thinking. The Board is confident that Penny is ideally suited to leading the delivery of DLG’s short-term strategic imperatives, including technological and business transformation, and the development of the next stage of our strategy. On behalf of the Board and everyone at DLG, I would like to thank Paul Geddes for his leadership over the last decade. Paul successfully led the executive team in the separation of the Group from the Royal Bank of Scotland, its listing on the London Stock Exchange and its entry into the FTSE100. We wish him the very best for the future.’ Penny James, CEO-designate, said: ‘It is a privilege to be taking over the leadership of Direct Line Group. DLG has a talented and diverse group of people, a customer-focused culture, powerful brands and a multi-channel, multi-product business. Together with our strong balance sheet, this has helped make DLG the successful business it is today and means we are ideally placed to thrive in an evolving market. This year we are beginning to execute the next phase of our business transformation strategy, in pursuit of our mission to make insurance much easier and better value for our customers. I feel excited about the long-term potential of the Group and confident that we will continue to deliver for our customers, our shareholders and our people.’ Paul Geddes, CEO, said: ‘It gives me great pleasure to be handing over to Penny as DLG’s next CEO. Penny’s expertise as our CFO and the breadth of experience she brings from previous roles will be invaluable as she leads the business. I’ve worked closely with Penny for over twelve months and have been impressed by her drive, energy and ambition for the Group. I am pleased to be leaving the Group in such experienced and capable hands.’
Penny was appointed to the DLG Board in November 2017 and became CFO in March 2018. She came to DLG from Prudential plc, where she was Group Chief Risk Officer (‘CRO’) and a member of the board. She had previously been Prudential’s Director of Group Finance, Group CFO of Omega Insurance Holdings plc and CFO, UK General Insurance of Zurich Financial Services, where she had held a number of senior finance roles since qualifying as a Chartered Accountant with Coopers & Lybrand in 1995. Penny also served as an independent non-executive director of Admiral Group plc from 2015 to 2017.

Story 119
My5, Channel 5’s rebranded on demand player, has launched on Freesat.
The app also includes content from partner channels including BLAZE, BET, PBS America, Together, Real Stories and Spark, and a selection of foreign language drama.
However, it also means that on demand content from Channel 5 will no longer be available on Panasonic TVs running
Freesat’s ‘Freetime’ EPG as the former Demand 5 app is no longer being supported.
Some Sony TVs and gaming consoles are also affected.

Story 120
MINNEAPOLIS, Aug. 14, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- EPG Security Group announced today it will be heading to Tampa later this month to provide protective services for senior elected officials and special events surrounding the Republican National Convention. The firm has been retained by two different national political clients to provide security for areas inside the convention forum itself, parties for state delegations and the elected officials attending those events.
Both contracts are the result of relationships initially forged with EPG Security Group when the RNC was held in St. Paul, Minnesota, in 2008. The work performed by EPG in St. Paul led to the firm being brought to Washington, DC, to provide security for events around President Obama's inauguration in 2009, and again for the Speaker of the House's election party in 2010.
"I am proud of the relationships we've established with our political clients and extremely proud of the hard work of my team," said Erik Bergling, CEO of EPG Security Group. "Together they are the foundation of our continued growth."
"I was impressed by EPG's Midwest work ethic when they worked for us at the RNC in St. Paul," said Julie Wadler, founder and president of Epiphany Productions, Inc., a premier, full-service event management and fundraising firm based just outside of Washington, DC, that has hired EPG to provide RNC-related security in Tampa. "Our reputation as event planners is based on exceptional service, know-how, and attention to detail. We need to work with vendors that provide us with those same qualities, so we can give our clients the best, customized services they need to be successful. Erik Bergling and his firm do just that. They are flexible, easy to work with, detail-oriented, and – yes, nice."
ABOUT EPG SECURITY GROUP
EPG Security Group is an independently owned full-service security and investigative agency providing executive protection, uniformed officers, and investigative programs. Clients include numerous national political organizations and think tanks. EPG has been honored with working the Obama Inauguration in DC, and the Republican National Convention. Based in Minnesota, EPG Security has networks extending worldwide. For more information, visit http://www.epgsecuritygroup.com/.
MEDIA CONTACT:
Fiona Pradhan, 612-926-8283
fiona@pradhanconsulting.com
SOURCE EPG Security Group

Story 121
Sky and BBC Studios have reached an agreement to offer a new range of BBC comedy and drama box sets to Sky and NOW TV customers.
They’ll be available under the UKTV channel brands of GOLD and Alibi from next month.
The box sets include iconic British comedies The Vicar of Dibley and Only Fools and Horses, and recent hits McMafia and Spooks.
“Bringing all of these box sets together for the first time will cement Sky and NOW TV’s reputation as the home of entertainment,” said Rob Webster, Group Director of Partner Channels, Sky. “It’s a great example of collaboration between Sky and BBC Studios, and we are pleased to be bringing our customers even more great British content.”
The first titles will be seen from April 1 and join British box sets already available from Channel 4 and Sky’s own original productions.
Marcus Arthur, President, UK & ANZ, BBC Studios, said “We are delighted to have licensed this range of titles which Sky and NOW TV customers will soon be able to enjoy under the much–loved UKTV channel brands.”
The BBC continues to work on its own branded platform BritBox with partner ITV.

Story 122
In its sixth acquisition in seven years, Queensland-based Eckersley Print Group (EPG) has bought Brisbane offset and digital house Cross + Hamilton Printers (CHP).
(l-r) Natalie and Micheal Fletcher of CHP with siblings Tom, Luke and Leanne Eckersley of Eckersley Print Group
“The Cross + Hamilton business was a small, family run business that was started in 1971, the same year that my father started our business, so we’ve got the same kind of ethos and the same background,” Eckersley Print Group MD and PIAA board member Tom Eckersley told Wide Format Online.
“They’ve got a couple of special products that they produce in a couple niche markets and we’ve got some good synergies there. We’ve got a lot of clients that can utilise some of the products and services they specialised in, particularly carbonless book work and speciality numbering-type applications.”
The Cross + Hamilton Printers operation in Geebung, Brisbane - formerly owned by Micheal and Natalie Fletcher - is being shifted 30 kilometres north to Eckersley Print Group's headquarters at Narangba in Moreton Bay. EPG offers a range of offset, digital and wide format printing, as well as print management, design, warehousing and logistics.
“We’ll integrate everything into Narangba,” said Eckersley. “We’re taking a fair amount of capital expenditure on board as well and we’re making the appropriate changes to the warehouses. There will be enough room.
“It was a reasonably small team and about 80% of the existing staff are coming over. The owners are a married couple and they’re off to other things so obviously they’re not coming over but the bulk of the other staff members will be here.”
Eckersley said EPG remains on the lookout for expansion opportunities.
“Acquisitions have been part of our strategy for six or seven years and we’re constantly on the lookout for other suitable businesses that we can bolt onto our group.
“As most industry observers would understand, our industry has been challenged on many fronts for a number of years, but those challenges also present opportunities. As the industry continues to rationalize and find its new way forward, we see opportunities that can be part and parcel of our strategic growth.
“Definitely, we won’t stop here. We continue to look and we continue to find good businesses that we can add value to. Our objective is to pick the business up, bring it into the fold, add resources and services and expertise to its offering then take that back to its client base in a bigger and better way.”
EPG acquisitions in recent years have included ABC Printing, Nicholson Printers, The Printing Office, Easi File and Fine Print.

Story 123
Media stories about NOBL stock have trended extremely negative this week, according to InfoTrie Sentiment. InfoTrie scores the sentiment of press coverage by reviewing more than six thousand blog and news sources in real time. The firm ranks coverage of public companies on a scale of negative five to five, with scores nearest to five being the most favorable. ProShares S&P 500 Aristocrats ETF earned a media sentiment score of -4.0 on InfoTrie's scale. They also assigned media coverage about the company a news buzz of 0.0 out of 10, meaning that recent press coverage is extremely unlikely to have an effect on the company's share price in the next several days. View News Stories for ProShares S&P 500 Aristocrats ETF.

Story 124
I use Plex for Android on a daily basis, and I know a lot of users who do similar (Hi Chris!). There have been continual updates over the last 12 months or so, but the latest update for Android brings a lot of feature changes and upgrades.
The UI update is far prettier, easy on the eyes and importantly, easier to navigate. For users who’ve used the Music interface, you’ll find that the video navigation is identical and extremely useful. The improved seeking is very easy to utilise if you’re looking for a particular spot in a video, or rewinding to relive a favourite moment through either scrubbing on the time-bar, or double tap right or left on the screen to seek quickly with thumbnails showing your location in the video.
Picture in Picture (PiP) similar to the Android function with YouTube or other video playback services has made an appearance. It was previously in their Beta but somewhat clunky in function. The final delivery is quite seamless. Another feature which Chris is enjoying is far easier access to subtitles, both ones of you’ve downloaded before and ones Plex has matched for you. Subtitles used to be a bit of a pain on Plex, now they’re a lot easier and quicker to load.
I’m regularly enjoying media on different devices which all have different display ratios so being able to fill or stretch video to fit the screen is a nice option to make the most of your screen or TV.
A new addition I noticed (but didn’t realise what was occurring until I went looking) was the instant start if you’re watching a series of videos on your device. As the episode completion countdown begins, the next video in your queue begins to buffer, a very nice touch. It’s like what Netflix does, but Plex brings this convenience to your local media too.
If you’ve never tried Plex, give it a crack with a free 30 day trial for Plex Pass.
There’s a lot of users who are still invested in Plex for their personal media collection, undoubtedly many have abandoned ship for the streaming options – where do you sit on this decision?

Story 125
Delta Fiber Netherlands,has updated its set-top box (STB) application from Hilversum-based Stoneroos in order to allow multicast IP streaming and to integrate the Metrological App Store.
Delta is an internet, TV and telephony provider in The Netherlands operating under the brands Delta and Caiway,
Stoneroos also updated the UI allowing Delta to inegrate the Metrological App Store, in order to offer Teletext as well as access to premium OTT services, international apps and regional content. The updates goes live for DELTA TV subscribers as per March 25, 2019.
The update is part of a Partnership Agreement between Delta and Stoneroos. Thanks to this cooperation, customers of Deltacan expect on the best possible digital television services.
Stoneroos developed a large number of functionalities for the STB, that went live in January 2018. Packages offered by Delta include over 140 live TV channels, many of which have ‘replay TV’, allowing users to re-start live programmes and a full seven day ‘catch up’ TV service. Up to 250 hours of n-PVR storage is also provided, ensuring customers can record their favourite content. The service also offers the Stoneroos patented TV guide (also known as EPG, Electronic Program Guide).
Currently, Delta offers with the Delta TV app an OTT product (Over-The-Top), which is connected to the Amino MOVE platform, allowing customers to watch digital television on a wide range of devices, such as laptops, desk computers, smartphones and tablets, anytime, anywhere. Delta is supplying its customers the Amino’s 6 series 4K/UHD compatible IPTV device.

Story 126
Simon Bird, who was COO at City Index for over five years and has a long interbank career at Bear Stearns behind him, has joined the board at British spread betting and CFD company ETX Capital alongside his non-executive chairmanship at Ikon Finance.
British CFD and spread betting company ETX Capital has undergone a series of management changes this year, the largest of which was marked out by former CEO Andrew Edwards’ departure late last year after 14 years at the company, after which he became CEO of Saxo Capital Markets in London.
Replaced by IG Group alumnus Arman Tahmassebi, ETX now steers a new direction under its new CEO, this week adding another long term FX industry expert to its board.
Joining the board of directors in a non-executive capacity is Simon Bird, a longstanding expert in the OTC derivatives business, especially within Britain’s CFD and spread betting sector, having spent five and a half years between 2008 and 2014 as COO of City Index.
Prior to his leadership position at City Index, Mr. Bird spent over twenty years in the interbank sector in London, comprising of 9 years at Bear Stearns as Senior Managing Director, responsible for leading the Portfolio Trading division, and was Head of European Electronic Trading including direct market access (DMA) and algorithmic trading.
Twelve years at NatWest Securities (now part of RBS, one of the world’s largest FX interbank dealers by market share) preceded, where Mr Birdw as Head of pan-European Equity Portfolio Trading.
Objectivus, Mr. Bird’s consultancy endeavor, provides expertise in the areas of Compliance, Regulation and Risk Management to the electronic financial services industry.
Mr Bird’s main interest remains his position as Managing Partner at Objectivus, the consulting service to the Financial Services industry that he established in 2015.
It provides expertise in the areas of Compliance, Regulation and Risk Management through the deployment of market professionals who have a deep understanding of clients’ typical issues from first-hand experience, and aside from this he now has two non-executive directorships, the other aside from his newly appointed position at ETX Capital being his non-executive Chairman responsibility at Ikon Finance.
In similar commercial pedigree to ETX Capital’s outgoing CEO Andrew Edwards, Mr Bird spent a long part of his career at senior level within City Index, thus has roots in the fundamental ethos of traditional and well established CFD and spread betting commercial ethos.

Story 127
Transportation is the backbone to the economy and to our quality of life. No transportation would mean we would all be isolated to our own homes and couldn’t move around to work, to the store, or for entertainment, all of which are important areas of our lives. I would like to focus on unique approaches to transportation by looking at it differently than our city has in the past. We can do this in two ways: 1) approach vehicular transportation projects through small incremental progress, rather than wishful large scale singular projects 2) focus on more than just vehicle transportation as a means to allow people to move within their community, and focus on walking, bicycling and transit. For vehicular transportation, you can look at it as two areas: a. system preservation (maintenance and operations) and 2) system expansion. Historically, when money was good at the federal and state level, politicians would focus on “sexy” system expansion projects (aka new roadways, complete reconstruction of roadways, etc.). System preservation was always an after thought because it didn’t involve a ribbon cutting and didn’t allow for politicians to put their name on a new road. Times have changed though, and we need to change with them. Today money is limited at the state and federal level and municipalities typically only program money for system preservation as they rely on county and state nances to construct system expansion projects. We need to move away from the traditional approach of placing all of our city transportation resources into maintenance of existing facilities and relying on others for expansion. We can do small scale expansions and work with the county and the state to make this happen. All the years working at SHA and now consulting for them I see areas such as Montgomery County, MD contribute nancial resources to SHA to help advance projects and it works to build small scale enhancements, such as intersection improvements, enhanced crosswalks, and roadway re-purposing projects. These on things that Bowie needs to do more of to enhance local transportation. We need to focus on partnering with the County and the State to enhance intersections so people can make left turns out of their developments. We need to focus on installing signals, partial signals, or active warning beacons at intersections on roadways such as Church Road, to provide better protections to kids crossing the road. We need to look at low-lying improvements that can help relieve congestion without relying on multi-million dollar projects to be funded through the annual Priority Letter process such as we’ve been doing for the past decade with MD 197 and MD 450, which have yet to be funded for construction, and will not be in the near future. We need to make incremental advancements in our transportation network through partnerships with county and state departments on strategic projects. These strategic projects can be developed on corridors such as MD 301, Church Road, MD 450 and MD 197 where we see most of the traffic problems today. We also need to take this same tactic with getting a partial interchange from US 50 to the Melford development. We might be able to get developer support in this project. The key to this approach, however, is lobbying our partner agencies to take action and not laying off of them until they do. This is why Montgomery County is so successful in seeing improvements in their transportation system, but we are not. Beyond this incremental approach, we need to think beyond vehicular transportation and begin laying the foundation to move people locally and regionally through other forms of transportation. Locally, people should be able to walk or bike to their nearby shopping centers without fear of being hit by a car. This enhanced sense of freedom lowers stress and increases livability. Regionally, we need to focus on enhanced transit to and from regional job centers such as DC, Annapolis, Baltimore, New Carrolton, College Park and Bethesda. We need to begin putting long range plans in place that will allow a transit system to run from New Carrolton to Annapolis with at least 2 stops in Bowie where our current Park and Ride system is and where our largest mixed used area. This train be an extension of the new purple line system and connect us to many of the large employment centers in Montgomery County. It would allow our residents to get to/from these areas without the stress of sitting in beltway traffic. We need to focus on the 2019 Bowie Area Master Plan Update to ensure this train facility is captured in the plan.

Story 128
I have noticed ten M&A transactions and investments throughout Europe and parts of US until now in 2017, writes Christian Töpper, managing director of Taxxus Media.
For sure, in this fragmented industry I will not have got everything. However, it seems as if M&A is getting more important in a lesser known part of the TV and Video industry: the TV navigation marketplace. These are (TV) metadata providers and companies offering search and recommendation as well as data collection and analysis solutions in the broadcasting industry.
Letting consumers know what´s available on TV seems to becoming a real business issue. But the other way round seems even more thrilling: letting TV operators know which content consumers used, is sending this business into the next hype. Connecting consumers with content will open completely new dimensions to TV content owners, to advertisers, to aggregators, and – as they hope – for operators as well.
TV navigation, and all the issues connected, had not always been in a business focus in the past. The EPG had been a technical component for quite some time. Platforms and operators had one. But that was it.
In days when Netflix is shaking up the world of TV consumption, this is changing. Other US OTT players like Youtube, Amazon, Hulu that are getting traction. Traditional operators feel the heat of OTT. Now, TV service providers, most visible in the US, are trying to get back into the lead. They are using metadata driven services to enhance user experience and to develop new services for content owners, broadcasters, and advertisers.
EPG, search and recommendation, addressable TV, all these buzzwords are without substance if there is not first class TV metadata set at hand. It is *the* tool to link content to distribution channels (linear and non-linear), to users (at home, on the go), to devices (TV, smartphone, car, …), to advertisement. Every single part of TV UX is driven by the availability of TV metadata.
It´s about raw materials: You need raw materials to put intelligence on it. But the TV metadata “raw materials”-industry, suppliers like Gracenote/Nielsen, Tivo/Rowi, and media press Group are much closer to a broadcast stream than an aluminium plant is to a smartphone. Their hundreds of skilled developers speak the same language, care about the same things as their counterparts at broadcasters and operators.
Historically, the TV metadata industry had been run by quite traditional thinking folks. Like their clients had been. Lot´s of them (me too) went through an education in the print media, publishing daily TV listings in newspapers. But – with their clients – this is changing since a while. Nowadays the top TV metadata companies are tech driven innovators.
In an industry changing that fast, it´s only consequent that M&A is coming around. Driving factors are consolidation on the one hand, and innovation on the other. Both models can be seen when it comes to selling or buying TV navigation related operations.
With this presentation, I want to bring a piece of knowledge to the marketplace. Please let me know whether this is worth reading: christian.toepper@taxxusmedia.de.
Startup SambaTV raises 30m USD growth capital, Time Warner, A+E Networks involved
Late in June, SambaTV, a data and analytics company, received a 30m USD growth investment. Analyzing TV viewership across millions of households worldwide, Samba TV’s technology lets consumers discover and watch the shows they love while giving brands a view of content and advertising consumption across broadcast and cable TV, OTT, apps and digital platforms.
Founded in 2008, SambaTV had received 8,2m USD venture and series A investments.
2015, SambaTV bought Warsaw based startup Filmaster for 1m USD. Filmaster provided Netflix-like personalization and analytics solutions for the entertainment industry.
Time Warner also invested in Conviva. It looks like big data issues – which are connected to TV metadata and recommendation – are in the cable TV giant´s venture focus. Different from Comcast, they seem to keep their investments at some operational distance, while Comcast integrates units like Watchwith into their day to day business.
Ericsson to sell TV metadata division?
In June, Ericsson is said to be investigating the sale of its broadcast and media services division. The sale would include the content and design business, historically known as RedBee, acquired by Ericsson in 2014. Inside Ericsson/RedBee the TV metadata division is serving top tire operator and broadcaster clients.
Only a year ago, Ericsson acquired US metadata supplier FYI Television in an attempt to catch up with its main competitors Gracenote and TiVo in the US market. Today some say, players like Cisco might be looking at buying Ericsson broadcast and media services.
2011 Red Bee, now part of Ericsson, acquired TV Genius, a TV search and recommendation company.
The TV metadata unit is probably not at the core of Ericsson´s strategic thoughts. Therefore it seems as if this deal – if it comes – will be part of an ongoing process of consolidation in the industry.
Genius Digital data technology acquired by Verimatrix
In June 2017, Verimatrix, the content protection company, acquired software and team of Genius Digital´s MiriMON technology. MiriMON is described as a data collection agent to collect data from an operator´s set-top box in real-time.
GfK, the market intelligence company from Nuremberg, Germany, invested into Genius Digital in 2013 and 2014 – only to give it back to the founders in 2016. Earlier in their lives, founders of Genius Digital had been creating TV Genius, which had been sold to Ericsson in 2011.
It seems as if Genius Digital is creating real value to the market. But there might still be a lack in stability of the business model.
Conviva: $40m investment by i.a. Time Warner
Looking for analytics is driving the $40m investment in Conviva in June 2017. The startup analyzes OTT viewing patterns and makes sense of the metadata for media companies like HBO and Sky. Broadcasters are learning from Conviva data, which device is using the broadcaster´s streams and how the stream performs. Matching Conviva data with broadcaster´s schedule metadata improves knowledge about user behavior and content consumption.
The investment is mainly coming from venture capital firms, as well as from Time Warner Investments. Total VC investment into the 2006 founded company is more than 100m USD.
As in other industries, investors are believing in data intelligence. Now coming to the broadcaster´s world…
Streaming guide startup Guidebox acquired by ColorTV
In April 2017, Guidebox, a startup founded 2012, was acquired by ColorTV – which itself was created in December 2015.
Guidebox is a B2B service aggregating streaming content data from hundreds of video services. It allows developers to enable end-to-end movie and TV discovery within their website or native iOS or Android applications. Enhancing video metadata coming from the video providers, is core part of Guidebox´ services.
ColorTV provides personalized video recommendations, real time tune in and rich data insights for content creators across OTT platforms. Enhancing metadata is part of ColorTV´s service. On top, they provide B2B recommendation services in the app world.
Funke Mediengruppe takes complete control over EPG startup Stanwood
Germany´s big TV magazine and newspaper publisher Funke bought last Stanwood shares in April 2017.
Stanwood was founded in 2009 and operates the “On Air” mobile EPG application. Stanwood employs 30 developers and product managers staff. They offer B2B EPG and metadata services in Germany, Funke being a major client.
Funke had been invested in Stanwood shares already in 2015, taking 33% of the shares at that time.
2014, Funke had been buying the TV magazine business from Axel Springer. Part of the deal had also been Watchmi TV guide services.
TV recommendation engine startup MightyTV acquired by Spotify
In late March 2017, Spotify, the music streaming service, bought New York based MightyTV, a Tinder-style recommendation and personalization app for TV content.
MightyTV is known for its knowledge in programmatic advertising and personalization. They will become part of Spotify´s global ad technology teams.
Founded in 2015, MightyTV had been funded by VC investors who had put 4,25m USD into the company.
Through acquiring MightyTV, Spotify is investing in innovation and monetization of their content services. Furthermore, the deal indicates that video might play a bigger role for Spotify in the future.
media press Group acquires Port Networks, #1 CEE TV metadata provider, and invests in the Baltics
Swiss-based TV metadata provider media press Group acquired their CEE counterpart Port Networks in early March 2017. Port Networks is running TV metadata services in Hungary, Croatia, Serbia, Slovakia, and Romania. It´s services are covering the whole ex Yugoslavia region, and will be integrated into media press Group´s existing network.
media press Group is already operating services in Germany, Switzerland, Austria, Poland, and Bulgaria. The Port acquisition is giving media press broad European metadata coverage.
It is said that other big TV metadata operators had been interested in Port´s acquisition, driven by Port´s content and client portfolio.
Later in March 2017, media press Group announced the creation of media press Baltics by investing in two local enterprises in Lithuania and in Estonia.
2016, media press had been co-founding The European Metadata Group, together with Plurimedia in France and with Bindinc in the Netherlands.
media press Group´s investments in CEE and the Baltics are part of building up a network of local content production entities which share group-wide standards and technology.
Watchwith: Deep dive TV metadata company acquired by Comcast
Deciphering what is inside a movie, a TV show, or a sports emission is what Watchwith´s platform does. Watchwith´s technologies should improve search and discovery capabilities by identifying which actors are appearing on screen, locations shown in a given scene, or the start of a memorable scene within a sports emission. This is done by a mix of manual, editorial tagging and automated mechanisms of media analysis.
Comcast bought Watchwith in January 2017. The cable TV giant had integrated the Watchwith technology and team into its CoMPASS (Comcast Metadata Products and Search Services) unit.
Previously, Watchwith had been VC funded. It received a total of 13m USD investment for developing an In-Program Video Ads service. Investors had been i.a. Rogers Venture Partners and Samsung, as well as telecom supplier Arris.
Comcast might be leading the global TV service provider´s industry when it comes to enhanced services for users, broadcasters, and advertisers. Metadata obviously play a role in Comcast´s strategy. And within this aerea, Comcast seems to be using all types of tools of investment to improve its knowledge, team and offering.
Watchup: Acquired by Plex
In January 2017, news video aggregator Watchup was acquired by Plex.
Watchup is a smart solution for discovering and personalising news video.
Plex supplies a service for organising video content on customer´s devices, using a Plex media server plus Plex apps.
Watchup´s role inside Plex might be to aggregate more of news video content to Plex´s content aggregation and distribution platform.

Story 129
LINDEN, NJ — Mayor Derek Armstead came under fire at a March 20 council meeting for attempting to drop a freeholder candidate’s husband as one of the city’s brokers.
A resolution put on the agenda by the mayor would have rescinded a January contract appointing Economic Planning Group as a broker for the Voya Financial Services Account, which handles city employees’ retirement funds. Union County Freeholder candidate Kimberly Palmieri-Mouded’s husband, George Mouded, works as a planner for EPG.
The mayor’s resolution would have given the contract to Linden’s current dental insurance broker, RD Parisi Associates, which is owned by West Orange Mayor Robert D. Parisi.
But the measure never passed after 6th Ward Councilman John Roman pointed out that Parisi had made a $1,000 contribution to Armstead’s 2014 mayoral campaign. Councilwomen Gretchen Hickey and Rhashonna Cosby, who are both challenging Armstead for mayor this year, also objected.
The original resolution, which had been presented the previous day to council members only, awarded the contract to RD Parisi Associates, but was later updated to add a Wells Fargo broker. Roman said the resolution had to be updated because RD Parisi Associates couldn’t handle the work alone.
“Parisi Associates by themselves aren’t able to do the work because, as counsel said before, they’re just our dental insurance people and they don’t do deferred compensation,” Roman said.
“That’s why they need the extra (broker). I see here that we are hiring this firm, but they didn’t apply for a (request for qualifications) back in November when we put it out,” he added.
The original resolution showed that the no-bid contract to RD Parisi Associates was “in the best interests of the city.”
EPG was awarded a contract with the city at a Jan. 16 meeting for 2018, the agenda showed. Neither EPG or RD Parisi Associates would be directly paid by the city, but by Voya Financial.
The move comes amid deep-rooted alliances that were sown during the recent special election for Union County Democratic Committee chair. Armstead broke ties with state Sen. Nicholas Scutari to endorse the senator’s challenger for chair, Fanwood Mayor Colleen Mahr. However, Scutari won the election for chair, and now the Linden Democratic Committee — which Scutari also heads — has endorsed Hickey for mayor over Armstead in the June primaries.
Palmieri-Mouded, a former candidate for Westfield council, was recently endorsed by the county’s Democratic Party for freeholder, too. Armstead said his resolution dropping her husband’s contract with the city had nothing to do with politics.
“I had no idea that George Mouded was even related to Kim Palmieri as she didn’t use Mouded as her last name,” Armstead said in a March 28 email to LocalSource. “So no, it had nothing to do with what you are implying as political. Furthermore RD Parisi Associates has worked for the City of Linden since 2015 handling our dental, and has done an outstanding job.”
According to Roman, the resolution appointing RD Parisi Associates called for them to document any reportable campaign contributions made in the previous year.
Armstead replied, “Is that relevant?” when asked by Roman if he had received any contributions from Parisi Associates beyond last year.
Hickey, who represents the 10th Ward, said EPG was “licensed” and “qualified” to handle Voya Financial retirement funds. “I am hoping that council members tonight know that this is about $30 million in our employees’ hard-earned retirement plan,” Hickey said during the council meeting. “It’s not about political games when it comes to this.”
Cosby, who represents the 5th Ward, asked for the resolution to be pulled from the agenda at the March 20 meeting. The resolution was pulled in a 5-4- 1 vote.
“So I’m not supporting this,” Cosby said. “Voting for someone, who, No. 1, is not on the list of qualified vendors, and No. 2, who, because of their relationship with a politician, expects to get some type of political payback.”
Council members Lisa Ormon, Alfred Mohammed, Ralph Strano, and Michele Yamakaitis opposed pulling the resolution. Councilman Peter Brown, Jr. was absent, while Barry Javick abstained.
EPG, meanwhile, is still working for Linden, the city attorney told LocalSource.

Story 130
Haivision Selects Anevia DVB-To-IP Gateway Technology To Power Haivision Media Platform For Enterprise And Government Deployments
Partnership enables distribution of live DVB-based IPTV channels to screens throughout organizations
Amsterdam, Netherlands (PRWEB) - Haivision, a market leader in video streaming solutions, today announced an exclusive world-wide technology partnership agreement with Anevia, a leading provider of OTT and IPTV software solutions. With this agreement, Haivision will integrate Anevia’s Flamingo advanced DVB to IP gateway technology as part of Haivision Media Platform to deliver broadcast television channels to desktops and set-top boxes in corporate environments.
Haivision’s extensive global customer footprint includes financial institutions, Fortune 500 corporations, broadcast and media companies, and government organizations. Flamingo is widely installed in the world’s leading hotels, hospitals, and enterprises to deliver the latest multi-screen in-room entertainment and guest services. The combined technology ensures that Haivision customers around the world can distribute live DVB-based IPTV channels to screens throughout their organization from cable, satellite, or terrestrial feeds.
Anevia’s flexible and modular software-based Flamingo integrates seamlessly with Haivision Media Platform, the state-of-the-art multi-site live video distribution platform that provides secure live video streaming, video-on-demand, as well as IPTV with customizable signage. With Anevia Flamingo for Haivision Media Platform, new enterprise customers get a seamless DVB to IP workflow, while existing customers have a future-proof upgrade path for distributing DVB streams to IPTV channels across their organizations.
“Advances in digital broadcasting and IP technology, as well as the evolution in workplace culture, have accelerated the demand for instant, always-on access to business critical IPTV content,“ said Peter Maag, Chief Marketing Officer of Haivision. “Anevia’s class-leading DVB to IP technology aligns perfectly with our vision for the future developments in our sector and gives us and our customers the flexibility we need to ensure our solutions stay at the leading edge of the IPTV industry.”
Along with DVB to IP conversion, Flamingo provides Haivision Media Platform with customizable channel lineups for electronic programming guides (EPG), conditional access modules for de-scrambling as well as re-scrambling software features, and the ability to send untranscoded IP streams directly to Haivision Play Set-Top Boxes. With modular configuration and high-density chassis options, Flamingo can support hundreds of channels in a single chassis and is ideally suited for use in all DVB-based enterprise environments which use Haivision Media Platform.
Commenting for Anevia, Ivonne Prugnaud, Executive Vice President Sales Worldwide Enterprise, said: “We are delighted our technology has been selected by one of the world’s leading IPTV solution providers to the corporate enterprise market. We already have a well-established presence in the hospitality and healthcare sectors and this partnership gives us an ideal platform to expand our reach beyond our traditional markets and tap into the growing demand for internal digital broadcast solutions in the enterprise sector.”
Haivision will be showcasing Haivision Media Platform with Anevia Flamingo at the IBC conference in Amsterdam between September 13-18 at Hall 14, Stand 14.G27. For more information about Anevia Flamingo for Haivision Media Platform, visit haivision.com.
About Anevia
Anevia is a leading OTT and IPTV software provider of innovative multiscreen solutions for the delivery of live TV, streaming video, time-shifted TV and video on demand services. The company offers a comprehensive portfolio of video compression, multiscreen IPTV head-ends, Cloud DVR and CDN solutions to enable viewers to enjoy a next-generation TV experience – anywhere, anytime and on any screen – including 4K UHD content. The solutions have been widely adopted by globally renowned telecom and pay-TV operators, TV broadcasters and video service providers in hospitality, healthcare and corporate businesses.
Founded in 2003, Anevia has a track record of being first to market with advanced video technologies. The company is a member of and active contributor to several TV, media and hospitality industry associations. Headquartered in France, with regional offices in the USA, Dubai and Singapore, Anevia is listed on the Paris Euronext Growth market.
For more information please visit anevia.com.
About Haivision
Haivision is the leader in live video streaming technologies, providing more than 25,000 organizations globally with video solutions that help them stream broadcast-quality, low-latency video from anywhere. Founded in 2004, Haivision is a profitable, privately held company with headquarters in Montreal and Chicago, and regional offices located throughout the Americas, Europe, Middle-East and APAC. To help solve the world’s most difficult video streaming challenges, Haivision open sourced its award winning SRT low latency video streaming protocol in 2017 and founded the SRT Alliance, which now has over 250 industry leading companies supporting this new standard. Awarded an Emmy® for Technology and Engineering from the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences, Haivision is also recognized as one of the most influential companies in video by Streaming Media and one of the fastest growing companies by Deloitte’s Technology Fast 500. Learn more at haivision.com.

Story 131
United Technologies Corp (NYSE:UTX)
Q1 2019 Earnings Call
, 8:30 a.m. ET
Contents:
Prepared Remarks
Questions and Answers
Call Participants
Prepared Remarks:
Operator
Good morning and welcome to United Technologies First Quarter 2019 Earnings Conference Call. On the call today are, Greg Hayes, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Akhil Johri, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Carroll Lane, Vice President, Investor Relations. This call is being carried live on the Internet and there is a presentation available to download from UTC's website at www.utc.com. Please note, except or otherwise noted, the Company will be speaking to results from continuing operations, excluding restructuring costs and other significant items of a nonrecurring and/or nonoperational nature often referred to by management as other significant items. The Company also reminds listeners that the earnings and cash flow expectations and any other forward-looking statements provided in the call is subject to risk and uncertainties. UTC's SEC filings including Forms 10-Q and 10-K provide details on important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements.
Once the call becomes open for questions, we ask that you limit your first round to one question per caller, to give everyone the opportunity to participate. You may ask further questions by reinserting yourself into the queue if time permits. Please go ahead, Mr. Hayes.
Gregory J. Hayes -- Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
All right, thanks, Kevin, and good morning, everyone. As you guys all saw on the press release, had a really good start to the year. Our reported EPS adjusted of $1.91, that's up 8% versus the prior year, and even above our expectations for the quarter. And that was driven primarily by better than expected segment operating profit results. As you saw on the press release, sales were up 20% with organic growth of 8% and that was driven by double-digit growth at the Aerospace businesses. Free cash flow, a really good start to the year at $1.1 billion. Let me (ph) quote a couple of notable highlights. At Pratt & Whitney, the GTF engine reached 2 million revenue flight hours with 36 operators now benefiting from lower fuel burn emissions and noise. At Otis, the Otis team completed the largest modernization project to date in China for one of the country's most iconic landmarks. You guys will all recognize, of course, the Shanghai Pearl Tower.
Additionally, United Technologies launched a hybrid electric propulsion technology demonstrator program. This demonstrator program is expected to yield an average fuel savings for regional sized aircraft of 30% and we're targeting first flight within three years. Importantly, this project combines the engineering expertise and experience of the Collins Aerospace team, Pratt & Whitney and our own research center. We, of course, also remain laser focused on the integration of Rockwell Collins. In the first quarter, we saw $0.20 of accretion from the Rockwell Collins acquisition, really solid performance across each of their legacy businesses. This, of course, exceeded even our expectations. Having worked as a combined team for a full quarter, I'm even more confident in the long-term value that the acquisition is going to bring to our shareowners and our employees. From avionics to interiors to the Mission Systems business, we have a great future ahead of us, at Collins Aerospace.
Maybe just a -- to step aside for a second and talk about the Mission Systems business. We talked about commercial aerospace as the growth vehicle. But I think it's also important, the Aerospace business, 25% of our revenues actually come from defense. And our Mission Systems business, which is focused on our global military markets, we're bringing together our intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance business and space capabilities with the communication and navigation expertise of Rockwell. We see the opportunity to enable faster tactical decision making and greater mission assurance, while at the same time reducing risk to personnel and high-value platforms. This is a capability that is unique to United Technologies and to Collins, and I think, it's something again as we go forward, we'll be talking more about.
On the synergies front, Collins Aerospace team is on track to deliver approximately $150 million of cost synergies this year, and we still see at least $500 million of total cost synergy potential. We're also excited about the revenue synergies that the combination is going to enable. In short, we are happy with the execution at Collins thus far and continue -- expect continued strong performance as we progress through the year.
So based on the very solid first quarter, we're going to raise the midpoint of our full year adjusted EPS outlook by $0.05. We are going to raise the lower end of the guidance from $7.70 to $7.80 to $8. We also remain confident in our ability to deliver on 3% to 5% organic sales growth and free cash flow of $4.5 billion to $5 billion. And that $4.5 billion to $5 billion includes about $1.5 billion estimate for the one-time portfolio separation costs this year.
With that, let me turn it over to Akhil and Carroll to take you through the results and I'll come back -- at the end to wrap up and take your questions. Akhil?
Akhil Johri -- Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
Thank you, Greg. So I'm on Slide 2. Reported sales for the quarter of $18.4 billion were up 20%, with 8% organic growth and 15 points from the Rockwell Collins acquisition. Foreign exchange was a 3 point headwind in the quarter. Adjusted EPS was $1.91, up $0.14 or 8% versus prior year. This was clearly better than our expectations for the quarter, primarily from performance at Collins Aerospace and Otis.
At Collins Aerospace, we saw higher commercial aftermarket and synergies. Given the solid start, as you would be, we are very confident that this segment will be able to deliver on its full-year operating profit commitment and that is even with the potential for up to $0.10 of headwind related to the Boeing 737 Max program. At Otis, we saw slightly better global service performance, particularly higher repair sales and better productivity. The Europe maintenance business that we have all been very focused on and keep talking about, saw its first quarter of margin dollar growth since 2012.
Below the segment line, the quarter benefited by $0.04 versus our expectations primarily from a lower than anticipated effective tax rate. And that was largely due to the completion of a tax audit at legacy BE Aerospace. For the full year, we continue to expect an adjusted effective tax rate in the range of 23% to 24%. On a GAAP basis, EPS was $1.56, down 4% versus prior year and included $0.25 of non-recurring charges. These charges included $0.16 for the final quarter of amortization of Rockwell Collins inventory step-up, as well as $0.06 for costs related to the UTC portfolio separation activities; restructuring was an additional $0.10 charge in the quarter.
Free cash flow was $1 -- was $1.1 billion in Q1, significantly higher than last year and a solid start, as Greg noted. This improvement was largely from better working capital performance, especially receivables management.
Turning to Slide 3, you see the drivers of our strong organic growth in Q1. Overall, we continue to see good performance across our two end markets. At our commercial businesses, in the Americas, sales were up 9% with solid growth at both Otis and Carrier. New residential construction indicators continue to be positive and construction spending remains strong. Residential housing starts, however, are now forecast to be down slightly in 2019 versus Carriers' assumption of low-single digit growth at the beginning of the year. While we still believe mid single-digit growth in Residential HVAC sales is likely for the full year, we will continue to monitor the market and adjust our cost base as needed as we move through the year. Within EMEA, sales were flat in the quarter. Europe was up low-single digit at Otis, and flat at Carrier. Economic outlook across Europe remains mixed and slightly weaker than the expectations from a few months ago. Orders at Carrier were up low-single digits and flat at Otis. The Middle East remains a pressure point at both businesses. In Asia, sales were up 4% with 11% growth at Otis partially offset by mid single-digit declines at Carrier. Outlook for China feels incrementally better particularly for Otis, where we continue to see price stabilization in new equipment orders. On the aerospace side, Pratt commercial OEM sales were up 35% driven by GTF shipments, which more than doubled versus the first part of 2018 granted somewhat of an easy compare. At Collins Aerospace, commercial OEM sales were up 13% organically, also driven by ramping new programs. Looking at commercial aftermarket, we continue to see high traffic demand and strong utilization of in-service products at both businesses. Sales were up 4% organically driven by 9% growth at Collins Aerospace. Pratt & Whitney commercial aftermarket sales were up 1%. This lower than expected aftermarket sales at Pratt was partially driven by engine reinspection requirements at two V2500 MRO providers. Beginning in the second quarter, we expect available capacity in the overall MRO network to mitigate the impact from these temporary delays. For the full year, Pratt continues to expect commercial aftermarket sales to be up mid-single digits.
Organically, military sales were up 16% at Pratt & Whitney, driven by higher F135 production. At Collins Aerospace, military sales were up 8% driven by ramping programs and strong aftermarket demand. With that, let me turn it over to Carroll to take us through the business unit details. Carroll?
Carroll Lane -- Vice President, Investor Relations
Okay, thanks, Akhil.
I'am on Slide 4. I'll be speaking to the segments at constant currency as we usually do and as a reminder, there is an appendix on Slide 12 with additional segment data you can use as a reference. Okay. Starting with Otis. Otis sales were $3.1 billion in the quarter, up 7% organically. On a constant currency basis, new equipment sales grew 10% driven by high-teens growth in China and double-digit growth in the Americas. Otis also saw mid-single digit growth in Europe and the rest of Asia combined. Service sales were up 4% with solid growth in maintenance including repair and modernization. New equipment orders were down slightly in the quarter, orders in North America were down mid-teens. On a 12-month rolling basis, North America orders are up 8%. The activity level in North America remains healthy, although we have seen some increasing margin pressure in recent order activity. Orders grew low double-digits in Asia excluding China and were flat in Europe.
In China, orders were up 8% in value, benefiting from pricing and mix with unit orders up slightly and this continues the trend of stabilization in pricing on new equipment orders in China. Operating profit in the quarter was flat at constant currency. Excluding headwind from transactional mark to market currency adjustments which benefited Q1 of 2018. Operating profit grew 6% driven primarily by strong volume growth. Foreign exchange translation was a 5-point headwind to sales and earnings. Looking ahead, we continue to expect Otis operating profit growth of $25 million to $75 million at constant currency.
Turning to Slide 5, Carrier sales are up 3% organically, led by refrigeration and global HVAC. Refrigeration was up 9% with North America truck/trailer up more than 30%. Global HVAC was up 3% with North America residential HVAC up 5% including the benefit of accelerated gas furnace sales driven by upcoming changes in Fan Efficiency Ratings.
The commercial HVAC business was up low single digits, with growth in North America and Asia offsetting declines in Europe and the Middle East. Fire and security was flat. Carrier equipment orders contracted 2% organically in the quarter. Transport refrigeration orders were down 26% after growing 37% in Q1 of 2018. The combined backlog for the container and North America truck/trailer businesses has grown more than 90% in the past year. Now partially offsetting transport refrigeration declines, global HVAC equipment orders were up 3% with North America residential orders up high-single digits, including demand stimulated by the upcoming efficiency rating changes. Fire and security product orders were up 5% driven by EMEA and Asia demand. At constant currency, operating profit contracted 5%, including a 2 point impact from the divestiture of Taylor. Organic volume growth and pricing contributions were more than offset by input costs including commodities, tariffs and logistics expenses.
Looking ahead, we expect the decline in first half Carrier earnings to be more than offset by growth in the second half of the year. That will be driven by continued organic growth, aggressive cost reduction and easier year-over-year compares on commodity, tariff, logistics expenses and foreign exchange. So as a result, we continue to expect Carrier full-year organic sales to be up low to mid single digits with earnings growth of $100 million to $150 million at actual FX.
Shifting to Pratt & Whitney on Slide 6. Sales of $4.8 billion were up 12% organically, commercial OEM sales were up 35% driven by GTF and Pratt & Whitney Canada shipments, which more than offset anticipated declines in V2500 production. Total Geared Turbofan shipments, including those to the spare engine pool more than doubled over the prior year first quarter. Commercial aftermarket was up 1% in the quarter, growth in the GTF aftermarket was more than offset by the V2500 MRO impact that Akhil mentioned earlier. Pratt & Whitney Canada aftermarket saw growth resulting from higher volume and favorable mix. The ramping Joint Strike Fighter program continues to drive growth at Pratt's military business. Military sales were up 16% on higher F135 production. During the quarter, the US Navy and United Kingdom achieved initial operational capability with the F-35 C and the F-35 B respectively, marking the latest milestones in this rapidly growing program.
Adjusted operating profit of $447 million was up 8%, drop-through from higher military sales and continued GTF cost reduction more than offset the negative margin impact of higher GTF shipments and higher A&D. Commercial aftermarket operating profit was up, largely due to better mix and higher content. Results also reflect the gain from a divestiture and the licensing agreement and those items benefited results by approximately $30 million. Looking ahead, we continue to expect Pratt & Whitney to grow full-year operating profit by $200 million to $250 million.
Okay. Turning to Slide 7. Collins Aerospace results include legacy Aerospace Systems and a full quarter of legacy Rockwell Collins. The sales in the quarter were $6.5 billion, that's up $2.7 billion. Operating profit of $1.1 billion was up $486 million from the prior year. On a pro forma basis, including results for Rockwell Collins in the first quarter of 2018, Collins Aerospace delivered operating profit growth of 13% on 10% higher sales. Organic sales for the legacy Aerospace Systems business were up 10% with growth in all three channels; commercial OEM sales were up 13%, commercial aftermarket sales grew 9%, and military sales were up 8%. When viewed on a pro forma basis, you see the strength across the combined businesses. Commercial OEM sales were up low-double digits, driven by new production programs, commercial aftermarket sales were also up low double digits, fueled by strong demand for modifications and upgrades as well as continued passenger traffic growth.
Military sales were up high single digits, driven by higher F-35 volume and an overall strong order book. We saw solid performance in the legacy Rockwell Collins Mission Systems business, which was up low teens in sales. Operating profit growth was driven by solid contribution from the Rockwell Collins business, drop-through on higher organic sales and synergy benefits. The Rockwell Collins acquisition contributed better than expected profit in the quarter and as a result of strong sales volume and the cost synergy capture that Akhil referenced earlier accretion to UTC earnings in the quarter was $0.20. So given the strong start in Q1 and with potential 737 MAX impact in mind, we continue to expect Collins' operating profit to be up $1.55 billion to $1.6 billion for the full year. And with that, I will hand it back over to Greg.
Gregory J. Hayes -- Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Okay, thanks, Carroll. So, I guess, we don't need to say it again, but I will concur, good quarter and a really solid start to the year. I would also say that we're really confident in this revised EPS guidance. And the reason we're confident is because each of the businesses is still -- we still expect to grow both the tops and bottom line in 2019. And more importantly, I think each business is supported by solid long-term fundamentals. Also important to note, as we remain focused on the four main priorities of UTC that's around execution, innovation, structural cost reduction and disciplined capital allocation. So I know, like -- many of you are interested in where we stand with the portfolio separation activities. No real change to report except that today, we have more than 500 people across the full range of functions, focused on preparing Otis and Carrier to operate as stand-alone companies. We continue to expect both businesses to be operationally ready for separation by the end of 2019. And there is no change to our expectations that the spin should be completed in the first half of next year and we're excited about the future of each of those businesses.
We'll stop there and we'll open it up for questions. Kevin?
Questions and Answers:
Operator
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Carter Copeland with Melius Research.
Carter Copeland -- Melius Research -- Analyst
Hey, good morning, gentlemen.
Gregory J. Hayes -- Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Good morning, Carter.
Carter Copeland -- Melius Research -- Analyst
Just a couple of quick ones. One, the $0.10 that you called out, Akhil, it just seems like a big number for adjusting OEM impact, so I'm assuming, you've got some aftermarket assumption buried in there. Can you give us a little more color on what you assumed in that that $0.10 sensitivity around 737MAX?
Akhil Johri -- Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
Sure, Carter. So that's kind of an outer limit at this point that we are putting, up to $0.10 is what I said, and that's a combination of three things. One is obviously the profit that we make on the OEM side, we also feel that we will lose some provisioning, which is higher profit on the 737MAX as some of the operators get pushed out a little bit. And then on the other side that we have also taken into offsetting that to some extent the benefit we might see on higher aftermarket in some of the legacy program. So it's a combination of those three things. You would imagine for competitive reasons, I don't think we want to go into the specifics of each of those line items, but it's -- those three things. And that's sort of an assumption that the rate stays at 42 (ph) through the end of the year, that would be the -- up to $0.10, hopefully it will be less than that, but that's what the $0.10 is made up of.
Carter Copeland -- Melius Research -- Analyst
Okay, great, thank you for the color and I'll move on and let somebody else ask. Thanks.
Akhil Johri -- Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
Thanks, Carter.
Gregory J. Hayes -- Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Thanks, Carter.
Operator
Our next question comes from Julien Mitchell of Barclays.
Julien Mitchell -- Barclays -- Analyst
Hi, good morning.
Gregory J. Hayes -- Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Good morning, Julien.
Julien Mitchell -- Barclays -- Analyst
Morning. Maybe just following up on the free cash flow. Working capital headwinds halved year-on-year. Just wondered, if there was anything sort of particularly timing-related or whether you thought that type of improvement is something that we could see over the balance of the year. And also maybe tied to that, any updated expectations around the free cash flow guide for Collins in particular for the year. And what was the EBIT from Collins in Q1?
Akhil Johri -- Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
Very solid Collins performance both across EBIT and across the cash flow side, Julien. I would say a lot of the improvement you saw in the first quarter, working capital outflow was a lot less than what we saw last year in the first quarter was driven by improvement on the Aerospace side of the businesses, both Collins and Pratt, and that's largely to do with the receivables management. Still, I think, I wouldn't say there is anything hugely abnormal, some of that does get impacted by timing of aircraft deliveries, factoring associated with some of the receivables, et cetera, but I think we still remain very confident that the full year feels very doable.
I mean, some of you guys do -- like to do conversion math, which we're trying to stay away from because the numbers keep changing depending on who you talk to. But it -- based on some calculation, it would be about 84% conversion, which is one of the strongest first quarters we've had. And if you traditionally, if you think about the incentive payments that get made in first quarter, actually the conversion in first quarter would be over 100%, right, adjusting for the large outflow in cash from all the incentive payments that happen. So feel very good about where things are and Rockwell Collins certainly a huge contributor.
Gregory J. Hayes -- Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Julien, the other thing I would add to that is, I think if you look at the inventory turnover, for the last few years, we've seen Pratt adding a lot of inventory as it prepared for the ramp-up. The fact is we actually saw the inventory turns in Pratt improve almost 100 basis points. They are over 4 points today and Collins has also seen some improvement. So the big ramp in Aerospace, while it's not over, I think the inventory build is over. So that gives us a lot of confidence, not just in this year's cash flow growth, but in the next couple of years that we've got our arms around this, and in turn should continue to improve.
Julien Mitchell -- Barclays -- Analyst
Thanks. And just tied to that, maybe, apologies if I missed it. But did you point out, the Collins profit contribution year-on-year?
Akhil Johri -- Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
While, it's -- effectively, you think about it as, because the businesses are getting integrated, the numbers that Carroll quoted are probably the better way to think about it, right. You have profit growth at both Collins and UTC, but Collins growth was stronger than the growth in the UTC numbers. I don't think, it's -- we're trying to integrate the businesses. So Mission Systems that Greg referred to earlier, includes the traditional ISR business from the Goodrich business, the UTC business. Same -- similarly the Avionics business that Rockwell Collins has also included some businesses that were traditionally the sensors business from UTC.
So I think, it's becoming difficult to pry open the numbers -- we make up numbers for the sake of making up numbers, right, in terms of the difference between Collins versus heritage UTC. The bottom line is that the heritage Rockwell Collins businesses did extremely well and lot better actually than the heritage UTC business in the quarter.
Julien Mitchell -- Barclays -- Analyst
Thank you very much.
Operator
Our next question comes from Rob (sic) [Ron] Epstein with Bank of America.
Ronald Epstein -- Bank of America -- Analyst
Hey, good morning, maybe two questions. One on the commercial side of the business, we saw Otis margins kind of at a level we really haven't seen in a long time, if ever. Is that the bottom of Otis margins, I mean, how should we think about that?
Gregory J. Hayes -- Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
You know, Ron, just think about this way, 90 (ph) -- the margins are down 110 basis points, 90 (ph) of that was the FX that Carroll called out that one-time benefit that we had last year, didn't repeat this year. So yeah, I would say that, that should be the bottom of the margins. And as you think about Otis, growing earnings throughout the course of the year, margins should be improving as well.
Ronald Epstein -- Bank of America -- Analyst
Okay.
Akhil Johri -- Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
Yes, one other thing, Ron. I think, this is the second quarter, not in a row, we are adjusting for some of this FX noise et cetera actually, Otis grew profits operationally, when you adjust out for the one-timers, FX, and other things. So I think, it's a good sign, we feel really good. Otis, as we said, pleasantly surprised us in the quarter, it was better than what we were expecting coming into the quarter. So and the productivity improvements on the service side and the high repair sales growth were truly things which are encouraging as we look forward, on top of the improvement in the price mix that Carroll talked about in the China new equipment orders. So things feeling better about Otis.
Ronald Epstein -- Bank of America -- Analyst
Got you, got you. And then one Aerospace question if I may. If the A320neo, specifically the A321 were to get a little more share. What would be the bottlenecks for you guys to increase production even more on the GTF, right? I mean, the competitor engine, as we know there is some controversy going on right now with their blades, 737 itself, as you know grounded. So if the A320 were to pick up a little share, may or may not happen. How much the challenge would there be for you guys to get production even higher?
Gregory J. Hayes -- Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
There's two big bottlenecks, I would say in terms of ramping up production. And this is the problem that is not new. One is on the casting side and just trying to get additional capacity in the supply chain on the casting front is very, very difficult. The second place is our own forging capacity down in Georgia. We just added a fifth line down there, it's coming online, this quarter, it's starting to meet production ramp, but frankly, as we look forward that line is -- or that fifth press is almost fully utilized in terms of the volume we see today. So there are a couple of constraints out there that require, I would say, a lot of CapEx and probably a couple of years.
In the meantime, I think and look, we're confident, we're going to meet the customer requirements this year and next year with the capacity that we've added -- additional capacity, it's just, it's tough.
Ronald Epstein -- Bank of America -- Analyst
Okay, great, thanks, guys.
Gregory J. Hayes -- Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Thanks, Ron.
Operator
Our next question comes from Steve Tusa with JPMorgan.
Steve Tusa -- JPMorgan -- Analyst
Hey guys, good morning.
Gregory J. Hayes -- Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Hi, Steve.
Steve Tusa -- JPMorgan -- Analyst
The change in guidance from a profit perspective. Well -- I didn't hear much of a change for any of the segments. Is it just kind of bumping some of them to the high end of the range. Just wanted to kind of understand better, why you're clipping off the low, and it seems all the segments are basically like react (ph)?
Akhil Johri -- Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
Yes. So I mean, if you think about it, we would probably have been looking at, and we seriously debated this, at taking up the Collins guidance, given the solid start that they've had, Collins Aerospace in total. But the uncertainty associated with Max737 keeps us a little tempered at this point. We'll have to see how things progress at the next quarter, maybe another opportunity to look at that again. So I would say, if I was to be a gambling person, which I'm not, I would -- probably Collins would be toward the higher end of the range, even with some constraints that they have. On the other hand, you have a little bit of a challenge on the Carrier side. I think, they've had a -- again not a surprise to us, internally very consistent with what we were expecting in the quarter and we know there are several benefits that Carrier will see in the second half compared to the first half, Taylor FX being two of those. Taylor and FX were like $50 million headwind in the first half year-over-year which goes away in the second half compares get better and commodities and things like that. Also in the second half. So we think Carrier has a great shot but obviously when a business starts off the year, we're down $44 million in the quarter and you have a guidance of $100 million to $150 million for the full year, there is a little stretch in there, so based on that, I think we feel overall OK about our segments. I think, the benefit that you saw at the bottom end was clearly the strong growth we saw in the first quarter as well as the tax benefit that I referred to earlier is what gave us confidence that we should be able to do better than the bottom end we had before.
Steve Tusa -- JPMorgan -- Analyst
Okay. And then you -- just to get back to the Aerospace free cash flow discussion. It sounds to me like you guys have a pretty, I'll call it kind of heavily burdened currently kind of free cash flow generating profile. It sounds like you're kind of coming off the bottom of that. There is not much positive that's kind of currently influencing aviation free cash flow. There has been a pretty good cycle in aftermarket, though. Are there any kind of unusual positives flowing through on the aftermarket from a cash perspective? Is there any way that you can kind of pull forward cash by giving things like discounts for spares purchases when demand is high? Is that kind of common practice and is any of that embedded currently in your free cash flow?
Gregory J. Hayes -- Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
No, Steve. I think, with the market as strong as it is today, we're not in the mode of the need to discount to bring in these orders. I think, if anything, cash was a little constrained. As you saw, Pratt aftermarket only grew 1% in the first quarter. That gives us confidence obviously in the back half of the year as we recover those V2500 MRO visits, but there is nothing out there that I would say is unusual, other than just execution, collecting receivables. But more importantly, driving inventory down and driving churns up. And again, I think, that's just a natural as we drive the cost down on the GTF, you're increasing the velocity through the shops, you're increasing the velocity of the inventory turns. All that is very positive, but there's nothing in the background in terms of discounting or anything else that's going on that would have given us a better than expected first quarter or even full year.
Steve Tusa -- JPMorgan -- Analyst
Right, so no prepayments from spares helping cash flow, it doesn't work that way to me?
Gregory J. Hayes -- Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
No.
Steve Tusa -- JPMorgan -- Analyst
Okay.
Akhil Johri -- Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
No, no. And the reality, Steve is we've talked about this several times, I think, we had been in an investment phase. We are coming to a point where GTF is now delivering in terms of what the expected requirements are from the customer base. So the inventory that Greg talked about earlier, starts to get -- become more and more manageable. We see improvements on the receivable side as well. So overall, while CapEx still remains high and will remain high for this year, I think as we look forward, not just this year, but for the next several years. The story on cash, particularly on the aviation side should be really good and that's what our internal focus is to grow profits higher than sales and cash greater than profits.
Steve Tusa -- JPMorgan -- Analyst
Right. So your cash flow is soft (ph), is what you're saying?
Akhil Johri -- Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
I believe so, yes, absolutely, I mean, of course, you have to exclude the one-time cost associated with the project -- with the separation of the portfolio but other than that the base business is really strong and should continue to grow.
Steve Tusa -- JPMorgan -- Analyst
Okay, great . Thanks a lot, guys.
Akhil Johri -- Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
Thank you, Steve.
Gregory J. Hayes -- Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Thanks, Steve.
Operator
Our next question comes from Sheila Kahyaoglu with Jefferies.
Sheila Kahyaoglu -- Jefferies -- Analyst
Hi, good morning and thank you.
Gregory J. Hayes -- Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Good morning, Sheila.
Sheila Kahyaoglu -- Jefferies -- Analyst
Just on the Collins better accretion. Can you maybe talk about how much of that was cost synergies and/or better sales outlook and if you could give some color on the different businesses, commercial OE for Collins defense and interiors. Just the moving pieces there, thank you.
Akhil Johri -- Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
Sure. So roughly, I would say, $0.12 better than what we were expecting in accretion in the quarter and that's broken up $0.04 of that was that tax benefit that I've been talking about a couple of times, now that's the BE Aerospace-related stuff, so that sort of was a one-time thing, if you could think about. The rest of it was strong performance operationally, commercial aftermarket in the heritage Rockwell Collins business was very strong. Some of it was driven probably by timing on margin upgrades, which are a little lumpy at times. Saving -- the synergy benefits were about $50 million in the quarter. So clearly, ahead of the run rate that we have been expecting and then the operational performance across all businesses, whether it's the interiors business, whether it's the Mission Systems business or the Avionics business, all of the three businesses did a little bit better than we were expecting at the beginning.
Sheila Kahyaoglu -- Jefferies -- Analyst
Right. Thank you for the color.
Akhil Johri -- Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
Yeah.
Operator
Our next question comes from Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research Partners.
Jeff Sprague -- Vertical Research -- Analyst
Thank you, good morning.
Akhil Johri -- Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
Hey, Jeff.
Gregory J. Hayes -- Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Good morning, Jeff.
Jeff Sprague -- Vertical Research -- Analyst
Good morning, just to the -- the separation process. I know there's a tremendous amount of hard work going on in the background. But it feels like you're kind of on autopilot now to your timeline and just wondering if there -- if there was a hurdle that you're looking at and as part and parcel to that question, we kind of past the expiration date, so to speak to consider some other strategic action around your plans, given your desire not to disrupt your timeline.
Gregory J. Hayes -- Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Well, first of all, Jeff, if there is an autopilot switch on this thing, I have yet to find it. I would tell you that the team is working pretty hard. I would tell you, two big milestones that we've talked about there -- out there that drive the whole timeline or the tax filings in Canada and the tax filing here in the US and both of those have been completed now. And we're just waiting for the Canadian revenue authorities and the IRS to come back and give us rulings. That's a six to nine months process. The good news is that should all happen now, given the fact we got them filed, should all happen this year, which should allow us to then finish the final restructuring to complete the separation activities. There is a tremendous amount of work going on to get these two businesses those setup. I would tell you, the digital or the IT organization here trying to create two new stand-alone IT system architectures. That's a ton of work. Treasury and the tax folks and the controllers folks trying to get to (inaudible). There's just a lot of work going on. But I think again, it's all on track. We meet every couple of weeks, if not more often to go through the progress. No showstoppers. So again, I think operationally, end of the year, we will be in a position to do the spins. The tax again -- tax will drive the ultimate timing whether that happens in the first quarter or shortly thereafter. I don't know, but it's -- again, it's all on track to what we expect. As far as potential transactions, to your point, we laid it out, there were three issues, right, we needed to get full value. It needed to be tax free, that needed not to impact the timing of the spin transactions. There remain opportunities I would say out there that we think are attractive for the businesses in the long term from an M&A standpoint. I just think, it's unlikely to your point, probably because of timing that will happen now. But those opportunities that exist today will also exist the day that the businesses get spun-off and I would expect that they will pursue those activities just as we have before the spin.
Jeff Sprague -- Vertical Research -- Analyst
Right. Thank you for that. And on, just on separation and the like. So the little or nothing in the first quarter from a cash standpoint?
Akhil Johri -- Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
Very small, Jeff. So the $0.06 that I talked about as the accounting costs were all -- were a little less than that was on a cash front, right, so very small in the first quarter.
Jeff Sprague -- Vertical Research -- Analyst
And just, could you put a finer point on Carrier, your view in the back half. What they're expecting for price cost and maybe other key variance items that kind of lift it to that OP guide for the year.
Gregory J. Hayes -- Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, OK. There is a couple of things that give us confidence. As Akhil mentioned, some of the compares obviously get easier, whether it's FX, some of the input costs that we saw like logistics costs that were up. They were up big in the first quarter, those compares get easier in the back half of the year, but I think more importantly, organic growth will continue apace. We saw 3%. We continue to expect pretty good growth on the topline. I would also say, Bob McDonough and team have done a pretty good job of identifying cost to takeout. And so there is a program today in place to have a major cost reduction that will probably yield, I don't know $75 million...
Akhil Johri -- Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
Yeah, $75 million in the next three quarters of restructuring savings, Jeff, compared to say $13 million in the first quarter. Right. So the restructuring benefits go up significantly in the back half.
Gregory J. Hayes -- Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
If you think about their guidance with that $75 million, that's why, we're confident, because of the cost action, the cost takeout actions. As far as cost price.
Akhil Johri -- Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
Yeah. Price has been actually pretty good in the first quarter as well. We do expect that to improve a little bit as the year goes by, but in the first quarter, Jeff, we saw over $50 million similar to the volume adjusted, similar to what we saw in the fourth quarter. So I don't think, price is that much of an issue. The point was exactly what Greg said, which is first quarter of this year, we had the toughest year-over-year compare on the logistics cost. So price was not enough to offset that year-over-year increase. Those compare start to get a little easier Q2 onwards when specifically in the second half. So I think as Carroll said, we probably don't expect Carrier to grow earnings in the first half for variety of reasons, but the growth in the second half based on the things that we just talked about feels doable.
Jeff Sprague -- Vertical Research -- Analyst
Great, thank you.
Operator
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from Doug Harned with Bernstein.
Doug Harned -- Bernstein Research -- Analyst
Good morning. Thank you.
Gregory J. Hayes -- Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Good morning. Hi, Doug.
Doug Harned -- Bernstein Research -- Analyst
I wanted to continue on in how the transition takes place. So as you look at the next 12 months and with Otis and Carrier moving out, how do you envision the process to establish the management teams and the Boards for those companies. And in that transition period, ensure that no one takes their eye off the ball to get the performance you want.
Gregory J. Hayes -- Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Well, look, I think hitting the operational targets the year -- for this year is absolutely critical to the stories of both Otis and Carrier going forward. And I think, I've mentioned this before, we've changed our compensation system here, so that all the Otis folks are going to get their compensation based upon Otis performance, and the Carrier folks based upon Carrier performance. So we think, we've incentivized the folks to be focused on this.
In terms of process timing, we expect, we will name the management teams here sometime in the second quarter before the end of the second quarter. I would say, the Board of Directors of that process is ongoing. We'll probably have those done by the end of the third quarter, such that by the beginning of the fourth quarter, we will have fully constituted Board of Directors and management teams for both companies that will allow us to prepare for the actual separation. Obviously, there's Form 10s to fill out and all that. There will be road shows that have to be done. But I think that's all, there's a timeline established for all of those activities. And we feel confident, we'll hit all of these targets.
Doug Harned -- Bernstein Research -- Analyst
Okay, that's very helpful. Thanks.
Gregory J. Hayes -- Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Thanks, Doug.
Operator
Our next question comes from Deane Dray with RBC Capital Markets.
Deane Dray -- RBC Capital Markets -- Analyst
Thank you. Good morning, everyone.
Gregory J. Hayes -- Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Good morning, Deane.
Deane Dray -- RBC Capital Markets -- Analyst
It was also nice to hear Akhil say, he is not a gambling person, so that was very reassuring.
Akhil Johri -- Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
Thank you, Deane. My wife appreciates that as well.
Deane Dray -- RBC Capital Markets -- Analyst
All right, good. Can we get some more color on the resi assumption at Carrier lowering from modest growth to modest decline and then part of your answer -- can you give us a sense of where the inventory is in the channel, as you build for the cooling season?
Akhil Johri -- Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
So first to clarify, the modest decline part was only with one of the assumptions, Deane, which was the housing starts assumption, that's not what we believe our business will do. We still believe, our business will be up mid-single digit. As you know for the residential business while housing starts and new construction is significant part, it's about 30% of the total volume, 70% of the volume still comes from replacement cycle and we think that cycle is still pretty robust and solid. Consumer still remains strong. We did see some weakness, as Greg mentioned earlier in the quarter at a conference. We see -- saw slow start in January and that had to do with inventory in the channels from some high shipments that we saw last year in the fourth quarter. Right. Residential was up 14%, fourth quarter and so there was more inventory in the channel there which took a little time to correct itself. The orders through the quarters have -- through the quarter have been improving. The first couple of weeks, this quarter have also been decent.
So we do believe just to make clear that our full year outlook is still mid single-digit growth in the residential HVAC business. No change to that, it's the housing starts dynamic, which we believe is now a little weaker than it was coming in.
Deane Dray -- RBC Capital Markets -- Analyst
Got it. But just any specifics regarding how much inventories in the channel versus a year ago on the set up for the cooling season?
Akhil Johri -- Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
Sure. So I think, we should break it up into two. The reference that Carroll made about the pre-buy associated with the fan efficiency regulations that impacts the furnace part of the equation and there we do see inventory in the channel, significantly higher than what it was last year and partly to do with this pre-buy. But on the splits, which is what -- is the more relevant segment as the cooling season comes through, the inventory in the channel is not out of line with what we saw last year. So we feel good about the split side of the business, on the furnaces driven by this pre-buy, there is some extra inventory right now. Yes.
Deane Dray -- RBC Capital Markets -- Analyst
Got it. Very helpful, thank you.
Akhil Johri -- Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
Thanks, Deane.
Operator
Our next question comes from Jon Raviv with Citi.
Jonathan Raviv -- Citi -- Analyst
Good morning, everyone.
Gregory J. Hayes -- Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Hi, Jon.
Jonathan Raviv -- Citi -- Analyst
Greg, what are you seeing? I am curious about your military comments, what are you seeing in the military market driving you to talk more about Mission Systems going forward? There is some view out there that military growth has to slow at some point, but that's not really apparent in the results or in the way that folks like yourselves are talking about these markets. So if you guys add a little color there, that would be much appreciated.
Gregory J. Hayes -- Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Yes. As we -- when you look at all of the military platforms that we're on, JSF, obviously, we see production ramping there, but we also continue to see very strong growth in the ISR business, the space business and some of the other businesses that we don't often talk about. And again, this is what Rockwell Collins brought to UTC that gave us real heft in the military communication side, some of the optics and satellites work very well with our ISR business. And so if you look at the -- those businesses -- both Pratt because of the JSF and the aftermarket and at Collins, really, really strong quarters.
And this is 25% of our business going forward on the Aerospace side. So we just thought, it was important, as you think about, we're not just a commercial aerospace Company. We are an A and B Company. And I think, we shouldn't forget as we have a very, very solid position in the -- on the defense systems side. Again, defense spending goes up and down, we know that as it peaked, I'm not sure, but we can certainly see the programs that we're on, have a lot of runway, both on the ISR side or the communication side as well as the ramp on the JSF.
Akhil Johri -- Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
Jon, as you know, the defense is a broad-based moniker to you -- that people use often. The secret is being on the right platforms. So if you are in the high-growth areas of the defense spend, then you tend to do well. And fortunately, we have a portfolio which seems to be positioned up well in those high growth areas of the defense budgets.
Jonathan Raviv -- Citi -- Analyst
Thank you.
Akhil Johri -- Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
Kevin, any other question?
Operator
Yes. Our next question comes from Rajeev Lalwani with Morgan Stanley.
Rajeev Lalwani -- Morgan Stanley -- Analyst
Good morning, gentlemen.
Gregory J. Hayes -- Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Good morning, Rajeev.
Rajeev Lalwani -- Morgan Stanley -- Analyst
I have a question on the GTF side. As the program starts to mature, do you think there is an opportunity to maybe improve on the $1 billion or so OE loss that you've talked about. Your partner, and MTU has highlighted sort of breakeven OE economics, at some point next decade from less discounts and automation benefits, is that something you can do. And then a clarification for Akhil. Akhil, you've talked about the opportunities on Pratt around working capital and CapEx. Have you quantified that? Or can you quantify what that could be?
Gregory J. Hayes -- Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Let me start on the GTF, and I will let Akhil answer the harder question. As far as the GTF, the cost profile, we continue on this learning curve, which is about 87% production this year is going to be up, we'll see probably overall cost per engine down around 15% after being down roughly 15% in each of the last couple of years. So we continue to take cost out. To your point, it's all about the discounted level that are on the engines and obviously, we're still working through the backlog of initial orders for these engines, which have a higher discount.
Where we get to breakeven. I don't see that. Even the V2500 which we built for 30-years was still a negative margin business going out the door at the end of its production run, so it won't get better, cost continue to come down and we're on the right trajectory, but getting to breakeven is hard. What I would say in terms of negative engine margin, in total, that's peaked last year, it won't go up any higher than that, again just because we're continuing to drive cost down even as production goes up.
Akhil Johri -- Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
Yeah. And Rajeev on the working capital side of the cash flow opportunity on the aviation businesses. I think even though we don't have a specific target that we've laid out. But here is (ph) why I feel good about things, previous investment cycle or pre the GTF, Pratt and Collins or UTC at that time, inventory turns were in the five turns to six turns range. We went down to as low as 3 points some inventory turns for both businesses, that number is now above 4 points, as Greg said. And we think there is opportunity to get another 1 point to 2 points of improvement on the inventory turns. That's clearly the biggest opportunity we have over the long term. The second aspect is CapEx, we are still continuing to invest significantly on the aero side. For the last few years, it was to do with putting up additional capacity on the OE production levels and now, it's transitioning more to make sure we have adequate MRO capacity. So the CapEx continues to be high, but it will come down. Because over the long term, no business operates at a 170% of depreciation for too long. And that's what where we are and I fully expect that to go down to 120%, 130% level over time, that would free up $200 million to $300 million of additional cash. So we think good opportunity on cash. And our simple message inside the business is to make sure profits grow higher than sales and cash grows higher than profit, right? As we -- if we keep doing that, that's good for us and for the shareholders.
Rajeev Lalwani -- Morgan Stanley -- Analyst
Great. Thanks for indulging on the multi-partner.
Operator
Our next question comes from Nigel Coe with Wolfe Research.
Nigel Coe -- Wolfe Research -- Analyst
Hi, good morning, guys.
Gregory J. Hayes -- Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Hi, Nigel.
Nigel Coe -- Wolfe Research -- Analyst
Just wanted to -- just spend a little time talking about North American commercial markets. Carroll, I think, you mentioned some price pressure in Otis new equipment orders. And one of your competitors talked about some weakness or pause to be more accurate on the light commercial side during 1Q. So maybe just, if you could just maybe unpack what you saw around 1Q in bit more detail, and how you see that playing out over the remainder of the year?
Carroll Lane -- Vice President, Investor Relations
Overall, we feel really good about North America, Nigel. And you look at the orders on a rolling 12 month basis, they're obviously up. It is very healthy environment, we are seeing a little bit more pressure on the margins. So just thinking about the revenue per unit coming into the backlog, that's coming in today. But we look ahead, we think we've got a very good year ahead of us in North America and feel confident about the industry overall.
Akhil Johri -- Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
And on the Carrier side, the light commercial market still continues to be pretty robust. We had not seen any reduction in demand there. The award activity at Otis as well, I think as Carroll mentioned earlier still seems to be pretty good. I worry a little bit about, it's been a strong market for five years almost. And you tend to think about, at what point does it start to slow down a little bit. But thus far, touch wood, it's been a great story. And even though quarterly, you see orders compare up and down, the activity level -- the bidding activity in the market is still pretty strong. The issue that Carroll referred to some extent is driven by product mix as well, where we are seeing demand for a slightly lower featured less of a -- lower price products, which creates a little pressure in the margin from Otis perspective.
Nigel Coe -- Wolfe Research -- Analyst
Great, thanks, guys.
Operator
Our next question comes from Myles Walton with UBS.
Myles Walton -- UBS -- Analyst
Thanks, good morning.
Gregory J. Hayes -- Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Good morning, Myles.
Myles Walton -- UBS -- Analyst
I know it's early in the GTF aftermarket life cycle here. But I'm curious on your power-by-the-hour contracts and your FMP programs. How volatile the EACs are? Are they settling into a range that's kind of in line with your business plan. And are you still on a pathway that 2022 is kind of total breakeven for the program?
Akhil Johri -- Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
So the early FMPs on this, Myles, as you would imagine are not as profitable as some of the later FMPs on GTF are. It's part of the whole equation of how you win certain campaigns early on. So clearly, you'd see some of that flow through our numbers early on. The good news is that we have a very profitable, very strong aftermarket content coming through from the V2500s and a little longer than expected utility out of our PW4000 and 2000 legacy engines as well. So overall aftermarket feels very good. GTF aftermarket specifically will continue to improve as time goes by, as years go by. No concerns about EACs on the GTF beyond what we -- what expecting already. Most of the good part about all the negativity that you guys have heard about with some of the teething issues, is that we've been able to catch a lot of that early in the cycle. And as a result, we've been able to fix things before too many of the engines have been out in the marketplace. And that's kind of helped us manage to some extent on the aftermarket profitability going forward.
Anything to add, Greg?
Gregory J. Hayes -- Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Myles, I think, what you're referencing is, when does the -- when do the aftermarket cash flows on GTF offset the negative engine losses. And I think that's the general timeframe plus or minus a year or two. Obviously the engine gets a vote in terms of its interval, but that's about right. I'd say, as we look at the V2500 aftermarket today and the legacy engine aftermarket today, feeling very good about it. The content that we're seeing on the V2500 today, very strong. The content on the 4000s, very strong. And that's how even with an aftermarket that only grew by 1% in this quarter, you still saw profit growth coming out of that aftermarket. So feel very good about the outlook for this year, it's well north of 1,000 -- demand for more than 1,000 V2500 visits this year, even with the issues on the capacity constraints of those two shops that Akhil referenced, we're going to try to get to at least 1,000 of those from moving the engines around. So no signals on the demand side that anything to be concerned about.
Myles Walton -- UBS -- Analyst
And then, Akhil, are you at 52 (ph) a month across your production system or you at 42 (ph) or is it a real blend there?
Akhil Johri -- Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
You are talking about on the 737 right? Because on the Airbus side, we are at a rate higher than that on the 320. We are still operating at somewhere I would say in between 52 and 42 depending on what the individual components being supplied to Boeing need. So there are certain places where we want to make sure that we continue to produce at a rate which can help with the restart of the lines, which is going to inevitably happen. And I think, so it's somewhere between that depending on the specific components you talk about.
Myles Walton -- UBS -- Analyst
Okay. Thanks, again.
Operator
Our next question comes from Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Noah Poponak -- Goldman Sachs -- Analyst
Hey, good morning, everyone.
Gregory J. Hayes -- Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Good morning, Noah.
Noah Poponak -- Goldman Sachs -- Analyst
Just wanted to, to cycle back to the Otis margin just because it sounds like you feel more confident in the medium term outlook there than you have in quite some time, when it's been kind of uncertain and choppy. And Akhil, you mentioned that the Europe service margin dollars grew for the first time in several years. I was wondering, if you could give us the numbers on what that did in the order book and also what China new equipment pricing did in the order book? Since those have been that kind of the two hurdles there. And then last quarter, you mentioned the potential for that business to be high teens again. Is that something you are starting to be able to see in a specific timeframe in your plan, or does it remain more of a kind of -- theoretical or just where that business naturally should be over time?
Akhil Johri -- Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
So couple of couple of different things here. Let's talk about the Europe service business first. The good news there was, again we saw dollar growth in service margins at Europe this quarter after several years, as you pointed out. And a lot of that was driven by productivity. So and we've talked about this often, revenue per unit was still flattish on a year-over-year basis in the European service business, in the maintenance business. But we saw good news where hours per unit was actually better by 4% in the quarter in Europe, 3% overall for Otis globally, but 4% better in Europe. And that was more than the increase in the costs per unit on the rate side. So as a result, they were able to grow the margin dollars in the European business, right? So that's an encouraging sign, again, one quarter does not make a trend, we will need to watch this for a period of time to make sure that that sustains itself, but very encouraging sign after several years.
In the China side, Carroll mentioned this, the value growth in orders was 8% and the units were up slightly. So as a result, you can see that the mix, the difference between the value and the units was largely driven this time by price and mix. Pricing was consistent with what we have seen now for five or six quarters, where it's up a few points. And again, it's not a very precise calculation, but it's directionally correct. The good news we saw this quarter, and again one quarter doesn't make a trend, is that we had greater demand for mid-range and high-range products, which come with more features and with slightly higher dollars per unit. So that combination helped us get to the gap of the 7 points that you saw in the dollars and value of the orders, as well as the unit orders. So overall, things in Otis seem to be trending in the right direction, whether we can get to the mid-teens, I let the boss answer, or high teens?
Gregory J. Hayes -- Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, look, I think, you need to think about the last three years or so in Otis. We have been reinvesting in technology, in automation and in productivity. And I think, Judy and team have -- we've been very clear about that. And we knew that that was going to drag down margins as we made all of these investments, we've taken R&D up, we've taken increase in spending on service portfolio. All of those things, we're starting to see some traction, as Akhil, said. We're starting to get productivity in the service figure -- service. I think there is more productivity to come. We still haven't rolled out the global service platform yet that will happen in the next year or so, which again should help on the productivity front. The Otis strategy is pretty straightforward, right. We are trying to sell as many elevators as we can. While at the same time, servicing them more efficiently, every single year, and it's drive to efficiency on the service that's going to continue to drive the margins north and that's where we've got confidence. There's a lot of cost we can still take out on Otis, I know Judy, and the team are laser focused on how to take those costs out. And I think as you think about next year especially, Otis got a lot of runway, we're starting to see profit growth this year, we're confident in that. And I think, it's only going to continue, higher over the next two or three years as we look at taking structural cost out from the back office from the factories and from the service side. So I think that at high teens. Is it next year? Absolutely not. Is it three years, four years? Probably. And again that's the -- that is the Otis story, that's why we're so excited about the prospects of Otis as a stand-alone business.
Noah Poponak -- Goldman Sachs -- Analyst
Appreciate all that color. Thank you.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes today's Q&A portion. I'd like to turn the call back over to Greg Hayes.
Gregory J. Hayes -- Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Thank you all for listening in today. I won't repeat about a good quarter. You guys get that, I will say Carroll and team are around all day today, so please feel free, give him a call and we look forward to seeing you guys at EPG in May. Take care. Thank you.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's presentation. You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Duration: 60 minutes
Call participants:
Gregory J. Hayes -- Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Akhil Johri -- Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
Carroll Lane -- Vice President, Investor Relations
Carter Copeland -- Melius Research -- Analyst
Julien Mitchell -- Barclays -- Analyst
Ronald Epstein -- Bank of America -- Analyst
Steve Tusa -- JPMorgan -- Analyst
Sheila Kahyaoglu -- Jefferies -- Analyst
Jeff Sprague -- Vertical Research -- Analyst
Doug Harned -- Bernstein Research -- Analyst
Deane Dray -- RBC Capital Markets -- Analyst
Jonathan Raviv -- Citi -- Analyst
Rajeev Lalwani -- Morgan Stanley -- Analyst
Nigel Coe -- Wolfe Research -- Analyst
Myles Walton -- UBS -- Analyst
Noah Poponak -- Goldman Sachs -- Analyst
More UTX analysis
Transcript powered by AlphaStreet
This article is a transcript of this conference call produced for The Motley Fool. While we strive for our Foolish Best, there may be errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in this transcript. As with all our articles, The Motley Fool does not assume any responsibility for your use of this content, and we strongly encourage you to do your own research, including listening to the call yourself and reading the company's SEC filings. Please see our Terms and Conditions for additional details, including our Obligatory Capitalized Disclaimers of Liability.

Story 132
TV3’s “plus one” channel, TV3+1, has been added to the Sky television platform, the largest in Ireland, on channel 117. This means a one-hour delayed feed of the TV3 schedule will now appear one spot below rival UTV Ireland on Sky’s electronic programme guide (EPG).
“We are delighted to have reached agreement with Sky for such a prominent EPG position,” says TV3 Group director of broadcasting Niall Cogley.
“Timeshift” channels can swell audience share by as much as 5 per cent without the need for the broadcaster to spend additional money on content.
TV3+1 was added to UPC’s platform on channel 119 last December. However, being on the Sky platform is commercially more significant for the group, as Sky has an estimated 700,000 subscribers in the Republic compared to about 400,000 for UPC.
According to figures from television ratings body TAM Ireland for the month of February, RTÉ+1, TV3+1, Comedy Central+1, Channel 4+1 and the first timeshift channel in the market, E4+1, accounted for about 2 per cent of total viewing.
They are particularly used by regular watchers of soaps and other programming scheduled in the 7pm-9pm peak-time block.
RTÉ +1, which broadcasts after 7pm and is available on the Saorview platform on the same frequency as RTÉjr, is the most popular, with a 0.5 per cent share of viewing. It was launched in 2011.
TV3 Group, meanwhile, is also gearing up to launch its TV3HD service on Sky this summer in advance of the Rugby World Cup, to which it has the rights.
The tournament, which takes place in England and Wales in the autumn, is of major commercial importance to the broadcaster, which plans to show all 48 matches live.
TV3 is expected to earn between €5 million and €6 million in total ad sales from the seven-week tournament, having collected an estimated €3 million in a single day when its premium packages went on sale late last month. The broadcaster has also secured a sponsor for its coverage for a six-figure sum.
Even without the benefit of sister channel 3e and its new timeshift channel, TV3 remains the second most watched channel in the market. It is behind RTÉ One but ahead of RTÉ Two and UTV Ireland, which has stated its ambition to overtake both.

Story 133
“Rather than look to the improvement as the possible ‘something more’ that overcomes the well-understood, routine and conventional standard, the Chamberlain panel took that standard and applied it right back to the improvement itself.”
If you’re reading this blog, then you likely are an avid follower of the Section 101 saga. The most recent episode in this saga, Chamberlain v. Techtronic at the Federal Circuit, is about so much more than a garage door operator being an abstract idea. It’s about the fact that we still have no clue what’s supposed to happen in the 2A and 2B steps of the judicially-created Alice/Mayo test.
From Mayo to Mess
In Mayo and Alice, the Supreme Court told us that an abstract idea needed “something more” than what is well-understood, routine and conventional (WRC) to be patentable.
Sure.
Then, Berkheimer v. HP came along a year and a half ago and said something very interesting: if you have an abstract idea under 2A, you can overcome the abstract idea finding by showing that the claim is directed to a purported improvement under 2B. (“[W]e must . . . ask whether the claims are directed to an improvement to computer functionality versus being directed to an abstract idea.” Berkheimer at 11.) In other words, the improvement to the computer functioning is a showing of that “something more,” rendering an abstract idea (the computer functioning alone) to be more than WRC.
However, now, we have to question whether this standard established by Berkheimer will be sustained in light of the Federal Circuit’s more recent precedential Chamberlain decision.
I know what you’re thinking: Isn’t that what Chamberlain did? The panel assessed the CGI’s improvement after all. (“The asserted claims here are not limited to a specific implementation of a technological improvement to communication systems. Rather, they simply recite a system that wirelessly communicates status information. Nor do the asserted claims ‘focus on a specific means or method that improves the relevant technology.’” Chamberlain at 7.)
Reading Berkheimer Backwards
No. The Chamberlain panel applied the Alice/Mayo test completely backwards compared to what the Berkheimer panel said. First, the question of improvement was assessed in Chamberlain’s “Step One” (or 2A). Not only that, the panel then immediately went on to find that “(t)he specification admits that the act of transmitting data wirelessly is ‘well understood in the art,’ and no other changes to the generically claimed movable barrier operator are recited in the asserted claims or described in the specification.” Chamberlain at 7.
What is happening in Chamberlain? Rather than look to the improvement as the possible “something more” that overcomes the WRC standard, the Chamberlain panel took the WRC standard and applied it right back to the improvement itself. The purported improvement here was to improve a garage door opening system by providing a wireless communication system to communicate status information for a garage door opener. The panel limited the improvement here to just wireless communication of status, ignoring the setting of its implementation, which was to a garage door, and then found the method of wirelessly communicating status to be well-understood in the art. In other words, the purported improvement is not an improvement to a garage door system by providing a wireless communication system, which I believe is what the appellant was arguing. Rather, the improvement is just limited to a wireless communication system, which greatly enhances the standard of what that improvement must be under a patentability analysis.
This means that the Chamberlain panel took the very obstacle the improvement was supposed to overcome and applied it right back to the improvement. That’s like putting the cart on the horse!
The table below outlines the main differences between Berkheimer and Chamberlain in terms of how they applied the Alice test:
Confusing the Search for Something More
Notice the key difference: in Berkheimer, the improvement is assessed in Step 2B, while the improvement is assessed in Step 2A in Chamberlain. And yes, it matters when you assess the improvement. Why? Because, as stated before, when the improvement is assessed in 2B, it becomes a showing of something more. But if the improvement is assessed in 2A, the claim now needs to have something more than the improvement in 2B. And if Chamberlain’s assessment of patentability is utilized, once the purported improvement is found to be an abstract idea under 2A, then there’s nothing to save the claim from unpatentability under 2B, practically speaking. The purported improvement is always a claim’s basis. So, if that’s an abstract idea, what is even the point of looking at the rest of the claim in 2B?
Another reason the disparity between these decisions is not a good thing is because it confuses us! On the heels of Berkheimer, the USPTO promulgated the new Section 101 Guidelines in January. These are lovely, lovely guidelines that told the Examining Corp to look for an improvement as a separate step from the traditional 2A “is this an abstract idea?” step. (Prong Two considerations: “Limitations that are indicative of integration into a practical application: Improvements to the functioning of a computer or to any other technology or technical field – see MPEP 2106.05(a).”)
Could Have, Should Have
What if the Chamberlain panel had found that the main reason for a finding of unpatentability was that the claim failed to recite how the wireless communication was for specific implementation to a special purpose machine? That is, CGI’s wireless communication system could have been implemented generically to many types of machines and apparatuses, not just to a garage door. The Chamberlain panel actually suggested that they considered this issue into their finding of patentability. (“[T]he ’275’s claims, like Bascom’s, are patent-eligible because they ‘carve out’ a specific implementation (a specific type of operator with an integrated controller and wireless transmitter to transmit status information) that provide [sic] greater flexibility than the prior art physical interfaces approach.” Chamberlain at 10.)
If that’s the case, then it’s not the most unreasonable grounds for a finding of unpatentability. The panel could have said that CGI’s improvement (the wireless communication system) failed to show something more than what is WRC because the claim failed to recite how the wireless communication was specifically to be implemented into a special machine or apparatus. But they could have done all of that in 2B and remained consistent with Berkheimer, without turning the WRC standard onto the purported improvement in 2A. The Patent Trial and Appeal Board actually does it all the time. (See Ex Parte Olson, Appeal 2017-006489 (PTAB Mar. 25, 2019); Ex Parte Kimizuka, Appeal 2018-001081 (PTAB May 15, 2019); Ex Parte Savescu, Appeal 2018-003174 (PTAB Apr. 1, 2019); Ex Parte Fautz, Appeal 2019-000106 (PTAB May 15, 2019)).
There was no need to parse out the purported improvement in 2A and apply the WRC test to the improvement in 2A. The Chamberlain decision cites a lot of precedent that appears to have done something similar, namely Core Wireless v. LG. But if the Federal Circuit was telling us that they were willing to change course in Berkheimer, what is the point of Chamberlain? Really, what is “something more” anyway?

Story 134
The consumer banking segment registered 25.9 million active mobile banking users, up 10% from the year-ago quarter.
Bank of America has earlier today published its key financial and operating metrics for the third quarter of 2018, with consumer banking marking continued growth in digital usage.
The consumer banking segment saw net income increase $1 billion, or 49%, from a year earlier, to $3.1 billion, driven by strong operating leverage of 10%. Revenue increased $629 million, or 7%, to $9.4 billion in the quarter to end-September 2018.
The segment marked 25.9 million active mobile banking users, up 10% from the equivalent quarter in 2017, whereas digital sales climbed and now account for 23% of all Consumer Banking sales. Mobile channel usage is up 17% from the year-ago quarter.
The bank is adding mobile digital identity functions, such as biometrics, that will integrate across channels, including call centers.
In June this year, for instance, Merrill Lynch introduced new mobile app features that aim to make it easier for clients to manage their finances. Merrill Lynch clients got the ability to use their Merrill Lynch mobile app to scan and send paper documents to their financial advisors. The new scanning feature uses the device’s camera to capture images of each page and converts them into a single PDF file. The list of new features also includes a spending and budgeting tool; the ability to view transactional activity for Bank of America deposit and card accounts; real-time money transfers with Zelle®; FICO score visibility; as well as access to seven years’ worth of statements and documents.
Brian Moynihan, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, commented the robust results for the third quarter of 2018, noting the bank’s “high-tech, high-touch approach continues to drive both client satisfaction and efficiencies”.
“More than 3 million users have accessed Erica, an AI virtual assistant, since its April rollout, and nearly a quarter of deposit transactions this quarter were performed via mobile device. We also have opened 53 financial centers and renovated more than 400 others in the last 12 months. We continue to expand into new markets, recently opening our first financial center in Pittsburgh, and we plan to open in Salt Lake City in the coming months, with additional markets to follow. In Global Banking, deposit growth reflects GTS investments, and Global Markets profitability improved. Bank of America is helping our clients address the straightforward question of what they would like the power to do, and delivering capabilities and solutions to help them reach their goals,” said Brian Moynihan.
Across all segments, net income was up 32% year-on-year to $7.2 billion in the third quarter of 2018, on the back of continuing strong operating leverage and asset quality, as well as the benefit of tax reform. Diluted earnings per share grew 43% to $0.66. Pretax income increased 18% from the year-ago quarter to $9 billion, whereas revenue, net of interest expense, increased 4% to $22.8 billion.

Story 135
Dubai, UAE:Emirates Post has recently achieved a significant milestone in the classification of its Customer Happiness Centres. From the forty-four (44) of its postal offices from across the nation that participated in the third round of the Global Star Rating Program 2017, 91% received a 4-star rating and four of the centres received a 3-star rating. Speaking on the achievement, Abdulla Mohammad Al Ashram, Acting Group CEO of Emirates Post Group, said: “We are honoured to receive this recognition which highlights the efforts of our team to improve our service offering. I would like to take this opportunity to thank our staff for their hard work and dedication to providing best-in-class services each and every day. We put our customers at the core of our business with the single pursuit of delivering happiness through postal services within the UAE and beyond. Our aim moving forward is to attain an even higher star rating as we move into 2019.”
Launched by His Highness Sheikh Mohammad Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai in 2011, the program aims to rise the efficiency of government services to global levels.

Story 136
Press coverage about SEIC stock has been trending extremely negative this week, according to InfoTrie Sentiment Analysis. InfoTrie rates the sentiment of press coverage by analyzing more than six thousand news and blog sources in real-time. The firm ranks coverage of publicly-traded companies on a scale of negative five to five, with scores nearest to five being the most favorable. SEI Investments earned a news impact score of -4.0 on InfoTrie's scale. They also gave press coverage about the asset manager a news buzz of 0.0 out of 10, indicating that recent press coverage is extremely unlikely to have an effect on the company's share price in the immediate future. View News Stories for SEI Investments.

Story 137
Media coverage about GILD stock has been trending extremely negative recently, according to InfoTrie. The research group ranks the sentiment of press coverage by monitoring more than six thousand news and blog sources. The firm ranks coverage of publicly-traded companies on a scale of -5 to 5, with scores closest to five being the most favorable. Gilead Sciences earned a coverage optimism score of -4.0 on InfoTrie's scale. They also gave news coverage about the biopharmaceutical company a news buzz of 0.0 out of 10, indicating that recent press coverage is extremely unlikely to have an impact on the stock's share price in the next several days. View News Stories for Gilead Sciences.

Story 138
Eaton Corporation PLC (NYSE:ETN)
Q4 2018 Earnings Conference Call
, 10:00 a.m. ET
Contents:
Prepared Remarks
Questions and Answers
Call Participants

See all our earnings call transcripts.
Prepared Remarks:
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the Eaton Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call. For the conference, all the participant lines are in a listen-only mode. There will be an opportunity for your questions and instructions will be given at that time. (Operator Instructions)
I'll turn the call now to Mr. Don Bullock, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.
Don Bullock -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Good morning. For those of you I'm Don Bullock, Eaton's Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Thank you to all of you for joining us for Eaton's Fourth Quarter 2018 Earnings Call. With me today are Craig Arnold, our Chairman and CEO, and Rick Fearon our Vice Chairman, Chief Financial and Planning Officer.
The agenda for today's call includes our opening remarks by Craig highlighting the performance in the fourth quarter, our outlook and our guidance for 2019. As we've done on our prior calls, we'll be taking questions at the end of Craig's comments today. Before we dive into that I do want to make a couple of quick passing comments. The press release for our earnings announcement this morning and the presentation we'll go through have been posted on our website at www.eaton.com. Please note that the press release and the presentation include reconciliations to any non-GAAP measures and a webcast of the call will be accessible on our website and available for replay after today's call.
Before we get started, I do need to remind you that the comments today do include statements related to expected future results of the Company and are therefore forward-looking statements. Any results that might differ materially from our forecast that could be due to a wide range of risks and uncertainties and those are described in the earnings release and the presentation and they will be also outlined in our related 10-Q filing.
With that, I'll turn it over to Craig.
Craig Arnold -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Okay. Thanks, Don. I'll start on Page 3, with highlights of our Q4 results and I'll start by saying that I'm very pleased naturally with our reports this morning and another very strong quarter performance, which really rounded out a solid year overall. Earnings per share of $1.46 a share, up 13% from last year and above the midpoint of our guidance. And this was driven by both strong growth in sales as well as higher margins.
Sales were actually $5.5 billion in the quarter, an increase of 5% and this includes 7% organic growth, and this was above our guidance of 6% for the quarter. Bookings growth in the quarter was also strong led by double-digit growth in both Electrical Systems and Services and in Aerospace.
And so we continue to be pleased with our margin performance as well, which increased a 100 basis points to 17.4%. We had solid margin performance really across all of the segments, and all-time record margins in Electrical Systems and Services and in Aerospace.
We also generated very strong operating cash flows of $1.1 billion, up 27% and a quarterly record, if you exclude the $300 million arbitration payment that we made earlier this year.
And lastly, we reported and repurchased $700 million of shares in the quarter, taking advantage of what we saw as a significant pullback in financial markets. And if you'll recall, we had planned to purchase $200 million to $400 million in the quarter to achieve our target of $800 million to $1 billion for the year. I'd say for now you can think about this as an acceleration of purchases and that we were planning to make in 2019. However, if markets remain weak, we'll certainly take advantage of those opportunities as well and buy at higher levels.
Moving to Page 4, you will see our financial summary for the quarter. You can read these numbers for sure, but I'll provide maybe just a bit of context here. First, our operating segment profits increased 11% and we generated strong incrementals of almost 40%. Second, segment margins of 17.4%, were at the high end of our guidance range and 100 basis points above Q4 2017. And finally, our net income as reported was flat with prior year and prior year included income related to the US tax bill. Excluding this one-time benefit from Q3 -- Q4 '17, our net income increased 10%.
On Page 5, we'll start our segment overviews with Electrical Products. Revenues grew 3% in Q4. This includes 5% of organic growth, offset by 2% in currency. And it was really a strong finish to the year and it was actually our highest organic growth rate for electrical products since Q4 of 2014.
As we expected, growth in our Lighting business turned positive and was up mid-single digits, while orders increased 3% and this was led by solid growth in the Americas. I'd also note here that our backlog increased 15%. And while we generally think about this as a book-and-bill business, this increase does suggest that we didn't see any unusual pre-buying at the end of the quarter. Segment margins were 18.2%, flat with prior year, and this was largely a result of some unfavorable product mix between the business.
Next, we can move to Page 6, and a summary of our Electrical Systems and Services segment. As I noted in my opening commentary, this segment posted excellent results for the quarter. The business continued to strengthen, we posted 10% organic growth in the quarter with strength across all major end markets. The 10% growth represented an acceleration of growth, which was above our Q3 growth rate of 9% and above the Q2 growth rate, which was up 7%. And as you can see, we did have some negative impact from foreign exchange and a small divestiture during the course of last year.
Orders were even stronger, up 12% on strong growth in all major end markets in the Americas and in EMEA. And I'd say that this strong growth in Q4 was against a very strong comp from last year, when orders were up 12%. You'll recall from our Q3 earnings call that we noted a pause in orders during the month of September. We had expected that this was largely project timing and temporary, so things really played out as we expected in this segment.
In addition, our backlog continued to increase and was up 13%. So overall, the segment is performing very consistent with what we would expect from this long-cycle business. And lastly, segment operating profits were up 19% and we generated all-time record margins in this segment of 16.6%. So a very strong quarter across the board.
If you turn to Page 7, we'll summarize the results of our Hydraulics business. Here we had another strong quarter of revenue growth with sales up 6%, 8% organic growth, offset by 2% negative currency, and we continue to see strength really in mobile and with industrial OEMs, in construction and ag markets and in the distribution channel, so pretty broad based.
Orders were down 4%, and I would say here on tough comps. And if you recall Q4 2017, our orders were up 25%. In the quarter, we did however see continued strength in Asia with orders up 10%, orders in the Americas were flat, but at very high levels, and we continue to see order weakness in EMEA with orders down some 24%, as lead times continue to improve. And I'd also add here, but this was the region where we had our most difficult comp, orders in Q4 2017 were actually up 38%. And so we feel once again pretty good overall about the activity levels in the Hydraulics business.
Our backlog does remain strong. It increased 6% from last year. And turning to Operating profits, we increased profit by 15% and our operating margins increased 90 basis points to 13%. So I think the right conclusion here is that we made solid progress in this business, which was held back in some prior quarters by some supply chain issues, but that progress need to continue and is expected to continue going into 2019.
On Page 8, we move to Aerospace, and the business here is clearly firing on all cylinders. Now begin by noting that growth continued to accelerate in Q4 with organic revenue growth up 13% and this is up from 9% growth in Q3 and 6% growth in Q2. Orders also accelerated, increasing 17% with strength in commercial transport, military fighters, and both commercial and military aftermarket. And our backlog continue to grow, up some 13% in the quarter.
The business here also demonstrated very strong operating leverage with profits increasing 30% and delivering record operating margins of 22.9%. I would add that the favorable mix certainly contributed to these record margins as aftermarket revenues continued to perform well, but our team also is doing an outstanding job of executing.
Moving to the Vehicle segment on Page 9. We're also very pleased with how this segment performed in the quarter. Our revenues were down 2% with flat organic revenues and 2% negative FX. The NAFTA Class 8 truck market remained very strong in the quarter and reached 324,000 units for 2018, and this is up some 27%. Yes, you'll recall here that revenues for our automated truck transmission business are now included in the Eaton Cummins joint venture and are not consolidated in our financials.
The JV actually had revenue growth of 45% in the quarter. So our business overall is performing extremely well. On the other hand, our global light vehicle production was down in Q4 with North America up modestly, offset by slight declines in Europe and particular weakness as you've all heard in China. Despite flat organic revenues, operating profits increased 4% and our operating margins increased 90 basis points to 17.9%.
And finishing up our segment summaries, eMobility is on Page 10. Organic revenue growth was 11%, offset by 1% negative currency. Not unexpected, operating margins declined to 11.3% as we continue to ramp up our R&D spending. You'll recall that this new segment was created in Q1 of last year. At last year at the Investors meeting, we told you that eMobility will become a new $2 billion to $4 billion segment of our company. And I'm pleased to say that we're on track. 2018 was a busy year, and a year where we ended ahead of schedule.
We are in ongoing discussions with a large number of customers on new programs and we remain very optimistic about the long-term growth outlook for the business, overall. We're ahead of schedule on new product developments, these new products are allowing us to quote on a broader range of opportunities and quite frankly to move from selling only components to selling systems. So we remain very excited about the future of this segment and the work that our team is doing and what this represents as a growth opportunity for Eaton as we move forward.
And before we turn our attention to 2019, I would like to just take a moment to recap some of the key highlights from 2018 now, which we see a strong year -- as a strong year progress. First, end markets improved allowing us to generate 6% organic revenue growth, and this was double the growth rate of 2017 and above our initial estimate for the year, which was 4%. We continue to make good progress on enhancing our margin performance with a 100 basis point improvement, and setting an all-time record for the company at 16.8%.
As a result, our net income per share of $5.39, when you exclude the $0.48 impact from the legacy Cooper arbitration decision was up 16% over 2017. And our teams very effectively offset both the impact of tariffs and commodity inflation with incremental price. We generated $3 billion of operating cash flow, and this would exclude to $300 million impact from the arbitration payment. This allowed us to return $2.45 billion to shareholders, $1.15 billion in dividends and another $1.3 billion of share repurchases. And the $1.3 billion represents 4% of our shares outstanding at the beginning of the year.
So overall, very proud of the team. We exceeded our financial commitment toshareholders. We invested in the future of the business and really are building a stronger company.
Now turning to 2019. Let me begin by summarizing our growth outlook. Overall, we are expecting 4% to 5% organic growth, and this is consistent with the outlook that we provided in Q3 2018 during our conference call. As we take a look at our individual businesses, we expect 4% to 5% organic growth in Electrical Products, with continued strength in industrial and large commercial projects. We expect modest growth in Lighting and also modest growth in single phase power quality and small commercial projects.
For Electrical Systems and Services, we see 5% to 6% organic growth. And here our backlog is very strong, we expect continued market strength and power distribution assemblies in the Americas and in the data center markets globally. We also see modest growth in both the utility and harsh and hazardous markets.
For Hydraulics, growth is expected to be 5% to 6% on (inaudible) levels that are already very strong, but we see continued strength in mobile markets in Asia and in North America. And Aerospace markets really are universally strong and we expect to see 8% to 9% growth on strength in OEM and aftermarket and really with both military and commercial customers.
Vehicle markets are expected to be flat for both North America heavy-duty truck and for global light vehicles, but both are running at, I'd say, very high levels, and we expect to see strong growth in the Brazilian truck market.
Overall, our organic revenues are expected to be down 2% to 1% for the year. But once again, keep in mind that our revenues for automated truck transmissions are expected to grow and are now a part and reported as a part of the Eaton Cummins joint venture. Finally, we expect eMobility to grow 11% to 12% organically, consistent with the level of growth that we experienced in 2018. And while we're still a few years away from what we call a major growth inflection point, our optimism for this segment continues to grow as we look forward.
Moving on to Page 13. We lay out our margin expectations for 2019. For Eaton overall, we except segment margins to be between 17% and 17.4%. At the midpoint, this represents a 40 basis point improvement over 2018 and it really places us solidly within the 17% to 18% range that we set as a 2020 goal and I would add, one year ahead of schedule.
And with the exception of eMobility, we are investing – we were investing heavily in product development. Margins are expected to increase in each of our segments, specifically, Electrical Products at 18.6% to 19.2%, a 50 basis point improvement and Electrical Systems and Services at 15.2% to 15.8%, up 60 basis points; Hydraulics at 14% to 14.6%, up 90 basis points; Aerospace at a very strong level already but at 21.4% to 22%, up 70 basis points and Vehicle at 17.4% to 18%, up 20 basis points. eMobility as we noted, we're investing heavily in this segment; margins will be down to 6.1% to 6.7% from 70 basis point, really just as a function of heavy R&D investment.
And on Page 14, we pick up the balance of our guidance for 2019, so we expect our full year EPS to be $5.70 to $6 a share. At the midpoint, this represents a 9% increase, excluding the impact of the arbitration decision that reduced 2018 earnings by some $0.48. As we discussed, organic revenue is expected to be up 4% to 5%, but this growth is expected to be partially offset by some $250 million of negative currency translation.
We expect our corporate costs, including pension and interest and other corporate items to be flat with 2018 and our tax rate to be between 14% and 16%. This will result in operating cash flows coming in between $3.1 billion and $3.3 billion and we expect CapEx to be $600 million.
As I noted, we accelerated some $400 million of share repurchases into Q4. So the target purchases for 2019 are now at $400 million. And for Q1, we expect EPS to be between $1.18 and $1.28, a 12% increase at the midpoint. And for Q1, we also expect organic growth to be approximately 4% to have segment margins between 15.5% and 15.9%, and a tax rate of between 13% and 14%.
So overall, we expect another strong year. And actually, Don, this concludes my opening comments and I'll hand it back to you and you can open the lines for Q&A.
Don Bullock -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Thanks, Craig. Before we -- before I hand it to the operator to open it up for questions. I do want to make a couple of comments. First, we do acknowledge today is the day that has a enormous number of peers out there on earnings announcement. So we are going to hold our call to an hour. To do that, it's important that you limit your questions, to a question and a follow-up, if you would so we can be sure to cover everyone's questions.
With that, I'll turn it over to the operator to give instructions.
Questions and Answers:
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions).
Don Bullock -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Our first question today comes from Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research.
Jeffrey T. Sprague -- Vertical Research Partners -- Analyst
Thank you, good morning. Very solid, Craig, I was wondering if you could provide a little bit of additional color on how you saw things play out during the quarter. Obviously, the quarter itself was very strong, but we did have that peculiar slowdown in September. Did you see people tapping the brakes in December as the market got wobbly and, and what are you seeing here in January?
Craig Arnold -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, Jeff, I guess you're referencing largely what we talked about on the Q3 earnings call in Electrical Systems and Service, where we did see this pause during the month of September. We had indicated at the time that we thought that was a temporary pause that, these projects do -- at sometimes tend to be lumpy, and we thought that would come back in Q4 which it certainly did.
Now, I'd say, Q4 was really pretty much a consistent quarter. We saw high level of economic activity really across the quarter, pretty consistent across each of our businesses, and as I had noted, with no real significant, no measurable pre-buy at all as evidenced by the growth in our backlog. And so I think it was a solid clean quarter across the board and, and despite the level of economic uncertainty that's out there, activity levels are fairly good. And in through the month of January, we've really seen kind of a continuation of that performance -- certainly in the context of our guidance for Q1, which is a little lighter than the growth rate that we saw in Q4. We do think there is some economic uncertainty out there, which is essentially what we have reflected in our guidance. But by and large, activity levels across our businesses are still quite positive and quite strong.
Jeffrey T. Sprague -- Vertical Research Partners -- Analyst
Thanks. And unrelated, just on tax, Rick. I mean, your guidance is pretty straight forward, but we've seen a couple of companies getting hit by this IRS change and deductibility of interest. Is that an issue for you or a wildcard or is that fully encapsulated in your guide?
Richard H. Fearon -- Vice Chairman and Chief Financial and Planning Officer
It's fully baked into our guide, one of the reasons that the tax rate jumps from roughly around 13% to 15% in 2019 is, because we're reflecting the implications of all these regulations that came out last year, some of which I think surprise some companies, but we had anticipated that they would come out largely as they did. So that's why we're comfortable with this 14% to 16% range for '19.
Jeffrey T. Sprague -- Vertical Research Partners -- Analyst
Great. Thank you.
Don Bullock -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Okay. Our next question comes from Joe Ritchie with Goldman Sachs.
Joe Ritchie -- Goldman Sachs -- Analyst
Thanks, good morning guys.
Craig Arnold -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Good morning.
Joe Ritchie -- Goldman Sachs -- Analyst
So Craig, maybe just on the EPS range, $0.30 wide versus kind of like typical is closer to $0.20. Maybe can you just give us some insight into why you expanded the range and what market conditions have to be in place to drive you to that -- towards the higher end or the lower end of the range?
Craig Arnold -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, I would suggest, Jeo, that don't really over read or read much into the fact that the range is a little bit wider. I mean, I think it's -- as our EPS in absolute dollar terms increases, the percentage and the range will naturally widen a little bit, but I'd say that, for us, the big variables as we look forward into 2019 that could potentially influence whether you're on the low-end or the high end of the range is largely a function of what happens with our end markets.
Right now, I said, we're feeling fairly good. It was a strong fourth quarter coming in stronger than what most had expected ourselves included. And so I think it's really a function of how end markets perform going into 2019 and to what extent some of the geopolitical kind of concerns that we're dealing with in various kind of countries around the world get resolved. But I wouldn't read anything into the fact that the range has been opened up a little bit, you know it's -- we're feeling very good about kind of the Company's performance overall and degrees of freedom that we have around things that we can do in the event of a little bit of economic slowdown. So I would not over read that at all.
Joe Ritchie -- Goldman Sachs -- Analyst
Okay. That's good to hear. And I guess my follow-on. You guys cited power distribution assemblies and data centers as strong growers in '19. I think data centers were up high-single digits. This is though a little at odds with some of the announcements we've heard from some of the chipmakers. So, maybe talk a little bit about like the strength that you're seeing in data centers that makes you feel good about the prospects for '19?
Craig Arnold -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, I mean the data center market, I'd say, if you look at the long-term trend of what we've been seeing in general as the whole world generates and consumes more and more data, I think is pretty compelling for the long-term growth prospects. We saw strong double-digit growth in 2018 as well as a lot of major projects being announced. And so as we think about data centers in general while on the hyper scale side of the market it can be somewhat lumpy, we do think that what we're looking at, in the form of an existing backlog and projects that are in the pipeline that the numbers that we're talking about for 2019 which is kind of mid single-digit growth are very much in line with what we have visibility to.
I think the chip maker piece is perhaps one that's a little bit more nuance in terms of whether or not that’s a direct proxy for what we are seeing specifically in the data center markets, as a lot of the big data center companies are actually in many cases vertically integrating and doing a lot of this work themselves as opposed to relying upon third parties. But now we feel very good about the data center market and about how we're positioned and about the number of projects that have already been announced. And so we think it's going to be another strong year.
Joe Ritchie -- Goldman Sachs -- Analyst
Great. Thanks, Craig.
Don Bullock -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Our next question comes from the Nicole DeBlase at Deutsche Bank.
Nicole DeBlase -- Deutsche Bank -- Analyst
Good morning, guys.
Craig Arnold -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Hi.
Richard H. Fearon -- Vice Chairman and Chief Financial and Planning Officer
Good morning, Nicole.
Nicole DeBlase -- Deutsche Bank -- Analyst
So, I guess, maybe starting with the 1Q outlook. It seems to me like the step down to 4% organic growth could be a little bit of conservatism, reading between the lines, is what you said in response to Jeff's question. But I guess maybe thinking about from a segment by segment perspective, where is the step down coming from?
Craig Arnold -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
I'd say that as we take a look at Q1, we're certainly seeing a step down in the growth rate, I’d say, principally in Electrical Systems and Services is one of the big drivers. In the Hydraulics, I'd say, would be another one and then also in Aerospace. And so those would be the three big ones that I'd say there is a relative step down in the growth rate. And I think, you know, largely the way we think about it, Nicole, is the way I answered the question earlier that there is a lot of economic uncertainty out there whether it's Brexit or just funding the US government or trade disputes with China. And so we think given the level of uncertainty that’s still out there in Q1 that you could largely see a little bit of a pause in economic activity until some of these major structural issues are resolved. And that's kind of what's baked into our forecast. Could it be conservative? It could be, but given kind of just a level of economic uncertainty out there, we think it's prudent to plan for these issues to at least extend through Q1 and be resolved at some point and we think all of that logic is baked into our guidance for the year of growing some 4% to 5%.
Nicole DeBlase -- Deutsche Bank -- Analyst
Okay, understood. Thanks, Craig. And I guess, maybe my second one just around Hydraulics. So, one of your big distributors talked about Fluid Power demand stepping down a bit in the last two weeks of December. Curious about that, as well as the confidence in the outlook for China Mobile to remain strong just because I think CAT is looking for more like kind of a flattish equipment environment in China in 2019?
Craig Arnold -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
China has continued to -- maybe, I'll deal with that one first before I get to the distributor one. China has continued to perform extremely well. If you take a look at excavator sales in Q4 and reloader sales, excavator sales are up more than 20% in Q4, reloader sales up more than 10%. And so the China construction equipment market, at least in terms of looking at the public data continues to perform extremely well and our business does as well. And so we think as we look into 2019, we do think that growth rates moderate, but we still think that we see growth in the China mobile market, specifically going into 2019, and that's kind of consistent with what we're hearing from many of our customers.
And quite frankly, Eaton in the region we've done extremely well in terms of new wins and gaining some market share on platforms and that also influences our thinking as well. But in terms of the distribution market, I can't really speak to one distributor in one part of the region. But I would say that our Hydraulics business in Q4, we had growth of -- organic growth of 8% and that growth was pretty even throughout the quarter and so we felt very good about the growth rates and we did not see, generally speaking, or here generally speaking of any slowdown that took place at the end of the year. It wouldn't surprise me that if there is a distributor in some place who sold a slowdown some place, but more broadly speaking, our business continued to perform well.
Nicole DeBlase -- Deutsche Bank -- Analyst
Understood. Thanks, Craig.
Don Bullock -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Our next question comes from Ann Duignan with JP Morgan.
Ann Duignan -- JP Morgan Securities -- Analyst
Yeah. Hi, good morning.
Craig Arnold -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Hi.
Ann Duignan -- JP Morgan Securities -- Analyst
Maybe -- Craig, maybe you could dig a little bit deeper into some of your end markets and give us some color in terms of where you're seeing the strength and looking particularly maybe Electrical Products, which specific industrial markets, which sub segment of commercial projects and then likewise maybe power distribution. Just so we get some color as to what's going on out there?
Craig Arnold -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, and I'd say that in the beginning with Electrical Products. One of the things we noted, Ann, was that – of our Lighting business returned to growth. It's been a business that obviously we were taking some strategic steps to work through some specific market segment issues and so that business for us returned to growth in Q4 and we think the outlook for Lighting -- going into 2019, as that business will continue to grow low-to-mid single digits.
We think that the single phase power quality business, another business that grew mid-single digits in Q4,we had order growth that was a little better than that actually in Q4 and so that market continues to do well. And then largely the power distribution components, a lot of what we sell in the components side goes into small and large commercial projects in general. And so when you think about some of the growth that we see today in our Electrical Systems and Services businesses, mainly the -- most of the components that support that business come through our Electrical Products business. Some of that goes through distribution as aftermarkets as well and so that business continues to do well. So -- so we saw, generally speaking, pretty decent growth, as I mentioned, the strongest growth that we've seen since 2014 in Electrical Products and the orders are performing solidly. And so, we think that market continues to have a decent year in 2019.
In Electrical Systems and Services, I mean it’s really, as I mentioned, almost strength across the board. Large industrial projects, commercial projects, those markets continue to perform extremely well and you see many of the same data streams that we see non-res construction, numbers continue to be up strongly mid-to-high single digits. The Dodge non-res contracts on -- were up 23% in dollars in Q4 and on a square footage basis up 10%. And so we're really seeing strength in most of the non-res construction markets. And as we talked about in data centers, hyperscale and data centers in general, had very strong results, up strong double digits in 2018 and we think a little bit of moderation in that growth rate as we move into 2019, but still strong growth. And so we think in general these businesses continue to perform very well and that no real evidence of any economic slowdown at this point. And so we're feeling very good about 2019.
And then, Crouse-Hinds (inaudible) oil and gas is another one of those segments that's been a lot of stuff talked about, but we had very good growth in Q4 in our Crouse-Hinds business, up strong single digits, high single-digits. And so that business as well, despite a little bit of pullback in oil and gas prices at the end of the year, we saw some recovery in December. And so we think that market also continues to grow going into 2019.
Ann Duignan -- JP Morgan Securities -- Analyst
Okay, that's good color, I appreciate that. And then just to follow-up on the sustainability of Aerospace margins. I mean we know it's great to have high margins in Aerospace, but we also know we have to be investing in the future. So can you just talk, Craig, maybe about the near-term maybe positive mix versus the longer term, you need to be on the next platform in order to sustain those high margins?
Craig Arnold -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Absolutely, and appreciate the question. You know I think there's two things that are really driving the high margins in Aerospace. I think, one, it is the fact that after market is continuing to perform extremely well. And as you know, Ann, better than most, I mean, at the end of the day you make most of your money in Aerospace and aftermarket and aftermarket is performing extremely well, both in commercial and in, on the military side.
The other thing that I'd say that we and others are getting a real benefit from right now is really what you alluded to, Ann, is the fact that we are in a bit of a pause period as an industry in terms of new programs. We went through a massive refresh over the last 10 years and most of these new programs are actually going into service at this point in time. And the next -- by time you get to the next generation, the next refresh, you're probably 5 to 10 years out. And so I do think that our Aerospace margins will continue to be at very high levels for the next number of years and until we get to the point where we have the next round of major investments required for the next generation of commercial and/or military aircraft. And so we are investing in the future. We're doing a lot of investments in offline technology development to be ready for insertion to get to a technology readiness level that says that we are ready to participate on the new platforms. But I'd say it's really those two things that are really benefiting our business as long as -- as well as very strong execution by our operational teams.
Ann Duignan -- JP Morgan Securities -- Analyst
Right. Thank you. I'll leave it there. Appreciate it.
Craig Arnold -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Thank you.
Don Bullock -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
The next question comes from Nigel Coe with Wolfe Research.
Nigel Coe -- Wolfe Research -- Analyst
Thanks guys, good morning.
Craig Arnold -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Hi.
Nigel Coe -- Wolfe Research -- Analyst
So, what a different three-months makes. I’m just trying to understand the turnaround in ESS because it feels like there's probably more economic uncertainty in the US than it was back in September and October. So, I'm wondering what are you hearing from the field, your sales engineers, customers, whatever in terms of what caused the pause and why the release now? And maybe just in terms of commenting on pre-buy activity this quarter, pull ahead of price increase, et cetera. Did you see any of that and could you explain some of these fluster?
Craig Arnold -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
I'd say, Nigel -- I appreciate the question and we spent a fair amount of time talking about it on the Q3 earnings call. And I think the way we characterized it at the time was we said, the business -- we thought it was in fine shape and we said, we saw a specific pause in the month of September and the business tends to be lumpy anyway. And we try to encourage everyone of the look through September and say everything is going to be fine, which is the way it turned out, and so I wish, I could give you the exact answer to why we saw this pause in the month of September, other than saying that sometimes it does happen in these big systems businesses where orders tend to be lumpy, but by and large, I think what we characterized in Q3 was that our Electrical Systems and Services business, was doing great, it was in fine shape and we expected that we would continue to post strong growth in that long-cycle business and that's essentially what's happened.
No,-- and to the point around pull ahead, no, we're not really seeing any pull ahead at all. As we talked about, we continue to build backlog in that business. It's up some 13% from last year. And so I would say, the way I'd characterize Electrical Systems and Services is, once again very much like the long cycle businesses, it's performing as expected. And we will occasionally find a month or so, where things tend to be lumpy.
Nigel Coe -- Wolfe Research -- Analyst
Okay, that's great color. Thanks, Craig. And then just maybe to address price and in particular lighting price. It feels like lighting price is getting a lot better. And so I just appreciate your comments in terms of what you're seeing in terms of demand for lighting. Obviously up low-to-mid single digits in 2019. But specifically the price component of that, what are you seeing in the market?
Craig Arnold -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, I'd say that lighting prices in general and some of those could be as a function of trade and other things that are perhaps putting a little bit of a floor underneath, some of the pressures that have been coming historically from some of the Chinese imports. But yeah, I would say that it has the pressures in and around lighting have somewhat abated, it still remains a very competitive industry. And historically speaking, if you recall in this business, a lot of the Lighting price give back was really a function of the fact that, you know, the price of semi-conductors and electronics in general continue to fall and those prices were essentially passed on to our customers into the consumers in the form of lower prices of LEDs. And so some of that is also the price of the core electronic components has not -- is not falling at the rate that it has historically. And we've reached a little bit of a bottom on some of that. And I think that's also influencing the fact that Lighting prices are firming somewhat.
We did have a much better Q4 with the mid-single digit growth. Our outlook going forward is low to mid single digits. And so we do think that, you know, that the lighting business performs better for sure going into 2019 for Eaton. It becomes no longer a headwind for the business, it becomes a little bit of a tailwind with respect to growth, and so we're enthused by that.
Nigel Coe -- Wolfe Research -- Analyst
Okay. I’ll leave it there. Thanks Craig.
Don Bullock -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Our next question comes from Julian Mitchell with Barclays.
Julian Mitchell -- Barclays -- Analyst
Hi, good morning.
Craig Arnold -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Good morning, Julian.
Julian Mitchell -- Barclays -- Analyst
Good morning. Maybe just a first question around the, the Hydraulics business and the margin profile. As you said, you had some operating inefficiencies in 2017 and 2018. If you could quantify at all, what kind of margin headwind they comprised in 2018 and how quickly you catch up from those in '19 and maybe any other respects in which you’re changing how you sort of manage the productivity and the manufacturing pull-through in that business?
Craig Arnold -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, I appreciate the question, Julian because this has obviously been one of the segments that we spent quite a bit of time talking about during the course of our earnings calls and one of the segments where we did in fact reduce our guidance for the year. And the way we characterize it then and I think it's still largely the case, Julian, is that this industry went through a very significant ramp, a V-shaped recovery. The supply chain and our suppliers in many cases were just not ready for the ramp.
And so we had a lot of inefficiencies in the business as a function of having to expedite parts. We had some challenges in ramping up hiring. Not only in our facilities, but our suppliers had the same issues, and so it was just a whole host of inefficiencies associated with an industry that went through a V-shape recovery and we were all caught, a little bit flat-footed. And as a result of that, those inefficiencies, I'd say, if you think about the reduction in our margin guidance for Hydraulics during the course of the year, you can largely say that is about equivalent to the level of inefficiencies that we saw in the business is one of the reasons why we, as we look at the guidance for 2019, we think most of those efficiencies come out of the system and we get to a business once again that's performing more like what we would expect.
And so I'd say that while we are not 100% out of the woods, most of the issues that we dealt with during the course of 2018 and the efficiencies therein are largely behind us now.
Julian Mitchell -- Barclays -- Analyst
Thank you. And then my second question, I think a lot of the Q&A so far has been on demand dynamics. So maybe switch to talking about capital deployment. A little bit, you did an accelerated share buyback spend in Q4, when the price was down and obviously you've seen a good rebound since, so the timing looks very good on that. Maybe flesh out a little bit how you're thinking about buybacks versus M&A and what kind of M&A appetite you have looking out this year?
Craig Arnold -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, appreciate the question. No, we did like, as you articulated we saw that the overdone Q4 pullback as a real buying opportunity and we did take that opportunity to accelerate some planned purchases into the end of the year. And I'd say, if you think about our capital deployment strategy, I think we’ve laid that out historically, and we talked about as we think about capital deployment, the first call on cash will always be reinvesting in each of our businesses and making sure that every one of our businesses has the capital that they need to be successful and to win in the marketplace. With respect to M&A versus share buyback, we have been out of the M&A market for the last several years, we do, I would say that the environment today is such that we're looking at, perhaps more opportunities and more deals than ever. Pricing continues in some cases to still be a challenge and we've agreed that we're going to maintain our pricing discipline through this period of perhaps pricing being above what we think is reasonable.
We've said that our cost of capital is anywhere from 8% to 9%. We want a minimum of 300 basis points over our cost of capital and so we're going to be disciplined through this period. But having said that, we would like to get back into the M&A market and the way I would think about it is, our priority will be largely in and around bolt-on acquisition where you get a lot of leverage within our existing businesses and therefore we can deliver synergies and value in these acquisitions that we acquire.
But having said that, in the event that we're not able to put capital to work through M&A, we will generate, as I mentioned, a lot of free cash flow in 2019. We won't let capital build up on the balance sheet and so we'll certainly, in the event that we're not successful in the M&A market will certainly be more aggressive in buying back our shares.
Richard H. Fearon -- Vice Chairman and Chief Financial and Planning Officer
And Julian, if I might add, as you know, we've brought our debt levels actually even a little bit lower than we had originally anticipated after Cooper. And if you just do a quick little math of our midpoint of 3.2 operating cash flow on take out CapEx take out -- of about $600 million, take out dividends, take out the $400 million repurchases. It leaves us with about $1 billion of just excess cash to use on acquisitions or if we don't find them presumably raising our repurchase amount.
Craig Arnold -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
And I'd add to that, Rick. And we've been -- we've been quite aggressive quite frankly. If you take a look over the last four years, in aggregate, we bought back some 13% of our shares over the last four years and so we are certainly willing to step in when we see these opportunities of weakness and buy the stock back. And given our dividend yield on the current stock prices, we think that it's a tremendous value to buy Eaton at these levels.
Julian Mitchell -- Barclays -- Analyst
Great. Thank you very much.
Don Bullock -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
The next question comes from David Raso with Evercore.
David Michael Raso -- Evercore ISI -- Analyst
Hi, good morning. I apologize, I had phone issues earlier, so I apologize if this has been asked. Just trying to figure out, the first quarter organic is slower than the full year, so obviously there is some assumption of some reacceleration as the year goes on. But the comps don't really get any easier. You mentioned ESS starts the year a little bit slower on the step down. But the backlog for that business has been up double-digit for three quarters, the orders have been obviously lumpy in the third quarter, but two of the three quarters have been strong. So I'm just maybe trying to dig into a little bit more why ESS organic slows that much in the first quarter and if we think of the businesses that you said maybe they started a little bit of a pause period. The acceleration in growth as the year goes on, is that more ESS, is that Aerospace, just trying to understand, so that we have the cadence correct?
Craig Arnold -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
I appreciate the question, Dave, and it’s -- we did talk about this a little bit earlier and I think it's really, we talked about just the level of economic uncertainty that exist in the marketplace right now, across so many parts of the world. That's really giving us a little bit of a pause with respect to how aggressive we are on this Q1 number. And so I'd say it's really that issue more than anything that has been baked into our thinking around acceleration. I mean you have Brexit coming up, you have trade disputes with China, you have debt issues in the US and so there is this so many, I’d say -- let's call them geopolitical issues that we are dealing with around the world, that we thought that it would potentially have an impact on Q1 activity levels and naturally what baked into our thinking.
David Michael Raso -- Evercore ISI -- Analyst
Well, I guess more directly. I'm just trying to figure out. Is there something you're actually seeing, meaning, anything reflective what we saw in September, maybe the backlogs that you have, have a little more, they’re a little bit further out than traditional. I'm just trying to understand how much is -- again prudent understanding of some economic uncertainty right now versus something you're actually seeing that's what I'm trying to dig into it?
Craig Arnold -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Yes. I'd say that if you characterize the backlog there's really been nothing in terms of the characterization of the backlog whether that's in Electrical Systems and Services or Hydraulics or the other businesses where we build big backlog, the characterization and delivery timeframe of our backlog does not look significantly different than it’s looked historically.
David Michael Raso -- Evercore ISI -- Analyst
Okay. No, I appreciate the color. Thank you.
Don Bullock -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Our next question comes from Steve Volkmann with Jefferies.
Steve Volkmann -- Jefferies & Co -- Analyst
Hi, good morning guys. Thanks for fitting me in. So just maybe related to that, I mean historically, I guess when ESS orders start to ramp up in backlog stretches out a little bit, there is an opportunity to be a little bit, excuse me, a little bit more aggressive with pricing. Can you just talk about what pricing looks like in your order book in ESS and how much that might have some upside going forward?
Craig Arnold -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, I think the way we generally think about pricing in general, Steve, is that, you know it's neither a net positive or a net negative as we tend to over time offset commodity driven cost increases with price in the marketplace. And I would say today the pricing environment overall on Electrical Systems and Services is better than it's been, better than it's been largely because the level of economic activity overall has been better over the last 12-months or so.
So, I'd say, as we think about price in general, I wouldn't really think about it being a big contributor to pricing, but I think the overall environment today makes it a little bit easier as we think about negotiating with -- on large projects and with customers simply because from a capacity standpoint, in many cases, we are sold out, our competitors are sold out, lead times in some cases have pushed out. And so I do think the environment overall is a little better. It's a function of volume more than anything else in our -- in our factories.
Steve Volkmann -- Jefferies & Co -- Analyst
Okay. All right, fair enough. And maybe, I'll ask, the only eMobility question, obviously there's lots of platforms that are getting announced for the early '20s, is it too early for you guys to have actually signed any contracts for any of those platforms or is that actually happening?
Craig Arnold -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, I'd say that, we have signed some contracts already most of what we signed to date has been relatively small, but I'd ask you to stay tuned.
Steve Volkmann -- Jefferies & Co -- Analyst
I will stay tuned. Thank you.
Don Bullock -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
The next question comes from Jeff Hammond with KeyBanc.
Jeffrey D. Hammond -- KeyBanc Capital Markets -- Analyst
Hey, good morning guys.
Craig Arnold -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Hi.
Jeffrey D. Hammond -- KeyBanc Capital Markets -- Analyst
Hi. Just a couple of finer point questions. One, margins in EPG looked a little bit lighter on the incrementals, any -- anything there to point out?
Craig Arnold -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
What we -- what we – what I tried to comment on that one, Jeff, I appreciate the question because as you mentioned margins were a little bit lighter than we anticipated as well and it is largely a function of product mix. And as you think about that to be a very large segment and when you have some of the segments that have lower overall margins growing a little faster, lighting for example, that tends to have an impact on your margins overall. But I'd say, overall absolutely nothing to worry about there, the margins in EP are at very high levels and as you saw in our guidance going forward, we feel very good about 2019.
Jeffrey D. Hammond -- KeyBanc Capital Markets -- Analyst
Okay, and then Vehicle -- looks like you're calling for the markets to be flat to up and yet organic decline is anything to read into that in terms of share shift or is that just the Cummins JV moving around?
Craig Arnold -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, it's really the Cummins JV and it’s another question I appreciate, Jeff, because there has been a little bit of confusion around the way the JV impacts Eaton. And so I -- so as the JV increases, as the world continues to consume and move from more manual transmissions to automated transmissions that revenue ends up showing up in the joint venture as I mentioned that the JV revenues grew 45% in Q4. And so we obviously get a piece of the profits, but you'll find it as we move forward. The revenues for our business really have to be looked at -- I think largely in combination with the joint venture. If you really want to get a sense for how we're doing in the marketplace, but it's really that issue that is driving essentially the flat revenues.
Jeffrey D. Hammond -- KeyBanc Capital Markets -- Analyst
Okay, great. Thanks, Craig.
Don Bullock -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Next question comes from Andy Casey with Wells Fargo.
Andy Casey -- Wells Fargo -- Analyst
Good morning, everybody.
Craig Arnold -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Hi.
Andy Casey -- Wells Fargo -- Analyst
Question on the margin outlook and price cost, does the 2019 guide embed neutral price cost? You typically do that. And I'm wondering because you're probably going to have carryover pricing benefit that spills into '19 and you may see raw material cost declines as the year progresses?
Craig Arnold -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, I'd say, that what we generally do build in, Andy, to exactly your point is we build in neutral. And then there is always a little bit of timing, you know, on the upside and downside depending upon what's happening with commodity prices and so typically speaking as commodity, commodity increase environment, we tend to be a quarter or two behind it. In the deflationary environment we tend to be maybe a quarter or so or two above it. But over the period –of, say a 12-month period, it kind of washes out to be neutral. And that's really what we baked into our plan. Specifically as it relates to tariffs, and what we said in the Q3 earnings call was that we expected $110 million of headwind associated with tariffs. As you know, since then the implementation had been delayed by two-months. So we think that number is now at a $100 million, but our base assumption today still would assume that the tariffs, the Phase III tariffs, moving from 10% to 25% go into effect and that our teams essentially go out and offset that with incremental price, but don't necessarily get a normal incremental margin on the additional tariff driven cost increases.
Andy Casey -- Wells Fargo -- Analyst
Okay. Thank you, Craig. And then, on that 4x impact, the $250 million for the year. Is that heavily weighted to the first quarter?
Craig Arnold -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, it would be more heavily weighted towards the first quarter, just given where the -- how currencies have performed during the course of 2018 that would be largely true.
Andy Casey -- Wells Fargo -- Analyst
Okay. And does that weigh on the margin for the first quarter at all?
Craig Arnold -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, I’d say not really. It really doesn't in terms of the margins itself, I mean it really doesn't weigh on the margins. It certainly weighs on EPS for sure, but it really doesn't necessarily weigh on the margin rates.
Andy Casey -- Wells Fargo -- Analyst
Okay. Thank you very much.
Don Bullock -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
And next question comes from Mig Dobre with Baird.
Mig Dobre -- Baird -- Analyst
Hi. Good morning, guys. Going back to EP maybe, trying to understand your, your growth guidance a little bit better. I'm trying to figure out exactly how you're thinking about getting to 4% to 5% growth. We really haven't seen order growth to that extent yet. Is this simply a factor of lighting no longer being a headwind and everything else pretty much staying the same or some other end-market acceleration in there?
Craig Arnold -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
I mean, I think you kind of hit the nail on the head with that one. If you think about what we talked about during the course of 2018 where we've made some very specific decisions around our lighting business and walking away from business that wasn't profitable. And during the course of 2018, that business actually contracted some low to mid-single digits. And as we look forward, that goes from a negative to a positive and so that's really what's driving the big difference in the relative growth rate in our EP business.
Mig Dobre -- Baird -- Analyst
All right, that's helpful. And then back on Vehicle. You're expecting some margin expansion there, even though, obviously revenue is not so much. So what exactly is generating that? And as you look maybe beyond 2019, presumably this, this business is going to start to see some volume deterioration. How do you plan on managing that?
Richard H. Fearon -- Vice Chairman and Chief Financial and Planning Officer
I'd say, you know, one of the things I would -- we talk about is the fact that we set this joint venture up obviously with Cummins and we don't consolidate the revenue, but we obviously get half of the earnings, and so the JV will see revenue growth, earnings growth in 2019 and that will actually be -- will help us with margin expansion. And then I would say more broadly, I mean, this is just a business and a management team that has just done an outstanding job over decades of very efficiently running our business. And so operational improvements, efficiency improvements, cost out, it's something that we do extraordinarily well as a company and even better within our vehicle business. And so we would fully expect that this business continues to operate at very high levels of margins even in the event of a economic downturn of somewhat.
Mig Dobre -- Baird -- Analyst
Thanks.
Don Bullock -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Our next question comes from Andrew Obin with BoA Merrill Lynch.
Andrew Obin -- BofA Merrill Lynch -- Analyst
Hey. Good morning. Thanks for fitting me in.
Craig Arnold -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Hi.
Andrew Obin -- BofA Merrill Lynch -- Analyst
Just with the economic cycle being so healthy and you guys executing well, how do you think about your capacity overall and North American capacity specifically? How do you deal with these higher volumes?
Craig Arnold -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, no, I'd say that -- it's one of the reasons, Andrew, and I appreciate the question. Our incremental rates, as we provided in our guidance in 2019, are perhaps a little bit less than what we experienced in 2018. It’s because we are having to make some investments in a lot of our businesses that are running at very high levels, whether that's Electrical Systems and Services, whether it's in Aerospace, wemade some really big investments in hydraulics during the course of 2018. And so we are having to reinvest in capacity expansion in many of our businesses that are running at very high levels. And so I think, that's really the way you deal with it. You spend the dollars and you make the investments in -- in some cases, you look at your business models as well around what you invest in and what you rely upon you supply base to do. But by and large, we are making investments to expand our capacity.
Andrew Obin -- BofA Merrill Lynch -- Analyst
And are you rethinking your global footprint? I mean the ratio where you’re investing, that's what I mean.
Craig Arnold -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
What we've always tried to do is really manufacture in the zone of currency and so what we – we try to minimize the amount of goods that we ship around the world and so what we today sell in Europe, we largely make in Europe and what we today sell in Asia, we largely produce in Asia. And so from a footprint standpoint, there was a lot of work that we've done over, let's say, the last 15 to 20 years around making sure that we have manufacturing capability and facilities in the right regions of the world. Most of that work is largely done and so today it's really expanding where we need to in those regions of the world where we have capacity constraints.
Andrew Obin -- BofA Merrill Lynch -- Analyst
And just a follow-up, if I can. What's your cadence in China through the year? What are you expecting?
Craig Arnold -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
I'm sorry your cadence around ...
Andrew Obin -- BofA Merrill Lynch -- Analyst
Oh, just a cadence of revenue growth in China in 2019 through the year, seasonality, however you want to address it? Thank you.
Craig Arnold -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Yes. I have to probably go take a look at that question specifically as it relates to China. I don't have that level of detail in front of me, but I would say that in general what our belief is, is that it's, the Chinese government will likely stimulate at some point. We saw, as you've saw as well, the significant slowdown in the economy in Q4 specifically highlighted by what took place in the light vehicle markets, which were down some 16%. So we believe and I think it is largely believed that the Chinese government will stimulate at some point during the course of the year. So we do think that the second half of the year is stronger than the first half, but beyond that it's difficult to really estimate at this point.
Andrew Obin -- BofA Merrill Lynch -- Analyst
Thank you very much.
Don Bullock -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
At this point of time, we’ll have time for one last question, Rob McCarthy with Stephens, please.
Rob McCarthy -- Stephens Inc. -- Analyst
Thanks for fitting me in for the buzzer beater. Can you hear me?
Craig Arnold -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Yeah.
Richard H. Fearon -- Vice Chairman and Chief Financial and Planning Officer
Yeah.
Rob McCarthy -- Stephens Inc. -- Analyst
Sure. Yes, no, two questions. One, just on oil and gas, how do you think about your exposure there, given the fact that you've seen the experience, not only the explicit oil and gas exposure, but the implied bleeding of that oil and gas exposure into your industrial business? How do we think about the outer bound of that as we kind of think about your portfolio going forward and assessing the risk of what could be a continued downdraft here?
Craig Arnold -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, I appreciate the question, Rob, especially given what -- I think we all experienced on the last kind of cyclical downturn in the oil and gas market. And I'd say the first thing, I'd just remind the group that we tend to be more downstream focused than we are upstream focused. So it’s a – it has a much longer cycle. We saw a little bit of a pullback in oil prices in the fourth quarter, but they came rebounding in December. And I would say, by and large our business performed well through Q4 and we've not really seen today any, let's say, significant changes in, in our business in terms of the outlook. The rig count, actually for 2018 actually ended up some 20% for the year when you compare the year overall. And so we think that you know oil and gas is always a bit of a wildcard and tough to predict exactly where it's going. But given that we're really coming off, let's call it a three or four-year pretty significant down draft in oil and gas markets and we’ve just now got our legs underneath us. We think oil and gas holds up over the next number of years, it's difficult to say for certain, but -- but I think our base case would be that, we don't see a significant retrenchment in capital spending around oil and gas.
Rob McCarthy -- Stephens Inc. -- Analyst
I'll leave it there. Thanks.
Craig Arnold -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Thank you.
Don Bullock -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
With that, ladies and gentlemen, we're going to wrap up the call. As always, we will be available for follow-up and questions following the call. Thank you.
Duration: 61 minutes
Call participants:
Don Bullock -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Craig Arnold -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Jeffrey T. Sprague -- Vertical Research Partners -- Analyst
Richard H. Fearon -- Vice Chairman and Chief Financial and Planning Officer
Joe Ritchie -- Goldman Sachs -- Analyst
Nicole DeBlase -- Deutsche Bank -- Analyst
Ann Duignan -- JP Morgan Securities -- Analyst
Nigel Coe -- Wolfe Research -- Analyst
Julian Mitchell -- Barclays -- Analyst
David Michael Raso -- Evercore ISI -- Analyst
Steve Volkmann -- Jefferies & Co -- Analyst
Jeffrey D. Hammond -- KeyBanc Capital Markets -- Analyst
Andy Casey -- Wells Fargo -- Analyst
Mig Dobre -- Baird -- Analyst
Andrew Obin -- BofA Merrill Lynch -- Analyst
Rob McCarthy -- Stifel Nicolaus -- Analyst
More ETN analysis
Transcript powered by AlphaStreet
This article is a transcript of this conference call produced for The Motley Fool. While we strive for our Foolish Best, there may be errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in this transcript. As with all our articles, The Motley Fool does not assume any responsibility for your use of this content, and we strongly encourage you to do your own research, including listening to the call yourself and reading the company's SEC filings. Please see our Terms and Conditions for additional details, including our Obligatory Capitalized Disclaimers of Liability.

Story 139
Despite the pro-Europe political diatribe, Deutsche Bank’s executives know which side their bread is buttered and have quietly signed a lease for a new headquarters at 21 Moorgate in London’s Square Mile, placing it among the very institutional OTC firms that form its core business. Here is why Deutsche Bank should maximize this opportunity
The political diatribe that continues to emanate from the left-leaning European Commission in the advent of Britain’s exit from the European Union often made reference to how large companies would likely up sticks and move from London to the mainland.
To suggest that such a thing would happen is rather akin to suggesting that fish would soon begin riding bicycles.
Under no circumstances will any large institution based in London move its operations to the economically defunct and technologically barren European mainland, including Tier 1 banks which are themselves of European origin yet operate their business from London’s Square Mile.
The European Parliament has for far too long had a golden goose insofar as Britain’s enormous and incomparable monetary contribution to a technologically and industrially defunct European mainland with which it has absolutely no alignment socially or commercially massively outstrips the entire continent.
For this reason, Britain – and for Britain read London – will soon jettison the burden of a giant, archaic, socialist juggernaut which controls its markets and simply takes and does not give.
In the FX industry, London is the absolute powerhouse for the entire region, and indeed one of the world’s focal points for the entire financial services business. It is a gigantic producer of revenues and has a highly dedicated and skilled series of professionals who continue to strive toward moving forward, and do so in a very sophisticated manner.
Underpinning the entire combined cognitive prowess of London’s senior executives is a massive and finely honed technological infrastructure that ranges from hosting (Equinix LD4 being one of the largest electronic trading data center locations in the world) to order routing systems, liquidity management and in-house developed interbank and institutional trading systems that are supported by hundreds of developers and engineers per bank.
The case in point here is Deutsche Bank, which although has suffered a market share decline which toppled it from its long-held position as number two globally in terms of FX volume, is still the fifth largest interbank FX dealer in the world with 5.68% of all FX order flow going through its books.
Today, Deutsche Bank very quietly signed the lease for a new London headquarters at 21 Moorfields despite threatening to sack staff in the City due to Brexit, demonstrating that nationalistic politics may be a generator of interest for Europhile mainstream media, but that when it comes to sensible business, London is home.
Deutsche Bank, along with other Tier 1 banks, must realize that their core business activity is the provision of prime brokerage services to electronic financial markets participants.
Mainland Europe does not have a developed electronic trading sector in any shape or form, and before any dissenters seek to present Deutsche Bank as Frankfurt’s equivalent to Canary Wharf’s institutions, it is worth bearing in mind that Deutsche Bank conducts no electronic financial markets business whatsoever from Frankfurt, instead doing so from London, which is at odds with the all-controlling political stance of the socialist government of its host nation, obviously because business efficiency is more important than post-war socialist-progressive nationalist aspirations.
During the summer of 2016, Deutsche Bank began to realize that, despite the credit restrictions that are in place within most prime brokerage divisions of banks, it had to bolster that side of the business.
In July last year, the bank began a drive toward encouraging hedge funds to place more capital at its prime brokerage division, as part of a campaign to reassure investors of its worthiness as a counterparty.
Prime brokerage capital, according to Deutsche Bank, was “supported by higher client financing revenues due to increased client balances”, citing tough market conditions as a reason for flat overall incomes.
Flat incomes? Corporate spin for astonishing losses to which the German government had to respond.
In the spring of 2016, Deutsche Bank Co-CEO John Cryan stated publicly that institutional investors should trust the counterparty credit rating the lender has from Moody’s Investors Service (!!), rather than the cost of insuring Deutsche Bank’s debt, which grew dramatically during the early parts of this year.
The prime brokerage gained client balances even as hedge funds suffered their worst withdrawals since the financial crisis.
“When we focus clients on the A2 rating, I think they’re more than satisfied with us as a counterpart,” Mr Cryan said on a call with analysts during the summer of last year. “In our prime finance and the repo business, they like the service level, they like the products we offer, and we are keen to grow balances there.”
“We’ve made a lot of progress with most of our major institutional counterparts in communicating to them” on total loss-absorbing capital, Mr. Cryan also said, despite the firm having not provided a summary of quarter on quarter earnings for the first part of 2016.
This outmoded commercial attitude toward providing good quality Tier 1 liquidity to the top quality non-bank prime brokerages of this highly advanced industry must stop, and it appears that, demonstrated by the bank’s wish to remain in London and specifically in Moorgate among all of the large institutional OTC firms which would take its FX liquidity.
The sooner that banks such as Deutsche Bank, which will lick its wounds for a considerable amount of time if it continues to focus on its defunct home market rather than its standing as one of the top liquidity providers in the world’s financial capital of London, the sooner they will not only drag themselves out of the financial mire, but they will end their paranoia toward extending credit to the very OTC derivatives firms that are their most lucrative and least risky commercial customers.
Deutsche Bank must make, and is quietly making, a priority that London’s institutional sector is the place to do business, and the place which will haul it out of the financial mire, not its native Germany, for reasons that are quite apparent indeed.
Image: London’s Square Mile. Copyright FinanceFeeds

Story 140
Millennials, assemble! On Thursday from 4 to 7 PM, Georgetown’s Church Hall is serving $1 Truly Hard Seltzer on tap during happy hour (4 to 7 PM).
Rooftop season is coming to a close—but it’s not over yet. Crimson View is throwing a rooftop party on Friday, featuring $30 Natty Boh buckets, $7 boozy popsicles and summery punch for $9. Paired with endless hot dogs, it feels like fall is a long way off.
Attain the secrets of cold brew and stop spending $5 every morning. A Baked Joint is hosting a Friday evening cold brew course 6 to 7:30 PM ($25 per person). By the end, you’ll have four bottles of cold brew and knowledge for reproducing the stuff at home. Tickets are available here.
Putt your way through all nine holes of Rosslyn’s pop-up mini golf course on Friday and Saturday from 5 to 9 PM and 10 AM to 6 PM. Alternatively, skip the course entirely and patronize the bar available at the end, complete with wine, beer, popsicles, and candy. Tickets to golf rounds are available here.
Skip the hassle of camping and head to a camp-themed party at Brixton on Saturday from 1 to 10 PM. The U Street joint is offering $2 Jell-O shooters, alcoholic “camp punch,” and $5 food and drink deals. Unlike a typical campground, this one comes with a DJ.
This little piggy went to American Ice Company’s Sunday pig roast, which runs from 1 to 5 PM. Patrons can fill up on unlimited pork and sides throughout the afternoon for $25. Ditto for endless snacks and bottomless Lagunitas—complete with the sounds of bluegrass from locals Thirteen Strings. Tickets are available here.
Spend Sunday afternoon gazing out over the Potomac from atop The Graham Georgetown’s rooftop during a Labor Day cookout from 2 to 8 PM. Food is available for $10 across the board, and brews in draft and cans are up for $5.
Pick your poison: City Tap is throwing two different Labor Day celebrations at its two locations: all-you-can-eat Cajun crawfish boil in Penn Quarter and an open bar luau in Dupont. At the boil, an endless array of seafood, sausage, corn and potatoes is available for $50—plus $5 Abita beers from noon to 5 PM. For the luau, a $45 open bar runs from 2 to 5 PM with burgers and pork tacos available for individual purchase.
Relieve yourself of any work-related stress on Monday at Midlands Beer Garden when the bar’s interior space becomes a yoga studio from 10 to 11 AM. Finish out with some hair of the dog—a Dogfish Head Namaste Wit-Bier is included in the $15 ticket—and roll back into the weekend at the bar’s afternoon barbecue.
Typically on Monday we’d be packing a sad desk lunch—all the more reason to indulge in a bottomless, all-you-can-eat-and-drink brunch! Or a regular, more restrained brunch. Whatever your craving is, here a guide to the best Labor Day brunch spots around town.
For other summer activities while time lasts, check out our Summer Bucket list.
And heading into the week…
Chef Rob Rubba of the upcoming vegetable and shellfish restaurant Oyster Oyster restaurant is joining A Rake’s Progress’s Opie Crooks for the restaurant’s guest chef series on Tuesday from 6 to 11 PM. Oysters in various forms are at the center of the tasting menu, including roasted oyster mushrooms with garlic beans or smoked oyster gribiche. Make a reservation here.
Break your work week in half at barmini on Wednesday when legacy Puerto Rican rum Ron del Barrilito is the star of a cocktail-making class at 5:15 PM. The event includes three cocktails featuring the spirit plus glasses of rum otherwise unavailable in the continental US. Tickets ($145 per person) are available here.
Get Our “Brunches This Weekend” Newsletter The best breakfasts and brunches to try every weekend, plus our most popular food stories of the week. Or, see all of our newsletters. By signing up, you agree to our terms

Story 141
With esports sudden appearance in the mainstream world, media members and business analysts are quick to compare the sports and esports industries. Statements like “League of Legends had more viewers than the NBA Finals” and “Esports events have prize pools comparable to the largest sports” are fairly common. But how true are they?
By some metrics, yes those arguments could be made but they ignore the key differences in how the two industries operate. Ultimately, organized sport has been around for over a century and has had a lot of time to develop into what it is today. By even the most generous estimate, esports has only really existed for about 25 years. While some esports games have been around for most of those years, the most popular esport by viewership is League of Legends, released in 2009.
That is the timeline esports has been operating on and the history of the industry is littered with games that never took off or fell apart along the way. It’s much different than sports in that way. There are however some ways to compare the two industries. The comparisons aren’t always perfect due to a variety of factors, but these areas can serve as a jumping off point for comparing sports and esports.
Financial Evaluations
This is one of the best metrics for examining the financial worth of the teams and organizations in sports and esports. As you can see from the numbers, sports franchises are worth considerably more money. There are a couple of reasons for that aside from just pure time and popularity.
To start, sports franchises have a revenue opportunity. Esports franchises make money from apparel sales, sponsorship and prize pools, but the money made rarely exceeds their cost of operation. Most esports organizations are being treated as startups that make money through investment rounds, not in actual revenue.
As such, their financial evaluations suffer. The key future point that may change this balance is physical arenas. Blizzard is on the forefront of this with the geo-localized franchises in the Overwatch League and soon the Call of Duty World League. Having teams play in home cities will allow esports organizations to open up stadiums and sell tickets, the driving revenue for traditional sports franchises.
Investors in esports are looking many years down the line and seeing organizations that compete in a wide variety of esports and can more easily become international brands. Due to competing in so many different esports, there is a possibility that esports organizations could one day eclipse their traditional sports counterparts, but don’t expect that for a couple of decades at least.
Prize Money
With prize money, we get one of the mainstream media’s favorite esports comparisons: Dota 2’s The International. With a prize pool over $25 million in 2018, Dota 2’s flagship tournament boasted a higher prize pool than the Daytona 500, Golf’s Masters, or the Tour de France.
What often gets left out of the comparison is why The International’s (TI’s) prize pool is so high. Dota 2 is a well-known game, but it isn’t even the most popular MOBA on the market. That would be League of Legends. So why does Riot Games offer just over $6 million for League of Legends Worlds?
The reason is that Valve, the company behind Dota 2, also owns Steam. The ubiquitous online marketplace for gamers is basically a money factory. In addition, Valve keeps in-house staff incredibly small so the company makes money hand over fist. Thanks to not having an issue with revenue, they divert a percentage of the proceeds spent on in-game cosmetics in Dota 2 straight into TI’s prize pool.
For years, Dota 2 far and away was the highest prize pool and skewed the data on the rest of the esports industry. Not anymore. On February 22, 2019, Epic Games announced the Fortnite World Cup would offer $30 million in prizes during the three-day event. In the run-up to the event, Epic will be hosting weekly competitions with $1,000,000 spread out in prizes. That will add another $10 million in prizes for the ten weeks the open competitions run.
For the first time ever, Dota 2 has competition on top of the prize pool leaderboards. Still, those two giants dominate the space, but many other esports leagues are focused more on franchising like the NFL or NBA than on the massive individual prize pools.
Scholarship Numbers
Another key comparison point is scholarships. There are now over 50 universities in North America with varsity esports programs. These programs offer full or partial scholarships to stand out high schoolers that are near the tops of ranked leaderboards.
This number is constantly growing and 2018 was the largest jump in amount of money awarded by scholarships so far. As more universities get on board for collegiate esports and the space become more developed, this number will only keep rising.
A black cloud potentially hanging over the future of collegiate esports is the NCAA. So far the oft-maligned governing body for collegiate sports has not touched esports. They have had conversations about putting their weight behind the industry, but in-game violence, Title IX issues and dealing with game publishers are among their chief concerns.
For many people, their trepidation is welcomed. While the NCAA would immediately catapult esports to a higher station in many universities, it would also come at a price. The issues laid out by the NCAA are similar to the issues laid out by the International Olympic Committee and both organizations have a fraught history with scandal and questions surrounding the legitimacy of their stance on “amateur athletes.”
Still, the $15 million in esports scholarships is less than %1 of the $2.9 billion awarded in traditional sports scholarships in 2018. There is no doubt that NCAA involvement would immediately catapult that number much higher.
Viewership Numbers
This section poses the most issues with the comparison from sports to esports. It is often the section most sited in media reports and brand rooms alike. Are more people watching esports than traditional sports in many cases? Absolutely.
But how viewers are counted for esports and sports is complicated and easily misconstrued. Let’s start with the two platforms. Sports are consumed through live TV, which is measured by the Nielsen ratings. The Nielsen ratings are compiled through statistical sampling. Basically, Nielsen homes represent a diverse subsection of the North American television audience and they use the data from those homes to extrapolate the viewership to the entire country.
So that’s traditional TV metrics, and just in North America. The way streaming services track their viewership is much different. For a Nielson rating to count the viewer must stay on the channel for a set period of time, usually the majority of the broadcast. On Twitch, the best metric is concurrent viewers but those viewers could be in the stream for one minute or one hour.
The other issue with esports viewership is the numbers that come from Chinese streaming platforms. One of the major reasons why many investors are so bullish on esports is the absurd popularity in Asia. Still, the numbers that come from the Chinese streaming sites have been called into question. Due to the concealed nature of the data, the allegations have been difficult to prove outright but many in the esports community accept that data from China is dubious at best and blatantly false at worse.
Esports Charts is the best place to track esports viewership and the site differentiates two viewership counts. One with Chinese reported viewers and one without. For League of Legends Worlds, the viewer count without China was just under 2 million but with Chinese numbers was over 200 million. There is no doubt that China had way more than 2 million viewers but the claim that nearly a fifth of China’s entire population watched LoL Worlds is tough to accept.
Ultimately, the inflation is all allegations at this point but when comparing the viewership numbers for esports and sports events remember the difference in how streaming companies track viewers and the possible sources of skewed data on the esports side.

Story 142
Spain’s three leading broadcasters RTVE, Atresmedia and Mediasat have joined forces to launch a rival to Netflix and other pay services.
According to El Economista, LovesTV is a DTT platform based on HbbTV technology that aims to eventually include all of the country’s public and autonomous DTT channels.
It adds the fact that the platform uses HbbTV allows the DTT channels to be offered with an additional layer of digital information, thereby having functionalities traditionally associated with internet platforms.
Its features include an EPG, seven-day catch-up, recommendations, and parental control. It also includes apps, with RTVE, for instance, giving access to those for RTVE, Clan TVE, Playz and 4K RTVE.
Accessing LovesTV requires a smart TV, internet connection and terrestrial antenna.
Speaking at the platform’s launch and quoted by El Periódico, Albert Cuatrecasas, director of the HbbTV technology provider Cellnex Spain, said: “There are currently more than two million smart TVs (in Spain), although it is expected to exceed five million by 2020”.
He added that the platform represented a “quantum leap in the user experience”, comparable in importance to the transition from, analogue to digital TV or the launch of HD services.
Cuatrecasas also said that LovesTV technology is installed in some of the models of the main smart TV manufacturers free of charge, since this is part of the standard for DTT in Spain.
As previously reported by Broadband TV News, plans to launch LovesTV were first announced in May this year.
LovesTV won the Judges’ Grand Prix Prize at this year’s HbbTV Symposium and Awards, which took place in Berlin. (See picture below)

Story 143
Chief executives of some of the most well-known, global diversified industrial firms gathered in Florida late last month at the annual Electrical Products Group conference, where they touched on several broad themes, including robust demand leading to resilient organic growth, the muted impact from tariffs, and strong digitization trends sweeping the industry.
We had the opportunity to press these leaders on issues like portfolio optimization, both from the merger and divestiture side, and we asked what factors lead to strong switching costs in the aftermarket and how differentiated technology intangibles lead to securing a firm's installed equipment or software base. After attending the conference and reviewing our coverage, our top picks among the diversified industrials we cover include DuPont (DD), Emerson Electric (EMR), Johnson Controls International (JCI), and 3M (MMM).

Story 144
ASML Holding N.V. with ticker code (ASML) have now 3 analysts in total covering the stock. The consensus rating is ‘Buy’. The range between the high target price and low target price is between 276 and 190 calculating the average target price we see 237.33. Given that the stocks previous close was at 267.54 this now indicates there is a potential downside of -11.3%. The 50 day MA is 242.68 and the 200 moving average now moves to 215.2. The market cap for the company is $108,876m. Company Website: http://www.asml.com
ASML Holding N.V. develops, produces, markets, sells, and services advanced semiconductor equipment systems consisting of lithography related systems primarily in the Netherlands, the United States, and Asia. It sells Holistic Lithography solutions, which integrate its three categories of products, including DUV lithography, EUV lithography, and Applications. The company offers TWINSCAN N)XT (DUV) systems for imaging wafers, which consists of systems that operate at a specific wavelength of the light source, such as i-line, krypton fluoride, and argon fluoride. It also provides TWINSCAN NXE (EUV) lithography systems, which are equipped with new EUV light source technology and a new optical technology that uses reflective mirrors rather than the traditional lenses; and scanner products with a applications portfolio of software and metrology and inspection products. The company was formerly known as ASM Lithography Holding N.V. and changed its name to ASML Holding N.V. in 2001. ASML Holding N.V. was founded in 1984 and is headquartered in Veldhoven, the Netherlands.

Story 145
Looking at the young talent that will lead our industry in future, Delia Claudia Bercea has progressed further since reporting on her leadership direction a year and a half ago, and now takes us through a business methodology that she began to present in June last year, that has now been completed. Here is how she did it.
In an industry so well established with roots in all four corners of the globe we took time to discuss what the industry will look like in 10 to 20 years from now.
Whilst we all share different views on where the industry will end up or what it will morph into, the fact is that we forget the many good folk working in the industry. Especially the younger generatilooon that started at the bottom and worked their way up essentially dedicating their careers to fintech, trading and finance.
As is a FinanceFeeds tradition, we decided to celebrate these hard working individuals that have and very well may become the future industry leaders as they move up the ranks. So without further adieu, meet the industry’s future leaders , all of whom are currently under the age of 30.
Delia Claudia Bercea has progressed further since reporting on her leadership direction a year and a half ago, and now takes us through a business methodology that she began to present in June last year, that has now been completed. Here is how she did it.
Situation:
As you may recall from the previous article my experience has primarily been within the financial services arena and one of the things that you quickly learn in this space is that the foundation of that arena (the regulatory environment and continued disruption due to innovation in technology and services) is continually shifting – this is apparent if we consider that at the time of writing we’re looking at the implementation of Mifid2 and the impending implementation of GDPR.
Both of these changes will ensure that the financial services industry (and in the case of GDPR, anyone dealing with client data) will face substantial changes in terms of both risks and opportunities.
This single fact, the floor continuously moving beneath our feet, led me to understand one key point – one truth that is apparent when you look around at the way people are currently running around trying to deal with change; and this point allowed me to see an opening in the market that I’ve now been able to move on.
Task:
When we look at the companies around us we can see that the vast majority fall into the classification of SME – Small to Medium sized Enterprise. The SME market is typically companies that are quite young (typically 5 years or less) and have a head count of less than 200 people.
This definition, specifically the head count, varies by industry sector but if we consider the companies that play in the financial services arena here in Cyprus we can see that generally speaking they tick those boxes.
One of the other characteristics of companies within the SME environment, especially in financial services, is that they are continuously stretching themselves and whether correctly or not they tend to invest in sales and marketing activity over knowledge and skill generation tasks – this then ensures that they have another characteristic in common.
They’re typically not ready for externally mandated change. For those of you who are not currently in financial services or perhaps haven’t been keeping track of what’s happening in the world allow me to give you an example that is true “right now”.
The MiFID II (Markets in Financial Instruments Directive – 2) changes specify a number of alterations that apply to a wide spectrum of financial services businesses.
These changes have been known for a year or two now and so everyone has had a lot of time to get their systems and processes inline with what are effectively legal requirements. One of these changes (and I’m deliberately talking about just one change here) is the conditions under which a company is considered to be performing portfolio management.
So we’re talking about one change, not even one of the larger changes. Allow me to elaborate. In the forex trading business it is possible to copy the trades of another person (if you like their strategy and you have access to it).
In the old days this wasn’t classed as portfolio management and so the brokerage didn’t need a portfolio management license BUT with the Mifid2 changes this is now considered to be portfolio management.
So this is an established part of the brokerage business and something that clients are counting on having access to. Let us also be clear, regulatory change is something that effects clients but most clients don’t have any idea about regulatory changes. So the situation we have is that a key piece of a businesses offerings will not be legal for the majority of brokerages as of the 3rd of January – and this has been known for a while now.
Realistically speaking, as the reader, when would you think would be the best time to deal with this issue? The 3rd of January, the 4th of Jan or last August (or sooner)? Would you sooner that YOUR business was inline with legal requirements or would you rather roll the dice and see what happens (given that a regulated entity can have its license removed for non-compliance).
With this example in mind (and countless others) I realized that the SME environment was very short on consulting services. After doing some research I found that the same was true for pure project management, architecture (both business and IT) and a number of other areas.
After doing further research it became clear that the strain of running an SME in a competitive environment, where change is the norm, takes quite a high toll on the senior management – and those below them. If we then couple this with interpersonal and ego issues (such as personal pride or shame relating to business results) I found that quite often the people who are supposed to be making decisions are more concerned with the day to day operations of the business.
Let’s also not forget that in the SME environment an individual may well have been promoted to a position of authority without actually having the required skills for that position (everyone needs time grow into a roll but learning by your mistakes is not always the most cost effective way for a company to allow its resources to develop).
Action:
So knowing all of this what did I do?
I partnered with some pretty impressive people in order to ensure that I had access to a set of skills that complimented my own and allowed me to develop a service offering for the market. But who could I partner with?
I’ve been quite lucky during my career; I’ve had some great experiences and met some inspirational people. To name a few, I Partnered with Pedro Cean – who’s experience springs from the financial services sector and specifically trading (across a number of asset classes). I also partnered with Paul Foley, an established IT director with experience across several industry sectors (including wealth management and brokerage).
So these individuals have a track record of delivering massive business change, profitability and developing truly exceptional teams – they also have experience of developing strategies, product and service roadmaps along with business optimization.
By partnering with these types of professionals I was able to create what I believe to be an innovative Consultancy Model for a wide variety of entities focused in ensuring a sustainable raise in their business capability.
Result
Along with Pedro Cean, as the CEO of TCG (TelcoConsulting Group), who has an evolutionary track record in the Financial Markets, proven throughout his 10 years of successful experience from Economical Studies to Trading and exponential business profitability to the companies he formed part of; alongside Paul Foley, an experienced and consummate professional CIO / CTO / Director as per his valuable expertise in synthesizing teams to deliver, with a proven delivery track record in Financial Services, wealth management, Start Ups and SME Businesses, we have created an innovative, success driven Consultancy Service.
After a long journey, from Private and Business Financial Advisory, to Investment Funds and Brokers, today we are successfully dedicated to providing services such as:
Business development
Project management
Strategy development
Product development roadmaps
Service delivery strategy
C-level advisory
We’ve further expanded the business capabilities of TCG (TelcoConsulting Group) by establishing partnerships with and collaborating with highly esteemed and established organizations in fields such as portfolio management, Banking, IT and infrastructure, regulatory law and taxation, not only working in FX, but in a variety of sectors within the financial markets, and some others industries, which we will have the opportunity to talk about in detail another time. On top of this TCG (TelcoConsulting Group) has also embarked on a number of innovative projects relating to funding and market exposure for clients.
Our partners and Advisors are global by nature and are based across a number of countries and major cities of the world, from Switzerland to China, Latin America, Middle East, New York, Los Angeles, Spain and Central Europe.
For those of you who have not experienced the benefits of using a consulting company you might be wondering “Why would I use a consultancy?” – although if you’ve made it this far through this article and haven’t worked it out yet I probably need to consider a re-write.
There are multiple reasons to employ consultancy, but in many cases there is a need to understand market challenges and opportunities, a need to suddenly ‘have’ skills that are not present in the business – perhaps even a need to benefit from a wider perspective that is not naturally available.
The use of consultants who come with a wide variety of expertise effectively provides the business with a ‘shot’ of expertise that will allow the company’s management to grow without the associated risk of failure. This tactical use of resources can allow a business to develop a competitive advantage or simply a strategy for dealing with (or delivering) change.
One of the most interesting things that I have seen in the consulting field is perhaps not the thing that most people would consider an issue (but is in fact a major crippling factor for any business).
The management style typically shown within an SME doesn’t lend itself to the development and empowerment of the staff and in most cases this can also be extended to the management. This can be over come with one word – delegation.
In some companies there seems to be an actual allergy towards delegation and so we find senior managers trying to micro manage individual members of staff. This then leads to problems with the company culture and completely stifles innovation. It also ensures that the senior management are stood so close to the trees that they cannot see the forest fire around them.
Ironically enough this problem of managers needing to delegate or work 18 hour days is only going to get worse. We are living in an era where regulation is changing frequently and the requirements that are being placed on SMEs is increasing at pace – so in the long run there is literally no chance of a single manager keeping his finger on the pulse of all change which will inevitably lead to failure.
One of the ways in which we’ve witnessed this trend can be seen in corporate failures. A number of companies have decided to operate in numerous territories and each of them have different regulations and cultures. When these companies operate in different countries, this issues become overwhelmingly more intricate – there’s simply more regulatory issues to be aware of and if they weren’t keeping on top of things in one territory how would they be doing it in multiple territories. The mathematics of this failure is quite simplistic, but they all seem to fall into the same cycle of wrong decisions and misjudgments.
If I were to highlight a few of the issues that have led to failure I would say that failure to incorporate the Investment psychology of the territory, failure to comprehend the legal parameters of operation in the chosen region and also failure to have an infrastructure that allows remote monitoring and Global business sync, not to mention the lack of analysis of the Investor Profile within the territory all figure highly on the list of potential disaster sources.
From my stand point, when looking at today’s Retail Brokers there is a major gap between the 4-5 Leaders in the Market and the hundreds of both regulated and unregulated entities that are now operational. The surprise comes from seeing an average level of service, average to common conditions and a poor or simply uneducated customer support function, a model which fails to work in the pool of investors of today.
Thanks to the continuous development in technology and access to information, investors are becoming savvier and average service plus an average cost and an average execution will definitely result in more companies closing down. Start-ups are appearing with no regulation, setting a tone in terms of lower trading costs and increased execution speed, however not benefiting from a sustainable, experienced Management Team with a vision for organic growth will only lead to the same outcome.
What needs to become utterly clear is the fact that the investor pool is moving closer and closer to the Institutional operation model, so if the Brokers don’t start looking at their clients with the capability to estimate an accurate Client Segmentation and proper Placement, they will continue mixing their operation and having to account for why they are presenting retail conditions to professional clients.
The mistake is that companies live from success stories long past and buried, when a retail FX Trader/Investor had little to no experience of the FX Market and when companies were not being created at every corner of the Business Centers. Nowadays, you have one broker at the corner of each street, you see Account Managers not being trained to understand, but trained to read scripts and in the end, you witness the dissolution or downgrading of a valid Investment Opportunity just because of poor Management.
This is also one of the core concepts that compelled us to create TCG and invest the man power and knowledge into the project; We know that by providing sustainable service offerings to the SME market we will be able to deliver the attributes required for success and in doing so will also ensure that the SME market is not destined for self destruction but is instead something to be proud of.

Story 146
The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) has issued new directions for all Cable and Direct to Home (DTH) operators regarding the listing of channels in the electronic program guide, also known as EPG, on their platforms. This is a reaffirmation of the new guidelines for cable TV and DTH, as introduced by the new tariff order which became applicable on February 1, though has been extended till the end of March to allow for a smooth transition of all subscribers across India to the new tariff plans.
The new directions clearly state that all broadcasters (such as Star India, Sony Pictures Network and TV18) need to declare the genre of each channel they offer to the cable and DTH platforms. This means that every broadcaster has to specify which genre each channel is categorized as a part of—for instance, General Entertainment, Infotainment, Kids, Movies, Sports, News and Current Affairs or Miscellaneous.
The regulator has also clarified that all distributors such as cable TV and DTH operators, such as TataSky, Airtel Digital TV, Sun Direct, Hathway and Den, need to place the channels in the EPG along with other channels of its genre, as declared by the broadcasters. These channels need to be placed consecutively. At no point should any operator list the same channel more than once in their EPG—this means each channel should only have one logical channel number (LCN) in their EPG, and not multiple LCNs.
All cable TV and DTH operators are required to assign a channel number for each channel they distribute on their platform, and once the channel number is assigned, this cannot be altered for a period of one year from the date of assignment. However, TRAI has clarified that if the broadcaster alters the genre of the channel at any point during that time, then the operators can also change the placement of the channel to match the new genre.
What the guidelines don’t clarify at the moment is what happens to the ‘services’ that DTH and cable TV operators tend to offer, which are available for access by pressing a special button on the remote control for the set top box (STB).
The new guidelines are a part of the new tariff regime for broadcasters, cable TV and DTH operators to follow, and these dictate the pricing of the channels by the broadcasters, as well as the subscription packages and the network capacity fee (NCF) which the operators are allowed to offer to users.
Also Read | TRAI’s New Rules For Cable And DTH: Dishtv, Sun Direct and Tata Sky Try to Reduce NCF Burden on Subscribers
Also Read | TRAI Now Says Cable And DTH Users Can Choose Channels by 31 March
Get the best of News18 delivered to your inbox - subscribe to News18 Daybreak. Follow News18.com on Twitter, Instagram, Facebook, Telegram, TikTok and on YouTube, and stay in the know with what's happening in the world around you – in real time.

Story 147
ADDvantage Technologies Group, Inc., through its subsidiaries, distributes and services electronics and hardware for the cable television and telecommunication industries in the United States, Canada, Central America, Asia, Europe, Mexico, South America, and internationally. The company operates through two segments, Cable Television and Telecommunications. The Cable Television segment provides products for video, telephone, and Internet data signals. It offers headend products, such as satellite receivers, integrated receivers/decoders, demodulators, modulators, antennas and antenna mounts, amplifiers, equalizers, and processors; fiber products that include optical transmitters, fiber optic cables, receivers, splitters, and compatible accessories; and access and transport products, such as line extenders, broadband amplifiers, and directional taps. In addition, this segment offers test equipment; hardware equipment that include connectors and cable products; and repair services. The Telecommunications segment provides telecommunication equipment, such as spares and replace non-working components; and customer premise equipment to the reseller community, telecommunications companies, and enterprise companies. This segment offers central office equipment that include optical transport, switching, and data center equipment for communication networks; customer premise equipment, such as integrated access devices, channel banks, Internet protocol private branch exchange phones, and routers; and decommissioning services for surplus and obsolete telecom equipment. The company was formerly known as ADDvantage Media Group, Inc. and changed its name to ADDvantage Technologies Group, Inc. in December 1999. ADDvantage Technologies Group, Inc. was founded in 1989 and is headquartered in Broken Arrow, Oklahoma.
MarketBeat Community Rating for ADDvantage Technologies Group (NASDAQ AEY)
Community Ranking: 2.2 out of 5 ( ) Outperform Votes: 88 (Vote Outperform) Underperform Votes: 114 (Vote Underperform) Total Votes: 202
MarketBeat's community ratings are surveys of what our community members think about ADDvantage Technologies Group and other stocks. Vote "Outperform" if you believe AEY will outperform the S&P 500 over the long term. Vote "Underperform" if you believe AEY will underperform the S&P 500 over the long term. You may vote once every thirty days.

Story 148
Forex trading is now offered via Ally Invest Forex, an introducing broker to GAIN Capital Group.
As FinanceFeeds has already informed its readers, the TradeKing team worked hard over the past weekend to move TradeKing to ally.com, more than a year after US financial services provider Ally Financial Inc (NYSE:ALLY) agreed to acquire TradeKing in a $275 million deal.
Many changes are already apparent on TradeKing’s websites. A special page for customers details the steps one needs to make to complete the account move to ally.com.
Securities products and services are now offered through Ally Invest Securities LLC.
Advisory products and services are offered now through Ally Invest Advisors, Inc.
Forex products and services are offered through Ally Invest Forex LLC, an introducing broker to GAIN Capital Group. These Forex accounts are held and maintained at GAIN. Traders retain access to the ForexTrader and MT4 platforms, as well as research & analysis tools.
Futures trading services are provided by Ally Invest Futures LLC.
Regarding MBTrading, whose acquisition by TradeKing was agreed in August 2015, the webpage of the broker has been redesigned to say that “Ally Invest Now Owns MB Trading. We’ve recently acquired MB Trading, and we’re working to combine our products and services.” In the meantime, traders can still open an MB Trading account if they want to trade futures, access software platforms that run through MB Trading APIs, and use Desktop Pro trading software for stocks, futures or options.
At the moment of publication of this article the webpage of TradeKing Advisors is not active and shows a message “Looking for Ally Invest? We’ll be up and running soon.”
The Twitter account of TradeKing has been changed to Ally Invest, with TradeKing clients told to expect new mobile applications along with the move.
Once they have completed the move, owners of TradeKing Securities or TradeKing Advisors accounts will access their investing account on ally.com. They are set to find the features known from TradeKing, such as the streaming platform, charts, and research tools. Trading will be integrated with banking features on ally.com. Customers may see a change to the TradeKing API name, but there will be no changes to the data responses or request endpoints.

Story 149
Close Get email notifications on {{subject}} daily!
Your notification has been saved.
There was a problem saving your notification.
{{description}}
Email notifications are only sent once a day, and only if there are new matching items.

Story 150
Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates – Masdar, Abu Dhabi Future Energy Company, and Emirates Post – the nations’ leading post and express provider – have announced the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), to provide dedicated Emirates Post Business Boxes and postal services for Masdar Free Zone companies.
The partnership aims to deliver convenient and secure postal services to Masdar Free Zone companies through the provision of dedicated Business PO Boxes. The PO Boxes provided as part of the agreement will be leased to Free Zone companies by Masdar and will be located at the Masdar City Emirates Post Office, which will be the only effective branch in Masdar City.
“Masdar is committed to providing efficient and reliable services to our Masdar Free Zone tenants,” said Mohammed Al Fardan, Director of Masdar Free Zone. “The postal service provided by this agreement is an excellent addition to the offerings of the free zone and we are happy to partner with Emirates Post on the delivery of this service”.
“Having a dedicated PO Box for your business versus a central mailbox also allows for added privacy and security,” added Al Qatami. “With a dedicated Business Box a company’s correspondence is received at the right address with the assigned agent receiving an SMS notification on the receipt of registered or express mail”.
“At Emirates Post, we also provide an array of service options designed to facilitate business needs. From same-day and next-day door to door domestic deliveries to cost-effective premium, express and standard international shipment options,” continued Al Qatami.
Masdar-based businesses can also subscribe to 'Ezimail' Gold, Silver and Bronze, which offers pick-up and delivery direct to the business location either six times a week, three times a week or once a week, respectively. Emirates Post also offers tailor-made solutions catering to a company’s distribution needs, including options such as delivering credit/debit cards, Emirates ID, attestations, health packs and fulfilment processing.
-Ends-
About Masdar
Masdar is Abu Dhabi’s renewable energy company which works to advance the development, commercialisation and deployment of clean energy technologies and solutions. The company serves as a link between today’s fossil fuel economy and the energy economy of the future. Wholly owned by the Mubadala Investment Company, the strategic investment company of the Government of Abu Dhabi, Masdar is dedicated to the United Arab Emirates’ long-term vision for the future of energy and water.
About Masdar City
Abu Dhabi’s Masdar City is one of the world’s most sustainable communities. It is made up of a rapidly growing clean-tech cluster, business free zone and residential neighbourhood with restaurants, shops and public green spaces. Masdar City is a working model for cities around the world based on the three pillars of environmental, economic and social sustainability, and continues to push the boundaries of innovation. The sustainable city is home to the headquarters of the International Renewable Energy Agency, several Fortune 500 companies, hundreds of local businesses and entrepreneurs, and a leading graduate-level research institute.
About Emirates Post Group
Emirates Post Group (EPG) is a federal entity operating across the entire UAE, overseeing the management and operations of its subsidiaries, which include Emirates Post, Wall Street Exchange and the Electronics Distribution Centre (EDC). EPG is also the official licensing authority for all postal, courier and logistics operations within the UAE. Headquartered in Dubai, EPG operates Emirates Post, the UAE's leading domestic and international post and express provider. The EPG has been a member of the Universal Postal Union (UPU) since 1973. Contact: media@epg.gov.ae
Contacts:
E-mail: press@masdar.ae
Tel enquiries in Arabic: +971 2 653 3333
Tel enquiries in English: +971 2 653 6014
For more information please visit: http://www.masdar.ae and connect: www.facebook.com/masdar.ae and www.twitter.com/masdar
© Press Release 2018

Story 151
DISNEY ANNOUNCED THAT its video service will launch in the US in November as it attempts to take a slice of revenue from streaming giants Netflix.
The company said that after launching in the US on November 12 at $6.99 (€6.20) per month, Disney+ will gradually expand internationally, starting in Europe.
The firm plans to make the streaming service available in all major regions of the world within two years.
The service will offer Disney’s films and TV shows, along with the library it acquired from Rupert Murdoch’s 21st Century Fox. That includes the “Star Wars” and Marvel superhero franchises and ABC television content.
Last month Walt Disney Co. closed its $71 billion deal for the film and television assets of 21st Century Fox as the “legacy” producers controlling Hollywood seek to fend off Netflix and other streaming firms including Amazon.
Details about Disney+ were shared by executives at an annual investor day, where chief executive Bob Iger said the streaming service would combine the strengths of Disney and the assets acquired from Fox.
“The Disney+ platform is being built on that foundation, one that no other content or technology company can rival. We knew the best approach to the market was to create great content and distribute it in innovative ways. It is that simple,” Iger said.
Disney+ will combine offerings from powerhouse brands including Pixar, Marvel, and Star Wars with content from Hulu and sports network ESPN.
Disney stressed plans to use its coveted content, and original creations to come, to differentiate itself in the increasingly competitive streaming television market.
The entertainment company was arranging to get Disney+ on a broad array of smartphones, tablets, gaming consoles, set-top boxes and smart televisions, according to executives.
Big spending on shows
Disney will invest heavily in the new streaming service, which is not expected to become profitable until 2024, chief financial officer Christine McCarthy told investors.
The company projected that it would have from 60 million to 90 million subscribers by that time, with two-thirds of them outside the United States.
“We will be aggressive in our efforts, and we believe we will succeed,” McCarthy said.
But John Meyer, an analyst and Transpire Ventures partner said he strongly believes Disney will not become a threat to Netflix.
“Netflix now knows what people want more than anybody,” he said.
With reporting by © – AFP 2019

Story 152
Hilversum-based Stoneroos is presenting the latest updates of its OTT Now! – white label-OTT solution and its Content Discovery SaaS solution EPGdata.tv at this year’s IBC.
OTT Now! will operators help to create the next-gen TV experience and deliver a consistent UX across multiple platforms. The OTT Now! solution is backend independent, adjustable to the customer’s brand and includes the following apps: iOS, Android, Apple TV, Android TV, Web and STB. OTT Now! is used by major international TV providers.
Content Discovery: Stoneroos also provides enriched EPGdata for Live TV and VOD, the driving force behind recommendations and personalisation.
The company’s EPGdata Manager is a unique, easy-to-use and effective SaaS solution to import, enrich, add images and export program data to multiple destinations. The perfect solution for broadcasters, TV providers and EPG suppliers.
Stoneroos can be found at IBC2018 in stand H14 C.23.

Story 153
“With all these upcoming regulations, all these continuously updating regulatory frameworks, my personal opinion is that the only way that counterparties and financial institutions can cope with this is by automation and by technology”, says Point Nine’s Andrea Peratitis.
No longer is the Eastern Mediterranean island of Cyprus considered to have the sole functionality of acting as a hub for retail FX brokerages from across the world to place CySec licensed operations in order to align themselves with the European MiFID regulations and thus attract clients to a credible entity.
Far beyond the inaugural days that laid the foundations for Cyprus’ now fully comprehensive FX industry, the country now plays host to the major platform providers Spotware Systems and MetaQuotes, developers of the cTrader and MetaTrader platforms respectively, liquidity management companies oneZero and PrimeXM also have operations on the island, institutional prime brokerages and liquidity providers operate in Cyprus, as do management consultancies and regulatory technology and trade reporting specialists.
In short, Cyprus is an FX industry powerhouse as it hosts the entire component system of the electronic trading ecosystem, and is inhabited by highly skilled professionals who understand this business in a detail perfect fashion.
It is now widely acknowledged that the talent base within the Cyprus FX industry is comprehensive, with the world’s top retail platform developers MetaQuotes and Spotware Systems, two global liquidity bridge providers, oneZero and PrimeXM, institutional liquidity firms including Advanced Markets, Saxo Markets and AMB Prime, and a host of ancillary service providers making up the entire infrastructure around the 180 retail brokers in Cyprus.
The evolution is now further developing and regulatory reporting companies specializing in MiFID and EMIR reporting, as well as post trade reporting and processing to trade depositories such as vast electronic derivatives venue CME Group in North America and institutional giants in Britain are now becoming a pinnacle of Cyprus’ electronic trading industry landscape.
Cyprus has recently diversified its business image to become known not only as a key center for Forex brokers but also as a fintech hub . Point Nine Limited, a provider of post-trade execution, operation, processing and reporting, established in 2002, has been growing and constantly developing to become a well known company in the FinTech and RegTech areas.
Today, in Limassol Cyprus, FinanceFeeds met with Andrea Peratitis, Head of Regulatory Reporting at financial technology company Point Nine, in order to detail the company’s ethos.
Point Nine stands out as a technology company now that regulated technology in Cyprus is becoming a big mainstay of the industry. Technology firms and prime brokerages, the whole ecosystem is here in Cyprus. So, RegTech companies and specialists in EMIR reporting and the technology behind this is prominent but Point Nine has stood out as a company that has gotten itself involved in events and conferences and that is bringing international institutions like CME Group and Commerzbank, and so forth. How did that come about and why is that important as a RegTech specialist in Cyprus?
Point Nine is a financial services and technology company. One part of point Nine is providing regulatory reporting services to our clients. Regarding the event that we did in Limassol and we brought people from institutions like Commerzbank, KPMG Germany and Cyprus, Clearstream and CME Group it was a good chance for the Cypriot financial market to have an exposure to the experience of these professionals.We have very good relationship with these companies.We both believe that we do a great job in our fields.
Financial technology and specialist companies in financial technology like Point Nine along with a few others in Cyprus that have now become established, have gotten themselves into the technology provision to brokerages, institutions and banks – another financial services sector of the technology that supports the way that electronic trading firms have to report these days. Do you think that RegTech is the new FinTech? Have we gotten to the point where they are technologically astute enough or you have to hold their hand through the regulation?
My personal view is that the only way that financial firms may cope with all the upcoming regulations is by automation and thus by technology.
I am not sure if RegTech is the new FinTech, although they are related, of course, but I think that RegTech is a space by its own and is evolving too fast as we have seen. This is not by chance. It’s because technology is the only way to keep up with all these changes.
That’s right. And it makes it less expensive for the actual counterparty.
From what I have come through, the reasoning behind using technology for regulatory reporting purposes is always the same: it costs less money, it takes less time and it creates more accuracy.
So, finally, Point Nine, being a completely separate company, has global aspirations and a global client base. This is a real first. What is the future for Point Nine’s development as a Cypriot company on the world stage?
Point Nine is based in Cyprus but most of our clients are in Europe. This is not a problem, as we travel a lot and we have a direct contact with them often. We work with leading organisations such as TRs, Fund Admins etc and thus we increase our reach by partnerships​. Our vision is to become a one-stop solution for our clients and also for different asset classes. We don’t only target brokers or asset managers, we also target various institutional clients.
Image: Maria Nikolova (FinanceFeeds), Andrea Peratitis (Point Nine), Maria Papafylaktou (Point Nine), Andrew Saks-McLeod (FinanceFeeds)

Story 154
Share
tweet

StumbleUpon Submit

Stockholm-listed industry affiliate marketing network, Catena Media continues to expand its German market footprint, confirming the acquisition of Dreamworx Online Ltd for a total consideration of €9.5 million.
Updating the market, Catena governance has agreed to acquire all Dreamworx’s related assets and portals active within German sports betting, casino and financial services.
German media owner Dreamworx operates high coverage websites Sportwettenanbieter.com, Fussballwetten.de and financial services aggregator DeutscheFXBroker.com.
The agreed transaction will see Catena governance pay a €5.5 million cash instalment, combined with a further €4 million in newly issued Catena Media shares.
At present, Catena details that Dreamworx assets are expected to generate quarterly sales of approximately €600,000, with an operating margin of approximately 80 percent.
Updating investors, Catena CEO Henrik Persson Ekdahl detailed that Dreamworx’s digital assets would be managed by the recently acquired Baybets Malta team, which will move to optimise the future earnings potential of Catena’s expanded german market portfolio.
“The assets of Dreamworx will strengthen our position as the leading affiliate in Germany. This will place us in the top position, short-term for the World Cup 2018 as well as long-term,” detailed Henrik Persson Ekdahl.

Story 155
CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Aug. 6, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- AOBiome Therapeutics, Inc. ("AOBiome"), a world-leading clinical-stage microbiome company focusing on research and development of therapeutics for inflammatory conditions, central nervous system disorders and other systemic diseases, today announced the expansion of its Board of Directors with the appointments of (i) Professor Klaus Dugi, Executive Vice President and Chief Medical Officer of Ferring Pharmaceuticals, (ii) Dr. Anna Lisa Jenkins, MBBS, FRCP, Chief Executive Officer of PlaqueTec Ltd. and (iii) Mr. Doug Rosefsky, partner of Prudentia Capital S.A.S., as independent non-executive directors. Mr. Rosefsky will lead the audit committee and Dr. Jenkins will lead the remuneration committee.
"We are very excited to announce the additions of Klaus, Anna Lisa and Doug to the AOBiome Board of Directors," said Mr. Todd Krueger, President and Chief Executive Officer of AOBiome. "These industry veterans bring to AOBiome a broad range of expertise in clinical development, medicine, finance and business management experience. We look forward to benefiting from their strategic insights that will be invaluable to the future direction of the Company."
"It is an honor to bring these seasoned veterans to AOBiome at this important time in the Company's expansion," said Dr. Jun Wang, Chairman of the Board of Directors of AOBiome. "With the company rapidly accelerating its innovative Ammonia Oxidizing Bacteria platform across multiple applications, we are that much closer to achieving our long-term goals within the microbiome space."
Professor Klaus Dugi
Dr. Dugi has over 25 years of experience mainly in the field of medicine. Since 2017, Dr. Dugi has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Medical Officer of Ferring Pharmaceuticals, a multinational pharmaceutical company, and continues to serve in these capacities. His responsibilities at Ferring Pharmaceuticals include medical affairs, pharmacovigilance and quality assurance. In addition, he served at Boehringer Ingelheim, a pharmaceutical company, as Country Managing Director of UK and Ireland from 2015 to 2017, as Chief Medical Officer from 2010 to 2015, as Corporate Vice President of Medical Affairs from 2008 to 2009, and as Vice President of Therapeutic Area Metabolic Diseases from 2006 to 2008. His responsibilities at Boehringer Ingelheim included translational medicine and clinical pharmacology, medical affairs and clinical operations. From 2001 to 2002, Dr. Dugi was the attending physician at the medical clinic of Heidelberg University. He conducted basic and applied biomedical research in the field of atherosclerosis, diabetes and lipid metabolism at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Maryland between 1991 and 1996. He is qualified as a professor of medicine at Heidelberg University, Germany, and he teaches internal medicine and endocrinology at the university.
Anna Lisa Jenkins, MBBS, FCRP
Dr. Jenkins, MBBS, FRCP is currently the Chief Executive Officer of PlaqueTec. Prior to joining PlaqueTec, she was Chief Executive Officer of Dimension Therapeutics, a gene therapy company, until Dimension was acquired by Ultragenyx Pharmaceuticals, a biopharmaceutical company, in 2017. From 2011 to 2014, Dr. Jenkins served at Merck Serono, a German pharmaceutical company, first as its Executive Vice President Global Development and Medical, and then as its Head of Global Research and Development. Prior to this, Dr. Jenkins held several roles at Bristol Myers-Squibb, a global biopharmaceutical company, from 1997 to 2011, including as it Senior Vice President and Head of Global Medical Affairs. Earlier in her career, Dr. Jenkins was a medical officer in the British Royal Navy, achieving the rank of surgeon lieutenant commander.
Doug Rosefsky
Mr. Rosefsky has nearly 25 years of experience mainly in the field of finance, accounting and c-level management. Since July 2017, Mr. Rosefsky has been a partner of Prudentia Capital S.A.S., a private equity fund management company based in France, where he is responsible for investment advisory services. From 1999 to 2015, Mr. Rosefsky was a managing director and European executive committee member of Alvarez & Marsal. From 2010 to 2011, he was an advisor to the board of directors of European Gas Limited, S.A., an oil and gas company listed on the Australian Stock Exchange (stock symbol EPG), which was later renamed as Fitzroy River Corporation Limited (stock symbol FZR). From 2005 to 2007, he served as the Chief Financial Officer and subsequently the Chief Executive Officer at North Atlantic Trading Company and North Atlantic Holding Company, both of which were publicly reported companies and are subsidiaries of Turning Point Brands, Inc., which is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (stock symbol TPB).
About Ammonia Oxidizing Bacteria (AOB)
AOBiome's AOB platform includes patented, proprietary, topical and intranasal formulations which incorporate a single strain of AOB, Nitrosomonas eutropha. The platform is designed to repopulate the skin or nasal microbiome with AOB. Once deployed, AOB consume ammonia and produce nitrite and nitric oxide, a signaling molecule known to regulate inflammation and vasodilation.
About AOBiome Therapeutics
AOBiome Therapeutics is a Cambridge, Massachusetts based life sciences company focused on transforming human health by developing microbiome-based therapies for local, intranasal and systemic inflammatory conditions. Founded in 2013 by PatientsLikeMe founder Jamie Heywood and MIT trained chemical engineer David Whitlock, AOBiome is advancing a pipeline of multiple, clinical-stage therapeutic candidates. The company's portfolio includes six clinical-stage programs in the following indications; acne vulgaris, hypertension, eczema (atopic dermatitis), migraine, rosacea, and allergic rhinitis, as well as earlier-stage preclinical programs targeting diverse inflammatory indications. Learn more at www.aobiome.com.
Contacts:
For Media Inquiries:
Ryo Imai
212-213-0006, ext. 315
rimai@burnsmc.com
SOURCE AOBiome Therapeutics
Related Links
http://www.aobiome.com


Story 156
To ensure this doesn’t happen in the future, please enable Javascript and cookies in your browser.
Is this happening to you frequently? Please report it on our feedback forum.
If you have an ad-blocker enabled you may be blocked from proceeding. Please disable your ad-blocker and refresh.
Reference ID:

Story 157
Alpha Networks, a provider in hybrid TV back-ends, has acquired 100 percent of the shares of Hubee, a Paris-based software company specialising in smart video platforms and user experience solutions.
This acquisition expands Alpha Networks’ tucano back-end capabilities, enabling the company to better serve its customers.
“We are proud and excited to bring together two companies that share the same values and market vision,” said Kris Warreyn, CEO at Alpha Networks.
“This acquisition will allow us to deliver additional value to our customers and partners by providing them with competitive solutions and TV expertise for increased content monetisation.”
Hubee’s front-ends, deployed by numerous operators, offer integration with Alpha Networks’ tucano back-ends, unlocking new possibilities for media companies and network operators that want to quickly deliver next-generation content services. This acquisition also brings additional video expertise to Alpha Networks, in particular, ad-insertion features and accurate EPG services, strengthening its position in the digital TV marketplace.
“This transaction allows Hubee to continue its development with the help of a market-leading back-end with telco-grade capabilities and a highly scalable and modular approach,” said Frédéric Pie, chairman and founder of Hubee.
“I will join the advisory board at Alpha Networks and look forward to contributing to Alpha Networks’ future success.”

Story 158
Completing the CAPTCHA proves you are a human and gives you temporary access to the web property.
What can I do to prevent this in the future?
If you are on a personal connection, like at home, you can run an anti-virus scan on your device to make sure it is not infected with malware.
If you are at an office or shared network, you can ask the network administrator to run a scan across the network looking for misconfigured or infected devices.

Story 159
NEW DELHI: Nepal on Friday strongly pitched for convening of the SAARC summit, saying differences should be resolved through dialogue and the grouping should collectively deal with terrorism and other key challenges facing the region.Nepalese Foreign Minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali also cited last year's historic talks between US President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong-un in Singapore, saying dialogue was the only way to address differences."If US President Trump and North Korea 's Kim can meet, then why not (leaders of) other countries," he asked during an interaction with a group of foreign policy experts and reporters.It is Pakistan 's turn to host the summit. However, India, citing continued support to cross-border terrorism by Pakistan, has been maintaining that it is difficult to proceed with the summit.The 2016 SAARC (South Asian Association of Regional Cooperation) Summit was to be held in Islamabad. But after a deadly terrorist attack on an Indian Army camp in Jammu and Kashmir that year, India expressed its inability to participate in it.The summit was called off after Bangladesh, Bhutan and Afghanistan also declined to participate in the meet. Maldives and Sri Lanka are the seventh and eighth members of the grouping."There is no alternative to sitting together and mitigating differences. The problems we (the region) are facing cannot be resolved alone. We need to put collective efforts to deal with various key challenges like climate change and terrorism," Gyawali said.The Nepalese foreign minister, who held bilateral talks with External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj on Thursday, said his country has been raising the issue of the SAARC summit with India."I am hopeful the summit will be held soon," Gyawali said.SAARC summits are usually held biennially, hosted by a member state in alphabetical order. The member state hosting the summit assumes the chair of the Association. The last SAARC Summit in 2014 was held in Kathmandu, which was attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The Nepalese foreign minister also said he has requested the Indian government to replace Rs 7 crore worth of old Indian currency notes with new ones.Following the demonetisation exercise in India, people in Nepal deposited the old notes in banks in Nepal. Indian currency is extensively used by Nepalese people and businesses.The Nepalese government last month asked its citizens to refrain from keeping or carrying Indian bank notes higher than Rs 100 denomination.On Nepal's ties with China , Gyawali said Nepal has very close ties with India and it will be unfair to compare his country's relationship with India to that of China."We have a wonderful relationship with India. I do not want to compare it with our ties with China. We have a good relationship with China and I do not want to compare it with India," he said.The minister also said the Eminent Persons' Group (EPG) on Nepal-India relations was finalising its report covering all aspects of the bilateral ties and asserted that there was no difference of opinion between the two sides on the issue.The EPG was formed in January 2016 with the mandate to review various aspects of the bilateral relations including Nepal-India Friendship Treaty 1950.

Story 160
When subscribers to Sky and Virgin switch on their television sets, they find RTÉ One at channel 101, RTÉ2 at 102, TV3 at 103, TG4 at 104 and 3e at 105. At that point, the two biggest pay-TV operators in Ireland start to go their separate ways.
But what advantage is there to occupying the top spots on a linear channel menu? According to Virgin Media Ireland, quite a lot.
At the Mediacon event in Dublin Castle last week, chief executive Tony Hanway segued from stressing the need for public-service broadcasting “in any properly functioning society” to the claim that Virgin Media does RTÉ a favour by giving it the top spots.
“We voluntarily choose to give RTÉ’s TV channels top position on our platform. This is of major commercial benefit to RTÉ as it means they can maximise audience reach and the sale of advertising to ad agencies.”
There was a specific context to these carefully selected words. What Virgin Media does not wish to do, “now or at any point in the future”, is pay retransmission fees to RTÉ.
RTÉ has been lobbying the Government to remove legislation that states Irish free-to-air broadcasters “must offer” their standard-definition channels to pay-TV operators, preventing them from receiving payments known as retransmission fees in return.
Essentially, RTÉ regards the obligation to offer its channels for free as a rather large subsidy to pay-TV platforms – one that doesn’t recognise the value of their content or their investment in it.
Sky and Virgin see it completely differently. They point both to the commercial value of the eyeballs they deliver to RTÉ and to the fact that RTÉ has a subsidy of its own from the licence fee.
This second point is moot. A similar fight for retransmission fees in the UK is being led by ITV, which doesn’t get licence fee money but has consistently argued for “fair” payment.
In any case, both sides are sticking to their “without us, you’re nothing” stance and there is no sign, just yet, of a legislative amendment that would change the status quo.
Voluntary arrangement
So what about that idea that Virgin “voluntarily” gives RTÉ the best spots on its electronic programme guide? Sky would agree with Virgin that it does the same (and furthermore that it’s regulated in the UK, not Ireland).
If it is true that there is no regulation of electronic programme guides in Ireland, Virgin could theoretically choose to remove RTÉ2 from channel 102 and put it down at, say, channel 112. This wouldn’t be good news at all for RTÉ2, which would find itself attracting significantly less passing traffic from those viewers whose remote-control habits were cemented in terrestrial times.
And it might be in Virgin Media’s interest to relegate RTÉ to less favourable spots. Since buying TV3 Group in 2015, Virgin has owned channels that compete with RTÉ for the same viewers. Although the first 10 spots on the electronic programme guide are considered the prime positions, a sliding scale obviously applies. Why else would Virgin install its newest baby, Be3, in the 106 spot rather than leave it in at 110, where its predecessor UTV Ireland resided?
Virgin is correct that there is no specific requirement for it to award particular spots to particular channels. The issue is touched on in section 74 of the Broadcasting Act 2009, which seems to state that electronic programme guides should “prioritise” broadcasting services provided in the State, but the wording is dense and fuzzy. The only regulatory guidance on electronic programme guides issued since then was aimed at RTÉ-owned platform Saorview, which was told it must give “prominence” to RTÉ1, RTÉ2, TG4, TV3 and 3e.
BAI intervention
I asked the Broadcasting Authority of Ireland what would happen if Virgin was suddenly to deprioritise RTÉ’s channels. It agreed that Virgin and Sky had voluntarily put RTÉ and the other Irish channels in the top spots. But, crucially, it said it would intervene if Virgin didn’t fancy doing so any more.
“In the event that they were to change the order of the channels, we would have to look at it,” said the authority’s chief executive, Michael O’Keeffe. “There would be potential for regulatory intervention.”
As with Saorview, the question would be whether the regulator was satisfied with how the pay-TV platforms were giving “prominence” to the Irish channels.
The issue of “prominence” is only getting more complicated. The latest generation of pay-TV platforms, notably Sky Q, give less prominence than before to the entire electronic programme guide. The tab that calls up dozens of linear channels is simply presented as one more option alongside box sets, on-demand highlights and tabs that offer personalised viewing recommendations. The buzzword is “discovery”. Who decides how this works? The platform owner, of course.
Media regulators across Europe have yet to catch up to this “top picks” world. When they do, there may be some drama.

Story 161
The company that supplies metadata to BBC Studios, BT, Discovery Networks, ITV, Radio Times, Sky and TalkTalk has been sold to PA Group.
The parent of the Press Association has acquired 95% of EBS, which also supplies data to electronic programme guides, through its cloud-based software system Pawa2.
EBS will continue to be led by Managing Director Keith Bedford, working closely with a team from PA Group led by Chief Operating Officer, Andrew Dowsett.
Andrew Dowsett, Chief Operating Officer at PA Group said: “By coming together with EBS, we are creating a compelling and dynamic centralised metadata hub. EBS has established itself as a leading player in metadata distribution for TV channels. Its unique Pawa2 solution, coupled with their relationships with some of the largest commercial broadcasters in the world, perfectly complement PA’s market-leading editorial listings service for newspapers, digital media and TV platforms.”
Keith Bedford, Managing Director at EBS added: “The PA Group is a perfect fit for us and I am delighted to be joining forces with this world-renowned brand. EBS has experienced rapid growth in recent years, offering effective and innovative TV metadata management, enhancement and distribution services to a growing roster of global clients.”
The purchase represents the latest development in a long-term strategy to diversify PA Group’s business and consolidate its position as the UK’s leading provider of cross-platform news, sport and entertainment data, content and services.

Story 162
Representing the very first actual industry accreditation with in the retail FX technology and market sector, Autochartist accreditation covers MetaTrader 4, Analytics and Risk Calulation. Students with a suitable passrate are able to print their accreditation certificates and details of accredited Autochartist students are kept on file for future reference by potential employers.
The evolution and increasing sophistication that continues to emanate from the retail FX industry has been in most cases self-generated, and is so rapid that many companies striving to continue to refine their product range are contributing to the current dynamic, that being the position of the electronic trading firms and ancillary service providers as leaders in innovation for the entire financial services industry.
This level of innovation is not just confined to new instruments or trading styles, but encompasses the very quick development of entire end to end trading systems, which, in the same way that the Formula 1 motor sport business develops vital safety, engineering and futuristic advancements that eventually make their way onto standard, everyday road cars, creates an environment in which the retail FX business and its astute leaders with their often entrepreneurial and technologically inquisitive nature invent products and solutions that eventually become part of all of the wider FinTech and traditional banking industries.
Whilst tremendous expertise is displayed across this sector, R&D departments being at the very leading edge, and today’s CEOs and operations directors being among the most forward thinking compared to almost every other industry sector, the ability to gain a respected and standard industry qualification that relates specifically to the electronic trading industry and its component structure has been absent.
Until now.
Today, Autochartist, one of the industry’s technological mainstays, having been established in 2004, has unveiled a set of industry-specific qualifications under its accreditation division, Autochartist Academy.
By earning an Autochartist accreditation, students will be qualified in several competencies in using Autochartist content and thus allowing themselves to be more attractive to potential employers that use the Autochartist tool in their business.
The Academy will only be made available by invitation to employees of companies that license the Autochartist content – allowing those industry professionals to take immediate advantage of their new-found knowledge.
This paves the way for specific, modular industry qualifications which until now have not existed.
Courses available right now are Autochartist Analytics which covers a selection of topics from market psychology to detailed elements of the Autochartist web application. The Autochartist MetaTrader course which focuses on the latest plugin, as well as the Autochartist Risk Calculator course.
Once a course has been completed with a suitable pass rate, students are able to print their accreditation certificates and details of accredited Autochartist students are kept on file for future reference by potential employers.
Whilst those who are accredited professionals in analyzing financial markets have been able to carry CMT (Chartered Market Technician) or CFA (Chartered Financial Analyst) certification for several years, the Autochartist effort is the very first example of specific industry related accreditations for the electronic markets, hence is a very welcome benchmark indeed.
FinanceFeeds will include Autochartist accreditation within the FinanceFeeds FX industry careers portal in order to allow candidates with these skills to further advance their career prospects within the industry.

Story 163
RYE BROOK, N.Y.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Xylem Inc. (NYSE: XYL), a leading global water technology company dedicated to solving the world’s most challenging water issues, announced today that its President and Chief Executive Officer Patrick Decker will present at the 2019 EPG Conference at The Biltmore Miami-Coral Gables, Coral Gables, FL, on Tuesday, May 21, from 1:15 p.m. – 1:55 p.m.
Mr. Decker’s presentation will be webcast live on Xylem’s Investor Relations website at Xylem Investor Events. The webcast will also be archived for 90 days following the live presentation. You can access this webcast by the following link: http://wsw.com/webcast/epg2019
About Xylem
Xylem (XYL) is a leading global water technology company committed to developing innovative technology solutions to the world’s water challenges. The Company’s products and services move, treat, analyze, monitor and return water to the environment in public utility, industrial, residential and commercial building services settings. Xylem also provides a leading portfolio of smart metering, network technologies and advanced infrastructure analytics solutions for water, electric and gas utilities. The Company’s approximately 17,000 employees bring broad applications expertise with a strong focus on identifying comprehensive, sustainable solutions. Headquartered in Rye Brook, New York, with 2018 revenue of $5.2 billion, Xylem does business in more than 150 countries through a number of market-leading product brands.
The name Xylem is derived from classical Greek and is the tissue that transports water in plants, highlighting the engineering efficiency of our water-centric business by linking it with the best water transportation of all – that which occurs in nature. For more information, please visit us at www.xylem.com.

Story 164
I’m moving this up to the top because Greg DeLaxxus has been hitting the patent crack pipe really really hard lately and RG did a great job of shining the spotlight on the smoking crater that used to Greg’s brain (it was never that large to begin with but it sure in heck hasn’t grown):
Greg: I know that you think that you have hit upon a really wicked reductio ad absurdum, but as I have already explained at least a dozen times now, I just do not concede that there is an aburdity here.
I know, but the fact that you don’t concede it doesn’t make it any less absurd, which is the point of repeating the attack every time you repeat your arguments about the eligibility of diagnostic tests. Other readers should see that your logic inherently must accept this outcome. Just as it must accept the “reporting of a previously unknown fact is eligible for patenting despite immediately promulgating the first amendment” argument.
Nevertheless, the copyright statutes stand as a limitation on what I can do with MY laserprinter and MY CD ROM drive, and none of us blinks an eye at that limitation on private property, because we (as a society) consider the (fairly minimal) burden on private property rights to be worth the wealth of creativity that it buys us.
Incorrect. The copyright statutes stand as a limitation on *generating further* versions or copies of things that 1) someone else made and 2) you purchased from them. None of which (generation, other creation, derivation) applies in an abstraction or law of nature context. My printer combined with your story *uses* your story. My rig combined with my oil doesn’t *use* anything of yours, as you don’t own the location either.
Regardless, a printer has a use outside of printing copyrighted works. Oil does not have use outside of the ability to get it out of the ground. A copyright on a work is not a taking of my printer. A claim covering drilling for my oil is a taking of my oil. Congress lacks the ability to perform an uncompensated taking of my oil.
[MM: Also, Greg, I look forward to the inevitable ‘fair use’ exception to patent infringement on the dark day when your beloved patents on correlations (oh wait — “only” medical correlations, according to Greg! — become a reality … LOL]
Greg: It is an unavoidable truth that intellectual property stands as a (small and easily borne) limitation on rights of real property and tangible personal property.
Spoken like someone who isn’t sitting on oil that someone else stole from them.
[MM: “Spoken like a giant g@ ping @-h0le patentee or patentee’s attorney” is more like it, if you ask me]
Your counterargument here is not really an argument against patents on diagnostic medical devices, but against patents (and copyrights) tout court.
That’s a conclusory statement. You assume that congress was given a power of the scope you (not the supreme court mind you, as this article and the CAFC expressly point out, but *you*) desire, and then assert that by challenging that power I have challenged all of patent law. I have no problem with most patents. I do, however, hold the viewpoint which is entirely unsurprising to everyone but the patent bar: That Congress’ patent power is not all-encompassing. Congress simply cannot do whatever it wishes so long as an aim is to advance a science.
I do think that Congress was not granted the power to monopolize anything in any context it seems fit. If so, why call it a patent power? If so, why bother with a commerce clause? Under your view, congress can (and has) make any useful disclosure eligible for patenting. Under your view, since Congress could design any scheme it wanted, the 102/103/112 limitations are merely discretionary. Under your view, congress was granted the police power, and they have only benevolently chosen not to run roughshod over the states and our freedoms.
Reporting of a natural law is not distinguishable from reporting of any other fact. Athena did not invent the natural law, it simply disclosed what was already there. Reporting is simply not invention, and therefore places it outside of the patent power. The fact that the reporting was difficult to come by doesn’t make it inventive, as Woodward and Bernstein were not inventors. The fact that it can be used by an art does not make it inventive, as virtually every dissemination of information can be used in an art in some way. You confuse “invention” with “publication.”
Congress has ample means to encourage publication of fact, but the full sweep of the patent monopoly is not one of them. The fact is unpatentable, and the diagnosis once the fact is known is noninventive. There is no invention. Again, the same would be true of Sequenom or drilling for oil or anything else – Congress could incentivize a fact finding mission, but not through a claim which has the effect of performing a taking on a private good.
[MM: All Greg did there was to adopt the classic patent maximalist script: “If you don’t like my favorite kind of patent, then you are just anti-patent or anti-technology.” This is the argument of kindergartner who has run up against the wall and is licking the bricks with his tongue. And that’s where Greg and his fellow maximalists are. And that’s where their representatives in Congress are going to be if they pass the law that Greg wants them to pass. And that’s not a good luck. Of course, all bets are off if Greg is in favor of some authoritarian utopia where Greg and his fellow patent lawyers get to pass whatever self-serving pocket-lining laws they want and the rest of us just to have to grovel before them. Only Greg knows the truth about that. As I’ve said before, life is about choices. Increasingly people (like Greg, and like Dennis) are making some incredible sh–ty ones. But who knows what kind of pressure they are under? It’s really, really tough being a white guy in the US these days, or so I am told by white guys on the Internet.]

Story 165
Nubox, a Chilean firm that offers accounting, payroll and billing software as a service (SaaS), is planning to invest US$12mn over the next five years in expansion and upgrades boosted by an investment from Silicon Valley firm Riverwood Capital.
Nubox localizes and simplifies key accounting services for local companies taking into account the Latin American cultural preferences. Executive director Roberto Mahave told BNamericas that Chileans still prefer to have customer service via call centers, as opposed to US customers who are used to online tutorials or other onboarding methods.
"The reason that a top drawer investor from Silicon Valley like Riverwood was interested in Nubox was our capacity to created innovative and value added initiatives in the technology industry, adapted to the local cultural scenario and the fact this can be scaled internationally like other world class solutions," Mahave said.
Nubox has operations in Colombia and, though there is nothing definite yet, Peru is in their sights, he added.
The company was founded in 2001, when it offered a cloud-based, as-a-service accounting solution at a time when most companies were still accessing the internet via modems and cloud computing wasn't yet mainstream.
"We suffered for the first 5-6 years," Mahave said, adding that growth has only really come in the last five.
The company was originally owned by Banco del Desarrollo bank and then passed over to Scotiabank when the latter acquired the former. After that Nubox was spun off and acquired by local investment firm EPG.
Nubox contracts datacenter services from a local provide but virtualizes its services ,which is what makes them scalable and applicable to anywhere.
According to Mahave, the company will take into account the cloud readiness of the local business community before deciding to expand to new markets. In the case of Chile, the country had an advanced online tax declaration system.
The target market is SMEs but more on the small than the medium side. The cost of the service in Chile is about US$65 per user per month, with unlimited access. Accountants can use the service for more than one client and there is 24/7 customer service.
According to the company, the aim is to encourage small businesses to migrate their current accounting methods to a more robust, secure, integrated digital solution in an affordable manner.
About 95% of companies in Latin America fall under the SME category.

Story 166
“What has ever been held up? What product not issued or slow-down in manufacturing due to patent hold-up? We would all know about it because it would be the primary evidence in every SEP case, but it hasn’t been found.”- Randall Rader, Former Chief Judge, CAFC
In his luncheon keynote address to attendees of IPWatchdog’s Patent Master’s Symposium: “Standard Essential Patents: Striking a Balance Between Competition and Innovation” on Tuesday, former Federal Circuit Chief Judge Randall Rader drove home a point made by multiple speakers during the event that the concept of “patent hold-up”—in which innovator companies use SEPs to hold up implementer companies from getting products to market via anti-competitive practices—is “one of the largest misnomers in our discipline.”
Rader recounted his experience representing a small inventor who was attempting to get big tech companies to answer his letters alerting them to the fact that his patent had been adopted into a standard for 4G technology, only to be largely ignored. In his research for the case, Rader attempted to find evidence of the oft-touted practice of “patent hold-up”, which has been cited by sources including the 2013 joint Department of Justice – U.S. Patent and Trademark Office “Policy Statement on Remedies for Standards-Essential Patents Subject to Voluntary F/RAND Commitments” as a potential threat to healthy competition in the context of collaborative standards setting. That statement—from which the current Assistant Attorney General for the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice, Makan Delrahim, withdrew in December 2018—said in part:
“The owner of [a] patented technology may gain market power and potentially take advantage of it by engaging in patent hold-up, which entails asserting the patent to exclude a competitor from a market or obtain a higher price for its use than would have been possible before the standard was set, when alternative technologies could have been chosen. This type of patent hold-up can cause other problems as well. For example, it may induce prospective implementers to postpone or avoid making commitments to a standardized technology or to make inefficient investments in developing and implementing a standard in an effort to protect themselves. Consumers of products implementing the standard could also be harmed to the extent that the hold-up generates unwarranted higher royalties and those royalties are passed on to consumers in the form of higher prices.”
The problem with that analysis, said Rader, is that he could find no evidence of its existence. “What has ever been held up?” Rader asked. “What product not issued or slow-down in manufacturing [due to patent hold-up]? We would all know about it because it would be the primary evidence in every SEP case, but it hasn’t been found. Yet it’s been used as a very significant weapon.”
Earlier in the day, David Kappos, former Director of the USPTO, explained that— although he signed off on the Joint Policy Statement, that it was thoughtfully and heavily negotiated and edited, and that he felt at the time that it was a good document and a compromised agreement—he stepped back after Delrahim’s announcement last year and has now reconsidered his view. “I was defending the IP system given everything we knew at the time,” Kappos said. “I didn’t think the guidelines were anti-innovation; I thought they were balanced. But in stepping back, I realized—between 2013 and 2019 we’ve learned a lot. Multiple empirical studies have shown us that the phenomena on which we based the guidelines — hold-up and royalty stacking — aren’t occurring. There is no evidence of our predictions.”
On the other hand, there are many examples of the “hold-out” phenomenon, said Rader, turning back to his example of the small inventor. The inventor understood immediately when Rader asked what he would do if he were general counsel for Google or Apple instead in this situation. “They don’t have to do anything. The clock is running out on the patent. The strategy has to be to prolong, and that is well-documented,” Rader said.
He concluded:

Story 167
Richmond, KY (40475)
Today
Cloudy with periods of rain. Morning high of 68F with temps falling sharply to near 40. Winds W at 15 to 25 mph. Chance of rain 100%. Rainfall near a quarter of an inch..
Tonight
Cloudy skies early, followed by partial clearing. Colder. Low 29F. Winds W at 15 to 25 mph.

Story 168
News articles about FCF stock have trended extremely negative recently, according to InfoTrie Sentiment Analysis. The research firm rates the sentiment of media coverage by analyzing more than six thousand blog and news sources in real-time. The firm ranks coverage of publicly-traded companies on a scale of -5 to 5, with scores closest to five being the most favorable. First Commonwealth Financial earned a news impact score of -4.0 on InfoTrie's scale. They also assigned news coverage about the bank a news buzz of 0.0 out of 10, meaning that recent media coverage is extremely unlikely to have an impact on the stock's share price in the near term. View News Stories for First Commonwealth Financial.

Story 169
Eutelsat has officially launched a hybrid satellite-OTT delivery solution named Eutelsat Cirrus at a press event in London.
Speaking at the event, Gerry O’Sullivan, executive VP, global TV and video, Eutelsat, said that satellite has an edge over OTT/IP in terms of cost efficiency and universal reach. It can also deliver a huge amount of bandwidth simultaneously.
Eutelsat has been talking to its customers and concluded that even broadcasters that have launched advanced services are finding it a burden to maintain them. Their focus should be on content, which is where their real strengths lie.
Eutelsat Cirrus is an inclusive end-to-end platform and today sees the launch of two unique services, namely a turnkey distribution service and multiscreen via OTT. The former, which provides satellite TV broadcasters with end-to-end video distribution combined with cloud-based service management, is modular and fully scalable, and skinned applications enable quick-to-market time. Furthermore, all iOS and Android devices are supported with continuous innovation. With Turnkey TV, all features are multilanguage in English, French and Arabic.
Multiscreen meanwhile complements traditional DTH broadcast with simultaneous OTT streaming through a native hybrid platform. It allows end-users to watch video content on devices such as mobile phones and tablets, access multiple programmes, record and rewind and view a rich array of programme information.
Meanwhile, Bruno Cattan, director of terminals and solutions, said that Cirrus is a three-layer platform, composed of the core, open APIs and ecosystem. He also revealed that it has been produced in partnership with Nagra, Irdeto and CenturyLink.
O’Sullivan added that Cirrus includes many features, including seven-day backwards EPG.
The launch on September 6 is for in Europe, MENA and sub-Saharan Africa, and other regions will follow. Eutelsat will in due course announce its first customers for the new solution.
Eutelsat Cirrus will be demoed by Eutelsat at IBC 2018, Hall 1 Stand D.59.

Story 170
To ensure this doesn’t happen in the future, please enable Javascript and cookies in your browser.
Is this happening to you frequently? Please report it on our feedback forum.
If you have an ad-blocker enabled you may be blocked from proceeding. Please disable your ad-blocker and refresh.
Reference ID:

Story 171
As LMAX looks toward adopting Irish regulation in addition to its FCA license if a single market EU agreement doesn’t materialize, we dissect why any move by any firm to mainland Europe would be the absolute wrong decision. British companies can expect everyone, everywhere to come to them in droves and moving to the EU would quash that opportunity.
Once again, minor clamor has begun with regard to FX companies in London maintaining their access to a unified European market once the United Kingdom completes its exit from the European Union.
Admittedly a very minor clamor, one that represents a very small drop in the largest ocean in existence, there has been some discussion with regard to establishing operations in European Union member states should the British government not be able to agree a completely unified and aligned regulatory and business structure with Europe.
For anyone with a sound economic mind, any alignment of London with Europe should be enough to ring alarm bells, and a severance as wide as the English channel should be a very welcome occurrence for many reasons beginning with Britain’s world-leading prowess as a financial center – it dwarfs every country, everywhere in the world for technological advancement, market infrastructure, highly experienced industry leading talent who are networked with the very top level professionals from Tier 1 banks across the entire industry spectrum, compared to Europe’s inert, faltering, socialist economy which has as much in common with the financial markets sector as the Atacama desert does with icebergs.
Today, LMAX Exchange, London’s highly innovative multilateral trading facility (MTF) for FX has made its perspective clear in that it plans to make an application for additional regulation in Ireland unless the British government preserves the EU single market passporting rights for the financial services industry.
Ireland? A nation which from 1923 until 1999 intentionally maintained an agrarian economy in order to prevent it from advancing in the way London did during the same period, thus ensuring poverty all round and marking it out as one of the only nations in the world where more of its indigenous population live outside it than in their own land.
Ireland became one of the world’s fastest growing economies by the late 1990s in what was known as the Celtic Tiger period, which lasted until the global Financial crisis of 2007–08. This was not fueled by financial markets growth, or technological prowess, or any form of domestic ingenuity, but instead by the adoption of the Euro which suddenly turned peasant farmers into ‘property developers’.
Hundreds of luxury apartments and office buildings sprung up across the country, all funded by EU initiative instead of sustainable business. The money ran out in 2008 when the banks stopped financing the various white elephant projects that had been constructed with no industry to support them, and Ireland collapsed.
There is no hierarchy of highly experienced industry professionals in Ireland. There is no infrastructure. It is still an agrarian country with a few new apartment and office complexes that spent a long period of time uninhabited, a reminder to allcomers of the unemployment rate which rose to 15.1% in 2012.
London by comparison is quite the opposite.
LMAX, in its rationale for considering adopting Irish regulation, does indeed highlight this matter quite accurately.
The company quite correctly states that the UK is the world’s FX center, twice the size of the US market, and accounts for over 40% of the $5 trillion per day global FX industry.
LMAX considers the United Kingdom to be the backbone of global trade, which is quite correct indeed, however the firm believes that that the FX market in London depends on regulatory equivalence with the EU.
Does it really?
Ireland may well be a no man’s land in terms of productivity and even less of a home to global electronic financial services firms, however even Ireland has more relevance than other EU nations such as France, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Belgium – a country in which all OTC derivatives are banned – and even, believe it or not, Germany.
The Southern European nations all put together contribute nothing whatsoever to the global financial markets economy. When was the last time any senior executive at an institutional or retail FX firm concentrated even a modicum of effort on Italy, Spain or Portugal? Old fashioned nations with low productivity and no dynamism.
Germany is often lauded as the most advanced of Europe’s nations economically and commercially, but it still cannot hold a candle to London, and lags behind Australia, Japan, China, Singapore, Hong Kong and certain parts of the Middle East for modern business.
Germany’s main bank, Deutsche Bank, is on the brink of collapse, its domestic market retail and commercial business on its knees. Deutsche Bank’s FX business – based in London – reduced from its standing as the second largest interbank FX dealer in the world with 14.54% of global market share in 2014 down to 7.4% by 2015, conducting its liquidity provision from its London operations. Germany, a nation steeped in socialism and legacy industry, is therefore even irrelevant to its largest national bank.
Germany lauds Berlin as a startup center of modern thought leadership. England lauds London as the world center of financial and technological development from institutional level, with inhouse banking platforms, right down to the Silicon Roundabout developers of tomorrow’s ecosystem.
Berlin is inhabited by artists, hippies, poets whose beards grow at a faster rate than the developments that they can (or in most cases cannot) come up with, whereas London’s multi-generational thought leadership powers the entire world. London is suits and plate glass superiority, whereas Berlin is graffiti and self-obsession.
London is internships at Barclays, JPMorgan, Currenex, or ICAP, followed by infrastructure architecture projects with budgets of several million pounds, before becoming a highly experienced global senior executive at 35, whereas Berlin is “hey, peace out, man.”
If Deutsche Bank pulled its FX division out of London, the German government would be exposed to the entire bank’s unsustainable commercial debt – just one office in London, even with half of the FX volume of 2014, propped up the entire company globally during 2015 – and it would sink., leaving Wolfgang Schaueble, who has been urging everyone to look the other way and ignore the impending disaster, to write a check for 41 billion Euros to settle its derivatives exposure. Or is that 46 billion? Approximate reporting exemplified…. Ah well, it’s the government’s problem, isn’t it?
Add to this the bureaucracy concerned in registering an FX firm with BaFIN, which is not geared up for modern financial markets in the way that the NFA, CFTC, ASIC and FCA are, and the reasons for going into the mainland European nations can be considered null and void.
FinanceFeeds recently spoke to Lior Shmuely, CEO of Archer Consultants, which specializes in regulatory consultancy for FX firms. When asked if any of the large spread betting and CFD companies from the UK would potentially open regulated offices in the European nations in which they have the largest non-UK client base, Mr. Shmuely said “Absolutely nobody will go to Germany. It is too expensive and too difficult. Even the largest companies in this industry avoid applying for a German banking license.”
He concluded “Cyprus, Malta and Bulgaria are all options, due to their being a quick and comfortable MiFID solution that covers all European Union jurisdictions, however I do not think it will come to that.”
He is right.
London has another reason not to bother with the European Union, aside from the difference in business ideology and lack of commercial infrastructure that suits this industry, that being the lack of customers.
There are no institutional customers in the vast majority of mainland Europe, whereas Asia, the Middle East, North America, Australia and the UK are full of them. The only exception to this is Cyprus, but Cyprus is home to companies which do their business all over the world, with very little business in Europe.
If anything, the very few firms that operate in Europe look toward London for their institutional partnerships, therefore would potentially exercise a ‘Brentry’ rather than a ‘Brexit’, in securing a London base so that they can benefit from top quality partnerships with Tier 1 banks, institutional liquidity providers and vendors, yet not be constrained by the European Union’s inflexible trade agreements and tiny customer base, instead opening themselves up not only to being able to join the heavyweights of London, but to work closely alongside Asian, North American and Australian partners that are far more advanced, and are in the heart of the world’s financial markets centers, have astute populations rather than dependent ones, and total alignment.
David Mercer, CEO of LMAX stated “David Mercer, chief executive of LMAX Exchange, said, “The net effect to the economy could be severe with new foreign investment into financial services choosing the EU over the UK, and existing investment and jobs leaving the UK in short order. Furthermore, lost capital markets revenue and associated taxation income could be catastrophic for the UK.”
Mr. Mercer correctly stated that “We passionately believe the UK can remain the global hub of capital markets due to geography, history, regulatory framework, existing infrastructure and a highly skilled multi-disciplined workforce but sadly this will not be enough if regulatory equivalence is not maintained.”
“It is clear that our European counterparts are opportunistically targeting the current UK capital markets franchise and it is vital we proactively address the regulatory passport issue immediately. We urge the government to make this top of their agenda as they consider the timeline to an exit from the single market and provide guidance to our industry as soon as is practicable” concluded Mr. Mercer, with the company stating that if no agreement is reached, LMAX will commence regulatory filings in January 2017, this being an perhaps unnecessarily pessimistic view when actually LMAX’s London base, fantastic technology and execution method would be welcomed worldwide from its London base, freed from the shackles of the EU.
A Singaporean or Japanese CEO may have difficulty pointing at Ireland on a map, and would for certain not be able to name one successful financial or technology firm from Ireland, nor point at any significant steps Ireland has made to advance the cause of the global market structure, whereas London stands out as their absolute favorite Western partner for a litany of reasons. They may also be put off by Europe’s business unfriendly, socialist structure with terrifying statistics, restrictive trade agreements and half a billion people with 0.2% the number of listed technology firms that Britain has with just 65 million people.
In summary, Ireland is English speaking, has commonality in terms of longstanding social relationships with the UK – but it must not be mistaken for a region whose business rationale is aligned with the UK, and quite simply if I was the CEO of an FX firm in Ireland, I would be looking to move it to London, rather than be in the position of a London-based firm moving any of its operations to Ireland.

Story 172
Share
tweet

StumbleUpon Submit

Betfred has strengthened its commitment to the Rugby League’s Championship and League 1 competitions after extending its sponsorship with the tournaments for a further two years.
As part of the sponsorship extension, the bookmaker has pledged to ‘more than double’ its financial contribution to the game outside of the Super League, confirming that it will sponsor all three professional tiers of the sport, including the Betfred Super League, until the end of the 2021 season.
Betfred boss Fred Done commented on the sponsorship extension: “We’ve enjoyed a great relationship with Rugby League and its supporters and therefore I am delighted that we are now able to further extend our sponsorship of the Championship and League 1 in line with our recent Super League and Women’s Super League agreements.
“Sport provides tremendous content for our digital platforms and we are delighted that through deals like these we are able to be a part of it.”
All Betfred Championship play-off games are due to be played at the home ground of the team ranked highest in the league at the end of the regular season. Meanwhile, Sky Sports will show play-off action on their various channels, as well as round-the-clock updates via the Sky Sports app and Sky Sports News.
Rugby Football League Chief Executive, Ralph Rimmer, added: “Betfred have been supporting our Championship and League 1 competitions since 2018 and I am delighted that they will continue that support for a further two years.
“Their energy and enthusiasm off the field mirrors the product on the field, where clubs and players are beginning to gear up for what will be a thrilling play-off series in two vibrant competitions.”
The news follows on from the announcement that Betfred’s sponsorship of Rugby League will incorporate the women’s game for the first time as the inaugural title partner of the burgeoning Women’s Super League (WSL).

Story 173
EMERYVILLE, Calif., May 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Gracenote®, a Nielsen company (NYSE: NLSN), is helping to enhance the experience for TV viewers who use new Virtual Multichannel Video Programming Distributor (vMVPD) services. A new TV metadata and electronic program guide (EPG) solution from Gracenote enables Smart TV and streaming device manufacturers that offer live TV streaming services to make their linear and on-demand content more searchable and discoverable.
To meet the evolving needs of TV viewers, many of the world's top streaming device, gaming console, Smart TV and other consumer electronics (CE) makers are now providing access to subscription-based vMVPD services alongside their own video-on-demand catalogs. However, users of these services often face challenges searching for and finding the live news, sports and must-watch TV programming they love based on availability across different video streaming apps and on-demand libraries.
For example, fans of network TV programs have multiple options for tuning in to their favorite sitcoms or dramas. While new episodes are available on live linear TV through vMVPD services, back episodes can be watched on-demand through network TV apps and Over-the-Top providers. Gracenote's new data solution makes it possible for streaming services to present all available show episodes to viewers in one unified search result. By making it easy for fans to find and watch the programming they are interested in, Gracenote helps its customers optimize the viewing experience.
"Gracenote's mission is to help providers from all areas of the TV ecosystem make it easy for their end users to connect to great content," said Simon Adams, General Manager of Video and Sports at Gracenote. "Our newest data solution, designed for cable and satellite operators who offer virtual services as well as standalone OTT providers, bridges the best of live linear programming with on-demand libraries to make content easier to find and watch across platforms. By empowering all players in the market to deliver outstanding user experiences, Gracenote is helping them stay ahead of shifting viewing habits and position themselves for success."
Leveraging this latest Gracenote solution, vMVPDs can now deliver rich TV search and discovery experiences built around up-to-the minute live TV schedules and stunning TV and movie imagery. Gracenote IDs link programming across platforms and surface TV shows and movies in unified search results that cover linear broadcast and cable as well as on-demand availability.
Today, Gracenote is the world's leading provider of Video metadata including TV channel line-ups, schedule and programming data and rich imagery covering 85 countries and 35 languages. Gracenote Video metadata and IDs serve as the foundation for next-generation search, discovery and navigation offered by established MVPDs including the world's top cable and satellite TV operators and emerging vMVPDs and OTT services.
About Gracenote
Gracenote, a Nielsen (NYSE: NLSN) company, provides music, video and sports content and technologies to the world's hottest entertainment products and brands. Gracenote is the standard for music and video recognition and is supported by the largest source of entertainment data, featuring descriptions of more than 200 million tracks, TV listings for 85+ countries and statistics from 4,500 sport leagues and competitions. Gracenote is headquartered in Emeryville, Calif. and supports customers around the globe. For more information, visit www.gracenote.com.
Gracenote is a registered trademark of Gracenote, Inc. All other names are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of their respective owners.
SOURCE Gracenote
Related Links
http://www.gracenote.com


Story 174
Non-resident Indians (NRIs) across the UK and Europe are overwhelmingly in favour of being able to vote through their local consulates or embassies, according to a survey conducted ahead of the General elections in India.
The survey, conducted by UK-based Indian diaspora think tank Bridge India, found that a majority of respondents felt "frustrated" at only being allowed to vote in the Indian elections by travelling back to their constituency to cast their vote.
Less than 6 per cent were happy with the status quo, while 61 per cent said they should be allowed to instead vote at their local consulate or embassy and 17 per cent said they should be allowed to appoint a proxy to cast their vote for them, Bridge India said in a statement on Monday.
"More than 60 per cent also strongly agreed with the statement that Indians should be allowed dual citizenship, which is currently not allowed, it noted.
The survey received over 350 responses over the last month, with one-third of the respondents identifying as NRIs and two-thirds as Overseas Citizens of India (OCIs). From among the respondents, 20 per cent identified themselves as left of centre on the political spectrum, 22 per cent as centrist and 29 per cent as right of centre.
Bridge India will release the complete results of its wider Indian diaspora survey later in the year.
The survey's interim results coincided with the non-profit think tank's Countdown to the Indian General Elections: What should we expect? event at the Henry Jackson Society in London on Monday.
The panellists at the event, which included strategists and authors, analysed the importance of the 2019 Indian General Election and their likely impact on India-UK relations.
If it is a BJP-led government, India-UK relations would move forward along the lines of the November 2015 visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi when a joint statement on closer political and security cooperation was struck in the case of a Congress-led government, it would be a case of starting from ground zero, said Rahul Roy-Chaudhury, Senior Fellow for South Asia at the International Institute for Strategic Studies (IISS).
Some of the big successes of the bilateral relationship, such as Masala Bonds, as the UK seeks out global partners in a post-Brexit context will benefit from continuity in government [in India], added Pratik Dattani, Managing Director, EPG Economic and Strategy Consulting.
(This story has not been edited by Business Standard staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)

Story 175
LAUSANNE, Switzerland, September 11, 2018 /PRNewswire/ --
iWedia, a leading provider of software components and solutions for TV devices to service operators and Consumer Electronics manufacturers, today announced the release of STAGE, an Operator Tier Android TV Launcher.
(Logo: https://mma.prnewswire.com/media/739633/iWedia_logo.jpg )

STAGE is a modern Pay TV User Interface (UI) for Android TV STB compliant with Google's Operator Tier specifications. It provides a live TV oriented STB UI (featuring service list, content list, zapping banner, EPG, PVR, etc.), gives access to VoD & catch-up TV, apps and games, as well as to search, promotions, and recommendations.
It is available for pure OTT STB as well as for hybrid STB where is makes use of the Android TV Input Framework (TIF) and creates a unified service list.
It is a white label UI designed to be easily customizable, brandable and skinnable to fulfil the operator's specific UI requirements.
"Google's Operator Tier specifications allow the TV operators to own the STB UI and to use it to deliver their brand and universe to their subscribers and to prioritize content, channels, and recommendations," says Dejan Popov Tapavicki, Product Manager at iWedia. "We have designed STAGE as the ideal starting point for them to achieve that quickly and efficiently."
STAGE has already been chosen by several operators which are preparing the launch of their services for the end of the year or the beginning of next year.
iWedia will demonstrate the product at IBC 2018, which is being held in RAI Amsterdam from Friday, September 14th through to Tuesday, September 18th. iWedia exhibits in hall 5, stand B40.
About iWedia
iWedia provides software components and solutions for TV devices to service operators and consumer electronics manufacturers. Its mission is to deliver the software products and services needed by its customers to adapt constantly to the ever-changing requirements of the digital TV markets. In addition to stand-alone components giving support to DVB, ATSC, ARIB, ISDB-T, HLS, DASH, VidiPath, DVB>IP, MHEG-5, HbbTV, CI Plus, DTCP-IP, TR-069, etc., iWedia offers a range of complete solutions for zappers, connected receivers, Smart TVs, as well as for OTT and IPTV boxes. Dubbed Teatro, these solutions are available for RTOS, Linux/HTML, and Android/Java and are pre-integrated with leading service and delivery platforms, CA/DRM systems, and chipsets. Alongside its products, iWedia delivers efficient and scalable software integration services performed by an experienced team used to enable rapid deployments of high volume consumer electronics devices. iWedia is headquartered in Switzerland with development labs in Belgrade and Novi Sad, Serbia, and sales and support offices in Brazil, France, Germany, and Thailand.
Please visit www.iwedia.com for more information.
Media contact:
Hervé Creff
VP Marketing, iWedia
herve.creff@iwedia.com
SOURCE iWedia

Story 176
Zeroing in on emissions
Catherine Early kicks off our series on delivering net zero with an overview of the big challenges, solutions and timescale.
As the science on climate change becomes ever clearer and more alarming, countries, states and cities have lined up to declare that they will become “net zero”. In June, the UK became the first major economy to set this in legislation, with a target date of 2050.
Net zero means that all emissions of greenhouse gases will have to end by mid-century, or be balanced by schemes to offset an equivalent amount, such as through planting trees or using technology like carbon capture and storage (CCS). It is a significant tightening from the previous target of an 80 per cent reduction on 1990 levels by 2050.
It follows advice from the Committee on Climate Change (CCC) in May, which stated that a net zero target was achievable, both with known technologies and for the same economic cost as the existing target for an 80 per cent reduction by 2050.
The energy sector has been working on decarbonisation for some time. Latest government figures show that coal contributes only 3.5 per cent to the UK’s electricity mix, while renewable technologies generate 35.8 per cent. But the latest report from CCC published this week says policy is woefully inadequate to deliver this target.
But what does the new deadline mean and can utility firms rise to the challenge? Mike Thompson eloquently set the bar for energy companies, speaking at Utility Week Live, in Birmingham, in May. The head of carbon budgets at the CCC, said: “On power, we’re doing quite well. But we still have a lot of emissions from buildings, transport and from industry, so we need more low-carbon power to service those sectors.”
Demand for electricity would be doubled, with all power produced from low-carbon sources, compared with 50 per cent today. This equates to some 600TWh by 2050, he estimated. Many decisions need to be taken by the mid-2020s to ensure that infrastructure is ready in time, he noted.
The committee recommended the creation of a hydrogen economy to fuel energy-intensive industrial processes and electricity, and heating at peak times. By 2050, hydrogen production capacity will need to be a comparable size to the UK’s current fleet of gas-fired power stations, it says. The UK currently produces around 27TWh of hydrogen, and this must rise tenfold to 270TWh by 2050. “You could produce a bit more, or a bit less, but that gives a sense of scale,” Thompson said.
Carbon capture and storage
The committee has brought forward the timing for some of its previous recommendations. On carbon capture and storage (CCS), it had said that the first CCS cluster – where a number of industrial emitters are sited in the same area – should be operational by 2026, with two clusters capturing 10MtCO2 operating by 2030. The CCC now believes that CCS will be necessary both for industry and very likely for hydrogen and electricity production. This will lead to a need for annual capture and storage of 75-175MtCO2 in 2050, and at least five CCS clusters.
EVs
On electric vehicles, the committee proposes that the government target to end sales of internal combustion engine cars by 2040 should be accelerated to 2035, or even 2030 if possible. This would require the upgrading of many electricity networks to support charging infrastructure. The CCC points out that anticipatory investments will be needed through the 2023-28 regulatory period for the distribution network (covered by the RIIO-ED2 price control) to ensure that upgrades are timely.
All of these measures require new policy decisions, commentators point out. “Even for the 80 per cent target, there was a massive gap between policy and what needs to be achieved. That’s even bigger now; the policies don’t match the rhetoric,” says Keith MacLean, managing director of Providence Policy. Until much clearer action is taken in legislation, significant risk remains for investors, he says.
Heat
Industry has already been waiting a long time for a promised strategy on decarbonising heat. Richard Lowes, research fellow at Exeter University’s Energy Policy Group (EPG), points out that there are currently no proposals for a successor to the Renewable Heat Incentive, which supports generation from technologies such as heat pumps and solar thermal, but which ends in 2021.
“You’d think that would be fairly fundamental if the government wants to do something about this,” he says.
The committee’s recommendations make clear that there is no future for natural gas in its current form, MacLean points out. “But there is a very strong argument for biomethane and hydrogen, which strengthens the moves that a lot of gas networks have taken to demonstrate hydrogen as an alternative to natural gas – the initiatives that companies have taken have now lined up with policy,” he says.
Decarbonising heat in people’s homes and replacing gas with electricity from hydrogen or other sources is politically tricky, he says. “It’s difficult to see a politician taking any big decision around heat because it’s so invasive and affects people’s homes,” he says.
The CCC is very aware that the public will need to become far more engaged with decarbonisation. Thompson said: “We’ve gone from brown electricity to green without people even realising. They turn the lights on and nothing is different. But when they’re driving an electric vehicle, or when they’re using an electric heat pump, they’re going to know about it and they’re going to need to want to make the change.”
There could potentially be a communication role for utilities here, Harrison believes. “It’s something that utilities could start to take forward even in the absence of direction of government. I’m sure that forward-thinking companies will be giving some serious thought to this.”
Another politically charged issue is CCS. The government last week awarded £26 million to fund CCS demonstration projects, including £4.2 million toward the construction of a facility at Tata Chemicals Europe in Cheshire, the UK’s largest CCS project to date.
In any case, the need to trial CCS technology in such a way is a “fantasy debate”, says Richard Black, director of the Energy and Climate Intelligence Unit (ECIU). “We’ve had CCS under the north sea since 1997, so the issue with it in my view is not, and never has been, technological.
“The difficulty is the levers to make this happen. To get a CCS cluster up and running on Teeside, which makes sense in so many ways, you’re probably talking about an investment the same size as for Hinkley Point C nuclear power station. Arguably it works better in public hands, so you’re talking about a big commitment by government to perhaps building and owning stuff, and certainly to giving economic levers to business that will last multiple decades,” he says.
Singing from the same hymn sheet
Academics at Exeter University’s Energy Policy Group have called for better governance to be established through a new Energy Transformation Commission to co-ordinate multiple advisory and regulatory bodies which currently work to different objectives, leading to conflicting policy signals reducing certainty for investors.
Simon Harrison, group strategic development director at Mott MacDonald, who led work on the government-commissioned Future Power Systems Architecture project, agrees that better governance is needed to drive work that cuts across so many different government departments, some of which could be politically unpopular.
“We need to decide which measures are market led, which are delivered through regulation and which are public sector-led, and what that will mean for how we manage the whole energy system in a coherent way,” he says.
The net zero target provides an unequivocal direction for the power industry, Black says. “While the target was 80 per cent, it was quite possible for any company to think that they could have a slice of the remaining 20 per cent and carry on with business as usual. That is clearly off the table now. Energy utilities have to be looking at 100 per cent decarbonisation, and getting there within 30 years. That’s spelt out now.”
MacLean agrees: “There’s now nowhere to hide, everyone is clear that they have to play a part. That is very positive and removes a lot of doubt.”
The water sector
The water sector has already set itself a target to achieve net zero operational emissions by 2030. This was part of its public interest commitments laid out earlier this year, which set out how water companies will tackle wider social and environmental challenges.
Water companies can use measures such as buying and generating renewable energy, planting trees, and restoring peatland to reduce emissions. Many have already had their own climate change strategies and targets for years, with the average operational greenhouse gas emissions per megalitre of treated water falling from 337.5 KgCO2e in 2015/16 to 251.7 KgCO2e in 2017/18, according to analysis of Water UK figures. Draft business plans for the period 2020-25 recently submitted to Ofwat include measures to slash CO2 by 45 per cent by 2025.
Some companies, such as Northumbrian Water, are buying all their energy from renewable sources, while others including Thames Water and United Utilities are generating their own through installing floating solar panels on reservoirs, or anaerobic digestion of sewage sludge.
Northumbrian Water and Anglian Water will be leading on the route map with Water UK. Graham Southall, group commercial director at Northumbrian Water, says that one of the biggest challenges will be fugitive emissions from treatment of effluent.
“You’ll get methane from anaerobic digestion processes, and you can’t avoid some leaking out. You need to generate more from renewable sources to balance it out,” he says.
Transport
The other area that will be hard is transport, he says. Vans, tankers and other vehicles used by the sector emit a significant amount of carbon emissions. “We’ll be looking at moving to predominantly electric vehicles, but also maybe compressed biomethane. But there are a lot of challenges. At the moment, battery technology is okay for light vehicles, but as soon as you get to bigger commercial uses it’s quite tricky to match up the vehicle and the distance people need to drive,” he says.
Charging is also an issue because most drivers keep their vehicles at home overnight, so their ability to charge batteries will depend on what type of property they live in and local charging infrastructure, he points out.
Michael Roberts, chief executive of Water UK, says that the sector
is now beginning work on a route map to 2030, to work out the technical detail of how and where it will cut emissions. “It’s an exciting opportunity to look at how we can build on what companies are already doing,” he says.
Catherine Early is a freelance journalist

Story 177
M7 Group has reached an agreement with TV manufacturer LG Electronics to integrate the M7 TV app into LG’s smart TV sets. The agreement was announced today at IBC 2018 in Amsterdam.
The M7 TV app enables users of webOS-based LG TV sets to access linear and non-linear TV content in HD quality through a central user interface and without the need of a set-top-box. Furthermore, it offers interactive features such as live restart, pause TV and access to media libraries as well as digital services like cloud recording and an electronic programme guide (EPG).
The M7 app will be available on all LG TV sets starting from 2015 (webOS 3.0). In addition to accessing entertainment and digital services on the TV screen, M7 also provides access to these services via an app on mobile devices, enabling a seamless viewing experience when switching between the various screens.
The TV app cooperation between M7 and LG will kick off in Germany where M7 recently launched Diveo as a new TV consumer brand, targeting around 18 million DTH satellite households through Astra (19.2° East), enriching the linear TV offering with a range of interactive and multiscreen features. Cooperations in other M7 markets will follow shortly and will include various co-marketing activities, according to the platform operator.
“We are delighted about the cooperation with such an experienced, innovative and market leading player like LG, recognising the potential of the integrated M7 smart TV application at this early stage. With the M7 CI+ module integrated in the TV set, LG TV users will benefit from an even wider range of exciting TV viewing functions,” said Hans Troelstra, CEO of M7 Group.
The agreement with LG follows the integration of the M7 TV app into Samsung smart TV sets announced in May 2018.
(On the picture Frits van Ravensteijn, LG Director Consumer Electronics Benelux, Andrei Noppe, M7 EVP Technical Operations,. Bill Wijdeveld M7 VP Business Development and Jay Koo, LG Director HE Content Business Development)

Story 178
The 16% year-to-date dip in the stock price of 3M Company (NYSE:MMM) is naturally going to attract value investors toward the Dividend Aristocrat. After all, the company now sports a near 2.7% dividend yield, and more than 60 years of dividend increases attest to its history of delivering for investors. However, I think the stock is still worth avoiding. Incoming CEO Mike Roman's presentation at the recent Electrical Products Group (EPG) conference did little to dispel fears concerning the company's pricing power -- a key part of its business model. Let's take a look at why, as well as what was discussed at the event.
3M's business model
3M has long prided itself on its ability to use research and development (R&D) in order to create differentiated products. In plain English, this means 3M's solutions aren't commodity-type offerings and therefore tend to have some pricing power. So, 3M should be able to grow revenue through increasing price without suffering significant drop-offs in volume while maintaining strong margin.
Outgoing CEO Inge Thulin was always keen to remind investors of 3M's business model, and Roman's EPG presentation followed a similar theme.
3M's margin performance
Indeed, 3M has demonstrated an ability to command margin, thanks to offering differentiated products. As you can see below, 3M's gross margin has been consistently superior to other leading industrial companies, including its best comparable multi-industrial peer, Illinois Tool Works.
Signs of deterioration
But here's the thing: There appear to be some cracks forming in 3M's business model. As you can see below, 3M has been increasing its R&D expenditures in the last decade on an absolute and relative basis.
There's nothing wrong in this per se, but it needs to be backed up by demonstrable improvement in pricing power. Unfortunately, 3M appears to be losing ground on this issue.
For example, the chart below shows two things that should concern investors. First, although total company sales growth was good in 2017, it was largely due to volume improvements -- 3M particularly benefited from a cyclical improvement in its electronics and energy segment in 2017, rather than any improvement in pricing.
Second, the chart seems to show an inverse relationship between pricing and volume. This is the sort of relationship you might expect from commodity-type products that don't possess much pricing power -- as prices rise, volume falls. In other words, this is precisely the kind of outcome that 3M is trying to avoid by investing in R&D.
Moreover, 3M's less cyclical segments (healthcare and consumer) are struggling to grow in line with management's mid-term guidance. The consumer segment has only grown in line with guidance in one of the last eight quarters, and the healthcare segment has only done this three times in the same period. The cracks are showing.
What management thinks about pricing
The issue of pricing came to the forefront at EPG, and Roman's response wasn't particularly convincing. In a nutshell, he said that in the first half of 2017, 3M was slow moving "into a higher growth marketplace," but in the second half, management adjusted and set the company up for stronger pricing. He cited the stronger pricing performance in the first quarter of 2018 as a sign of improvement.
Additionally, it's worth noting that on the first-quarter earnings call, CFO Nick Gangestad stated, "we expect price growth to remain strong, and that it will more than offset raw material inflation" for the remainder of the year.
Roman's argument and Gangestad's forecast are open to question for two main reasons. First, the first-quarter organic growth of 0.7% from pricing is not what you might expect from a company trying to take pricing in a growth environment. In fact, it's lower than any figure produced by 3M in 2015 -- recall that U.S. industrial production was in recession during 2015-2016.
Second, going back to 3M's second-quarter 2017 earnings call, Gangestad claimed 3M was making "selected price adjustments," but he expected "more normal price growth for 3M" in the second half of 2017. It didn't happen.
The reality is 3M didn't have anything like "normal" price growth in 2017. It could be argued that the strong volume growth in the second quarter was achieved because 3M didn't take aggressive enough action on pricing -- a sign that 3M doesn't have significant pricing power.
As you can see below, 3M stock has long commanded a premium compared to peers in its sector -- a large part of the reason why is its reputation for having products with pricing power.
Is 3M losing its touch?
Frankly, it's too early to tell just yet, but the warning signs are there. Management, for the second time in two years, is promising a better pricing environment in the second half of the year. However, I think cautious investors will want to hold off buying the stock in order to see if 3M will achieve this aim while also maintaining its --downwardly revised -- organic sales growth guidance of 3%-4% in 2018.
If 3M can't get back to demonstrating that it has pricing power -- a key part of its business model -- then investors have reason to question whether the stock continues to deserve its premium valuation rating compared to its sector.

Story 179
News headlines about SWK stock have trended extremely negative on Thursday, InfoTrie Sentiment Analysis reports. InfoTrie ranks the sentiment of media coverage by analyzing more than six thousand news and blog sources. The firm ranks coverage of publicly-traded companies on a scale of negative five to five, with scores nearest to five being the most favorable. Stanley Black & Decker earned a media sentiment score of -4.0 on InfoTrie's scale. They also gave news headlines about the industrial products company a news buzz of 0.0 out of 10, meaning that recent media coverage is extremely unlikely to have an effect on the company's share price in the near term. View News Stories for Stanley Black & Decker.

Story 180
INTERVIEW: Highlands Natural Resources Launches PrimaryBid Offer to Provide Investors with the Opportunity to Capitalise on CBD Oil Market in the USA
Highlands Natural Resources plc (LON: HNR) CEO Robert Price joins DirectorsTalk to discuss fundraising to establish a CBD operation. Robert talks to us about the business being established, the advantage it has, the market opportunity, how this fits into the broader business, how investors can take advantage of an offer through PrimaryBid, how the funds will be utilised and its growth strategy going forward.
Highlands, the London-listed natural resources company, is pleased to announce a fundraising to raise a minimum of £1.27 million via a subscription for ordinary shares of 1 pence each and an offer for Ordinary Shares via PrimaryBid.com at a price of 8.5 pence. The funds raised will be used to establish an organic, vertically integrated cannabidiol (“CBD”) operation in Colorado, USA, through a newly established and wholly-owned Highlands subsidiary, Zoetic Organics.
This initiative follows the completion of a recent trial, which saw hydrogen from Highlands’ rare naturally occurring gas operation in Kansas, discovered during the summer of 2018, applied as a natural, organic fertiliser at a cannabis operation in Colorado. Encouragingly, the gas mixture increased plant size, height, root diameter and flower count by up to 30%, surpassing expectations.
The Company intends shortly to announce a proposed offer for subscription via PrimaryBid providing an opportunity to new and existing retail investors. A further announcement launching the PrimaryBid Offer will be made shortly. The PrimaryBid Offer is expected to begin at around 4:31 p.m. today and remain open until 9.00 p.m. on 19 March 2019.
Highlights
· Zoetic Organics will target sales of organic hemp oil, retail bottled tinctures, CBD-infused chewing pouches and pre-rolled smokables into wholesale and retail channels
o Highlands expects first revenues by mid-2019 and profitability by year end
· A lease will be agreed over an extensive organic growing operation, including a 33,000 sq ft indoor facility with a potential 40,000 annual hemp plant capacity
o By 2020 Zoetic Organics proposes to plant a further 100 acres outside, with a potential 250,000 annual hemp plant capacity which, together with the development of new product lines, offers exciting expansion potential
· Highlands will appoint an experienced management team for Zoetic Organics and intends:
o To provide $2 million of start-up funding for the business during the year; and
o To incentivise the team with 5 million warrants, exercisable at the Issue Price at any time before 30 June 2019, and 12.9 million Ordinary Shares to be issued in 12 months’ time
· Low-cost entry into a rapidly growing market – growing hemp in Colorado for CBD sales in that state is legal, and certain CBD products are legal both in the USA and the UK (subject to legal and regulatory compliance)
· Near term focus on expanding hemp oil operations and developing the outdoor growing facility
· Zoetic Organics will be developed alongside Highlands’ existing portfolio of assets – production from the 8 wells at East Denver will cover the Company’s overheads for 2019
Robert Price, Executive Chairman and CEO of Highlands, said: “Zoetic Organics provides us with a compelling opportunity to enter the rapidly growing CBD market at low cost and to secure for shareholders the value that our large, rare and valuable gas discovery creates for organic agricultural operations. “This deal sees us bring our organic fertiliser together with extensive growing operations, and we are delighted to have raised these funds to expand and complete our new vertically integrated operation in Colorado. Our immediate priority is to advance the discussions currently underway with potential retail and wholesale partners, purchase manufacturing equipment and expand our outdoor growing, ahead of our intended harvest of our first 10,000 hemp plants by mid-2019. Beyond this we will expand our harvest and expand our product range. “The CBD market is estimated by Brightfield Group to reach $22 billion by 2022. Zoetic Organic’s operation will be totally organic and sustainable, creating a key differentiator for our products. We are very pleased to welcome our new Zoetic Organics team to Highlands and look forward to generating revenues and profits during the course of 2019.”
Funding for Zoetic
Highlands estimates that the gross funding to establish Zoetic will comprise:
· Machinery: $500,000 for hemp oil distillation and pouch manufacturing machines
· Initial cultivation start-up costs: $120,000 for purchases of hemp plants and indoor soil
· Expansion of infrastructure: $150,000 for expanded gas and water infrastructure
· Opex for year 1: $1.3 million of which the main items will be salaries, grow supplies and utilities
In respect of the machinery, Highlands expects that the more significant machines will be leased with a consequent net saving on capital expenditure of approximately $300,000. Furthermore, noting that Highlands expects Zoetic to be profitable by the end of the year, the final quarter of operating expenditure is expected to be largely self-funding.
Taking these factors into account, Highlands expects the net cost to shareholders of starting up Zoetic to be in the region of $1.5 million.
Zoetic Organics
Highlands Natural Resources has formed Zoetic Organics, a 100% owned subsidiary, to establish a vertically integrated, organic and sustainable CBD operation in Colorado.
During the summer of 2018, Highlands discovered a naturally occurring source of nitrogen; which was subsequently found to include hydrogen, making it a natural, organic fertiliser. During autumn 2018, Highlands began selling this gas to an organic cannabis grower and the results have surpassed expectations, increasing plant size and production by up to 30%.
With this in mind, Highlands will enter into an agreement to lease an extensive organic growing facility from a company which has now ceased its cannabis operations. The management team have previously operated that facility, bringing with them all the skills and abilities for Zoetic Organics to commence operations immediately. To incentivise the team, Highlands will issue them with 5 million warrants, exercisable at the Issue Price at any time before 30 June 2019, and will agree to issue a further 12.9 million Ordinary Shares in 12 months’ time. The Board believes that this will ensure that it secures the benefit of the up to 30% yield uplift for Highlands shareholders better than simply selling the gas for a few $ per litre.
In a rapidly growing market (the US alone is forecast to be worth $22 billion in three years), Zoetic Organics will seek to distinguish itself by producing only premium, organic products. CBD is becoming an increasingly mainstream supplement, which is available in Boots, Holland & Barrett and other high street stores in the UK.
Highlands plans to grow approximately 40,000 hemp plants per annum in a 33,000 sq ft greenhouse (a minimum of 3 harvests per year is anticipated). The land also includes the ability to grow hemp outside and Highlands has a target to plant 20 acres this year, equating to around 50,000 hemp plants, and rising to 100 acres in 2020 (250,000 hemp plants, one harvest per year). Operating at full capacity in 2020 could see the business harvest approximately 290,000 hemp plants in that year.
Highlands will target a yield of 12 grams of CBD per indoor plant and 30 grams of CBD per outdoor plant. Estimated wholesale prices are $3 per gram although the Board believes sales made direct to retail channels could be at a premium of over 5 times this.
The Board has no plans to grow any cannabis at Zoetic Organic’s facility. Zoetic Organics plans to grow only hemp, taking advantage in particular of the regime being put in place under the 2018 US Farm Bill.
The business is expected to generate first revenues in the middle of 2019 and to be self-funding by the end of the year. The Board has identified a range of opportunities to drive growth through Zoetics Organics beyond this, including:
· Expanding outdoor facilities
· Expanding products for direct sale to retailers
· Developing Zoetic as a premium brand
PrimaryBid.com Offer
Fundraising to establish an organic cannabidiol operation
At 4.30 p.m. on 19 March 2019, Highlands, the London-listed natural resources company, issued an announcement of a fundraising to raise a minimum of £1.27 million via a subscription for ordinary shares of 1 pence each and an offer for ordinary shares via PrimaryBid.com (the “Offer”) at a price of 8.5 pence (the “Issue Price”), being a discount of approximately 20.9% per cent to the closing mid-price on 18 March 2019.
The funds raised by way of the Offer will be used to establish an organic, vertically integrated cannabidiol (“CBD”) operation in Colorado, in the United States, through a newly established and wholly-owned Highlands subsidiary, Zoetic Organics, further details of which are set out in the Announcement which should be read in its entirety.
Offer
The Company values its retail investor base and is therefore pleased to provide private and other investors the opportunity to participate in the Offer by applying exclusively through the www.PrimaryBid.com platform and the PrimaryBid mobile app available on the Apple App Store and Google Play. PrimaryBid does not charge investors any commission for this service.
The Offer, via the PrimaryBid.com platform, will be open to individual and institutional investors from 4.31 p.m. on 19 March 2019 to 9.00 p.m. on 19 March 2019. The Offer may close early if it is oversubscribed.
Subscriptions under the Offer will be considered by the Company on a “first come, first served” basis, subject to conditions (which are available to view on PrimaryBid.com) with any investment request over £50,000 first requiring consultation with the Company.
No commission is charged to investors on applications to participate in the Offer made through PrimaryBid. It is vital to note that once an application for New Ordinary Shares has been made and accepted via PrimaryBid, an application cannot be withdrawn.
For further information on PrimaryBid.com or the procedure for applications under the Offer, visit www.PrimaryBid.com or call PrimaryBid.com on +44 20 3026 4750.
The New Ordinary Shares will be issued free of all liens, charges and encumbrances and will, when issued and fully paid, rank pari passu in all respects with the Company’s existing Ordinary Shares.

Story 181
Smart TV software company Vewd has launched Vewd OS for Android TV operator tier.
Vewd OS for Android TV functionality includes a complete home screen experience for Android TV’s Operator Tier, designed to provide a cinematic, video-first home screen, completely managed from Vewd Cloud.
A complete OTT application environment loaded with key regional and local apps that complement, yet extend, Google Play.
An Electronic Programming Guide (EPG), integrating live broadcast or OTT streaming. The EPG is further enriched with both broadcast and OTT metadata and supports features such as “start-over” and “catch-up” in conjunction with the operator head-end.
Extensive platform data and analytics are available through Vewd Cloud, providing the operator with critical customer behaviour information.
“Vewd OS for Android TV was crafted to complement existing Android TV features and requirements while giving operators and manufacturers the flexibility and control they require to launch successful market propositions,” said Aneesh Rajaram, CEO, Vewd.
“Smart TV manufacturers have relied on us to enhance Android TV since its inception. With Android TV now emerging as an important platform for many operators, we’re proud to provide them with the products and solutions they need to drive success.”

Story 182
RACINE, Wis., Jan. 31, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Modine Manufacturing Company (NYSE: MOD), a diversified global leader in thermal management technology and solutions, is pleased to promote Joel Casterton to the position of Vice President, Vehicular Thermal Solutions (VTS). As previously announced, Holger Schwab, current Vice President, VTS, has announced that he will resign from Modine in the coming months.
As Vice President, VTS, Casterton will lead the continuing execution of the global VTS business segment strategy.
Joel Casterton, Vice President, Vehicular Thermal Solutions
Casterton has a Bachelor of Science Degree in Industrial & Manufacturing Engineering from Iowa State University. He joined Modine in 2005, and during his tenure with the company has held a variety of leadership roles including Engineering Manager – EPG, Engineering Director – EPG, North America Sales Director, Engineering Director – Asia, and, most recently Director – Global Program Management & Quality. Prior to Modine, Casterton was with Ford Motor Co. and Visteon Corp. for 10 years where he held positions in Process Development, Program Management, and Product Development.
"Joel has been an integral part of the Modine team for over a decade, providing strong direction and leadership in each of his previous positions," said Thomas Marry, Executive Vice President & COO. "Joel's promotion into this position allows a seamless transition of this critical role."
About Modine
Modine, with fiscal 2017 revenues of $1.5 billion, specializes in thermal management systems and components, bringing highly engineered heating and cooling components, original equipment products, and systems to diversified global markets through its three complementary business units: Vehicular Thermal Solutions (VTS); Commercial & Industrial Solutions (CIS); and Building HVAC Systems (BHVAC). Modine is a global company headquartered in Racine, Wisconsin (USA), with operations in North America, South America, Europe, Asia, and Africa. For more information about Modine, visit www.modine.com.
Contact: Amanda Bulgrin
(262) 636-8466
a.a.bulgrin@na.modine.com
SOURCE Modine Manufacturing Company
Related Links
http://www.modine.com


Story 183
🔊 Listen to this Article
Telangana Social Welfare Residential Educational Institutions Society (TSWREIS) has been catering to the dire educational needs of Scheduled Caste (SC) children hailing from the remote rural areas of Telangana, says Dr R S Praveen Kumar, Secretary, Telangana Social Welfare Residential Educational Institutions Society, Government of telangana, in conversation with Elets News Network (ENN).
What undergraduate degree courses are offered by your institutions?
We offer a wide range of undergraduate programmes including Physical and Chemical sciences (BSc MPC / MSCs / MPCs / MECs / MPG / MES / Mae Nw and HW), life sciences (BSc BZC / MbZC / BGC / BtBC / BcZC / BCFsQc / NDZC / BCCs), Commerce (B Com Computers / Computer Applications / General / Honours / Taxation / BFI / BBA), and Social Sciences (BA HEP / HEPa / EPG / EPP / HPEml / EPaMCJ / EPS). The total number of undergraduate students currently enrolled across 30 TSWRDCs is 13,975 (I year – 6,143; II Year – 4,554: III Year – 3,278).
How is the institution helping junior college students in developing a foundation for Higher Education?
We have already established few Centres of Excellence in Junior Colleges to provide coaching for admission into prestigious institutes like IITs, IISERs, NITs, Central Universities, and Medical Schools across india. In addition to it, final year students (10+2) undergo training under “Summer Samurai-higher Education Programme”. under the programme, special coaching is provided to the selected students for admission to prestigious universities and degree colleges. in last academic year, 116 students from TSWREIS got admitted into institutions like delhi university’s Miranda house College, Hansraj College, Hindu College, Ramjas College, Shriram College of Commerce, Lady Shri Ram College for Women, St Stephens, etc. Besides, several students of TSWREIS got admitted into premier institutions like Azim Premji University, Indian Maritime University, Regional Institute of Education, IHM, and TISS.
What initiatives have been undertaken by TSWREIS to boost skill development, entrepreneurship and employability of students?
During first year of graduation, students are encouraged to join 3C programme, where they develop better communication skills, character, and confidence. during second year, students are trained exclusively on computational skills. For third year, we have a special programme called 3E, under which students are encouraged to focus on education (getting admission to premier postgraduation institutes), Employment and Entrepreneurship. The Department of Higher Education along with TSWREIS organises regular training programmes on national level entrance examinations like JEE Main, NEET, GATE, CAT etc.
Campus Recruitment Training (CRT) combined with skill building programmes are being delivered for good placements of students. Recently, we signed an Mou with Balavikasa International Centre to promote social entrepreneurship among undergraduates. Besides, TSWRDC has initiated a Beautician Course to nurture certified beauticians and Zumba and Salsa course to prepare choreographers. Along with this, we also conduct drivers’ education – DISHA (encouraging entrepreneurship), Adventurous Camps (Mountain Biking, Paragliding and skiing), athletic Winter Camp, Project Mission Code (encouraging girls or software coding), Project Finishing School (Pre-placement training) etc. For employment, Data Science Training, Civil Service Coaching, CA Foundation Training Programme, WIMAN (Women in Management), are also conducted by us to create awareness about other career options after graduation.
What are some of the innovative best practices adopted by your institutions?
To boost confidence and inculcate life skills among its students, TSWREIS conducts following programmes:
Project Mirror: speaking in front of mirrors helps students to enhance their oratory skills and confidence.
Project beyond four walls: students undergo experiential learning outside the classroom.
Youth Parliament Sessions: to make future leaders and lawmakers.
VIBRATION- Cultural Carnival: students showcase their talents in the state-level competitions.
Super Students Trophy: to promote the concept of “earn While you learn”. live lectures have been delivered via t-sat channels.
Bharath Darshan: a programme to visit famous places across India.
Vishwa Vidhyarthi Programme (International Internship): students visit foreign countries as part of cultural exchange with support of AIESEC.
Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship (SURF): under the initiative, second year students are encouraged to get enrolled in one-month internship at national and international research institutions. We have already signed Mous with university of hyderabad; azim Premji university, Bengaluru; university of toledo, usa; east anglia university, uK; and Carleton university, Canada, in this regard.
SSB Lecture Series: We invited Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Awardees to deliver lectures at TSRDCs.
What is institute’s vision for next five years?
Our vision is to provide good quality education to students belonging to backward sections of the society in a safe and supportive academic environment. in addition to that, we prepare students to be independent critical thinkers and global citizens of 21st century. We maintain high academic standards with a major emphasis on student and teacher empowerment programmes. TSWREIS enables students to acquire basic life skills and leadership qualities by exposure to a range of learning opportunities beyond classroom.
What reforms are needed in existing higher education ecosystem for a better future of students?
Since last few decades, students are expected to focus more on learning a concept without practical or in-depth knowledge about the same. for the existing ecosystem, a flexible curriculum is needed with a range of elective courses. Any undergraduate student must undergo training where they can learn critical thinking, quantitative reasoning, literature, psychology, science and social sciences. It will provide students an interdisciplinary learning for any course he/she might take for second year of their graduation. For next two years, student should get engaged in core subjects and dwell deeper and spend the complete final year in practical-based learning.

Story 184
German service provider Media Broadcast Satellite supports the recently launched Freenet TV via satellite service on Astra (19.2° East) as part of a far-reaching agreement.
The services provided by Media Broadcast Satellite include the processing and distribution of data and control signals for the reception devices, thereby further expanding the company’s portfolio of professional and highly specialised B2B applications in the broadcast industry.
Media Broadcast Satellite also handles the broadcast of the Freenet TV Connect portal on Astra. The proposition extends Freenet TV with additional channels, apps, on-demand and catch-up services and an electronic programme guide. The associated EPG control signals are also processed and transmitted by Media Broadcast Satellite.
The deployment of all services took place following precise configuration and comprehensive tests in time for the satellite launch of Freenet TV on March 28, 2018. The applications are provided from Media Broadcast Satellite’s teleport in Usingen near Frankfurt/Main which, with DVB-S/S2 platforms, multiplexing, IPTV and managed playout solutions, over 135 antennas and an addressed orbit from 76° East to 60° West, is one of the largest teleports in the world, according to the company.
“As a technical service provider for the broadcast community, we are continuously expanding our portfolio with innovative services for the television of tomorrow,” said Christian Fleischhauer, Managing Director of Media Broadcast Satellite. “We are pleased that, with Freenet TV via Sat, a modern and widely distributed TV offering relies on our solutions for operating the platform.”
With the services for Freenet TV’s DTH platform, Media Broadcast Satellite is expanding its cooperation with the provider. At the Usingen teleport, the company already operates services on the head-end for the digital terrestrial distribution of Freenet TV across Germany.
Through the Usingen teleport, Media Broadcast Satellite not only manages satellite, terrestrial and IPTV platforms. Solutions for the network industry are also provided from the location. Media Broadcast Satellite, for example, transmits the signals of M7 Group to network operators across Germany, Austria and Switzerland from the Usingen teleport.

Story 185
By WAM
Emirates Post Group, EPG, has been named as one of the world’s top ten countries and ranked as the number one Arab country for international express mail services, according to the EMS unit of Universal Postal Union, UPU, the primary forum for cooperation between postal sector players.
As a mark of its continuing efforts towards providing excellent service and the promotion of innovation, EPG has also revealed winning two globally prestigious awards the ‘International Express Mail Services Performance Award’ (Bronze Certification) and the ‘International Express Mail Services Customer Service Award’ during the recently concluded General Assembly held at the UPU headquarters in Switzerland.
Based on the international listing, the UAE ranks 8th among the top ten countries for international express mail services, joining other countries like Belarus (10th), Russian Federation (9th), Singapore (7th), El Salvador (6th), Vietnam (5th), Moldova (4th), Thailand (3rd), Hong Kong (2nd) and Slovenia (1st). The ranking system is calculated and evaluated based on 16 Key Performance Indicators (KPIs), which includes on-time delivery percentage, on-time transmission performance, customer service response quality, on-time export performance and on-time transport performance, among others.
Abdulla Mohammed Alashram, Acting CEO, EPG, said, "EPG's inclusion in these prestigious lists of international express mail services providers is a testament to our commitment to play a key role in the UAE's efforts to reinforce the country's world ranking and reputation. The excellent performance that we have achieved is widely attributed to the guidance from the UAE's wise leadership and their strategic vision to position the country as the best country in the world by 2071. Rest assured that EPG will remain steadfast in its commitment towards exerting continuing efforts to get a higher ranking through the implementation of better products and services that aim to meet the changing needs of the industry."
EPG's top ten ranking is the result of its efforts to both enhance and improve its products and services over the last three years--resulting in a jump from being ranked 56th place in 2014 to its current ranking of eighth place. The Group implemented a five-point strategy that included enhanced delivery performance; enhanced technical performance; updating its systems to ensure 24/7 availability of full track and trace services; restructuring of its customer support department and call centre process to ensure that all calls are answered within 20 seconds and the creation of a dedicated team tasked with monitoring the quality of EPG services.
The UAE has grabbed the top spot for the second year in the row in the list of Arab countries for international express mail services. The other Arab countries included in the list are Lebanon (5th), Morocco (4th), Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA) (3rd) and Jordan (2nd). The UAE's EPG is cited for being the first Arab country to offer the EMS Pay for Performance concept, an overall efficient, and more complete and holistic delivery with the utmost care. The group is also recognized as the first Arab country to implement a series of measurable standards aimed at offering top quality services from end-to-end--resulting in a zero-level missing delivery score that reflects EPG's full control of operations and technical performance.

Story 186
Debbie Engebretsen and Linda Rino have joined the board of directors at the Utah Chapter of Women in Insurance & Financial Services. Engebretsen works with New York Life and has been in the industry for three years. Rino has 23 years in the banking industry, working for Zions Bank as a vice president and branch manager. Amber Dixon has been named chapter president, while Vicki Tu'ua has moved into the past president role.

Story 187
Dubai: Emirates Post Group announced extending the PO Box renewal deadline in response to requests received from customers.
Customers now have until February 28 to renew their Post Office Box subscriptions.
Companies and individuals are reminded that they can customise the way in which they receive their post when they renew their subscriptions.
Customers may visit any of EPG’s post offices to apply or renew in person or do so electronically via EPG’s website (www.epg.gov.ae) or mobile services app.

Story 188
Last week, the Patent Trial and Appeal Board (PTAB) issued 31 decisions related to petitions for inter partes review (IPR) proceedings, instituting 14 IPRs and denying the other 17. Although Comcast saw a total of 11 IPR petitions denied institution, it succeeded on another six petitions, successfully initiating challenges of all four patents for which it sought review. Ten of the IPR petitions were part of the telecom giant’s ongoing legal battle with Rovi Guides. Unified Patents saw two of its IPR petitions denied, but the PTAB instituted two others. Another two IPRs, filed by a trio of major tech giants, were also instituted after the patent owner opted against responding to the asserted grounds for invalidity.
Comcast Cable Communications, LLC v. Rovi Guides, Inc.
On July 1, two panels of PTAB administrative patent judges (APJs) issued decisions on a total of 10 IPR petitions filed by Comcast to challenge two patents owned by Rovi, both of which are involved in district court litigation and a Section 337 investigation at the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) between the parties. The PTAB denied eight IPRs but instituted one proceeding for either patent.
In IPR2019-00281 , Comcast is challenging all 20 claims of U.S. Patent No. 9621956, Systems and Methods for Providing a Transport Control Interface. Comcast’s Section 103(a) obviousness challenge in this proceeding is primarily based upon the combination of U.S. Patent Application No. 20030067886, System and Method for Recording Broadcasting Programs (“Son”) and a 2001 IEEE publication describing a personal video recorder for digital TV (“Jung”). Other prior art references asserted include U.S. Patent No. 5371551, Time Delayed Digital Video System Using Concurrent Recording and Playback (“Logan”) and U.S. Patent Application No. 20030142956, Signal Record/Playback Apparatus and Method Featuring Independent Recording and Playback Processing (“Tomita”). The PTAB determined that initial automatic buffering of a program as taught by Jung or Logan and the clipping function taught by Son met limitations of claims challenged by Comcast.
In IPR2019-00299 , Comcast is challenging 20 claims of U.S. Patent No. 9294799, Systems and Methods for Providing Storage of Data in an On-Demand Media Delivery System. Comcast’s Section 103(a) challenge in this IPR primarily relies upon U.S. Patent No. 7127735, Video-on-Demand System and Video Viewing Assisting Method (“Lee”) and U.S. Patent No. 6501902, Method for Browsing and Replaying a Selected Picture By a Multimedia Player (“Wang”). Other prior art asserted in this proceeding include U.S. Patent No. 6956833, Method, System and Devices for Wireless Data Storage on a Server and Data Retrieval (“Yukie”) and U.S. Patent No. 7036738, PCMCIA-Compliant Smart Card Secured Memory Assembly for Porting User Profiles and Documents. The PTAB was persuaded that the multiple bookmarks in Wang, the pause feature of Lee and the multiple device server accessing system of Yukie met limitations of claims challenged by Comcast.
Comcast Cable Communications, LLC v. Veveo, Inc.
On July 5, the PTAB decided a series of seven IPR petitions filed by Comcast to challenge claims of two patents owned by Veveo that are involved in multiple district court proceedings as well as a Section 337 investigation at the ITC. The PTAB instituted four of these trials. Two of the IPRs challenge claims of U.S. Patent No. 7779011, Method and System for Dynamically Processing Ambiguous, Reduced Text Search Queries and Highlighting Results Thereof. In IPR2019-00237, Comcast’s Section 103 challenge mainly relies on the combination of U.S. Patent Application No. 20070027848, Smart Search for Accessing Options (“Howard”), U.S. Patent No. 6011554, Reduced Keyboard Disambiguating System (“King”) and U.S. Patent No. 6370518, Method and Apparatus for Displaying a Record From a Structured Database With Minimum Keystrokes (“Payne”). The PTAB was persuaded that modifying the system of Howard to replace its box highlighting with the bold-text highlighting of Payne for better visual feedback would have been obvious to one skilled in the art.
In IPR2019-00239, all 24 claims of the ‘011 patent are challenged on Section 103(a) obviousness based on two combinations of prior art: U.S. Patent Application No. 20040133564, Methods and System for Search Indexing (“Gross”) and U.S. Patent No. 6529903, Methods and Apparatus for Using a Modified Index to Provide Search Results in Response to an Ambiguous Search Query (“Smith”); and Gross, Smith and U.S. Patent No. 7885963, Free Text and Attribute Searching of Electronic Program Guide (EPG) Data (“Sanders”). The PTAB was persuaded that the highlighting of search results in Gross combined with Smith’s overloaded keyboard for input met limitations of claim 1 of the ‘011 patent.
The PTAB also instituted two IPRs filed by Comcast to challenge all 11 claims of U.S. Patent No. 7937394, same title as the ‘011 patent. In IPR2019-00290, Comcast’s Section 103 challenge mainly relies on the combination of Howard, King and Payne. Those prior art references were asserted alone or combined with either Sanders, Gross, U.S. Patent No. 6501956, Providing Blended Interface for Wireless Information Services (“Weeren”) or U.S. Patent Application No. 20050278741, Query-Based Electronic Program Guide (“Robarts”). In this IPR, the PTAB was similarly persuaded by the arguments regarding highlighting modifications found in Payne in combination with Howard’s system. In IPR2019-00292, Comcast asserts Gross and Smith alone or in combination with either Sanders or Weeren. The PTAB was similarly persuaded on the claim limitations taught by the combination of Gross and Smith as discussed in the IPR for the ‘011 patent where that prior art was asserted.
Unified Patents Inc. v. Vindolor, LLC
Last week, the PTAB issued decisions on four IPR petitions filed by Unified Patents, instituting two and denying two. One of the IPRs denied institution was IPR2017-00478, which challenged both claims of Vindolor’s U.S. Patent No. 6213391, Portable System for Personal Identification Based Upon Distinctive Characteristics of the User. The patent is directed at a system of identifying a person based on biometric characteristics and it is involved in 11 district court proceedings.
Unified’s IPR included Section 102 novelty and Section 103 obviousness challenges of both claims based on U.S. Patent 5280527, Biometric Token for Authorizing Access to a Host System (“Gullman”). Unified made another Section 103 challenge of both patent claims based on the combination of U.S. Patent No. 5623552, Self-Authenticating Identification Card With Fingerprint Identification (“Lane”) and U.S. Patent No. 5457747, Anti-Fraud Verification System Using a Data Card (“Drexler”). In nixing the challenges under Gullman, the PTAB agreed with Vindolor that the security token taught by Gullman doesn’t meet the access code limitation in the ‘391 patent. Regarding the other challenge, Unified failed to persuade the PTAB that the authenticator in Lane doesn’t generate a two-dimensional binary image of a fingerprint.
Google, Dell and Samsung v. Cypress Lake Software, Inc.
On July 2, the PTAB instituted two IPRs filed by tech giants Google, Dell and Samsung, both of which challenge claims of Cypress’ U.S. Patent No. 9817558, Methods, Systems, and Computer Program Products for Coordinating Playing of Media Streams. The patent is involved in 10 district court proceedings and it is directed at solutions for interference created when multiple media streams are allowed to be presented on the same device. In total, all but three claims of the ‘558 patent are involved in the IPRs.
Both IPRs challenge the ‘558 patent’s validity on Section 103(a) grounds based on the combination of U.S. Patent Application No. 20100138780, Methods and Systems for Using External Display Devices With a Mobile Computing Device (“Marano”) and U.S. Patent Application No. 20090228897, Bidirectional Control of Media Players (“Murray”). In IPR2019-00390, the PTAB was persuaded by petitioners’ argument that it would have been obvious to combine Murray, which teaches coordinating among media players to avoid interference, with Marano’s system of software outputs from one computer being presented on a number of possible devices. Cypress didn’t file a preliminary response and didn’t identify any petitioner flaws in its claim construction brief. The other IPR petition fared similarly based on the same arguments.
Other Decisions
IPRs Instituted Week Ending Friday, July 5
IPR2019-00378: ASM IP Holding B.V. v. Kokusai Electric Corp. – U.S. Patent No. 8409988, Method of Manufacturing Semiconductor Device and Substrate Processing Apparatus
IPR2019-00379: Bowtech, Inc. v. MCP IP, LLC – U.S. Patent No. 8443791, Dual Feed-Out Archery Cam
IPR2019-00380: Bowtech, Inc. v. MCP IP, LLC – U.S. Patent No. 7946281, Balanced Pulley Assembly for Compound Archery Bows, and Bows Incorporating That Assembly
IPR2019-00386: Bowtech, Inc. v. MCP IP, LLC – U.S. Patent No. 8919333, same title as the ‘281 patent
IPR2019-00476: Unified Patents Inc. v. Clean Energy Management Solutions, LLC – U.S. Patent No. 8035479, Mesh Network Door Lock
IPR2019-00495: Unified Patents Inc. v. SpeakWare, Inc. – U.S. Patent No. 6397186, Hands-Free, Voice-Operated Remote Control Transmitter
IPRs Denied Week Ending Friday, July 5
IPR2019-00258: Apple Inc. v. Uniloc 2017 LLC – U.S. Patent No. 7093298, Apparatus and Method for Security Object Enhancement and Management
IPR2019-00389: ZTE (USA), Inc. v. AGIS Software Development LLC – U.S. Patent No. 9467838, Method to Provide Ad Hoc and Password Protected Digital and Voice Networks
IPR2019-00459: CSL Behring GmbH v. Shire ViroPharma Incorporated – U.S. Patent No. 10080788, C1-INH Compositions and Methods for the Prevention and Treatment of Disorders Associated With C1 Esterase Inhibitor Deficiency
IPR2019-00479: Unified Patents Inc. v. Flectere LLC – U.S. Patent No. 6415284, Intelligent Forms for Improved Automated Workflow Processing

Story 189
Employment and property occupancy in the two sectors has been declining since 2015.
This chart from the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) shows the indicators created by Singapore's economic policy group (EPG) to assess the extent of slack in the retail and food and beverage (F&B) services segments.
To create the chart, the EPG collected information from five series: the net employment changes in the two sectors, the net firm formation in each industry, and the retail occupancy rate.
MAS said the factor utilisation in these segments started to decline in 2015, largely as a result of the closure of firms and fall in hiring, especially in the retail industry.
In Q4 of 2017, only the net firm formations of F&B firms has improved and surpassed the indicator's mean. The occupancy rate in retail was still close to the trough, indicating continued weakness in the sector.
MAS said that whilst weakness has persisted, there have been signs of easing since late 2016. "Even as occupancy rates of retail space remained mildly depressed, there has been a rise in net firm formation in both the restaurant and retail industries," it added.
The data have been statistically normalised with a mean of 100 and plotted on a four-quarter moving average basis.

Story 190
By Vasinatta Yama – EMTV News, Mt Hagen
Enga Provincial Government is supporting teacher education in the province to produce qualified teachers. Enga Governor, Sir Peter Ipatas, says Enga will soon become a major education hub of the country. Sir Peter says this will not come easy and it will need continuous support from the National Government and higher authorities to achieve this dream.
The Enga Governor met with students from other provinces in the country who were selected by the Department of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology to study Education at Enga Teachers College. There were 26 students in year 1 and 2 who got into the school only to find out that Enga Teachers College is a day school. These students are now being accommodated at the Highlands Lutheran International School. Sir Peter Ipatas told the students that the Enga Provincial Government is taking the responsibility to pay for their accommodation since they are in his province so that they can complete their studies at Enga Teachers College. He presented a cheque of K246, 500 as 50 per cent payment to the Highlands Lutheran International School for these students to continue living at HLIS. EPG also presented another cheque of K520, 176 for their accommodation, food and learning.
Enga Teachers College is less than 8 years old and is a national institution built by the Enga Provincial Government and supported by the Australian High Commission. Starting next year, their dormitories will be completed to accommodate at least 350 students.
ETC has graduated Primary and Elementary teachers who are currently teaching in Enga Province and making sure there is a standard of 34 students to one teacher in a classroom.
Apart from free education in Enga, Enga Provincial Government is also sponsoring selected grade 10 students from each electorate in the Province to take up science subjects at Highlands Lutheran International School. Sir Peter says many Engans want to take up social science subjects in grades 11 and 12 and the Province needs more engineers, doctors and people in the science field to balance services in the Province.

Story 191
It came as a surprise to many that South African Rugby Union (Saru) chief executive Jurie Roux had the opportunity this week to praise his organisation’s progress in transforming the racial structure of the game. After all, their goal of achieving a 50% player-of-colour World Cup squad seems a distant dream and their board structure can only hanker after such a ratio.
But, on Monday, the Eminent Persons Group (EPG) revealed in the annual Sport Transformation Status report that rugby’s national federation had made some serious dents in their targets, achieving 60% of them. These are goals set by Saru and approved by the department of sport.
The latter demands that every federation achieve a universal barometer of at least 50% of their goals. All data was compiled from the 2016-2017 financial year.
The report reveals that the demographics of rugby are still far from representative of our nation. Of those playing the game at a senior men’s level, 58% are white. The Springboks average during that year is even higher at 62%. But progress is the name of the game and Saru seems to have become adept at playing it.
Are they justified in claiming significant progress? After all, to paraphrase Mark Twain, statistics are pliable.
EPG committee secretary Willie Basson said he had never “observed a greater commitment from Saru’s leadership body to address this thing and to resolve it, to remove the barriers and clean up the pipeline”.
Basson has been integral in the production of the annual transformation report in recent years. Having spent more than 30 years in South African sport, he has keenly watched how the nation has grappled with identity issues on the field and the different paths of recourse it has chosen to take.
Although he is content with the progress of the traditional game, it is the sevens format that he is eager to hold up as a paragon to all other codes.
“The sevens team is a jewel of the transformation model,” Basson says. “The sevens are the most transformed entity in South African sport; no other code can compare. I’ll leave football out for the moment.
“The door is open because it’s driven by people with right attitudes, the right orientation, the right value sets. If you can open up the pipeline between school level and provincial teams, then you will open up the whole channel right up until the national team.”
It is a blockage in that pipeline that has seen the 15-a-side game stutter to where it is today, he argues. There is no adequate filter to ensure successful school players end up in provincial teams. In any case, the structure at pre-tertiary level is insufficient in ensuring the talent pool grows in the first place.
Basson argues that, at major events such as Craven Week, “they are dying to bring in black representation”, but for the most part there is a lack of opportunity in the under-18 structures.
“School sport has become the Achilles heel of South African sport,” he continues. “The sustainability of sport in certain codes is going to be severely challenged in the medium to long term.
“If you watch these games on TV on a Saturday afternoon, the bulk of these matches are being played by old Model C schools. Most of them are 80%-plus white. The participating schools, through inter-school competitions, are very white.
“You can only have successful transformation in your national team if your whole pipeline is open.”
According to the report that Basson helped to formulate, transformation has become a necessity that no one can ignore. There may be progress but we are far from labelling it a successful mission.
According to the data, changing population dynamics mean the white under-18 player pool, the primary source for rugby players at the moment, is likely to reduce by 50% in only 15 years. The mathematics is therefore simple: bring rugby to the greater population or sentence it to a slow death.

