Story 0
If you’re currently in a position where your credit score is less than ideal – or you simply have no credit profile at all, then you will likely find that you struggle to obtain credit-based products.
Whether it’s loans, credit cards, lines of credit or applying for your first ever mortgage – lenders are super reluctant to touch consumers with bad credit.
With that being said, there is a simple solution that can see you rebuild your adverse credit profile. By obtaining a secured credit card – which is a type of credit card that only permits a credit limit that is less or equal to the amount you put up as a security deposit, you stand a very good chance of improving your FICO score.
If this sounds like something you are keen to explore further, then we would suggest reading our ultimate guide on secured credit cards.
Not only will we explain what a secured credit card actually is, but we’ll also guide you through the process that you will need to undertake to improve your credit score and also make our recommendations for the best cards currently on the market.
Best Secured Credit Card
If you’re now on the hunt for the best secured credit card currently in the US marketplace, we’ve listed the top six leading cards below.
Compare Secured Credit Cards
Citi® Secured Mastercard®
Backed by major financial institution Citi, its Secured MasterCard was designed exclusively for US consumers that are looking to rebuild their less than ideal credit profile. First and foremost, the card doesn’t come with any cashback or reward programs, although this is industry standard for a card of this nature.
Nevertheless, the card does not come with any annual fees either, and you won’t be charged anything to make an application. When it comes to your credit limit, this will be matched like-for-like with the size of the security deposit that you put up. Take note, this stands at a minimum of $200.
In terms of your repayments, the Citi Secured MasterCard allows you to set your own repayment date, which is great if you receive your salary on a specific date during the month.
Moreover, the card also facilitates AutoPay, which subsequently allows you to set-up an electronic debit agreement via your checking account. We also like the fact that you will receive ongoing alerts with regards to your account activity, which helps keep on top of payments.
When you do make your repayments, this will be reported to the main three credit bureaus. Furthermore, you will have free access to your FICO credit score via the Citi Secured MasterCard platform, so you can keep regular tabs on your progress.
The Citi Secured MasterCard comes with a fixed APR of 24.24%, which is super expensive. As such, this should act as further motivation to clear your balance in full every month.
Capital One® Secured Mastercard®
Also backed by a US heavyweight institution, the Capital One Secured Mastercard is a notable option to consider. Firstly, the card comes with a minimum FICO score requirement of 300, meaning that although the provider will run a credit check, as long as you have some sort of a profile you are likely to be accepted.
In terms of your credit limit, all new applicants will automatically start with a limit of just $200. You will, of course, need to put up a security deposit of $200 to get this. With such a low initial limit, this particular card will only be suitable if you don’t have the financial means to put up a larger credit limit.
Although making monthly repayments of $200 will still go in your favour, it won’t be as effective as a more substantive credit rebuilding plan that consists of higher amounts.
Nevertheless, the good news is that after making 5 monthly on-time payments in full, the Capital One Secured MasterCard will likely give you access to a higher credit limit. Moreover – if you do get a higher limit, you won’t be required to put up an additional security deposit. Once again, this is ideal if you are unable to cover a higher deposit.
In terms of the fundamentals, the card comes with an interest rate of 26.99% APR, which is even higher than the Citi Secured MasterCard. As such, just make sure that you avoid incurring interest by always paying your balance in full.
Although – as expected, the Capital One Secured Credit Card does not come with any rewards or cashback, it does come with the benefit of zero foreign transaction fees. This is great if you are travelling overseas, as you can continue with your credit rebuilding endeavours even when you’re outside of the US! Finally, the card does not come with any annual fees.
OpenSky® Secured Visa® Credit Card
The next secured credit card provider on our list is that of OpenSky. In a nutshell, the OpenSky Secured Visa Credit Card is potentially the easiest secured card to obtain, not least because the provider does not execute any credit checks. Moreover, you are not required to have a valid checking account either, so as long as you can verify your identity, you should be approved.
If you are approved, your credit limit will be matched by the size of your security deposit. Take note, this will need to be at least $200. You also have the option of applying for a higher credit limit via your online account portal. If accepted, you will then need to transfer an additional security deposit to cover the increased limit.
As per OpenSky themselves, the platform claims that 99% of customers that initially started without a credit score managed to obtain one within 6 months of getting the card. This illustrates just how effective a sensible credit rebuilding plan can be in such a small amount of time. What we also like about the OpenSky Secured Visa Credit Card is that the platform provides ongoing educational tips on how to successfully improve your credit score over time.
When it comes to the financials, the card provider does, unfortunately, charge an annual fee of $35. However, in the grand scheme of things, this isn’t too bad when you consider just how much of an impact 12 months of repayments could make to your credit score. The card also comes with a variable interest rate of 19.14%, which is actually quite competitive. However, if you are making your repayments in full every month, this is somewhat irrelevant.
First Progress Platinum Elite Mastercard® Secured Credit Card
Much like in the case of the OpenSky Secured Visa Credit Card, the First Progress Platinum Elite Mastercard also comes with one of the highest approval rates, as the provider does not check your credit history, nor does it have a minimum credit score requirement. As such, not only is the card ideal for those with bad credit, but those with no credit, too.
Moving on, the card offers excellent flexibility with your initial credit limit, as this ranges from just $200, all the way up to $2,000. This is great if you are looking to put all of your monthly expenses on the card. Take note, you will, of course, need to put a like-for-like security deposit up.
When it comes to making payments, the team at First Progress will report all payments to the main three credit bureaus, doing so on a monthly basis. On the flip side, the secured credit card does come with an annual fee of $29. Once again, this shouldn’t deter you from obtaining the card if you are serious about improving your credit score in the long-run. In terms of the interest rate, this stands at a variable APR of 20.24%.
Read our full review of the First Progress Credit Card.
Green Dot primor® Mastercard® Gold Secured Credit Card
The Green Dot Primor MasterCard Gold Secured Credit Card offers one of the highest credit limits we have ever seen in this particular space. With limits starting at just $200, this goes all the way up to $5,000. As is the case with all other secured credit cards, your credit limit will match the size of your security deposit.
Although a limit of $5,000 will work wonders in your quest to rebuild your credit, this is a hefty amount to have up as a security deposit, so only do it if you can afford to keep the money locked-up. The card does not come with a minimum credit score requirement, so it is also useful for those without a credit profile to date.
We also like the fact that the Green Dot Primor Mastercard comes with a super low APR of 9.99% Although it is hoped that this won’t come into play, it is notable that the APR is low, should you be unable to clear your balance at the end of the month. All of your repayments will be reported to the main three credit bureaus, which is typically done once per month. Finally, you will need to pay an annual fee of $49, so do bear this in mind.
First Progress Platinum Select Mastercard® Secured Credit Card
Although we have already reviewed First Progress, the US institution actually offers three secured credit cards in total. In the case of the ‘Select’ MasterCard, the only difference to that of the ‘Elite’ card is the size of APR and the annual fee.
While the Elite card comes with an APR of 20.24% and an annual fee of $29, the Select card comes with an APR of 14.24% and a fee of $39. As such, you will benefit from a lower APR if you are prepared to pay $10 per year more in annual fees.
Is it worth it? Well, we would say no. The reason for this is that unless you are confident that you are going to clear your monthly balance in full every month, then you shouldn’t be taking out a secured credit card anyway. If you do achieve this goal, then you won’t pay any interest, and thus, you are best off paying a slightly lower annual fee!
Other than this, everything else remains constant with the First Progress Elite Select Mastercard discussed above.
Read our full review of the First Progress Credit Card.
Compare These Cards
Compare Secured Credit Cards
What is a Secured Credit Card?
In a nutshell, a secured credit card is a type of credit card that is aimed at those with a less than ideal credit profile – or no credit profile at all. The reason for this is that borrowers are required to put up a security deposit in order to be eligible. In the vast majority of cases, this security deposit will then represent the available credit limit attached to the card. For example, if you put up a $500 security deposit, then your credit limit would also be $500.
In this sense, a secured credit card operates in a very similar nature to that of a debit card, insofar that you can only spend what you have held as a security deposit. In terms of usage, the secured credit card will be provided by a US-based financial institution and issued by the likes of Visa or Mastercard. As such, you can use the card in the same way as any other credit card by purchasing goods and services online or in-store.
The overarching reason for obtaining a secured credit card is to engage in a medium-term credit-building strategy. As we will discuss in more detail further down, this will involve making purchases on the card, and then repaying the balance in full each and every month. In doing so, the underlying card provider will then report your repayment performances to the main three credit agencies. In theory, this will then have the desired result of improving your FICO credit score.
Here’s a quick breakdown of how the credit repair process typically works with a secured credit card.
You are approved for a secured credit card. You place a security deposit of $750 on the card. Throughout the month of November, you spend $500 on gas – all of which you pay for with your secured credit card. When you receive your statement, you owe $500. You pay the statement off in full, subsequently taking your outstanding balance to $0, and your available limit back to $750. The credit card provider reports the above payment to the three main credit rating agencies. You repeat the above process every month for one year, resulting in an improved FICO score.
So now that you know what a secured credit card actually is, in the next section of our guide we are going to explore who the card might be suitable for.
Who is a secured credit card suitable for?
It is important to note that secured credit cards are only suitable for a very niche segment of the US consumer space. In fact, unless you have bad credit or no credit at all, then there would be no point in obtaining a secured credit card.
The reason for this is that the actual process of building your credit (i.e. making purchases and clearing the balance every month) can be achieved with any credit card.
However, other credit cards – especially those aimed at consumers with at least a ‘Good’ credit score, will come with much more favorable terms. For example, a credit repair exercise would be highly conducive when using a credit card that comes with cashback. This is because you will be able to receive ongoing rewards on your purchases while at the same time achieving your credit building goals.
With that being said – it is somewhat ‘Catch 22’ when you have bad credit, as you can’t obtain additional credit to then rebuild your credit score.
That’s where secured credit cards come in.
Regardless of how good or bad your credit score is, the vast majority of applications are approved. The reason for this is that the secured credit card company in question is taking on virtually no risk.
This is because you will never be able to spend more than what you have put up as a security deposit. For example, if your security deposit is $200 and you try to make a purchase for $201, the transaction will be declined by the card issuer. As such, the only way that your secured credit card application will be denied is if the provider is unable to verify your identity.
Read: What You Need to Know About Secured Credit Cards
How Does a Secured Credit Card Work?
Go through the application process
First and foremost, you will need to apply for your chosen secured credit card. If you’re looking for some guidance as to which card is best for your individual needs, scroll down to the bottom of this page.
The entire application process can usually be completed online. You will need to answer some basic questions about your personal and financial circumstances, as well as verify your identity.
Pay your security deposit
Once you receive your secured credit card, you will then need to pay a security deposit. Until you do this you won’t be able to use the card. In most cases, you will be able to do this online through your account portal, or over the telephone. Moreover, you can make the payment with a debit card or bank account transfer.
Assess your credit limit
In the vast majority of cases, your credit limit will be like-for-like with your security deposit. As such, a $400 deposit would get you a $400 credit limit. However, some providers will give you a percentage of the amount that you put up. For example, if your security deposit amounts to $500, and the provider in question permits a deposit-to-limit ratio of 90%, then your credit limit will be $450.
Use your card
Your secured credit will be issued by either Visa or MasterCard. As such, you will be able to use it virtually anywhere in-store and online. As is the case with any credit card product, your purchases will accumulate throughout the month, and then you will receive a statement that outlines what you owe.
Security deposit only returned once the account is closed
As a final point, the security deposit can never be touched unless you proceed to close the account. Most importantly, you can’t use the security deposit as a means to pay for your monthly statement – in the same way that you can’t use a rental deposit to help pay for your monthly rent!
On the other hand, if you do end up defaulting on your secured credit card, the provider will have the legal right to keep the security deposit. However, while you might not have lost any money per-say, the default will be reported to the main three credit bureaus and thus – amplify your bad credit score even further!
So now that you know how a secured credit card works, in the next section of our guide we are going to explain some of the things that you need to look out for when choosing a card.
Secured Credit Cards: How to Choose a Card
Although there is often very little to differentiate between secured credit cards, there is still a number of factors that you need to look out for when choosing a card. Check out the following metrics that you need to make considerations for.
APR
First and foremost, you will need to assess the APR that comes with the secured credit card. On the one hand, this should be irrelevant, insofar that you should only apply for the card if you are confident that you will always pay your balance off in full every month. After all, that’s the only way that you are going to be successful in rebuilding your credit score.
However, we understand that there is always the chance that the unexpected can happen and thus – you don’t manage to clear your balance in full. In this sense, while your credit score won’t necessarily go down if you at least meet the minimum repayment amount, you will start to incur interest.
Therefore, try to avoid choosing a card with a ridiculously high-interest rate. The good thing about secured credit cards is that they usually have a single APR rate, so you know what you are up against before you make the application. On the contrary, conventional credit cards will usually give you a range, meaning that you won’t know what rate you will get until you receive your pre-approval offer.
Finally, while not all secured credit cards come with an annual fee, most do. This usually averages $30-$50 per year, so make sure you take this into account, too.
Eligibility
Although we noted earlier that the vast majority of secured credit card applications are accepted, this isn’t always the case. First and foremost, the credit card provider will need to be able to verify your identity. As such, you will need to provide your social security number and/or driver’s license number at the time of the application.
As you will need to be a US resident in order to qualify, you might need to submit additional documentation if the provider is unable to verify this. Furthermore, it is also likely that you will need to have a valid checking account. This is so you can make your monthly repayments in the form of an electronic debit agreement.
Finally, and perhaps most importantly, although most secured credit card providers do not perform credit checks at the time of the application, some will require a minimum FICO score of 300. For those unaware, this is the lowest FICO score possible. In this instance, if you don’t have a credit profile at all (either because you have never obtained a credit product before or you recently became a US resident), then some cards might not be suitable.
Credit Limit
First and foremost – and as we have discussed throughout this guide, your credit limit will never be higher than the size of the security deposit that you put up. However, secured credit cards will still come with a credit limit band. For example, if the credit limit stands at a maximum of $5,000, then you won’t be able to put up more than this.
The reason that this needs to be considered is that credit bureaus will look at the size of your repayments when they are reported. For example, making 12 monthly repayments at $5,000 per month is going to look considerably more favourable than making 12 monthly repayments of $200.
As a result, if you do have the financial means – then you should try to obtain a card that comes with a high enough credit limit to cover your monthly expenses. In other words, if you are planning to use your card to pay for $2,000 worth of monthly costs, then make sure you obtain a secured credit card that permits a credit limit of this magnitude.
Finally – and just as importantly, it will be highly beneficial for your credit rebuilding endeavours if your chosen secured credit card comes with free tools that will allow you to assess your FICO score. Otherwise, it might make it a cumbersome process to ascertain whether or not your FICO score is actually on the up.
In some cases, the secured credit card will allow you to view your credit report with a specific bureau. If they do, make sure this includes one of the three main agencies – Equifax, Experian, or TransUnion.
So now that you know what to look out for when choosing a card, in the next section we are going to give you a step-by-step breakdown of how to use the card effectively.
Read: How to Get Your Credit Score to 800 or Higher: Complete Guide
How to Improve Your Credit Score With a Secured Credit Card
Before we delve into the fundamentals, it is important to remember that there is never any guarantee that you will improve your credit score when using a secured credit card.
Nevertheless, as long as you follow the steps outlined below, you stand the best chance possible of meeting this objective
Step 1: Assess your monthly costs & Pay the security deposit
First and foremost, before we even get to the stage of paying the security deposit, you need to assess how much you typically spend on a monthly basis. By this, we mean everyday expenses that you would ordinarily pay with cash.
Think along the lines of:
Gas
Public transport
Groceries
Eating out
Morning coffee
Utility bills
Mobile phone contract
Furthermore, make sure that the expenses on your list can be purchased with a credit card. If not, then don’t include them on your list. For example, while the likes of utility bills and your monthly phone contract can usually be paid for with a credit card, it’s likely that your rent can’t.
Once you have tallied everything up, this is the figure that you need to aim for when paying your security deposit. For example, if your monthly expenses amount to $1,500, then this is the amount that you should try and put up as your security deposit. If you are unable to meet this figure, get as close to it as possible.
Step 2: Set up your electronic debit agreement
Once you have transferred the required security deposit to the credit card provider, your card will then be available to use. However, before you begin your credit rebuilding endeavours, it is crucial that you set-up an electronic debit agreement. For those unaware, this is where the credit card company will automatically take your monthly repayments from your checking account. In fact, the provider might have asked you to set this up at the time of the application.
Nevertheless, not only do you need to make sure the agreement is set up, but you also need to instruct the credit card provider to take the full amount every month. For example, if you spend $1,200 in April and $700 in May, the credit card company will take these amounts in full as and when they become due.
In doing so, not only will you ensure that you never miss a payment, but you will also avoid paying any interest. We’ll cover this shortly.
Step 3: Have a separate checking account in place
This step is absolutely crucial, as it will ensure that you are always able to meet your monthly repayments in full. Otherwise, it is all good and well having an electronic debit agreement in place to take your monthly repayments in full, but what happens if you don’t have enough money in your bank account to cover the payment?
The answer is simple – the credit card provider won’t be able to take the payment, subsequently increasing the risk that you will be hit with a late payment fee. Moreover, this also increases the risk that the late payment is reported to the main three credit bureaus, which could have a negative impact on your credit score.
The solution to this is to obtain a checking account that you will use exclusively to pay your secured credit card payments. The easiest way to manage this is to review how much you have spent on the card at the end of each week, and then transfer the exact amount of funds to your separate checking account. This will also ensure that you refrain from overspending.
Step 4: Start making ‘everyday’ purchases
At this stage of the step-by-step guide, you should now have everything in place to begin your credit rebuilding endeavours. As such, you are now ready to start using your secured credit card. As you have already compiled a list of your everyday expenses – including only the purchases that you can make with your credit card, you should ensure that you always use your card instead of paying with cash.
As we noted earlier, the main three credit bureaus will look at your profile very favourably if you are making large repayments in full every month. This indicates that you are sensible with credit and that you always pay your balance off in full. The larger the payments made, the better this will look.
On the other hand, it is important for us to clarify that you should never use your card to purchase things that you don’t actually need. This will increase your chances of being unable to make your payment in full, subsequently resulting in interest being charged on your purchases.
Step 5: Check your credit report regularly
If you follow the above guidelines to the ‘t’, then you will be well on your way to rebuilding your credit score. Take note, most secured credit card providers will report your repayments every month. This is great, as it means the credit bureaus will be made aware of all of your monthly repayments pretty much as soon as they are made.
With that being said, you should attempt to evaluate your credit report on a monthly basis to keep tabs on how your credit rebuilding objective is going. It is important to note that there is no one-size-fits-all rule as to how long it will take to start seeing an improvement.
The general consensus is that it can take 3-6 months of full monthly payments to start seeing some results, so don’t be disheartened if you don’t see any results in the first few months.
Compare Secured Credit Card
Compare Secured Credit Cards

Story 1
Getty Getty
The Federal Reserve cut interest rates again.
Here’s what you need to know and what it really means for your money.
Fed Cut
The 0.25% cut, the third one this year, impacts you in several ways. Here’s how to assess the impact of the Fed’s latest rate cut for your financial life:
Savings Accounts
Expect the interest you earn in your savings account to decline. When the Fed cuts interest rates, savers are adversely impacted. Banks and other financial institutions will lower savings rates even further, which means the interest income you earn on your cash will be less.
What To Do: Find alternative uses for your cash. In a low interest rate environment, use your cash to build an emergency fund or pay off credit cards or pay off student loans.
Mortgages
If you are a homeowner and have a mortgage, now is an opportune time to refinance your mortgage. The Fed doesn’t set mortgage rates nor does a rate cut directly impact mortgage rates. Mortgages rates already have been declining, and the average 30-year fixed mortgage is less than 4%.
What To Do: Mortgage rates are relatively low. Refinance your mortgage. If you’re a prospective homeowner, a relatively low mortgage rate is only one consideration to purchase a home. The economy, housing market, job market and your economic situation are some other factors to evaluate before buying a home.
Credit Cards
Americans owe more than $1 trillion of credit card debt. If you have credit card debt, your interest rate is likely variable, which means you can expect some, albeit small, financial relief. However, even with the most recent rate cut, credit card interest rates are often higher than the interest rates of student loans, auto debt and mortgage debt combined.
What To Do: If you have credit card debt, and want to lower your interest rate, consider a personal loan to pay off credit card debt. You can consolidate your credit card debt with a personal loan, which is also known as a credit card consolidation loan. Depending on your credit profile, personal loan rates today start as low as 5.47%. You can use this payoff credit card calculator to calculate how much you can save when you pay off credit card debt with a personal loan.
Student Loans
The latest student loan debt statistics show that 45 million Americans collectively owe $1.6 trillion of student loan debt. When the Fed cuts interest rates, consumers benefit when they refinance student loans. Student loan refinancing just got crazy cheaper, with student loan refinancing rates now as low as 2.01%.
What To Do: Refinance your student loans. This free student loan refinance calculator shows you how much money you can save when you refinance student loans.
For example, let's assume you have $100,000 of student loans at a 7% interest rate and 10-year repayment term. If you refinance student loans with a 3.0% interest rate and 10-year repayment term, you would lower your monthly payment by $195 and save $23,457 in total payments. If you are a doctor, dentist or pharmacist with a large student loan balance, your savings may be even higher.

Story 2
How electronics are making it easier for the corrupt
By: SHAHID ILYAS KHAN
Money laundering is the process of making illegally-gained proceeds appear legal and clean. Money obtained from certain crimes, such as extortion, insider trading, drug trafficking, and terrorist activities, is “dirty” and needs to be “cleaned” to appear to have been derived from legal activities. The use of the Internet allows money launderers to easily avoid detection. The rise of online banking institutions, anonymous online payment services, peer-to-peer transfers using mobile phones, and the use of virtual currencies have made detecting the illegal transfer of money ever more difficult. Moreover, the use of proxy servers and anonymizing software makes the third component of money laundering, integration, almost impossible to detect, as money can be transferred or withdrawn leaving little or no trace of an IP address. Money can also be laundered through online auctions and sales, gambling websites and even virtual gaming sites. Here are some unconventional methods to watch out for:
Online Marketplaces: Today’s sharing economy has enabled individuals to earn additional income off their resources. Whether it’s sharing their accommodation, their ride, or some skill they possess, the sector is exploding. As a result, there has been a rise in micro-merchants, individuals who offer their products or services through an online marketplace. In one example, money launderers make fake bookings and share the revenue with the host and the value can add up quickly– $3000 a pop.
Instant Messaging: The growing trend of instant messaging apps has quickly gone from simply sending text and images to offering a number of services, including payment functions. One of the most significant, used daily by 600 million users, is WeChat Pay. It allows people to pay with a tap or a photo snap and it, along with main competitor Alipay, have made cash transaction in China almost non-existent. Similarly Facebook’s Messenger service has integration with PayPal, MasterCard, American Express, TransferWise, and Western Union. While the volume and number of accounts are enormous, all the transactions are digital, making tracking and monitoring for illegal activity that much easier.
The use of proxy servers and anonymizing software makes the third component of money laundering, integration, almost impossible to detect, as money can be transferred or withdrawn leaving little or no trace of an IP address. Money can also be laundered through online auctions and sales, gambling websites and even virtual gaming sites
Crypto Currency: A digital currency, designed to work as a medium of exchange, offers a new avenue for criminals to clean their money. The most well-known digital currency is Bitcoin, created in 2009 by a hacker who wanted to create a currency that would be free of government regulation. Bitcoins can either be earned by competing against others to solve complex math problems, or bought from someone on a currency exchange website. The cryptocurrencies are so volatile, disparate and subject to decentralised control, it is easier to make anonymous payments that are difficult to track. Recently the crypto exchange Coinbase has released a debit card that let people use their stored digital assets to pay for goods online and in stores. Facebook has recently announced issuing its own cryptocurrency namely Libra which shows the popularity of digital currencies.
Transaction Laundering: The most common scheme is transaction laundering, in which illicit merchants use an approved merchant’s payment credentials in order to process e-commerce transactions. It’s easy enough to set up an online storefront for illicit sales, and then reroute transactions through a legitimate merchant.
5.Digital Payment Platforms: Criminals use everyday digital payment platforms to launder money. For instance, a Paypal transaction of $10,000 would flag AML alerts. But 100 Paypal transactions of $100 each would attract no notice from watchdogs. Other digital payment platforms such as Venmo are also used to move illegal funds. The FBI busted a gang involved in laundering $6 billion online under the guise of a digital currency called “LR,” by using “third-party ‘exchangers,'” from countries like Malaysia, Russia, and Nigeria, where government oversight was negligible. These exchangers received payments, and then credited back into the criminals’ account, avoiding detection.
Online Bid Sites: Criminals use online bid websites for micro-laundering. From fraudulent auctions on Ebay to imaginary job postings on Fiverr, money can be transferred easily and quickly. In 2017, the FBI thwarted a terrorist attack on American soil. They found that the perpetrator received his funding by posting fraudulent auctions on eBay that were “purchased” by ISIS agents. Individuals may be hired as “mules” to apply for online job postings, only to transfer the money back to the employer later.
Gift Cards: In this scheme, fraudsters may load cash onto a variety of prepaid cards, such as Visa gift cards or store cards. With a little legwork, those amounts can be extracted into cash deposits into bank accounts. Fraudsters can copy the serial numbers of the cards; scratch off the security code and then cover them up. Then, when the card is activated, they then can access the funds on the card. While they can’t redeem the funds for cash directly, they can use them to buy products that they sell for cash (shipping the product directly to the purchaser).
Prepaid cards: By using stolen debit or credit cards, criminals quickly purchase prepaid cards in bulk. They can then sell cards for hard cash. The prepaid cards are traded face to face to avoid any record.
Online Games: The ill-gotten money is converted into gaming currency, then transferred back into real, usable and untraceable “clean” money. The criminals set up numerous accounts in multiple jurisdictions, purchase in-game credits and transfer those credits around to wash the money.
Online Casinos: Criminals participate in a casino and buy chips through an online payment. They play for a while and then encash the chips, getting a receipt so to show the proceeds as gambling winnings.
Other gambling methods: Money is spent on gambling, preferably on high-odds games. One way to minimize risk with this method is to bet on every possible outcome of some event that has many possible outcomes, so no outcome(s) have short odds, and the bettor will lose only the vigorish and will have one or more winning bets that can be shown as the source of money.
The author is an Officer in the Federal Investigation Agency, and can be contacted at [email protected]

Story 3
Share WhatsApp Email 83 Shares
Iraq-based International Network for Cards and Digital Payment Services (INC Iraq) and a Lebanese fintech startup NymCard that is digitizing how payments cards are issued, delivered, and used, in collaboration with Visa have launched the first digital-only (prepaid) payment card ‘Neo‘ in Iraq to serve the underbanked Iraqi population, the two companies announced in a joint-statement to MENAbytes.
The virtual card that can be requested through Neo’s mobile app within seconds will enable users to make online purchases on both local and international websites. The entire KYC process is digital. Neo’s mobile application (available for both iOS and Android) comes with a mobile wallet that allows users to keep an eye on their expenses.
The users can recharge their topup their Neo wallet through INC Iraq’s network of offline agents and then add the money from wallet to their card. A company representative, speaking to MENAbytes, said that INC plans to have 2,500 agents in its network within 12 months.
Neo also plans to launch a plastic (physical) travel card within the next few weeks.
INC Iraq CEO Zaid Fawzi, commenting on the launch, said, “Iraq is a ripe market for innovative financial services, with a highly educated population. Most people are on a 3G connected smartphone but lacks access to a bank account and an internationally accepted payment method. Iraqis still travel with bags full of cash and rely on few available gift cards to purchase online – we are determined to change all of that.” that
“Neo is powered by NymCard – A fintech based in Lebanon. Leveraging NymCard’s platform, we are able to launch virtual Visa cards directly to our users’ mobile phones within seconds, and couple them with a plastic companion travel cards if they wish so. All of this without the need to visit a bank branch. Programs like this help the underbanked population get a foothold in the financial system and become part of the wider digital economy,”
NymCard’s co-founder Omar Onsi, who has previously founded and led some other startups as well, said, “The MENA region underbanked population is one of the highest globally. By enabling incumbents and financial start-ups to issue and process digital payments, we envisage the MENA underbanked leapfrogging legacy payments technology.”
“With the under- and unbanked MENA population at such a high level, there’s a significant opportunity for innovative fintech companies, financial institutions, and Banks to leverage the power of the internet and mobile phones to help eradicate this problem,” he added.
Mario Makary, Visa’s Country Manager for Iraq and Lebanon, said: “We are proud to collaborate with NymCard in Lebanon and the International Network for Cards and Digital Payments Services in Iraq to launch Neo card that will help us offer a secure and convenient payment option to the underbanked population in Iraq. Fintechs continue to be key enablers around the world in helping to expand access to electronic payments and opening new acceptance.”
“Visa is a natural partner because we can bring global scale, a recognizable brand, security, reliability and sophisticated capabilities. This partnership is a testament to a how we are working with our partners to launch innovative and secure payment products and help address market needs while offering more enriching and rewarding experiences to customers,” he added.
Alex McCrea, Visa’s Head of Fintech & Strategic Partnerships in the Middle East & North Africa region, said, “Fintechs are redefining payments and are creating exciting new customer experiences. We are doing everything we can at Visa to partner with fintechs to help them launch and scale.”
“Earlier this year, Visa launched our FinTech Fast Track program that offers rapid and easy access to the power of Visa’s network as well as licensing and commercial support. The global program is open to FinTechs in the Middle East as well as in Europe, Africa, Latin America, Asia Pacific and the United States with the aim of helping to develop and accelerate the digital payment solutions of the future,” Alex added.

Story 4
All questions
Payments
The payment services regime was introduced under the UK Payment Services Regulations 2009 on 1 November 2009, which implemented PSD1. At that time, its main impact was on traditional products such as current accounts, credit cards, money remittance and merchant acquiring. Since then, the range of payment products and PSPs on the market has diversified, particularly in the areas of digital and mobile banking, e-money and mobile payments – and the application of payment services regulation has broadened accordingly.
To reflect the rapid expansion of the payments market, the regulatory regime was updated by PSD2, which was required to be implemented in all EU Member States by 13 January 2018. In addition to capturing the newly regulated payment services of account information services (AIS) and payment initiation services (PIS), together often referred to as third-party payment services provided by third-party providers (TPPs), PSD2 has widened the territorial scope of the payments conduct of business regime and introduced detailed security requirements and access rights for TPPs, which are likely to have a substantial impact on account providers. PSD2 was implemented in the UK by the PSRs. We discuss some of the main areas of change below.
i Overview
In the following paragraphs, we summarise some of the main obligations on PSPs.
Regulated payment services
The PSRs regulate the following activities:
executing funds transfers, for example, transfers to or from a payment account (such as a current account or e-money account), or placing or withdrawing of cash on such accounts, or money remittance services involving transfers that are not from or to an account; issuing payment instruments (e.g., payment cards or potentially apps in mobile phones); acting as merchant acquirers or some other forms of payment processor (a definition of 'acquiring of payment transactions' was introduced for the first time in PSD2, which means that some payment processors who previously had unregulated relationships with merchants may now have regulated relationships, and have to seek authorisation accordingly); and acting as a TPP, by – in broad terms – providing access to account information (i.e., AIS) or initiating payments at a customer's request from their account held with a third party (i.e., PIS).
There are also a number of exemptions from those regulated payment services, perhaps most notably the following.
The commercial agent exemption is available for 'payment transactions between the payer and the payee through a commercial agent authorised in an agreement to negotiate or conclude the sale or purchase of goods or services on behalf of either the payer or the payee but not both the payer and the payee'. There has been much discussion over whether and when online marketplaces (and other payments providers) should be able to rely on this exemption, with the general sense being that it will now be harder to fall within scope of the exemption.
The limited network exemption most notably applies to:
services based on specific payment instruments that can be used only in a limited way and meet one of the following conditions . . . (ii) are issued by a professional issuer and allow the holder to acquire goods or services only within a limited network of service providers which have direct commercial agreements with the issuer; [or] (iii) may be used only to acquire a very limited range of goods or services.
This exemption lends itself to products such as certain fuel, restaurant or store cards – although some providers have sought to rely on it for broader networks of service providers, or wider ranges of goods and services, so requiring an exercise of judgement (and potentially engagement with local regulators) as to how far it is appropriate to do so.
Authorisation and passporting
Where a PSP provides a regulated payment service in the UK, and an exemption does not apply, the PSP needs to be suitably licensed by the FCA or another relevant authority including in another EEA country. Typically, the PSP will be licensed as a bank, EMI or payment institution, or registered as an AISP.
The PSRs set out the licensing regime for payment institutions and registration regime for AISPs. Licensed payment institutions are required to maintain a certain level of regulatory capital, and to safeguard customer funds (although safeguarding is not applicable to PIs only providing PIS, as they do not handle customer funds). There are number of options for how to safeguard, with the most common method being to put funds received from or for customers (or matched amounts) in a ring-fenced bank account. Although this is the most common way to safeguard, it does often raise a number of operational challenges, and some PSPs will accordingly look to alternative safeguarding options such as safeguarding insurance (although this can be expensive and hard to obtain).
AISPs (providing only AIS and not other regulated payment services) are not subject to the full licensing regime; rather they are subject to a lesser registration regime, the most notable feature of which is the need to hold professional indemnity insurance against the risks of conducting their activities. Similar insurance also needs to be held by payment institutions and EMIs who provide PIS.
Other key areas of focus under the licensing regime are: the robustness of a payment institution's systems and controls, particularly its IT systems; and the need for any functions outsourced by a payment institution – including intra-group outsourcings – to be appropriately overseen by the payment institution and to meet a number of other requirements (some of these requirements also apply to AISPs).
As well as payment institutions being permitted to provide regulated payment services, they can also provide credit in limited circumstances, for example, by issuing credit cards, but may need to obtain additional consumer credit permissions under the FSMA in order to do so.
A payment institution authorised in one EEA state (such as the UK) can use its licence in all other EEA states – the passporting regime. This means that, once authorised in one EEA jurisdiction, a payment institution does not need fresh licences to provide payment services in other EEA states, although it may need to comply with other local law requirements.
Finally, a small payment institution regime also exists but with restrictions on total monthly transaction amounts, and without the ability to passport.
Conduct of business requirements
As well as the licensing regime for payment institutions, the PSRs set out extensive conduct requirements for all PSPs when providing payment services – including banks and EMIs, as well as payment institutions and (to a lesser extent) AISPs. How those requirements apply depends on whether or not a transaction is executed in an EEA currency (such as the euro or sterling) and whether one or both of the payer's PSP and payee's PSP are operating from a location in the EEA.
PSPs have to provide pre-contract and transactional information to customers. In some cases, the information needs to be 'provided' in a 'durable medium', which raises a number of challenges as to how and when information is provided or stored.
The PSRs govern the time frames in which payments must be executed, after being initiated by a customer, in order to reduce the scope for PSPs to retain float (i.e., to keep hold of funds for their own purposes rather than putting them at the disposal of their customers).
For transfers in euros (and domestic transfers in the domestic currency, such as sterling transfers within the UK), the payer's PSP usually needs to ensure that cleared funds are received by the payee's PSP by the end of the business day after the transfer was initiated. For other transfers in EEA currencies within the EEA, up to four business days are usually permitted.
Once the payee's PSP receives cleared funds, it must immediately put them at the disposal of the payee (except for certain currency conversions involving non-EEA currencies).
Departures from those rules apply most notably for internal transfers (where the same PSP is acting for both payer and payee), which need to be executed immediately; and for card payments, where there is a usually a basis for delaying putting funds at the disposal of the payee (i.e., of the merchant taking payment).
The PSRs also have detailed provisions as to the rights and liabilities of customers and PSPs; in particular, PSPs need to re-credit unauthorised transactions to customers' accounts (with limited scope for making customers liable for them), and are also ordinarily liable for misexecution of transactions, for example if they are sent to the wrong payee or not sent at all. These requirements bring important protections to customers, whose rights were – prior to introduction of PSD1 – less well defined in these areas, with delayed refunds of unauthorised transactions having been a particular concern of regulators.
The PSRs also set out detailed and rigorous requirements on payments security and access for TPPs (which we discuss below), and constraints on certain charges and charging practices. Of particular note was the introduction of a new general prohibition on surcharging by payees (typically merchants) when they are paid by consumers, with non-consumer payments being limited to cost.
The conduct of business requirements in the PSRs apply to payment services provided not only to consumers but also to business customers, although non-consumers (other than micro-enterprises and charities) can be asked to opt out of many of the conduct requirements.
ii Third-party payment services
Two new third-party payment services were introduced by PSD2, namely PIS and AIS, each of which involves a PSP that does not handle funds providing customers with services in relation to payment accounts offered by third-party PSPs, where those payment accounts are accessible online.
A PIS is an 'online service to initiate a payment order at the request of the payment service user with respect to a payment account held at another [PSP]'. It is anticipated as a 'software bridge between the website of the merchant and the online banking platform of the payer's account servicing [PSP] in order to initiate internet payments on the basis of a credit transfer', and in practice is likely to include services that allow customers to pay online merchants directly from their bank accounts rather than using credit or debit cards. Such payments might typically be routed through domestic payment systems (such as the faster payment service in the UK) and may offer merchants the benefits of payments clearing to their accounts more quickly, more cheaply and with less risk of being reversed back to the customer, by comparison to card scheme payments such as Visa or MasterCard. However, it remains to be seen whether such payment methods are as advantageous to customers.
An AIS is:
an online service to provide consolidated information on one or more payment accounts held by the payment service user with another payment service provider or with more than one payment service provider, and includes such a service whether information is provided (a) in its original form or after processing; (b) only to the payment service user or to the payment service user and to another person in accordance with the payment service user's instructions.
They are likely to include account aggregation services, such as Money Dashboard, which offer customers a single place in which to view information for a number of different payment accounts offered by multiple PSPs.
TPPs are entitled to have (at their customers' request) mandatory access to payment accounts or payment account data, on non-discriminatory terms, to enable delivery of their payment initiation and account information services. The European Commission adopted a Delegated Regulation in November 2017 setting regulatory technical standards, based on regulatory technical standards drafted by the EBA with some amendments (discussed further below), covering the basis on which the account providers and TPPs will securely communicate with each other in order to facilitate delivery of those third-party services, and which will come into effect after a transitional period probably likely to end in the second quarter of 2019.
The new provisions are intended to encourage introduction of new, competing services. The example of how PIS may benefit merchants has been given above; in the case of AIS (potentially offered in conjunction with PIS), there is an opportunity for TPPs to obtain transactional data, provide customers with added value services and potentially cross-sell them other products.
iii Security
The other major impact of PSD2 has been to introduce detailed and rigorous security requirements, by comparison to PSD1. The new regime includes:
a requirement for PSPs to establish a framework of appropriate mitigation measures and control mechanisms to manage the operational and security risks relating to the payment services they provide, and to submit a comprehensive assessment of such operational and security risks to their regulators on an annual basis; obligations around notification of any major operational or security incident to regulators and, if the incident could have an impact on the financial interests of customers, obligations to also notify customers without undue delay of the incident and of all measures that they can take to mitigate the adverse effects of the incident; and a requirement for customers to undergo strong customer authentication when, for example, accessing their payment accounts or initiating electronic payment transactions. Strong customer authentication requires payers to authenticate themselves to their PSPs using 'two or more elements categorised as knowledge (something only the user knows), possession (something only the user possesses) and inherence (something the user is) that are independent, in that the breach of one does not compromise the reliability of the others'. Failure to apply strong customer authentication can affect a PSP's liability for unauthorised transactions.
The European Commission's Delegated Regulation referred to above also sets regulatory technical standards on the application of strong customer authentication. Banks and other PSPs will have to put in place the necessary infrastructure for strong customer authentication at the end of a transitional period, probably likely to end in the second quarter of 2019. The regulatory technical standards allow for exemptions from strong customer authentication in recognition of the fact there may be alternative authentication mechanisms that are equally safe and secure.
iv Passporting after Brexit
Following the Brexit vote on 23 June 2016, one of the major questions facing the payments industry is whether, and if so how, passporting rights will operate once Brexit is implemented. This will depend on what outcome is negotiated for Brexit: in particular, if the UK stays in the single market (or possibly negotiates a similar arrangement, such as equivalence or mutual recognition of financial services licences), then a UK payment institution or AISP (or indeed bank or EMI) authorisation may continue to serve in other EEA countries and vice versa. At the time of writing, however, it is difficult to assess whether such an outcome is likely or not, with some of the latest announcements indicating that the United Kingdom may seek to stay in the single market for a transitional period after Brexit takes effect and have some form of equivalence thereafter, but we must emphasise that the outcome is uncertain as it will depend on political negotiations that are yet to take place.

Story 5
Subprime credit is a huge and costly problem, but you can fix it.
We tend to think we’re done with grades once we leave school. But there's one grade that follows you around for your entire life: your credit score.
It’s a three-digit number that lenders use to assess your level of financial responsibility. It determines whether you qualify for credit cards and loans and what kind of interest rate you get. Sometimes, landlords, employers, and even cellphone providers use it when deciding whether to work with you.
Image source: Getty Images
Your credit score is important. But one in 5 Americans has a subprime score that scares lenders away, according to the latest Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) Consumer Credit Card Market study. There's good news, though: You aren’t stuck there forever.
What is a subprime credit score?
What’s considered a "good" or "bad" credit score depends on the scale you’re using. The two most common credit scoring models are the FICO score and the VantageScore. Both use a scale ranging from 300 to 850 with a higher number indicating a greater degree of financial responsibility.
Each lender has its own criteria for which score falls into which tier, but the CFPB study breaks it down like this:
Credit Score Tier Credit Score Range Superprime 720–850 Prime 660–719 Near-prime 620–659 Subprime 580–619 Deep subprime 300–579
Data source: Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
Approximately 6% of the U.S. adult population has subprime credit, according to the CFPB study, while 13% have deep subprime credit. These individuals will find it difficult to take out new loans or open new credit cards -- and if they're approved, they’ll pay much higher interest rates than borrowers with near-prime, prime, or superprime credit to account for their increased risk of default.
What determines your credit score?
Your credit score is based on the information in your credit reports. Each credit scoring model weighs these factors differently, but they all look at more or less the same things.
Your payment history is always the most important factor, and a single late payment can drop an excellent FICO score by 100 points or more. Your credit score weighs the number of late payments on your record, how late the payments were, and how recent they were. Each late payment stays on your record for seven years.
Your credit utilization ratio is almost as important as your payment history. This is the ratio between the amount of credit you use and the amount you have available to you. If you have a credit card with a $10,000 limit and you routinely use $2,000 per month, your credit utilization ratio on that card would be 20%. Strive to keep your credit utilization ratio under 30%. A higher ratio indicates a heavy reliance on credit, which worries lenders.
Other factors that influence your credit score include the following:
The ages of your oldest and newest credit accounts and your average account age.
The types of credit you have on your account. A mix between installment debt -- debt with a predictable monthly payment, like a car loan or personal loan -- and revolving debt, like credit cards, is best.
New credit looks at the number of hard credit inquiries on your report. Each one causes your credit score to take a slight hit, but most credit scoring models consider inquiries that take place within 14–30 days as a single inquiry.
How can you improve your credit?
Improving subprime credit is possible, but it takes time. Credit scoring models were designed to provide a long-term view of how you manage your finances, so it’ll take several months or even years to see a significant improvement in your score. It’s worth it, though, because you’ll gain access to better credit cards and interest rates on loans.
Here's how you can do that.
Pay your bills on time
The most important thing you can do is always pay your bills on time.
If you don't qualify for a great credit card, you can get a secured card to start rebuilding your credit. These cards have low credit limits -- typically a few hundred dollars -- equal to a security deposit you make when you open the card. The card issuer reports your monthly payments to the credit bureaus, and full, on-time payments help improve your score. If you close the secured card, the issuer will refund your security deposit, provided you don’t have an outstanding balance.
Keep utilization low
Try to keep your credit utilization ratio as low as possible, but above 0%. If you struggle with this, consider paying your credit card bill twice per month. The card issuer only reports your final balance at the end of the month to the credit bureaus, so paying twice lets you spend more without being penalized for using too much credit.
Don't apply for new credit often
Limit how often you apply for new credit. When you're in the market for a new loan or credit card, submit all of your applications within a few weeks. This minimizes the effect of hard inquiries on your score. If you’re denied, don’t apply again the next month. Wait several months before you try again. The same goes if you’re closing a credit card account. This lowers your average account age, so don't close more than one credit account every six months.
Improving your credit score takes significant changes in how you manage your money. But, over the long haul, it will probably save you money -- and it will certainly save you stress the next time you apply for a credit card, job, apartment, or cell phone plan.
Our #1 cash back pick has a surprise bonus
This may be the perfect cash back card! That's because it packs in $1,148 of value. Cardholders can earn up to 5% cash back, double rewards in the first year, and avoid interest well into 2020. With such a deep bench of perks you'll wonder how this card packs in a $0 annual fee. Best yet, you can apply and get a decision in two minutes. Learn more with our in-depth review.
The Motley Fool owns and recommends MasterCard and Visa, and recommends American Express. We’re firm believers in the Golden Rule. If we wouldn’t recommend an offer to a close family member, we wouldn’t recommend it on The Ascent either. Our number one goal is helping people find the best offers to improve their finances. That is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers. Editorial content from The Ascent is separate from The Motley Fool editorial content and is created by a different analyst team.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

Story 6
To successfully get the most out of your account, here’s what you need to consider. How to choose your account type
fizkes / Shutterstock
First, figure out how you’ll use your bank account and which account type fits your spending habits. The two most common bank accounts are checking and savings. A checking account is for day-to-day transactions: withdrawing cash when you need it, making purchases and paying bills. With a checking account, you typically get a debit card and a checkbook. A savings account is for storing money you won’t be using frequently. Most Americans have at least one bank account. In 2017, 68.4% of U.S. households were fully banked, meaning they had full access to financial services and at least one account, according to a 2017 survey from the FDIC, the government agency that insures bank deposits. At minimum, you should have a checking account for making frequent purchases, depositing checks and taking care of bills. A savings account is a great option if you're looking to put some money aside. Other types of accounts that may be more valuable for saving money, depending on your financial goals, include certificates of deposit (CDs) and money market accounts (MMAs). These accounts typically feature better interest rates than traditional savings accounts, but there can be restrictions. For example, with CDs you’ll have to agree to let the bank hold your money for months or years. Choosing where to open your bank account
Kevin George / Shutterstock
You might already have a financial institution in mind for opening your bank account. Maybe your parents have been using the same bank for years, or your best friend recommends a credit union where she has an account. Still, how do you choose? You want a financial institution that's the best match for your needs. Are you saving for emergencies, or do you need an account with a debit card for regular spending? These are the most common types of financial institutions: Tradional banks. They're popular, have physical "brick-and-mortar branches, and have been around for centuries. They offer a wide range of financial advice and services.
They're popular, have physical "brick-and-mortar branches, and have been around for centuries. They offer a wide range of financial advice and services. Credit unions. They're not-for-profit and have offerings similar to banks.
They're not-for-profit and have offerings similar to banks. Online banks. They offer what traditional banks do, but they operate online and through a network of ATMs. What you need to open your bank account
Rawpixel.com / Shutterstock
Once you’ve successfully chosen the type of institution you want to use, be prepared to provide some personal information to open your account, such as: A photo ID, such as a driver's license, Social Security card, passport or birth certificate.
Personal information such as your date of birth, physical address and phone number.
Proof of address, like a bill in your name. This isn’t an exhaustive list, and some banks will require more information. This is just the minimum you’ll likely need. When you open your first account, you may have to pay an initial deposit fee. It varies by institution and account type, but you’ll want to check with the bank in advance to make sure you have the correct amount of money. How to open a traditional bank account
goodluz / Shutterstock
When you’re ready to open your bank account, you’ll be asked to provide your information and sign an agreement stating that you understand the rules and regulations regarding your account(s) and how to bank with the financial institution. While reading through the rules and regs, be sure to read the fine print, looking out for fees that might be attached to the account. Some banks may charge a monthly fee if you don't maintain a minimum balance. It's easy enough to find an account without those pesky charges — but you've got to know where to look. How to open a bank account online
GaudiLab / Shutterstock
Opening a bank account online is similar to opening an account in person. For example, you'll need to provide your personal information, including contact info. The catch to opening an online account is that you typically must already have a bank account, since you’ll be asked for an account number or debit card to link to — for depositing your funds. With certain online banks, you can open your account very quickly by providing digital e-signatures to sign the agreements. Other internet-only banks will allow you to start your application online, but will want a signature or may want to verify your identity through a series of small deposits in an existing account. If a signature or other documentation is required, you’ll receive additional forms in a “Welcome Kit” in the mail or via email. Additional paperwork may be needed to verify your age, your history with bank accounts, or your citizenship. Check with your bank for specific details. Once you’re approved for a bank account
Michaelpuche / Shutterstock

Story 7
The joy in planning a vacation in Europe comes from booking Mediterranean boat trips or researching restaurants in Paris, not the boring details of how you pay for those experiences. But there I was, stuck in a parking lot in Lerici, Italy, because I had forgotten to set up a personal identification number on my credit card (many unmanned kiosks in Europe, like parking ticket machines , require one). That I write about such things for a living only makes the story more embarrassing, so the following checklist has been a crucial part of my European travel prep ever since.
Bring at least two credit cards from different networks
A well-chosen travel credit card should be your main form of payment in Europe. From the London Tube to a neighborhood patisserie, the fraud protection a card offers is unbeatable: You would rather have a thief using your card for their Mitte district shopping spree in Berlin than depleting your actual bank account with your A.T.M. card. Also, the larger spending limit won’t crimp your style if a hotel or a rental-car company places a 200 euros hold on the card.
Pick a credit card that does not charge a foreign transaction fee and you’ll save yourself up to 3 percent of each purchase. And if you have an American Express or Discover card, carry a Visa or Mastercard too, since these cards are more widely accepted abroad.

Story 8
Source: PPRO Group
Polish consumers are now able to shop and pay at more places online direct from their mobile phone via BLIK, thanks to a partnership between PPRO, the leading global payments platform, and the Polish Payment Standard (PPS), operator of BLIK.
International retailers wanting to close sales with Polish customers can also receive payment simply and securely via BLIK.

PPRO is now a global direct processor and the first international partner for BLIK. This opens up acceptance for this popular local payment method across PPRO’s international acquirer and payment service provider network.

The partnership comes at a time when commerce is becoming increasingly cross-border. Customers are looking outside their home markets for a wider selection of goods and lower prices. 20% of B2C e-commerce will be cross-border by 2022, estimates research firm Forrester.[1] Yet while e-commerce is becoming more global, payment is becoming more local.

BLIK transactions are made bank account to bank account via a mobile front-end. Twelve participating banks and financial institutions have integrated BLIK into their mobile banking apps, which covers more than 90% of Polish bank customers. The strength of the proposition and support for this payment method locally means that BLIK transactions have almost trebled year-on-year.

“This co-operation is a milestone for us in publicising BLIK capabilities to online vendors internationally. The agreement with PPRO will enable many more acquirers to access this Polish payment method and extend it to their customers. Global payment operators have been showing increasing interest in BLIK for some while and we are convinced that our co-operation with PPRO will contribute to growing the e-commerce acceptance network,” said Monika Król, Vice President of the Management Board, Polish Payment Standard, the operator of BLIK.

BLIK offers real-time money on a mobile — a strong proposition of its time. Bank account-funded ‘push’ payments are popular in Western and Central Europe, where the percentageof banked adults (94%)[2] is much higher than the percentage of credit cardholders (45%)[3]. In Poland, bank transfer payment methods are particularly popular, accounting for 51% of payments online, compared to card payments at 20%.[4]

“The growing popularity of ‘push’ payments is being driven by consumers wanting more control over their finances and privacy and merchants wanting to reduce the cost and risk of payment acceptance. As such, we are delighted to be the first international partner for BLIK. Integrating directly with BLIK will help make processes smoother for end-consumers and merchants, and help boost successful sales. Our partners are already looking forward to this long-term partnership as much as we are,” said Jack Ehlers, Director of Product, Payment Networks and Business Development at PPRO.

Story 9
Over the summer, Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) CEO Tim Cook name-dropped PayPal (NASDAQ:PYPL) when talking up his company's advances in digital payments. The iPhone, Apple Watch, and new Apple Card are combining to create a big boost for the tech giant's double-digit-growth services segment.
Nothing against Apple, but PayPal is really one of the best digital payments investments right now as the war on cash rages on. Events in the third quarter of 2019 prove that point.
A few numbers for context
One of PayPal's biggest strengths is its unstoppable momentum in signing new partnerships and agreements with vendors, technologists, and retailers. Payouts is one area of particular strength, with multiple big names announcing the use of PayPal and subsidiary Venmo during the third quarter. CEO Dan Schulman explained the breadth and diversity of interest the company is receiving in this regard during the earnings call:
In the quarter, Travelers Insurance announced customers can now receive insurance claim payments via PayPal. PepsiCo launched its first ever cash back loyalty program powered by Venmo and PayPal. Lime, the global scooter rental platform, selected PayPal to facilitate payouts to its network of freelancers. And Epic Games is now using our capabilities for competitive Fortnite players to expedite their prize payout process. This month, we added Venmo as a payout option providing merchants with another powerful way to reach Venmo's highly engaged user base.
As far as numbers go, all of that new business activity means user count and engagement are growing. Active accounts grew 16% year over year to 295 million (management said it expects to handily surpass its goal of 300 million during the fourth quarter), and average transactions per account grew 9% to 40. In terms of finances, that equated to a 19% increase in revenue to $4.38 billion and a 31% increase in adjusted earnings after backing out investment losses in Uber and Latin American e-commerce leader MercadoLibre.
At the rate it's going, PayPal is narrowing the gap with global payment processing leaders Visa (NYSE:V) and Mastercard (NYSE:MA). It may be a third the size of the former and less than half the size of the latter by market cap, but PayPal's revenues are knocking on the door of contention for biggest digital payments company in the world. An overlooked purchase back in September could be the fuel to put PayPal over the edge.
Big news few are talking about
Foreign businesses have often complained about lack of access to China's massive (1.39 billion people) and fast-developing economy (6% GDP growth in Sept. 2019) -- an issue that has been one of the focal points during the U.S.-China trade war. E-commerce transaction value is growing 18.5% in the country this year, according to researcher Statista (during a bad year for the economy), with mobile payments accounting for more than half of the total. That's right up PayPal's alley, if only it could get a piece of the pie.
PayPal might have a solution. Where every other payment processor has been denied, in September, the Chinese government gave the company the go-ahead in purchasing a 70% equity interest in Guofubao Information Technology, otherwise known as GoPay. It's a huge milestone, one that has been largely overlooked -- perhaps because of the lack of specific detail that came with the deal announcement.
There are also two very large elephants in the room in need of acknowledgment: Alibaba's Alipay and Tencent's WeChat Pay, which together form a duopoly that has a stranglehold on the digital payments and e-commerce market in China. It will be an uphill battle, and the acquisition could add to those investment losses like the ones reported on Uber and MercadoLibre. But just as it is with PayPal's other strategic purchases, the long-term potential is huge.
Schulman added some comments during the third-quarter call:
This is a very significant development for us, and it has the potential to dramatically expand our total addressable market and our long-term growth prospects. The license enables us to expand upon our relationships with existing partners like China UnionPay and AliExpress, and forge new partnerships with China's financial institutions and technology platforms, allowing us to provide a comprehensive set of differentiated payment solutions to businesses and consumers in China and globally.
If PayPal's double-digit expansion everywhere else around the globe wasn't enough, adding China to the mix -- where no other non-Chinese payment processor operates -- surely makes this a top stock in the industry. With another strong quarter in the books, the future keeps looking rosier for PayPal.

Story 10
The boom in fintech and digital payment continues unabated. As far as the spread of new forms of payment is concerned, emerging countries are leading the way – be it payments based on biometric features or facial recognition.
Developed countries are also moving towards digital payments. However, other factors are decisive than in emerging markets. B2B-oriented companies that provide technology for payment service providers will be the next major growth segment in this market.
Different growth drivers in emerging and developed countries
The fintech market continues to grow at a rapid pace. This development makes sense because payment service providers typically know their customers well. This also makes them suitable as lenders – banks, on the other hand, often see a loan applicant for the first time. “fintech is gradually absorbing many of banks’ high-margin businesses, including cross-border payments, lending and securities accounts,” says Jeroen van Oerle, co-portfolio manager of the Robeco Global Fintech Equities Fund.
This dynamic growth is based on different drivers in different regions of the world. “In developed countries, fintech benefits from the transition from cash to card payments and then to digital forms of payment,” says co-fund manager Patrick Lemmens.
In developed countries, change is driven by consumers switching to online purchases, which in turn favors online payments. “Although the economy in developed countries is not growing very fast, the digital payment sector is.
As far as the spread of new forms of payment is concerned, emerging countries are leading the way. (Source)
By contrast, the driving factor in emerging markets is underlying economic growth, which is pushing more and more people from the lower to middle-income brackets. In the wake of the trend towards financial inclusion, new forms of payment have developed in Asia from the outset. The infrastructure associated with cash payments, such as ATMs, is becoming increasingly scarce there.
“In countries like China, it is almost impossible to pay cash,” says Lemmens. Mobile phone payments are so common there that “the worst thing that can happen in China is the telephone malfunction”.
The wave of mergers and acquisitions in the fintech sector
The current wave of corporate takeovers in developed and emerging countries alike is driven by the need for higher payment volumes and the expansion of IT capacities. “Mergers and acquisitions give companies economies of scale,” explains van Oerle. At the beginning of the year, the US payment service provider FIS bought its competitor Worldplay, and Fiserv also acquired First Data, another major player in the market. Global Payments purchased Total System Services. Van Oerle believes that this wave of mergers and acquisitions will continue and reach Europe next. Until recently, the markets were highly fragmented. But now there will be consolidation at the European level.
In the emerging markets, conglomerates have already emerged in the field of digital payments. A few large providers dominate the offers.
“Smaller companies find it difficult to compete with government payment systems like UPI,” explains van Oerle. UPI (Unified Payments Interface) was an instant payment system that is also available as a smartphone application. It was developed in India to facilitate bank transactions.
In addition, leading Chinese providers are acquiring stakes in other Asian payment service providers to serve both Chinese and non-Chinese customers.
The enabling technology in the Fintech market is still at an early stage (Source)
B2B next growth theme
A new growth opportunity in the fintech sector will be B2B providers or facilitators. This includes all companies that provide the appropriate systems or infrastructure in the area of digital payment. Whether software, payment terminals or cybersecurity services. Because the Finech market is growing so rapidly and depends on these vendors for its basic applications, economic environment doesn’t affect such B2B companies, Van Oerle believes.
Such enabling technology companies supply banks, insurance companies and asset managers as well as the new fintech companies that are entering the market. This development is the driving force behind the mergers and acquisitions between enablers and large financial institutions. For example, the Japanese financial services provider and asset manager SBI Holdings has a stake in Ripple, a global provider of cross-border payments.
The enabling technology in the fintech market is still at an early stage. The development of digital payments will follow. While digital payment service providers still offer significant growth and investment opportunities over the next 5-10 years, we will focus in the next few years on identifying winners among B2B providers who will then open up new and additional investment opportunities” says Lemmens.
__
(Featured Image by Square via Unsplash)
First published in e-fundresearch, a third-party contributor translated and adapted the article from the original. In case of discrepancy, the original will prevail.
Although we made reasonable efforts to provide accurate translations, some parts may be incorrect. B2I assumes no responsibility for errors, omissions or ambiguities in the translations provided on this website. Any person or entity relying on translated content does so at their own risk. B2I is not responsible for losses caused by such reliance on the accuracy or reliability of translated information. If you wish to report an error or inaccuracy in the translation, we encourage you to contact us.

Story 11
US, EU and UK Companies Can Now Pay Workers in Bitcoin Cash via Bitwage
Getting at least partially paid with cryptocurrency is a great way to enter the digital asset market without having to do any trading. If you are looking to earn your favorite crypto asset, Bitwage now allows American, European and British companies to pay workers in bitcoin cash following demand for more payment options.

Also Read: Binance to Add Bitcoin Cash to Its Decentralized Exchange
You Can Now Get Paid With Bitcoin Cash
International cryptocurrency payroll and human resources service provider Bitwage has recently announced the launch of bitcoin cash payrolls. This means that anyone working for a U.S., EU or U.K. employer can now receive a portion of their wage in BCH by signing up to the service. Companies can also sign up to fund payrolls in BCH or to offer BCH to their employees and freelancers.
Earlier this year the company expanded beyond just BTC by launching support for ETH payrolls. Shortly after that it took a customer survey to learn what else its users wanted and discovered that there was demand more cryptocurrency payment options. Bitcoin cash, as a consistent top four digital asset, offering low fees and fast transactions, was a natural choice to add.
“As cryptocurrency becomes more mainstream, employees and freelancers are looking to diversify their portfolio of cryptocurrency,” commented Bitwage CEO Jonathan Chester. “Bitwage is making it easier for workers around the world to accumulate their favorite cryptocurrency, through passive dollar-cost-averaging.”
Bitwage Is Used by Workers at Facebook, Google and Uber
Bitwage has been providing direct bitcoin deposits since 2014, and reportedly already serves over 30,000 people including employees, freelancers and independent contractors. It has also reportedly raised around $1 million in total funding from a number of investors such as Draper Associates, Orange and BPI France.
According to the company’s website, the service has been used by workers of Google, Facebook, Uber, Airbnb, American Express, GE, Comcast and other corporations as well as public institutions such as the World Health Organization. Coinciding with the BCH launch, Bitcoin.com has now onboarded as an initial customer, Bitwage revealed.
If you want to get your hands on bitcoin cash without waiting for your next paycheck, you can safely and securely purchase BCH with a credit or debit card at buy.Bitcoin.com, as well as BTC, ETH, XRP, LTC and BNB. You can also trade digital assets for cash in person or with any other payment method privately on our noncustodial, peer-to-peer marketplace, local.Bitcoin.com, or simply join our premier trading platform, exchange.Bitcoin.com.
What do you think about Bitwage enabling US, EU and UK companies to pay their workers with bitcoin cash? Share your thoughts in the comments section below.
Images courtesy of Shutterstock.
Verify and track bitcoin cash transactions on our BCH Block Explorer, the best of its kind anywhere in the world. Also, keep up with your holdings, BCH and other coins, on our market charts at Bitcoin.com Markets, another original and free service from Bitcoin.com.

Story 12
BRUSSELS — Apple Inc faces more regulatory woes in Europe as EU antitrust regulators ask online sales companies whether they have been told to use its mobile payment service instead of rival services, an EU document seen by Reuters showed.
In a questionnaire sent in August, the European Commission said it had information Apple may have restricted online payments for the purchase of goods and services made via merchant apps or websites, in breach of EU antitrust rules.
Launched in October 2014, Apple’s mobile payment service Apple Pay is part of the company’s diversification from device sales. It is available in more than 50 countries worldwide, including in more than 20 EU countries.
The questionnaire asked if companies were under a contractual obligation to enable a certain payment method and also if such contracts included conditions for integrating Apple Pay in their apps and websites.
Regulators wanted to know if Apple has rejected merchant apps as incompatible with the terms and conditions for integrating Apple Pay in their apps.
The Commission confirmed that it had sought information from market participants.
“The Commission is actively monitoring the development of mobile payment solutions, the behavior by operators active in the payments sector, including mobile payments,” the EU competition enforcer said.
Apple said its payment system offers the safest and most secure solution in the market as evidenced by the thousands of banks using it.
“IPhone has completely transformed mobile payments by providing customers with a choice of how to pay including cash, credit card and debit card, as well using apps from the major banks and financial institutions,” it said.
Critics have long complained about an NFC chip embedded in the Apple iPhone which means Apple Pay is automatically selected when an iPhone user pays for goods and services, barring rival payment methods.
Recent alerts on iPhones asking users if they want to set up Apple Pay on their devices have also triggered protests from some.
In an interview with Reuters last year, European Competition Commissioner Margrethe Vestager said she might investigate Apple Pay if there are formal complaints.
Apple is already the target of a complaint by Swedish music streaming service Spotify Technology SA which says the U.S. company unfairly limits rivals to its own streaming service. The Commission has yet to decide whether to open an investigation. (Reporting by Foo Yun Chee Editing by David Holmes and Lisa Shumaker)

Story 13
In this report Ugo Aliogo writes about tefforts of First Bank of Nigeria to improve the card space with the newly launched Visa Debit Multi-Currency card
Card payment is still a new phenomenon despite increased adoption by financial technology companies (FinTechs) and banking institutions.
Cash payment has remained the most trusted channel but due to the disruptions constantly experienced, the level of customer confidence and trust can be argued to have dropped.
Stakeholders in the card payment space have argued that despite the increased number of online payment gateways in Nigeria, market regulators have not made impressive efforts to mitigate the challenges caused by technology disruptions. However, fintechs and the banking institutions are putting in place measures to address the disruption in the card payment process to ensure that merchants enjoy efficient online payment experience.
One of the industry players driving seamless banking in the online payment space is First Bank of Nigeria. The bank is leaving no stone unturned in ensuring that customers enjoy pleasant experience in its online banking. Recently, the bank introduced the FirstBank Visa Debit Multi-Currency card which is the first of its kind to be offered by any financial institution in Nigeria.
The debit card ensures that customers within and outside the country can enjoy the luxury of having their local and foreign denominated accounts linked to a single debit card. It is an enhancement to the existing visa debit dual currency card and can be linked to a customers' Naira, USD, Euro and GBP accounts. It is an international card with chip and Personal Identification Number (PIN) technology which can be used to make payment anywhere in the world and across all channels such as ATMs, POS and Web.
Speaking on the card launch, the Group Executive, e-Business and Retail Product, Mr. Chuma Ezirim, said the bank takes pride in pioneering the Visa Multi Currency Card in the country, adding that the bank remains committed to providing products and services that are designed to ensure the banking convenience of its customers regardless of their locations.
"This card is designed to make traveling fun for our customers and ensure they have a seamless transaction experience during their vacation, tourism and other business-related trips around the globe," he stated.
The bank recently set an impressive track record as the first financial institution in the country to achieve issuing a whopping 10 million cards to customers across the country. The bank is now among two other African banks to achieve the milestone.
The ground-breaking feat was similar to about two years ago when the bank in December, 2015 and May 2016, was the first financial institution in the country to achieve sustained alternative channels transaction volumes of 100 million transactions in December 2015 and May 2016.
According to the Managing Director, First Bank of Nigeria Limited, Dr. Adesola Adeduntan, the feat was a testament to the bank's drive in delivering its brand promise and putting customers first and continuously improving business in order to serve them better.
He added that one of the ways by which the bank was able to sustain the winning edge is the use of the instant issuance/Instant activation technology, which it pioneered about 10 years ago.
According to him, "Delivering to this feat at this time, is a testament to the bank's drive in delivering its brand promise putting customers first and continuously improving our business to serve them better.
"We have also consistently maintained the highest active card ratio in the industry. This feat also implies that our customers are becoming more technology savvy and we would continue to encourage this attitude with our commitment to world class service delivery. Therefore, we must work to ensure optimal performance and availability of all our channels such as ATM, FirstMobile and others to guard against customer dissatisfaction."
The bank has also recently bagged a hat trick of awards, which are clear signs that the giant strides taken by the pan-African leading bank-brand towards fostering its banking technologies are well aligned to the fast paced technological advancement in modern day banking.
In examining the issue of card payment space and the disruption, THISDAY spoke to the Chief Executive Officer, Patricia Technology Ventures, Fejiro Agbodje, who expressed confidence that the country was making progress in the payment space.
"Technologically, Nigeria is still yet to adopt technology 100 percent in e-Commerce. But we can do better. I think the major disruption with the payment space is network failure. You transfer funds at the Automated Teller Machine (ATM) but it fails. The primary reason for this failure is technology.
"If you look at the Nigeria Interbank Settlement System (NIBSS), you will see 13 to seven per cent failure rate in online transactions and in a day we have over millions of transaction in the country. So 13 percent means that 13,000 transactions failed and this is due to infrastructural challenge because in Nigeria we don't have a unified payment system.
"Unlike in Ghana where the payment is almost instant and in the United States with systems such as Paypal which is always instant. If you are making a financial transaction, each bank has its internal network which it operates and uses either NIBSS or Interwitsch.
"The internal networks are the payment gateways that move money from one bank to another bank. Therefore sometimes the failure in financial transaction can come from the bank which could be failure in its down time or the bank is upgrading its servers and technology as a result, they cannot transfer signals to NIBSS or interswitch. While sometimes NIBSS servers might be down which implies that there is no transaction.
Close Sign up for free AllAfrica Newsletters Get the latest in African news delivered straight to your inbox Top Headlines Nigeria Business Banking By submitting above, you agree to our privacy policy. Success! Almost finished... We need to confirm your email address. To complete the process, please follow the instructions in the email we just sent you. Error! Error! There was a problem processing your submission. Please try again later.
"If you notice, almost every holiday in Nigeria, we have problems with financial transfers. These are all the problems that we cannot really solve until we have a unified system, where transaction can be handled properly. It is really long shoot because NIBSS is run by the federal government in partnership with all the banks, therefore getting NIPES to aggregate for everybody efficiently is going to be hassle.
"The improvement that has been spotted in the system includes the use of the electronic cards, scan to pay, pay code which allows you to make any payment without an ATM card that is innovative and if given more lights can be more adopted. So those are innovations and payment convenience for the customers. But unfortunately, Nigerians are not too receptive to new technologies, because in Nigeria, we don't trust what we don't know. So we rather stick to the old methods, instead of trying something new.
"The banks have a role to play in this technology disruptions especially in the area of innovation. But the question is if the banks are really meeting the users where they (users) ought to be met? It is one thing to bring a product that seems cool and good, but the banks should understand that the world is evolving.
"People want things that will drive convenience, instant, interesting and fast in the payment space. The online payment system has to be designed in such a way that it has to drive increased interests. We need to meet the users where they want to be met and what they want, we need to understand the market and how to penetrate it."

Story 14
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (NYSE:JPM) and 1st Capital Bank (OTCMKTS:FISB) are both finance companies, but which is the better investment? We will compare the two businesses based on the strength of their risk, analyst recommendations, profitability, dividends, institutional ownership, earnings and valuation.
Insider and Institutional Ownership
Get JPMorgan Chase & Co. alerts:
72.0% of JPMorgan Chase & Co. shares are held by institutional investors. Comparatively, 5.3% of 1st Capital Bank shares are held by institutional investors. 0.8% of JPMorgan Chase & Co. shares are held by insiders. Strong institutional ownership is an indication that hedge funds, large money managers and endowments believe a stock is poised for long-term growth.
This is a summary of recent recommendations and price targets for JPMorgan Chase & Co. and 1st Capital Bank, as provided by MarketBeat.
Sell Ratings Hold Ratings Buy Ratings Strong Buy Ratings Rating Score JPMorgan Chase & Co. 1 11 6 0 2.28 1st Capital Bank 0 0 0 0 N/A
JPMorgan Chase & Co. presently has a consensus price target of $122.77, indicating a potential downside of 2.36%. Given JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s higher possible upside, equities analysts clearly believe JPMorgan Chase & Co. is more favorable than 1st Capital Bank.
Risk & Volatility
JPMorgan Chase & Co. has a beta of 1.2, indicating that its stock price is 20% more volatile than the S&P 500. Comparatively, 1st Capital Bank has a beta of 0.54, indicating that its stock price is 46% less volatile than the S&P 500.
Dividends
JPMorgan Chase & Co. pays an annual dividend of $3.60 per share and has a dividend yield of 2.9%. 1st Capital Bank does not pay a dividend. JPMorgan Chase & Co. pays out 40.0% of its earnings in the form of a dividend.
Profitability
This table compares JPMorgan Chase & Co. and 1st Capital Bank’s net margins, return on equity and return on assets.
Net Margins Return on Equity Return on Assets JPMorgan Chase & Co. 24.70% 14.63% 1.26% 1st Capital Bank N/A N/A N/A
Valuation and Earnings
This table compares JPMorgan Chase & Co. and 1st Capital Bank’s gross revenue, earnings per share (EPS) and valuation.
Gross Revenue Price/Sales Ratio Net Income Earnings Per Share Price/Earnings Ratio JPMorgan Chase & Co. $131.41 billion 3.06 $32.47 billion $9.00 13.97 1st Capital Bank $20.92 million 3.93 $2.85 million N/A N/A
JPMorgan Chase & Co. has higher revenue and earnings than 1st Capital Bank.
Summary
JPMorgan Chase & Co. beats 1st Capital Bank on 11 of the 13 factors compared between the two stocks.
About JPMorgan Chase & Co.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. operates as a financial services company worldwide. It operates through four segments: Consumer & Community Banking (CCB), Corporate & Investment Bank (CIB), Commercial Banking (CB), and Asset & Wealth Management (AWM). The CCB segment offers deposit and investment products and services to consumers; lending, deposit, and cash management and payment solutions to small businesses; mortgage origination and servicing activities; residential mortgages and home equity loans; and credit card, payment processing, auto loan, and leasing services. The CIB segment provides investment banking products and services, including advising on corporate strategy and structure, and capital-raising in equity and debt markets, as well as loan origination and syndication; treasury services, such as cash management and liquidity solutions; and cash securities and derivative instruments, risk management solutions, prime brokerage, and research. This segment also offers securities services, including custody, fund accounting and administration, and securities lending products for asset managers, insurance companies, and public and private investment funds. The CB segment provides financial solutions, including lending, treasury, investment banking, and asset management to corporations, municipalities, financial institutions, and nonprofit entities, as well as financing to real estate investors and owners. The AWM segment offers investment and wealth management services across various asset classes, such as equities, fixed income, alternatives, and money market funds; multi-asset investment management services; retirement products and services; and brokerage and banking services comprising trusts, estates, loans, mortgages, and deposits. The company also provides ATMs; digital covering online and mobile; and telephone banking services. JPMorgan Chase & Co. was founded in 1799 and is headquartered in New York, New York.
About 1st Capital Bank
1st Capital Bank provides various banking products and services to businesses, professionals, real estate investors, family commercial entities, and individuals in the central coast region of California. Its deposit products include personal and business checking, savings, money market, and certificates of deposit accounts, as well as individual retirement accounts and health savings accounts. The company also offers business loans and lines of credit, such as long term loans for fixed-asset purchases and permanent working capital, asset-based lines of credit to cover accounts receivables and inventory, short term lines of credit to support short-term seasonal working capital needs or inventory purchases, equipment financing, and acquisition financing; and commercial real estate loans comprising term loans for the purchase or refinance of commercial and multi-family residential properties; and personal loans for business owners. In addition, it provides agriculture and wine industry lending products, including long or short term loans for crops, orchards, winery, and vineyard development; real estate purchases or debt refinancing; machinery and equipment purchase; and building improvements, as well as lines of credit for seasonal needs. Further, the company offers small business administration and government guaranteed lending solutions; debit cards; cash management services that include ACH origination, online wire transfer, check reconciliation, merchant card, and remote deposit capture services; and remote check scanning, remote branch deposit, online banking, telephone banking, courier, electronic bill payment, mobile banking, and remote wire request services, as well as invests in securities. It operates through full service branch offices in Monterey, Salinas, King City, and San Luis Obispo, California. The company was incorporated in 2006 and is based in Salinas, California.
Receive News & Ratings for JPMorgan Chase & Co. Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for JPMorgan Chase & Co. and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter.

Story 15
Access Denied - Sucuri Website Firewall
If you are the site owner (or you manage this site), please whitelist your IP or if you think this block is an error please open a support ticket and make sure to include the block details (displayed in the box below), so we can assist you in troubleshooting the issue.
Block details:

Story 16
Global cross-border digital payments company InstaReM is rebranding to become part of Nium, a global enterprise payments platform. Stemming from the Sanskrit word for rules and principles, Nium encapsulates what it’s about — rewriting the rules to ensure financial freedom for everyone, everywhere.
Nium aspires to become enabler; creator of an open platform that businesses and partners can use to build a world free of the old constraints and restrictions – a world of Open Money. Nothing like Nium and its ‘Open Money Network’ has ever been created before.
The Nium platform is open for developers to be able to build new payments capabilities. Corporates and startups in India would be able to leverage the Nium infrastructure to solve existing challenges in global payments.
It was during the recent USD 41 million Series C funding round earlier this year, that InstaReM had indicated its intention to transit to an open money platform.
“When we started InstaReM four years ago, our mission was to make moving money internationally, faster and more convenient through seamless digital payments. It’s the innovative concept of open money which we’re trying to par. So, you should be able to send money anywhere which is a remittance platform, spend money anywhere which is a card piece and receive money anywhere which is a pay-in product. For InstaReM to continue to expand and stand out we need to offer a customer experience like no other, and so that’s our main focus as we move forward,” InstaReM’s co-founder and CEO Prajit Nanu had said at the time.
Now, in October 2019, the transition is complete with the launch of Nium, the new Open Money platform, which is engineered by the team that created InstaReM in 2015. InstaReM will continue to remain a digital remittance solution, but will now be part of – and powered by – the Nium platform.
Nium is the global payments platform to enable businesses to send, spend and receive money from around the world, in addition to empowering them to develop their own products that simplify cross-border payments. Nium’s ambition is to create a world of ‘Open Money’ where everyone’s money is free for them to use, whenever, wherever and however they want.
Organisations working with Nium will have the opportunity to become a member of ‘The Open Money Network’, a digital collective of financial institutions, fintechs, eCommerce platforms, travel companies and online marketplaces. In addition to using Nium’s ability to send, spend and receive money, members of the network will be able to use the platform to build new products and services free from legacy system constraints.
Businesses and start-ups will be able to use Nium in three ways:
Buying Nium’s off-the-shelf products. Working with Nium to build custom integrations for their enterprise tech stack. Using the Nium platform to build innovative products and services that make the cross-border movements of money quicker, more convenient and cost-effective.
With Nium, corporates and startups in India would be able to leverage Nium’s infrastructure to address existing challenges in global payments.
Prajit Nanu, the India-born Co-Founder and CEO of Nium adds, “As we look to the future, our strategy is to move beyond merely creating services on our own proprietary platform. We have worked really hard in the last four years to build new capabilities that open a world of possibilities in the global payments universe. To express our broader capabilities to the world, and to engage more directly to our existing and future enterprise partners, we have rebranded InstaReM to “Nium”, which is the Sanskrit word for rules and principles. We aspire to become enablers; creators of an open platform that businesses and partners use to build a world free of old constraints and restrictions – a true world of Open Money. This is Nium.”
About Nium
The Nium platform is used to create a wide range of payment services grouped into three categories: Send, Spend and Receive.
InstaReM is backed by investors including Global Founders Capital, Vertex Ventures, Fullerton Financial Holdings, GSR Ventures, SBI-FMO Emerging Asia Financial Sector Fund, MDI Ventures, Beacon Venture Capital, Vertex Growth Fund and Atinum Investment.
Send – real-time cross-border payments, local ACH payments, sending funds to a Visa debit card, remittance as a service, remittance apps, embeddable payouts, API tool integrations.
Spend – BIN sponsorship, B2B commercial payments, employee expense cards, supplier card payments, customer cards and UTAP.
Receive – Collection via virtual accounts and cards, split payments, invoice collection, personal fund collection, invoice collection, marketplace/website payments, automated receivables tracking and master merchant solutions.
Organisations working with Nium will have the opportunity to become a member of ‘The Open Money Network’, a digital collective of financial institutions, fintech organisations, ecommerce platforms, travel companies and online markets.
Like this content? Sign up for our daily newsletter to get latest updates.

Story 17
Commonwealth Bank customers could now be eligible for a refund of any fees and charges they incurred after last week’s network crash.
A network outage left millions of Commonwealth Bank (CBA) customers unable to make payments or access their money last Thursday, while some had to wait several days for funds such as salaries to clear.
Today, the bank again apologised to customers who were affected by the delay in payments and said it believes funds should now be in customer accounts.
“Following the outage impacting our systems in recent days, we have made significant progress in processing the outstanding payments,” CBA said on its website today.
“We apologise to everyone who has been affected by the delay in payments and we are very sorry for the inconvenience it has caused.”
The bank was still trying to get payments processed yesterday, four days after the initial outage.
Many customers took to social media platforms over the past few days to vent their frustration. Complaints included that they were unable to pay for fuel at the petrol bowser, unable to transfer money, still hadn’t received their wages and were charged late payment fees due to insufficient funds in accounts at the time of the outage.
“We are now refunding fees and charges associated to the network issue on Thursday for our customers who were impacted by this issue,” CBA told customers on Twitter today.
Will you reimburse late payment fees to your customers due to insufficient funds automatically or are you expecting customers to chase you for fees due to your inefficiency? — amyuli (@amyuliyuli) October 21, 2019
The bank advised customers to call or visit a branch if they were still experiencing any issues.
(1/2) Update 10.00AM. We now believe funds should be in customer accounts. If anyone has any issues or questions regarding their payments please contact 132221 or visit us in branch so we can assist. — CommBank (@CommBank) October 21, 2019
CBA’s systems started to recover in the early hours of Friday morning after they had crashed around midday on Thursday, due to an issue triggered by a scheduled technology upgrade.
The timing of that infrastructure upgrade on a Thursday – when a high number of employers do their payroll runs – has been criticised.
In May, the Payment System Board (PSB) – whose members include the heads of the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) and the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA) – discussed operational outages in retail payments across financial institutions.
The Board found there had been an increase in disruptions in the past year and gave the go-ahead for the RBA to work with APRA to develop a standard set of performance statistics that each individual bank would have to disclose.
In its annual report last week, the PSB confirmed these statistics would be publicly available, stating that the measure was designed to “strengthen transparency and market discipline”.
According to iTnews, regulators have already started requesting banks submit data on their outages, such as downtime, services affected, severity and what caused the issue.
Follow Canstar on Facebook and Twitter for regular financial news updates.

Story 18
NAPLES, Fla. & MUMBAI, India--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Growing strength of digital payments in merchant payments channel, increasing ubiquity driven by younger consumers, according to new study by ACI Worldwide
Digital payments are the preferred payment option for 42 percent of consumers in India, leading card payments (29%) and cash (27%), according to a new online study conducted by YouGov and ACI Worldwide (ACIW), a leading global provider of real-time electronic payment and banking solutions.
While preference for digital payments – including eWallet and UPI payments – is more pronounced with younger consumers (42% for Gen Z and 48% for Millennials), the survey revealed a more consistent picture across age groups in terms of adoption. 77 percent of Millennials had used digital payments at least once during the festival season, compared to 72 percent of Gen Z and 69 percent of Gen X. Nearly half (45%) of Baby Boomers also indicated they had used digital payments within the survey period.
“Digital payments, including UPI and other eWallets, are increasingly the payment method of choice across a wide spectrum of consumers in India,” said Kaushik Roy, vice president & country leader – South Asia, ACI Worldwide. “While there is still a perception that UPI, for example, is primarily for the peer-to-peer channel, this study shows that significant inroads are being made in the merchant payments channel. With monthly transactions on the UPI platform nearing one billion, and credit and debit card usage at the POS experiencing double-digit annual growth, digital and card payments will continue to make inroads into the cash economy.”
44 percent of respondents used digital payment methods for low-value payment (less than 1,000 INR) via a merchant website (eCommerce) or app (P2M), indicative of the progress made by digital payments in the merchant channel. However, banks, fintechs and merchants should be aware that 40 percent of those surveyed consider data privacy as a top area of concern when it comes to digital payments.
Other key findings and trends:
Payment behaviors and spending patterns
43 percent of respondents used digital payment methods regularly (at least 2-3 times per week) during the festival period, with 15 percent purchasing this way once or more per day.
32 percent have not used cash for festival season purchases, indicating that for some, festival season spending is becoming a largely cashless affair.
Only one in ten respondents (10%) claimed to have not made a digital payment method at all in the period leading up to Diwali.
Peer-to-peer (P2P) payments were made by 36 percent of respondents for low-value payments (less than 1,000 INR) and 37 percent for high-value payments (more than 1,000 INR) during the festival season.
Consumer concerns and industry opportunities
Internet connectivity (a prerequisite to most digital payment methods) is a top concern for 44 percent, while failed transactions (36%), problems processing refunds (32%) and fraud (29%) also identified as major concerns.
Only 21 percent of respondents cited lack of clarity about fees as a top concern and 23 percent lack of acceptance infrastructure at merchants, reflecting increasing ease of use for customers and greater merchant acceptance.
Queried about what would encourage more frequent usage of digital payments, 42 percent said better rewards (discounts, incentives or cashbacks); 24 percent cited faster and more frictionless checkout.
As per data released by NPCI, UPI transactions hit an all-time high of 955.02 million in September 2019 as compared to 918.35 million in August. There has been a 135 percent YoY increase in the number of transactions and UPI is soon expected to cross one billion monthly transactions.
Mandy Killam, EVP Growth Markets, ACI Worldwide, will be joined by George Sam, co-founder, Mindgate Solutions, to deliver the presentation “Addressing the APAC Opportunity and the Growth of UPI Transactions” at 10:25am, Sunday, October 27 at Money20/20 USA.
Survey Methodology:
All figures, unless otherwise stated, are from YouGov Plc. Total sample size was 1,025 adults. Fieldwork was undertaken between October 9-15, 2019. The survey was carried out online. The figures have been weighted and are representative of all Indian adults (aged 18+). Generations were defined as follows: Gen Z (born after 1999, 201 total), Millennial (born 1982-1999, 488 total), Gen X (born 1965-1981, 279 total), and Baby Boomer (born 1946-1964, 57 total).
About ACI Worldwide
ACI Worldwide, the Universal Payments (UP) company, powers electronic payments for more than 5,100 organizations around the world. More than 1,000 of the largest financial institutions and intermediaries, as well as thousands of global merchants, rely on ACI to execute $14 trillion each day in payments and securities. In addition, myriad organizations utilize our electronic bill presentment and payment services. Through our comprehensive suite of software solutions delivered on customers’ premises or through ACI’s private cloud, we provide real-time, immediate payments capabilities and enable the industry’s most complete omni-channel payments experience. To learn more about ACI, please visit www.aciworldwide.com. You can also find us on Twitter @ACI_Worldwide.
© Copyright ACI Worldwide, Inc. 2019
ACI, ACI Worldwide, the ACI logo, ACI Universal Payments, UP, the UP logo and all ACI product/solution names are trademarks or registered trademarks of ACI Worldwide, Inc., or one of its subsidiaries, in the United States, other countries or both. Other parties' trademarks referenced are the property of their respective owners.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20191022005786/en/

Story 19
The Bank of Korea has again poured cold water on the idea of adopting a central bank digital currency (CBDC), according to remarks made by an official of the central bank.
Based on a CoinDesk Korea report on Wednesday and notes from a conference on payments held on Tuesday in Seoul, Hong Kyung-sik, director of financial settlement at the central bank, argued that in Korea, as in most advanced economies, there is very little need for a CBDC.
“In Korea, we already have advanced payment and settlement infrastructure. In addition, the degree of openness is also internationally high,” Hong said, according to conference notes published on the central bank’s website.
Money can be moved quickly, cheaply and safely in the country utilizing app-based solutions and by bank remittance, and purchases can be settled efficiently with credit cards, Hong added. Open banking is also being developed in Korea, with APIs allowing for seamless connections to and between financial institutions.
“The possibility that CBDC issuance will soon become a reality in major countries is still small,” Hong noted.
That said, the central bank official admitted a CBDC might make some sense in developed countries for achieving a few very specific goals, such as the systems being built out in Scandinavia to avoid monopolization and to maintain the resilience of the relevant infrastructure.
On the other hand, developing countries with poor infrastructure might find a CBDC useful to improve inclusion and lower costs associated with the handling of cash, he said. For China, a central bank digital currency could support monetary policy and help promote the internationalization of the renminbi, Hong added.
He said that the central bank will continue to look at blockchain-related technologies and monitor CBDC developments globally but added the institution would be prudent in adopting new solutions.
“The Bank of Korea should promote and support innovation in payment and settlement. Every effort should be made to achieve a balance between efficiency and safety,” he concluded.
The Bank of Korea has long been skeptical of CBDCs and in the past has expressed concern about the development of these currencies. In a paper published by the bank in February, it was suggested that a CBDC could crowd out commercial banks and drain them of their funds, destabilizing the banking system.
Bank of Korea image via Shutterstock

Story 20
On Wednesday morning, Rwanda’s Central Bank (BNR) and his staff were holding a press conference at Kigali Serena Hotel.
In the middle of the press conference, Governor Rwangombwa, who was at the centre of answering countless questions from the visibly curious journalists, stole a moment to send money to someone in Nyagatare district, Eastern Province, using his Smartphone.
“I abandoned my Cheque book,” Governor Rwangombwa joked earlier before the press conference. Literally, the governor has moved to the digital payment system and no longer carry money in his wallet.
One or two years ago, the former Minister of Information Communication Technology, Jean Philbert Nsengimana, tweeted a photo of his empty wallet.
Nsengimana’s tweet was a message to the public that he has switched to digital payment system and no longer owned any liquid cash, just like Governor Rwangombwa.
All these are examples that came back today when Central Bank launched the second phase of the digital payment awareness campaign dubbed “Go Cashless”.
For the past nine years, Rwanda has been pushing the policy in which its citizens can migrate from traditional or manual way of making payments to an electronic payment system.
According to Central Bank Governor, the campaign has paid off. But there is still a long way to go in order to meet government targets, Rwangombwa added.
“Rwanda’ cashless journey has been progressive, with digital financial services increase over time,” Governor Rwangombwa said at the launch of the second phase of the campaign.
Over the last nine years, said Governor Rwangombwa, “the value of e-payments to GDP increased from 0.3% in 2011 to 34.6% in 2019. The target is 80% by 2024.”
The policy of the cashless economy has been largely attributed to several initiatives put in place, according to governor Rwangombwa.
Some of the initiatives, Governor Rwangombwa said, was the introduction of new types of POS (Point Of Sale) since 2017 that are easy and almost costless to deploy.
The point of sale (POS) or point of purchase (POP) is the time and place where a retail transaction is completed.
The second initiative, according to Rwangombwa, was the introduction of micro digital savings and digital loans.
For instance, he said, “Digital loans increased in volume by 270%, from 99,027 loans worth Rwf1.9billion in 2017, to a volume of 367,103 loans in June 2019 worth Rwf14.2 billion. This has doubled the number of individuals accessing loans through formal financial services in just one year.”
Governor Rwangombwa statement was good news to the audience from all Central Bank’s stakeholders including Banks, telecom companies and other institutions directly involved in the cashless economy journey.
While more initiatives to promote cashless economy have been put in place, the question of less awareness among the consumers and lack of trust for these services were among the key issues raised especially by the consumers.
For instance, Damien Ndizeye, the Executive Secretary of the Rwanda Consumers’ Rights Protection Organization (ADECOR), said that one of the key issues Central Bank and stakeholders should focus on during this second phase of the campaign is to build trust among the users of the digital services.
The other issue, he said, “These digital services should be more available and affordable. For example, there is no way both the sender and the receiver of Mobile Money services should be charged,” Ndizeye asked.
But governor Rwangombwa was quick to intervene with an answer. In the cashless economy model, people should avoid holding cash in their hands, he said.
For the case of a receiver in the mobile money transactions, Governor Rwangombwa advised that: “Instead of these people cashing out money, they should go to the nearest shopkeeper and buy things they want to buy with that money. And with this, they won’t be charged anything,” he said.
One of the key champions of digital transactions are banks and telecom companies. For instance, MTN Rwanda handles 20% of all Rwandans involved in mobile use and its transactions.
And, according to MTN Rwanda Chief Executive Officer Mitwa Kaemba Ng’ambi, “70% of the 20% of Rwandans on our network are involved in Mobile Money transactions.”
Nearly ten million of the country’s 11.3 million Rwandans are subscribed to the mobile network.
As of last year, data released by Rwanda Utilities Regulatory Agency (RURA) indicated that Mobile phone subscriptions reached 9,665,544 in October 2018 compared to 9,321,347 – two months earlier that same year.
But how will everyone especially ordinary Rwandans in the rural areas be able to go cashless like Governor Rwangombwa and former Minister Nsengimana?
In response to this question, Rwangombwa told KT Press that one of the strategies is to work with stakeholders to “increase the number of point of sale across the country but also educating the population, knowing that you don’t have to withdraw the money.”
To support Governor Rwangombwa, Eric Rwigamba – the Director-General of Financial Sector Development Directorate at the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (Minecofin), said that the use of digital payment system enables Rwandans to easily access loans.
According to Rwigamba, “When people transact with liquid cash without banking the money or transacting digitally, banks will not see them and hence become difficult for them to access loans and expand their business. The government will not be able to facilitate them because they can’t see them,” he said.
Offloading costs to handle cash
By migrating to a cashless economy, both central bank and financial institutions will get rid of huge costs incurred on handling cash.
For instance, Governor Rwangombwa said, “The cost of printing cash is Rwf1.5 billion a year.”
For Maurice Toritich, the CEO of BPR Atlas – one of the biggest financial institutions in terms of assets, “Banks spend between Rwf3 billion to Rwf5 billion every month to handle cash. With the digital payment system, we will get rid of these costs,” he told KT Press.
Digital payment systems will also reduce the costs banks incur on Automated Teller Machines (ATMs).
According to Toroitich, “It costs between $20,000 and $25,000 for one ATM and this excludes other costs associated to it such as operating and maintaining it,” he said, adding that ATMs are not part of the cashless economy since people go there to dispense money.
In 2018, the cabinet approved the Rwanda Payment System Strategy (2018-2024).
According to Governor Rwangombwa, “One of the objectives is to foster an enabling environment for innovation in the payment system,” he said calling for collaboration between the public and private sector to promote better access, adoption, and usage of digital financial services and products.
Some of the costs of handling cash include staff by hiring the required number of people handling cash such as cashiers and tellers to take care of the customer transactions.
Banks also hire managers to look over all of those transactions at the end of the day and double-check that everything is correct.
In addition, you probably have a cash room or vault associate at your head office who is the last person to check the cash that’s been brought in.
Cash handling isn’t just about accepting money for transactions and providing change. A lot more goes into it including the time bank managers and cashiers each spend on counting and balancing the money in the bank vault, preparing the floats every day, handling change requests, skims, and cash pulls, reconciling the floats at the end of the nights, preparing deposits, and delivering the money to the bank, among other issues.
During the “Go Cashless” campaign, Mobile payment, Tap & Pay, Scan & Pay, Merchant number, Payment cards, Mobile banking, Internet banking are some of the options that will be focused on, according to Central Bank Deputy Governor Dr Monique Nsanzabaganwa.

Story 21
Portland, OR, Oct. 30, 2019 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- According to the report published by Allied Market Research, the global multivendor ATM software market accounted for $1.14 billion in 2019 and is projected to reach $6.23 billion by 2026, registering a CAGR of 23.6% during the forecast period.
Ongoing modernization of older ATM estates, rise in demand for modern ATM software and hardware, and surge in awareness regarding benefits of multivendor ATM software are the major drivers of the global multivendor ATM software market. However, limitations in terms of ATM management and complexity in working with ATM suppliers hinder the market growth. On the contrary, advent of new technologies such as QR codes, contentless payments, and touch screens are estimated to create new opportunities for the market players in the future.
For Purchase Inquiry: https://www.alliedmarketresearch.com/purchase-enquiry/2982
The global multivendor ATM software market is divided on the basis of component, function, end user, and geography. Based on component, the market is segmented into software and service. The service segment is estimated to manifest the fastest CAGR of 25.8% during the forecast period. However, the software segment held the largest share in 2018, accounting for nearly three-fifths of the market.
On the basis of function, the market is categorized into bill payment, card payment, cash/cheque dispenser, cash/cheque deposit, passbook printer, and others. The cash/cheque dispenser segment held the lion’s share in 2018, contributing more than two-fifths of the market.
Based on end user, the market is bifurcated into banks & financial institutions and independent ATM deployer. The independent ATM deployer segment dominated the market in 2018, contributing more than half of the market and is anticipated to register the fastest CAGR of 24.8% during the forecast period.
Download Sample Report@ https://www.alliedmarketresearch.com/request-sample/2982
The global multivendor ATM software market is analyzed across various regions such as North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific, and LAMEA. The market across the Asia-Pacific region is projected to portray the fastest CAGR of 30.5% during the forecast period. However, the market across Europe held the largest revenue in 2018, accounting for more than two-fifths of the market.
The report provides an in-depth analysis of the market players such as:
Clydestone Group
Auriga SpA
GRGBanking
Diebold Nixdorf
Incorporated
Nautilus Hyosung America, Inc.
KAL
Printec Group
NCR Corporation
Vortex Engineering Pvt. Ltd., Incorporated.
Access KNOWLEDGE TREE (Premium on-demand, subscription-based pricing model) at: https://www.alliedmarketresearch.com/knowledgetree
Knowledge tree is a cloud-based intelligence platform that offers more than 2,000 selective, off-the-shelf reports on niche markets to enable our clients gain deep insights on the latest trends, dynamic technologies, and emerging application areas.
About Allied Market Research:
Allied Market Research (AMR) is a full-service market research and business consulting wing of Allied Analytics LLP based in Portland, Oregon. Allied Market Research provides global enterprises as well as medium and small businesses with unmatched quality of "Market Research Reports" and "Business Intelligence Solutions." AMR has a targeted view to provide business insights and consulting to assist its clients to make strategic business decisions and achieve sustainable growth in their respective market domain.
We are in professional corporate relations with various companies and this helps us in digging out market data that helps us generate accurate research data tables and confirms utmost accuracy in our market forecasting. Each and every data presented in the reports published by us is extracted through primary interviews with top officials from leading companies of domain concerned. Our secondary data procurement methodology includes deep online and offline research and discussion with knowledgeable professionals and analysts in the industry.
Follow Us: LinkedIn Twitter
Contact: David Correa 5933 NE Win Sivers Drive #205, Portland, OR 97220 United States Toll Free (USA/Canada): +1-800-792-5285, +1-503-446-1141 International: +1-503-894-6022 UK: +44-845-528-1300 Hong Kong: +852-301-84916 India (Pune): +91-20-66346060 Fax: +1-855-550-5975 help@alliedmarketresearch.com Web: https://www.alliedmarketresearch.com

Story 22
One of the essential ingredients to growing a successful business is money, but it’s surprisingly hard for entrepreneurs to access it in Canada. In this guide, business owners can get insights into how to secure the right loan for their company. We cover the essentials of getting business loans and include in-depth reviews of many of Canada’s biggest online lenders.


Getting started
The promises for easy and fast online financing for small-business owners are plentiful. Instead of lengthy applications and weeks spent waiting for a decision and deposit, new companies and established banks tout simple and convenient online applications, followed swiftly with automated decisions and fast funds.
But as Canada’s online lending scene transitions – with both new lenders and traditional banks moving online to offer loans, lines of credit and cash advances – entrepreneurs across the country still struggle to secure capital.
Story continues below advertisement
“Many firms, particularly at the startup phase, do struggle to find appropriate lending options,” says Dan Kelly, president of the Canadian Federation of Independent Business.
“There are additional struggles, depending on the sector of the economy, the region that you happen to be in, the size of your business, the length of your business ownership, the gender of the owner. All of those factors can lead to even more challenging relationships with the bank,” Mr. Kelly says.
Personal assets are often a requirement. Not owning a house, for example, can lead to rejections on a business loan. As well, research shows both new immigrants and women have a harder time accessing financing.
Apply for financing before you desperately need it, advises Angela Richardson, an accountant and partner at Richardson Miller LLP who works with many small businesses, and chairs the board of Alberta Women Entrepreneurs. “Be pro-active. Don’t wait until it’s painful.”
The time it takes to apply, be approved for and receive money varies by the lender, but it can range from about a week to a month.
Andrew Zakharia, founder of Toronto-based AZ Accounting Firm, which specializes in small businesses, says once you’ve decided you want to borrow money, the first step is to compile and prepare your company financial statements. Lenders tend to look at financials for the past two years, Mr. Zakharia says, and may also accept year-to-date figures. (If your business is growing and the financials are more favourable in the current period, it may be a good idea to provide year-to-date figures.) Read more tips on getting a small business loan.
BDC Small Business Loan
Since 2015, the Business Development Bank of Canada (BDC), wholly owned by the Government of Canada, has offered an online small-business loan.
Story continues below advertisement
Type: Term
Eligibility: Canadian-based businesses that have been generating revenues for at least two years. A good credit history is required.
Amount: Up to $100,000
Rate and term: The loan is offered at a floating base rate of 6.05 per cent, plus an additional interest charge ranging between 1 per cent and 12 per cent, depending on the BDC’s evaluation of the risk. The term is five years. There is an annual loan-management fee of $150.
Repayment: Business owners can choose to postpone their capital payments in the first six months and pay only interest; after that, the loan is repaid in 60 monthly payments. There are no penalties for early or lump-sum repayments.
Speed: The BDC says the amount of time it takes to complete an application depends on how much information the entrepreneur has on hand. Once the application is complete, processing time varies between one to five business days. Once the BDC authorizes the loan, it usually takes four to 48 hours to receive the money.
Story continues below advertisement
How it works: Business owners complete an online application containing a series of questions on the business, the specific project that necessitates the loan, and shareholder information. If a business owner is approved for and offered a loan, a personal guarantee is required.
What you need to know: The BDC’s online small-business loan is a good option for businesses not approved by banks. While the BDC’s rates are not as low as the big banks, they are lower than many alternative lenders. Read more on BDC’s online loan platform.
BMO Business Xpress
The BMO Business Xpress service, launched in October, 2018, promises to reduce approval time for small-business loans from weeks to minutes.
Type: Term
Eligibility: Any small business can apply. Both personal and business credit are checked.
Amount: Up to $500,000
Story continues below advertisement
Rate and term: BMO says its “competitive rates” are based on the prime rate of 3.95 per cent plus an additional interest rate ranging between 1 per cent and 9 per cent. Application fees start at $500. An annual fee may also apply. The term for the loan ranges between one and five years.
Repayment: Payments are made monthly. The loan is open for repayment at any time, without any penalties.
Speed: The service uses an automatic adjudication strategy, so a customer in a branch can go from conversation to document generation to signing in under 30 minutes. In most cases, the money is advanced to the business the same day or the next day.
How it works: BMO’s platform uses data analytics technology to examine small businesses, a process it says “significantly” reduces the approval period for small-business loans. Borrowers must still apply in person for this product, but BMO says it is working on developing an online version.
What you need to know: Our tester was informed he was not eligible to apply since he has a line of credit at another bank and BMO needs to have first claim on his assets. The bank maintains, however, that it is open for business to those who may have relationships with other lenders. Read more on BMO Business Xpress.
Clearbanc
Clearbanc is an online financing company co-led by Michele Romanow of Dragons’ Den fame that caters to web-enabled companies that want money for marketing. As with other merchant cash-advance products, Clearbanc borrowers receive an advance and repay the money advanced, plus a fee, as a predetermined percentage of their sales.
Story continues below advertisement
Type: Merchant cash advance
Eligibility: E-commerce and consumer SaaS (software as a service) companies with an average monthly revenue of at least $10,000 for the past six months. Businesses must be incorporated.
Amount: $10,000 to $10-million
Rate and term: Borrowers repay the money advanced plus a fee between 6 per cent and 12.5 per cent (the fee, which is different from an annual percentage rate, fluctuates depending on how the money is spent). Repayment times vary, as they are based on a percentage of sales. Borrowers typically repay the advances in six to 12 months.
Repayment: The funds are repaid by having the business’s payment processor route an agreed-upon percentage of revenues to Clearbanc until the advance and the fee are repaid. The payback rate can range between 1 per cent and 20 per cent of sales.
Speed: While Clearbanc promises you can apply online “in minutes” and money can arrive in as little as 24 hours, typically it takes around a week for businesses to get all set up.
Story continues below advertisement
How it works: Applicants give Clearbanc read-only digital access to their business bank account, payment-processing accounts and online ad-spending accounts (typically Google Ads or Facebook). Clearbanc uses that data to assess the business and determine an automated financing offer. The funds are deposited in the company’s bank account or added to a “Clearbanc marketing card.”
What you need to know: Clearbanc is a good option for growing e-commerce businesses because it’s quick, there’s no personal credit check and the entrepreneur doesn’t need to put personal assets on the line or give up equity in the company. The cost is transparent and reasonable when compared with other online lenders. Read more on Clearbanc.
FundThrough
FundThrough, which launched in 2014, offers invoice financing in which business owners receive a cash advance on their invoices.
Eligibility: Anyone who invoices other businesses and waits to get paid can use FundThrough, chief executive Steven Uster says. FundThrough does not check personal credit or require detailed financial information. A business owner uploads their invoice on FundThrough’s online platform and answers basic questions about their business, or they can connect data sources (such as their accounting software) directly to FundThrough. FundThrough approves about 80 per cent of applicants.
Express Invoice Financing: This product is FundThrough’s entry-level option. Businesses can advance invoices up to a funding limit of $50,000. A business owner submits their invoices to FundThrough, receives 100 per cent of the invoice value within 24 to 48 hours and then pays the invoice value back to FundThrough through equal payments over 12 weeks, with a fee of 0.5 per cent of the invoice value added per week, or up to 6 per cent over 12 weeks. Advances are repaid with automatic weekly repayments and there is no penalty for early repayment.
PRO Invoice Factoring: PRO offers borrowers more money at a cheaper rate, compared with the Express Invoice option, but to qualify businesses must sell to “higher quality” customers (typically bigger, established firms). PRO Invoice Factoring allows for an unlimited limit on advancing invoices. Up to 100 per cent of the invoice value is advanced. The interest rate ranges between 1 per cent and 3 per cent each month, and FundThrough says it determines that rate based on the strength of the customer paying the invoice and how long it will take the customer to pay. Using PRO Invoice Factoring, it takes two to three days to receive funds.
Story continues below advertisement
What you need to know: FundThrough is an option for business owners with outstanding invoices looking to bridge short term cash flow gaps, but business owners should be aware the cost to borrow is high compared with traditional lenders.
HSBC eCredit
Small business owners can apply online for a line of credit and receive a decision quickly.
Type: Line of credit
Eligibility: Businesses must operate in Canada and have annual gross revenues below $5-million. Accountant-prepared financial statements and personal and business credit checks are required.
Amount: $5,000 to $120,000
Rate and term: There is no set term. The interest rate varies with the prime rate. While HSBC does not publish its rate ranges, it says the average rate is 7.45 per cent (the current prime rate of 3.95 per cent plus 3.5 per cent).
Repayment: Unlike a standard loan, a line of credit only accumulates interest when the money is used. Businesses also pay a $20 monthly fee. There is currently no setup fee in place.
Speed: Business owners upload bank statements and financial statements and complete an online application with 13 steps. An auto-decision feature means in most cases, business owners can hear back in seconds. Some applications require a manual look, in which case a decision takes a few days. Once papers are signed, the new line of credit is available in two business days.
How it works: Business owners apply online and – if approved – receive a line of credit, giving them access to money for their business as they need it. If the business owner is approved and accepts the line of credit, they must sign papers in a branch.
What you need to know: For businesses that receive approval for HSBC eCredit, the product is a good option that allows easy access to money without having to pay a lot for it. Read more on HSBC eCredit.
Lendified
Founded by former bank executives in 2015, Lendified promises loans of up to $150,000 in as fast as 48 hours.
Type: Term
Story continues below advertisement
Eligibility: Incorporated businesses in Canada with at least six months of operation, at least $100,000 in annual revenue and a personal credit score of at least 610.
Amount: $5,000 to $150,000
Rate and term: The loan is for up to 24 months and repayment is made every two weeks. Lendified does not use an annual percentage rate with this product. Borrowers receive an annual interest rate, which Lendified says ranges between 8.99 per cent and 18.99 per cent. Lendified says some businesses with “strong creditworthiness” may be offered lower rates. An origination fee of 3 per cent is also charged.
Repayment: Repayment is made every two weeks. There are no penalties for early repayments if the repayment is from the cash flow of a business, but Lendified says there can be a charge if the repayment is made by refinancing through other financial institutions.
Speed: Borrowers apply online in about 10 minutes, submit six months of bank statements and receive an instant quote. Next, a Lendified representative calls the borrower within one business day and asks further questions. If the borrower is approved and accepts the loan offer, Lendified says funds are usually received in two to four days.
How it works: Borrowers complete an online application, sharing basic information about them, their business and its financial performance. The product works like other term loans, but repayment is made every two weeks, not monthly, and the term tends to be shorter (up to two years).
What you need to know: The cost to borrow is high compared with traditional lenders. Borrowers need to understand what they are signing up for and how an annual interest rate works. With an annual percentage rate, commonly used with loans, each repayment reduces the principal on which the interest is calculated. With an annual interest rate, the repayments do not reduce the principal on which the interest is calculated. Read more on Lendified.
Lending Loop
Lending Loop is an online platform that connects small businesses seeking capital with Canadians who want to lend money to small businesses. The company bills itself as Canada’s first fully regulated peer-to-peer lending platform for small businesses.
Type: Term
Eligibility: Businesses must be in operation for one year or longer, have more than $100,000 in annual revenue, be registered as a corporation or partnership, and the owner must have a minimum personal credit score of 600.
Amount: $1,000 to $500,000
Rate and term: Interest rates vary from 6 per cent to 26 per cent a year, based on the risk rating of the business. Businesses also pay an origination fee, added to the value of the loan, that ranges from 3 per cent to 6.5 per cent. Loan terms vary from three months to five years.
Story continues below advertisement
Repayment: Business owners make a fixed monthly payment for a predetermined term.
Speed: Lending Loop says it takes five minutes to complete their online loan application. The time it takes to receive the money varies, as each loan gets posted on Lending Loop’s online marketplace, where lenders can invest. The average funding time is eight days. Loans under $50,000 have an average funding time of 3.5 days.
How it works: After completing an online application, approved borrowers get assigned a loan grade and receive a loan offer. If the borrower accepts that offer, the loan gets posted on Lending Loop’s online marketplace for 30 days, with a possible 15-day extension. Once the loan is funded, money is transferred to the bank account of the business.
What you need to know: Lending Loop is best suited for business owners with a good personal credit score and a profitable business with cash flow. The borrowing cost varies based on the risk rating of the business. For some businesses, the rates are reasonable when compared with other online lenders. Read more on Lending Loop.
Merchant Growth
Merchant Growth, formerly known as Merchant Advance Capital, is a Vancouver-based company that offers small businesses two types of merchant cash-advance products, as well as business lines of credit.
Eligibility: Businesses with minimum average monthly sales of $10,000 and six months of history. Merchant Growth checks personal and business credit ratings and requires business bank statements.
Speed: Same day funding is possible, but on average it takes four days from a completed application to money in the bank.
Flex Solution: As with other merchant cash-advance products, borrowers get capital as an advance and repay it, plus a fee, as a predetermined percentage of daily credit- and debit-card sales, ranging between 4 per cent and 15 per cent. Repayment times vary, as they are based on a percentage of sales. The amount of the advance ranges from $5,000 to $500,000, with the average around $40,000. Merchant Growth says the cost to the borrower is expressed as a factor rate, ranging between 1.13 per cent and 1.28 per cent. Borrowing $100,000 at a factor rate of 1.20 per cent over 12 months, for example, means the borrower will repay $120,000. The factor rate range is lower for a six- or nine-month product and higher for products over 15 months. There is no origination fee.
Fixed Solution: This product, also a merchant cash advance, is set up similarly to Flex Solution, except for how repayment occurs. Instead of repaying the advance through a fixed percentage of credit- and debit-card sales, the borrower repays a fixed daily or weekly amount. Businesses that do not process debit or credit cards are eligible for this product. Unlike Flex Solution, where the term can vary because it is based on sales, there is a set term – typically 12 months.
What you need to know: The cost to borrow is higher than traditional lenders. Borrowers need to understand what they are signing up for and how a daily or weekly repayment will affect their business. Flex Solution can be especially difficult to forecast because the repayment amount fluctuates based on sales. Read more on Merchant Growth.
OnDeck Canada
Global company OnDeck’s Canadian operations combined with Montreal-based Evolocity Financial Group in April. OnDeck Canada offers services in English and French; the company’s main products are term loans and merchant cash advances, called flex funds.
Eligibility: At a minimum, businesses must be six months old and earn revenues between $15,000 and $20,000 a month. Personal and business credit are checked. The application includes sharing basic business information and three months of business bank statements. OnDeck Canada CEO Neil Wechsler says it takes a business owner four to eight minutes to fill out an online application. The company aims for it to take 24 hours from when a business owner applies for money to when they receive it.
Story continues below advertisement
Fixed-term loan: The amount ranges from $5,000 to $300,000. The loan is repaid on a daily or weekly basis through a set payment, over a term ranging from six months to 15 months. OnDeck does not use an annual percentage rate with this product. The company says the amount of interest paid ranges from 8 cents to 29 cents on each dollar borrowed, and lower rates may be offered to businesses with “strong creditworthiness.”
Flex Funds: This product is a merchant cash advance, in which borrowers repay the money advanced as a predetermined percentage of their sales, ranging between 1 per cent and 20 per cent. Businesses can be advanced $5,000 to $300,000. The company says its pricing for this product is expressed as a factor rate and ranges between 1.20 and 1.30, meaning a borrower will pay between 20 cents and 30 cents on each dollar borrowed. The loan is repaid on a daily basis as a percentage of sales through debit and credit cards, so the payment amount varies daily and there is no fixed term for repayment.
What you need to know: The cost to borrow is higher than traditional lenders. Borrowers need to understand what they are signing up for and how a daily or weekly repayment will affect their business. The Flex Funds product can be more difficult to forecast, because the repayment amount fluctuates based on sales.
Thinking Capital
Founded in 2006, Thinking Capital has had different names and offerings over the years. Today, the Montreal-based company, owned by Purpose Financial LP, offers services in English and French. Its most popular product is a term loan, called Fixed Financing. A merchant cash advance, called Flex Financing, and invoice financing are also offered. Thinking Capital also partners with other companies, such as Moneris Solutions Corp. and National Bank of Canada, to offer products.
Eligibility: Thinking Capital requires basic details on the business and its sales volume. A business owner submits information online, which takes about five to 10 minutes, then a Thinking Capital representative calls and collects additional information. Funding is provided in about 24 hours. While a business owner’s personal credit is checked, Thinking Capital says business cash flow and daily transactions play a bigger role in approval than credit score. Thinking Capital typically does not finance a business with less than six months of history.
Fixed Financing: Fixed is a small business loan up to $300,000. The term ranges from six to 12 months, with repayments made daily. Thinking Capital does not use an annual percentage rate with this product. The company says the price to borrow varies depending on the customer, and is expressed as a fee ranging from 8 per cent to 22 per cent of the total borrowed amount annually. Borrowing $100,000 over one year, for example, would cost between $8,000 and $22,000. Thinking Capital also offers “Top-Ups," where business owners can borrow more money once they have repaid 35 per cent, 60 per cent and 90 per cent of their loan, as well as “Coverage Payments," where deposits are made on select holidays.
Flex Financing: Flex is a merchant cash advance, in which borrowers repay the money advanced as a predetermined percentage of their daily sales. Businesses can receive up to $300,000. Thinking Capital says the price to borrow typically ranges between 12 and 28 per cent of the total borrowed amount. The predetermined percentage of daily sales (withheld to repay the loan) varies between 4 and 18 per cent.
What you need to know: The cost to borrow is high compared with traditional lenders. Borrowers need to understand what they are signing up for and how daily repayment will affect their business. The flex product can be more difficult to forecast, because the repayment amount fluctuates based on sales. As well, businesses need to fully understand additional features, such as “Top-Ups” and “Coverage Payments," and how they will affect their business.

Story 23
Access Denied - Sucuri Website Firewall
If you are the site owner (or you manage this site), please whitelist your IP or if you think this block is an error please open a support ticket and make sure to include the block details (displayed in the box below), so we can assist you in troubleshooting the issue.
Block details:

Story 24
Evertec (NYSE:EVTC) and PagSeguro Digital (NYSE:PAGS) are both business services companies, but which is the better investment? We will contrast the two companies based on the strength of their valuation, analyst recommendations, institutional ownership, risk, dividends, earnings and profitability.
Institutional & Insider Ownership
Get Evertec alerts:
79.4% of Evertec shares are held by institutional investors. Comparatively, 53.7% of PagSeguro Digital shares are held by institutional investors. 0.6% of Evertec shares are held by company insiders. Strong institutional ownership is an indication that large money managers, endowments and hedge funds believe a company is poised for long-term growth.
Risk & Volatility
Evertec has a beta of 0.74, suggesting that its share price is 26% less volatile than the S&P 500. Comparatively, PagSeguro Digital has a beta of 0.57, suggesting that its share price is 43% less volatile than the S&P 500.
Analyst Recommendations
This is a breakdown of current recommendations and price targets for Evertec and PagSeguro Digital, as reported by MarketBeat.
Sell Ratings Hold Ratings Buy Ratings Strong Buy Ratings Rating Score Evertec 0 0 3 0 3.00 PagSeguro Digital 0 3 8 0 2.73
Evertec presently has a consensus target price of $33.67, indicating a potential upside of 4.30%. PagSeguro Digital has a consensus target price of $43.78, indicating a potential upside of 15.30%. Given PagSeguro Digital’s higher probable upside, analysts plainly believe PagSeguro Digital is more favorable than Evertec.
Valuation and Earnings
This table compares Evertec and PagSeguro Digital’s top-line revenue, earnings per share (EPS) and valuation.
Gross Revenue Price/Sales Ratio Net Income Earnings Per Share Price/Earnings Ratio Evertec $453.87 million 5.12 $86.27 million $1.70 18.99 PagSeguro Digital $1.14 billion 10.93 $248.78 million $0.88 43.15
PagSeguro Digital has higher revenue and earnings than Evertec. Evertec is trading at a lower price-to-earnings ratio than PagSeguro Digital, indicating that it is currently the more affordable of the two stocks.
Dividends
Evertec pays an annual dividend of $0.20 per share and has a dividend yield of 0.6%. PagSeguro Digital does not pay a dividend. Evertec pays out 11.8% of its earnings in the form of a dividend.
Profitability
This table compares Evertec and PagSeguro Digital’s net margins, return on equity and return on assets.
Net Margins Return on Equity Return on Assets Evertec 20.55% 60.49% 14.03% PagSeguro Digital 23.12% 18.82% 10.94%
Evertec Company Profile
EVERTEC, Inc. engage in transaction processing business serving financial institutions, merchants, corporations, and government agencies in Latin America and the Caribbean. The company operates in four segments: Payment Services – Puerto Rico & Caribbean; Payment Services – Latin America; Merchant Acquiring; and Business Solutions. It provides merchant acquiring services, which enable point of sales and e-commerce merchants to accept and process electronic methods of payment, such as debit, credit, prepaid, and electronic benefit transfer (EBT) cards. The company also offers payment processing services that enable financial institutions and other issuers to manage, support, and facilitate the processing for credit, debit, prepaid, automated teller machines and EBT card programs; credit and debit card processing, authorization and settlement, and fraud monitoring and control services to debit or credit issuers; and EBT services. In addition, it provides business process management solutions comprising core bank processing, network hosting and management, IT consulting services, business process outsourcing, item and cash processing, and fulfillment solutions to financial institutions, and corporate and government customers. The company manages a system of electronic payment networks that process approximately two billion transactions. It sells and distributes its services primarily through a proprietary direct sales force. The company was formerly known as Carib Latam Holdings, Inc. EVERTEC, Inc. was founded in 1988 and is based in San Juan, Puerto Rico.
PagSeguro Digital Company Profile
PagSeguro Digital Ltd. provides financial technology solutions and services for micro-merchants, and small and medium-sized businesses in Brazil and internationally. The company's products and services include PagSeguro Ecosystem, an end-to-end digital ecosystem that operates as a closed loop where its clients are able to address their primary day to day financial needs, including receiving and spending funds, and managing and growing their businesses; and Free PagSeguro digital account, which centralizes various cash-in options, functionalities, services, and cash-out options in a single ecosystem. It also offers online gaming and cross-border digital services. In addition, the company offers functionalities, and value-added services and features, such as purchase protection mechanisms, antifraud platform, account and business management tools, eWallet, and its (point of sale) POS app. Further, it is involved in processing of back-office solutions, including sales reconciliation, and gateway solutions and services, as well as the capture of credit cards with acquirers and sub acquirers. Additionally, the company engages in the in-person payment activities through POS devices; and issuance of prepaid cards to clients for spending or withdrawing account balances. It also operates an online platform that facilitates peer-to-peer lending. The company was founded in 2006 and is headquartered in São Paulo, Brazil. PagSeguro Digital Ltd. is a subsidiary of Universo Online S.A.
Receive News & Ratings for Evertec Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Evertec and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter.

Story 25
Access Denied - Sucuri Website Firewall
If you are the site owner (or you manage this site), please whitelist your IP or if you think this block is an error please open a support ticket and make sure to include the block details (displayed in the box below), so we can assist you in troubleshooting the issue.
Block details:

Story 26
news, local-news,
Police remind the community to protect their debit cards in the same way they would protect cash, given the value of paywave-type cards to opportunistic criminals The tap-and-go style of payment has been embraced by the community and retailers, but unfortunately police say offenders also specifically target credit and debit cards because they know that these cards are just like cash to them. As a result officers urge the community to keep a close eye on their wallets and handbags - not leaving these unattended in public places or in parked vehicles. Cardholders are urged to: A Light Pass man was reported by Nuriootpa Police on October 23 for cultivating cannabis. A 33-year-old Nuriootpa man was reported by Nuriootpa Police on October 24 for driving with an expired licence. A smartphone, papers and a wallet containing credit cards was stolen after entry was gained to a residential property on Baker Street, Kapunda on October 26. A 2016 Yamaha solo motorcycle, SA registration number S83 AWR, was stolen after entry was gained to an unlocked shed at a residential property on William Dyer Drive, Williamstown, between October 24 and 27. A Western Australia registered tandem trailer, 1TTX869, was stolen along with a pump and engine from an unattended truck in a car parking bay at the junction of Sturt Highway and Gomersal Road, Shea-Oak Log on October 21. Cable was stolen from a residential property on Steingarten Road, Rowland Flat on October 22. A bike was stolen from a residential property on Mildred Street, Kapunda, between October 18 and 21.. Cable was stolen from a residential property on Rifle Range Road, Krondorf, between October 16 and 18. Two mountain bikes (one branded Merida) were stolen from a property on Penrice Road, Nuriootpa, between October 21 and 22. A badge was stolen from a hat which was stored at a business premises on Murray Street, Nuriootpa, between October 1 and 2. A scooter was stolen from a storage area on premises at Buna Terrace, Nuriootpa, between October 24 and 25. Damage was caused to a public toilet in Queen Street, Williamstown on October 27. Paint was thrown onto front windows of a residential property on Queen Street, Williamstown on October 27. No items were reported stolen after a vehicle on William Street, Mount Pleasant was entered between October 20 and 21. Anyone with information about these incidents is asked to call Crime Stoppers on 1800 333 000 or report online at www.crimestopperssa.com.au - where you can remain anonymous. If you notice anything suspicious in your area please call police immediately on 131 444. Timely reporting assists police in locating offenders and preventing further crime from occurring.
https://nnimgt-a.akamaihd.net/transform/v1/crop/frm/michelle.orielly/72fe73a0-4402-4f8e-8569-1ee8147fb054.jpg/r24_0_626_340_w1200_h678_fmax.jpg

Story 27
Visa Inc (NYSE:V)
Q4 2019 Earnings Call
, 5:00 p.m. ET
Contents:
Prepared Remarks
Questions and Answers
Call Participants
Prepared Remarks:
Operator
Welcome to Visa's Fiscal Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2019 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Mike Milotich, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Mr. Milotich, you may now begin.
Mike Milotich -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Thank you, Jordan. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Visa's fiscal fourth quarter and full year 2019 earnings call. Joining us today are Al Kelly, Visa's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Vasant Prabhu, Visa's Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer. This call is being webcast on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.investor.visa.com. A replay will be archived on our site for 30 days, a slide deck containing financial and statistical highlights has been posted to our IR website.
Let me also remind you that this presentation includes forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and our actual results could differ materially as a result of many factors. Additional information concerning those factors is available in our most recent Forms 10-K and 10-Q, which you can find on the SEC's website and the Investor Relations section of our website.
Our historical non-GAAP financial information disclosed in this call, the related GAAP measures and reconciliation are available in today's earnings release.
And with that, let me turn the call over to Al.
Alfred F. Kelly -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Mike, thank you, and good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. The fourth quarter capped another strong year for Visa, as we continue to grow our business across a number of dimensions. In our time today, I'd like to touch on our results then discuss how we are strengthening our network with the power of partnerships and a focus on customers. And finally provide our initial thoughts on fiscal 2020.
To start, our fourth quarter results demonstrate our ability to grow the topline invest thoughtfully in the business to drive future growth and return capital to shareholders. An important indication relative to the health of our network is transaction growth. In this regard Q4 ended strongly with over 47 billion payment transactions, an increase of 5.3 billion or 12.6%, compared to this quarter last year. Payments volume grew at 9% globally, 10% excluding China. We also saw a strong growth in payments volume across every region and growth accelerated versus the last quarter in every international region.
Net revenue growth accelerated to 13% or 15% on a constant dollar basis, non-GAAP EPS growth was 21% or 23% on a constant dollar basis. We also returned $2.7 billion of capital to shareholders in the fourth quarter, consisting of $2.2 billion in share repurchases, and a $0.5 billion in dividends. Our fourth quarter performance brought our full year net revenue growth of 13% on a constant dollar basis and non-GAAP EPS growth of 20% on a constant dollar basis.
Total capital returned for the year was $10.9 billion, as a reflect on all of 2019 Visa has made tremendous progress leading a dynamic industry and advancing the growth of digital payments. This is manifested itself in a variety of fronts. To start, over 180 billion payment transactions leveraged our network in fiscal 2019, of which we processed about 75%, this represented almost $9 trillion in commerce on 3.4 billion credentials, all with the security and protections that our customers value.
Relative to growing acceptance, we now have over 61 million physical merchant locations increasing 14% from 2018. And again keep in mind that this number is 10s of millions higher as partners like PayPal, Stripe and Square only count is one location each. In new payment flows across the $1 trillion mark for B2B payments volume, represented 12% of our business. We also continue to grow Visa Direct, which supports P2P, B2B and P2C in triple digits with over 2 billion transactions.
And on our capabilities and value-added services, we acquired four companies that will help extend the reach of our network and enhance our merchant fraud and tokenization solutions. Our organic revenue growth driven by these capabilities at all value-added services exceeded 20% this year. This growth was fueled by the expansion of our issuer processing and network services, an increase in our acquirer and merchant offerings including cyber source, greater adoption of our risk and authentication tools, and consulting project work.
In fact, we helped more than a 1,000 clients grow their businesses by leveraging insights from our consultants and data scientists. Our strategic focus throughout 2019 and going into 2020 is clear, drive deeper partnerships with traditional clients; expand access with new players, including new sellers FinTechs, Neo Banks, Acquirers and wallets. Increased customer engagement by enabling a variety of platforms and simplifying the payment experience. Extending value-added capabilities across the ecosystem and enabling new money movement with our network of networks.
Let me elaborate on these focus areas, starting with driving deeper partnerships with traditional clients. We had significant deals in the pipeline and our efforts have paid off, with us completing agreements in the fourth quarter and that represent over 15% of our payment volume. This brings our full year number to about 30% of our global payments volume that this 30% renewal level is substantially higher than our average of the past five years of 20%.
Let me highlight a few clients from this quarter. We renewed our partnership with Bank of America in the United States for several years maintaining our current debit and credit business, while also expanding to capture the new issuance of their cash rewards consumer credit card. We're excited to continue to collaborate with Bank of America innovations such as tap-to-pay and tokenization and utilize data analytics and insights to help uncover growth opportunities.
In Central Europe, Middle East and Africa, we had a number of large issuer deals this quarter, including our credit and debit business with Sberbank and Alpha Bank two of the largest banks in Russia and the debit business with Emirates NBD one of the largest banks in the UAE. We also renewed the debit portfolio with Standard Chartered Bank across all of sub-Sahara and Africa. In Latin America, we signed a multi-year agreement to renew our long-standing relationship with Scotiabank covering 16 countries and territories across Latin America.
In Europe, we're focused on driving growth in the continent of Europe, we'll also deepening our existing partnerships in the UK. This quarter we renewed two portfolios with leading UK issuers; one, in debit and one in commercial credit. In Continental Europe, we renewed our strategic partnership with BBVA in Spain for the next seven years. This agreement will allow Visa and BBVA to grow much faster during the period. Additionally, the Arap bank, the largest state-owned bank in Turkey renew their consumer credit and debit business and we won new issuance of their commercial credit portfolio.
Now let me turn to expanding access with new players; such as FinTechs and Wallets, which are critical to expanding credentials and acceptance globally. We established deepen relationships with several FinTech partners across the globe. First, we're pleased that Visa and Europe-based Revolut [Phonetic] reached an agreement naming Visa, they are leading issuing partner as they seek to expand globally. In addition to increasing our share of their large European business Revolut will leverage Visa's brand, scale and global acceptance footprint to bring its product offerings to five new regions reaching 24 new markets for a total of 56 markets globally.
In the United States, we signed an exclusive five year deal with the consumer debit and credit business with Chime a challenger bank that offers its members access to a suite of intuitive banking services. Also in the US, we signed a debt to deal with N26 a mobile banking solution, which offers goal, saving features and early paycheck access. In India, we're partnering to open a Neo bank, which offers businesses everything from banking to automated bookkeeping to launch a suite of innovative products, including a business credit card.
We also continue to expand our credential signing of debit issuance deal with Railsbank at UK FinTech. In Korea, we are announcing a partnership with Toss to significantly expand collaboration on the payment business in Korea and globally Toss is a major FinTech start-up in Korea and Korea's leading B2B remittance and financial services platform.
We recently deepened our partnership with [Indecipherable] a mobile payment service that utilizes Visa Direct to enable users to make P2P international money transfers from the United States and they will now issue visa debit cards. Focusing specifically on merchant acceptance, in Mexico we are expanding access with Clip, a mobile point-of-sale solutions provider to enable merchants to accept digital payments. We're also teaming up with Samsung to allow merchants to accept contactless payments with just an app download and no hardware. So in essence the phone becomes the terminal.
Finally mobile phone users in India for Visa cardholders will be soon -- will soon be able to use Google Pay to make simple and secure and tokenized payment. We are currently the only card network supported by -- supported on Google Pay in India. Over time, we look to build more relationships with the entire ecosystem to grow credentials and acceptance globally.
Now let me move to the third focus area of increasing customer engagement by enabling a variety of platforms. We are continuing to improve the point-of-sale experience and reduce friction for the entire ecosystem. In the card present environment, we continue to see progress in tap-to-pay. In the United States, I'm pleased to say that of the top 10 issuers eight are now participating more than a 100 million Visa contactless cards have been now issued and we expect 300 million cards by the end of calendar year 2020.
In the card at present environment, we have spoken before about how secure remote commerce or SRC is the way to streamline the digital payment experience across networks, offer greater security and improved sales. I'm pleased that this month together with our network peers, we launched click to pay enabled by SRC with their number of merchants and acquirers in the United States, broader merchant adoption will take place after the holiday season. We're also enabling a variety of platforms to bring improvements to the payment experience whether or not a card is present and the most recent example is with installments.
In June, we announced the launch of an instalment solution APIs a beta version through our Visa Next platform, where issuers can offer instalments to their Visa cardholders directly through participating merchants. At the same time we're making it possible for third parties like [Indecipherable] to leverage our assets and offer a variety of instalment options. As we always say we're not in the business of picking winners and losers, we enable the ecosystem and let the customer determine success.
In the fourth quarter Affirm converted their virtual issuance to Visa and we established a partnership with Afterpay to support the development of innovative instalment solutions in the United States, and we continue to focus on new payment flow opportunities as we expand partnerships to remove friction. Visa Direct continues to grow, driven by three vectors, increasing the volume with existing used cases and markets; extending existing use cases to new geographies and expanding into new use cases. In our effort to expand P2P payment capabilities in new markets, we teamed up with the platform, V.way in Guatemala to utilize Visa Direct to enable a simple and secure transfer of funds with just a mobile number or email address reaching the unbanked.
In Russia, taxi payouts and on-demand loan disbursements are now available and there is a new use case enabling tipping capabilities with Visa Direct, so tips could be paid directly to waiters electronically. In B2B this quarter INTU it announced instant deposit, a new feature that enables real time disbursements for small business owners using QuickBooks payments directly to their eligible debit cards using Visa Direct. Most recently, we announced that Oracle ERP customers will be able to make Visa Direct payments right from their accounts payable system, reducing the time and investment needed for companies to adopt new and push the card payment technology.
JP Morgan will operates it's commercial clients the ability to more efficiently sent digital payments with access to business payments network a collaboration we have with Billtrust that routes electronic payments from buyers to suppliers through their existing AR provider. We have also opened our Visa B2B Connect network to over 60 markets and added Infosys as a distribution partner to enable financial institutions to send and receive cross border funds using this new B2B network.
We're also working to integrate the four recent acquisitions to expand our value-added capabilities. With Earthport, we expect to have it integrated Visa Direct and Earthport offering in the market in the next few months, where clients can sent payouts to cards or accounts through a single connection to Visa. For Payworks we're extending our pipeline for omni-commerce solutions beyond merchants to include more acquirers, who can leverage an integrated CyberSource and Payworks platform. With Verify as we combine this capability with our traditional dispute process, we plan to grow the Verify client base through our existing merchant and issuer relationships.
But the Rambus token capabilities, we look to grow in two ways; one, by deepening relationships with existing Rambus clients through our large portfolio of value-added services; and two, by expanding the tokenization offerings for more alternative payment Rails. And lastly network of networks, all of these partnerships and capabilities we've discussed, as well as many others come together in our offering to provide a powerful network of networks for consumers, businesses and governments to move money to anyone anywhere.
Each new network endpoint via the card, an account or a business compounds the value of the capabilities we offer to partners and improves the customer experience through a single Visa connection.
To close in 2019, we delivered strong broad based results and we made great progress positioning the business for future growth. We deepen partnerships, we expanded access with new players, we increased customer engagement and value-added capabilities and we expanded our acceptance points and our network of networks. As we look ahead to next year, we're excited to remain the official payment technology partner of the Tokyo 2020 Olympics and Paralympics and the only card accepted at next summers game.
As the world third largest economy, Japan is the market that has tremendous growth potential for Visa and we have an aligned national interest in expanding digital payments, while occurring in Japan, Tokyo 2020 will be a major global media event projected to be the biggest in history with 7,000 hours of broadcast programming and 3 billion minutes of streamed content in the United States alone. We will aim to expand this platform to Visa clients all over the world and expect to have a record number of sponsorship activations with our partners.
As it relates to the 2020 fiscal year, our financial outlook includes annual revenue growth of low double-digits and mid-teens adjusted EPS growth on a constant dollar basis. Before I turn it over to Vasant to go into a lot more details on our results, as well as our 2020 outlook, I want to note that as we look ahead, I'm excited about the multi-year journey we're on to get more involved in all money movement, and I can't retalk all the time in Visa's history with so much opportunity ahead. To that end, we want to spend some time with all of you discussing our future growth. So we're going to host an Investor Day on February 11th here in San Francisco.
With that for more details, let me turn it over to Vasant.
Vasant Prabhu -- Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer
Thank you, Al, and good afternoon, everyone. I'll cover fiscal 2019 fourth quarter and full year results before reviewing our outlook for fiscal year 2020. Building on the momentum from the third quarter, we had a strong finish to 2019, fiscal fourth quarter net revenues were, up 13% on a nominal dollar basis and 15% in constant dollars.
GAAP EPS grew 9%, but excluding this quarter special item related to the MDL litigation, as well as a special item in the fourth quarter of last year, non-GAAP EPS grew 21% and 23% in constant dollars. In September, 2019 these are recorded a $370 million accrual in connection with MDL 1720 depositing an additional $300 million into its litigation escrow and taking into account $70 million of earned interest on existing balances. The funding of the escrow triggers the conversion rate adjustment of Class B common stock to shares of Class A common stock, which has the same effect on EPS as repurchasing $300 million of Class A common stock.
Our strong performance in the fourth quarter reflected growth across all our key business drivers. Payments volume growth in constant dollars was consistent with Q3 at 9%, credit was up 7%, debit was up 11%, growth excluding China was up half a point better than Q3 at 10%. As a reminder, Chinese domestic volumes are impacted by dual branded card conversion, which have minimal revenue impact.
US payments volume growth was up 8% with credit growing 7% and debit 10%. Lower fuel prices and travel spending, the lapping of commercial card wins and some slowdown in commercial volume were partially offset by a small benefit from processing days. International payments volume growth in constant dollars was 10% and 12%, excluding China accelerating approximately one point and one and a half points respectively. Growth in CEMEA remained strong and accelerated to 25%. Latin America accelerated over two points to 18%, due to wins and strong performance at existing clients. Asia Pacific, excluding China grew 11%, accelerating 1 point, mostly due to Japan, Australia and Korea. Europe excluding the UK grew 13% up 0.5 point. The UK remains weak, but growth is now improved for two quarters after hitting a low in March.
Processed transactions grew 11%, down 0.5 point from the third quarter, mostly due to the US. Constant dollar cross-border growth was consistent with the last quarter, up 7% and up 9% excluding volumes within Europe, which are similar revenue yields as Europe domestic volume.
Travel related growth slowed a bit, but was offset by a small pickup in e-commerce growth. Outbound commerce accelerated from Latin America, Southeast Asia and across most of our CEMEA region. Inbound commerce into Europe continues to grow in the mid-teens, inbound to the US improved slightly, but remains weak and growth in the Hong Kong slowed significantly.
Net revenues grew 13% or 15% in constant dollars with three points of positive impact from ASC 606. The ASC 606 impact was larger-than-expected based on the final structure of some of our larger client deals, which is the result of how the market has evolved in the seven quarters and 606 was adopted by most company. The impact of acquisitions on revenue growth was de minimis.
Strong payments volume growth along with pricing benefits drove service revenues up 9%, data processing revenue grew 16%, up three points from last quarter, primarily due to favorable business mix. International transaction revenue grew 11% also accelerating three points from the third quarter, due to a smaller exchange rate drag and higher currency volatility.
Other revenues grew 35% from growth in our value-added service, as well as ASC 606 impacts. Client incentives were 21.6% of gross revenue. As Al mentioned, we signed a number of significant deals this quarter in addition to the JPMorgan Chase renewal going into effect. Although all the deals we expected to get done this quarter were completed, a number of them were signed late in the quarter.
As such, under ASC 606, the full impact of these deals will be reflected in incentives starting in the first quarter of fiscal year '20. GAAP operating expenses were up 18%, excluding special items this year and last year expense growth was 11%, largely driven by personnel marketing and some one-time items. Marketing expenses grew 16%, due primarily to the adoption of ASC 606.
General and administrative expenses grew 30%, due to several non-recurring items from lapping the one-time benefit last year, as well as ASC 606 impacts and indirect taxes. ASC 606 increase reported fourth quarter expense growth by about two and a half points. The impact of acquisitions on expenses was also minimal.
Non-operating expenses once again benefited from investment gains, which were $41 million this quarter, these gains were partially offset by lower interest income as a result of falling interest rates. Our fourth quarter tax rate was 18.5% on a GAAP basis and 18.9%, excluding an $83 million tax benefit from the MDL related litigation provision. We repurchased 2.2 million shares of Class A common stock at an average price of $177.28 or $2.2 billion in the quarter, including our quarterly dividend we returned $2.7 billion of capital to shareholders in the fiscal fourth quarter.
Finally, we closed on Verify in mid-September, as well as a token services business of Rambus earlier this week. As you know, we have closed on Earthport and Payworks earlier in the quarter. A fixed summary of fiscal year 2019, for fiscal 2019 payments volume grew over 9% in constant dollars and 10% excluding China, processed transaction growth was steady at 11%, cross-border volumes were up 6% on a constant basis and 8%, excluding volume within Europe.
For the full year, net revenues of $23 billion, grew 11% or 13% in constant dollars with over one and a half points of positive impact from ASC 606, client incentives were lower than we expected at 21.2% of gross revenues, mostly due to lower incentives from some deals and programs and lower volumes in some parts of the world. Operating expenses were, up 4% on a GAAP basis, but grew 11% excluding special items both this year and last.
We continue to invest in our growth program given the large opportunities available to expand new payment flows and provide more value-added services to our clients. Non-operating expenses were much lower, due to higher interest income on our cash balances, lower interest expense, as a result of swapping some of our US dollar debt to euro denominated debt and several non-recurring investment gain totaling $131 million.
Our tax rate of just under 19% was better-than-expected, due to the application of tax reform rules and foreign income related to FDII and G-I-L-T-I GILTI. GAAP EPS grew 20%, while non-GAAP EPS increased 18% and 20% in constant dollars. We returned $10.9 billion in capital to shareholders by repurchasing 56.1 million shares of Class A common stock at an average price of $154.25 or $8.6 billion and by paying a dividend of $2.3 billion. Through October 21st, US payments volume growth was 8% with US credit growing 7% and debit 9%. Processed transactions grew 11%. Cross-border volume on a constant dollar basis grew 8% or 10%, excluding cross-border volume within Europe.
Moving now to our outlook for fiscal year 2020, there is quite a bit of speculation that we are heading into a global economic slowdown. Some of the numbers we reported for the last two quarters, you can see the growth trends of all our key business drivers, payments volume, processed transactions and cross-border volume have been stable. We do not view ourselves as economic forecasters, as such our outlook assumes that the trends, which have been in place for the past couple of quarters continue through fiscal year 2020. Where we are aware of something specific that could impact the trend either a fiscal year 2020 event or the lapping effect of the fiscal year '19 event, we adjust our outlook accordingly.
For net revenues, our outlook assumes low double-digit growth in constant dollars. Based on current exchange rates and future expectations, currency translation could be a 1 to 1.5 percentage point drag. The four acquisitions we completed in the past four months are expected to add around 0.5 point to net revenue growth. A significant factor impacting fiscal year '20 net revenue growth will be the unusually high volume of renewal activity that Al referred to. In an average year, we renew approximately 20% of our payment volume. In fiscal year '19, we renewed about 30% of our payment volume with more than 15% renewed in the fourth quarter alone.
This means that the full impact of these renewals will be reflected in fiscal year '20. Also our fiscal year '20 renewal activity is front-loaded with another 15% to 20% of payments volume expected to be renewed in the first half. As such, we will have renewed about one-third of our payments volume over three quarters from the fourth quarter of fiscal year '19 through the second quarter of fiscal year '20, which is an unprecedented level of renewal activity.
Between fiscal year '19 and fiscal year '20, we expect to have renewed four out of our top five US clients, eight out of our top five -- top 10 clients in CEMEA and Latin America, six of our top 10 European clients, five of our top 10 clients in Asia. We are delighted to have renewed all this business for the foreseeable future. But it will cause a much higher level of incentive growth in fiscal year '20 than we had in fiscal year '19 or in recent years. As such, we expect our client incentives as a percent of gross revenues to climb to the 22.5% to 23.5% range in fiscal year '20.
In terms of pricing, through the first half of fiscal year '20, we will continue to benefit from FY'19 pricing actions. Fiscal year '20 pricing actions impact our revenue starting mid-year and a smaller in magnitude than fiscal year '19 pricing. As such the pricing benefit in service revenue and international transaction revenues will be lower in the second half. Our outlook assumes core expense growth in the mid to high single-digit range in constant dollars. Based on current exchange rates and future expectations reported expense growth could be one points to one and a half points lower in nominal dollars. The four acquisitions will add three points to four points to expense growth.
In terms of core expense growth, as you all know we have stepped up our level of investment in the past couple of years to capture the exciting opportunities we have to build revenues from new payment flows and value-added services. We will continue these investments into fiscal year '20 and beyond to sustain double-digit revenue growth. As a reminder 2020 is also an Olympics year, we expect Tokyo 2020 to be a significant brand building opportunities and we'll invest accordingly.
The three to four additional points of expense growth from acquisitions is driven by their run rate expenses, as well as one-time cost to integrate these acquisitions and the impact of purchase accounting i.e., intangible amortization. The non-operating income/expense line includes three major items: interest expenses to service our outstanding debt; interest income from our cash balances and gains or losses from our investments both realized and unrealized, since we have to mark our investments to market each quarter based on observable prices.
In fiscal year 2019, we recorded a total of $131 million in investment gains or $0.04 per share. The bulk of them in the second quarter at $84 million and $41 million in the fourth quarter. As is our practice, we do not assume any investment gains or losses in our outlook, since these are neither predictable non-recurring. As we have done this year, we will specifically identify the amount of investment gains, the losses if any that we have recorded each quarter in fiscal year '20.
Interest income in FY'20 is expected to be significantly lower, due to the decline in interest rates, as well as somewhat lower cash balances since the use cash on hand to fund all our acquisitions and investments. Interest expenses will be lower as we get the full-year benefit of the swaps we executed in fiscal year '19. Our expectation is for a tax rate in the range of 19% to 19.5% for fiscal year '20. At this point we're assuming a rate in the lower half of this range. There is a considerable amount of tax related activity by governments around the world, which we are closely monitoring to assess any impact on our taxes, as well as mitigating actions we can take. As always, we will provide updates if any to our tax rate expectation as the year progresses.
Putting all this together, gets us to an adjusted fiscal year 2020, EPS growth in the mid-teens in constant dollars. This adjusted EPS growth excludes the four acquisitions we just completed and is built off a fiscal year '19 EPS of $5.40. $5.40 is our reported non-GAAP fiscal year '19 EPS is approximately $0.04 of investment gains excluded. Exchange rates could reduce reported EPS growth by one points to one and a half points, dilution from acquisitions is expected to be in the $0.05 to $0.06 range, a 1 point drag on EPS growth.
Revenue expense and EPS growth could very modestly from quarter-to-quarter. Q1 revenue growth is expected to be weaker than the full year, due to lapping higher currency volatility in fiscal year '19, as well as client incentives climbing to the 22.5%, 23.5% of gross revenue range. Q3 could be our lowest growth quarter as we lap fiscal year '19 pricing actions that were larger than what is planned for this year, as well as expected heavy first half renewal activity. Q4 is likely to be the highest revenue growth quarter as we lap recent deal activity and potentially lower exchange rate headwinds.
Expense growth will be higher in the first half of the year, as we continue investment initiatives started in the second half of fiscal year '19. Q1 expense growth is expected to be in line with this past quarter. Q2 expense growth will be higher as marketing expenses ramp up relative to a low level of spend last year. The fourth quarter is likely to have the lowest expense growth as we lap some one-time item. As a result, EPS growth would be lowest in the second quarter and highest in the fourth quarter of fiscal year '20.
Moving on to capital, cash flow, dividends and buybacks. Capital spending in fiscal year '20 is likely to be around $800 million, up a little over 10% based on our earnings outlook and capital spending plan, free cash flow from operations is anticipated to be in excess of $12 billion and we anticipate returning at least $12 billion to shareholders and dividends and stock buybacks. The Visa Board has authorized a 20% increase in our quarterly dividend to $0.30 for the first quarter of fiscal '20 in line with our dividend policy, this puts our payout ratio in the 20% to 25% range.
In summary fiscal year 2019 was another year of strong growth for Visa, while delivering in the short-term, we have continued to invest significantly in long-term growth program in our core C2B business in developing a broad range of new payment flows across B2B, B2C and B2B, as well as our expanding suite of value-added services. We acquired four companies that substantially expand our capabilities on multiple fronts. This is a time of unprecedented opportunity in our business, partnerships have always been a force multiplier for us to drive growth in our credentials, add more points of acceptance and develop more use cases on our Rails. As Al described again this quarter, we continue to add exciting new and significant partners globally with win-win proposition for both parties.
As we look ahead, we expect to sustain revenue and EPS growth momentum in the fiscal year 2020 assuming no material change in macro -- macroeconomic condition. We have renewed about 30% of our payments volume in fiscal year '19 with another 20%-plus slated for renewal in fiscal year '20. While this will cause a large jump in incentives in fiscal year '20, we are pleased to have renewed a significant portion of our largest clients for the foreseeable future. We will also continue to invest at a healthy clip in long-term growth initiatives and integrating the four acquisitions is a critical priority.
With that, I'll turn this back to Mike.
Mike Milotich -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
We're now ready to take questions, Jordan.
Questions and Answers:
Operator
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from David Koning from Baird. Your line is open.
David Koning -- Robert W. Baird -- Analyst
Yes. Hey guys, thanks. And I guess just to kind of quick questions, first of all incentives growth you kind of mentioned, it's much higher than normal this year, is it high enough than normal, with some one-time items, kind of, with renewals in there -- that out year might actually be stable or even down maybe? And then the second is quick one, just on 606 is that all completely now in the past, so no other adjustments, kind of in that '20?
Vasant Prabhu -- Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer
Yes, on the second question. Yes, 606 is behind us, so now when you compare '20 to '19 it's apples-to-apples and as per the requirements, we will no longer be reporting number with result 606 etc, so that's fairly clean. In terms of your question about what happens in the future? Clearly, I mean, having all this renewal activity come in from the fourth quarter, it really -- you see the full effect in 2020 for the full-year. And then you have the additional renewals in the first half. As we lap them, I mean, the -- given that we would have renewed about 50% of our business over the two years, you would expect to see some moderation in the growth in incentives, so that should be expected.
Obviously, we don't provide any long-term outlook on the trend and incentives, it's a function of marketplace conditions, but there is no question that when you renew one-third of your business over a three quarter period that it will have a material impact on the rate of growth. And then as you lap it, it should help.
David Koning -- Robert W. Baird -- Analyst
That's great. Thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from Harshita Rawat from Bernstein. Your line is now open.
Harshita Rawat -- Bernstein -- Analyst
Hi, good afternoon. AI, my question is on your comment in partnerships. A few years ago many of the digital Wallets around the world were perceived to be risk for you. And recently, many of them have started to look more like partners that they have to refined a monetization strategy. So if I look at some of the sort of lingering competitive risk for example the domestic networks. Can you talk about where are we in that journey that they could look less like competitors and more like partners? I think, if you comment and providing network agnostic services that were still going [Technical Issues] to some of these alternative networks, that would be great if you can elaborate on that?
Alfred F. Kelly -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Sure. Thank you, Harshita. Look a lot of these players started out in a different business than they realize that because of -- in many cases on banks parts of the population, they end up developing Wallets and they started off with having them be in assets are closed loop network that is within their world. And then as they become bigger and we end up having discussions with them, we can -- they realize that we could bring a lot of things to them in terms of our global reach, cross-border capabilities, the ability to provide products that could be used to purchase in e-commerce capabilities to increased security like tokenization. And then by the way, can help us grow by being both a issuer and acquirer for us. So I think that there is -- as we sit down and we increasingly talk to these providers around the world, they see an ability to provide a better customer experience with greater reach for their clients and the same for us and it is good for both companies businesses.
Harshita Rawat -- Bernstein -- Analyst
Thank you.
Mike Milotich -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Next question.
Operator
Our next question comes from Ramsey El-Assal from Barclays Global. Your line is now open.
Ramsey El-Assal -- Barclays Global -- Analyst
Thanks for taking my question. I had a somewhat similar question about your guys moving more into other ancillary business lines to FinTech partnerships and M&A. How do you manage the risk of channel conflict with your existing customers, if you're stepping a little bit more on the toes, if folks who are in the network businesses in terms of moving money between banks or maybe people, who are -- and acquirers who are offering omnichannel solutions like Payworks? Is there a risk that you, kind of, disrupt the value chain, kind of, moving into these other areas?
Alfred F. Kelly -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Ramsey today we have 1,600 -- 16,000, I'm sorry financial services clients around the globe, and they come in all kinds of shapes and sizes. And the reality is that many of these new players that are coming into the marketplace are attracting new segments of the market and they are bringing new capabilities that are accelerating the growth of digital payments and the acceleration of moving from cash and check to digital forms of payment.
In many cases, we in fact are opening up the capability for our existing traditional clients to get their credentials involved in places that they probably otherwise wouldn't have been able to get them. But for us, forming partnerships with some of these new types of players. So I think in many of the cases, it becomes additive for everybody in the payment system, they're competitive for our traditional bank partners, it becomes additive for the FinTech or the Wallet or the Neo Bank player and it becomes additive for Visa. So it is something that we certainly remain focused on it, but it's all about growing the industry for all of the players in the ecosystem.
Vasant Prabhu -- Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer
So Ramsey, I mean, from our standpoint, the question you raised is a question we talk about all the time. This is a part, this is a business built on partnerships, this is a business where partnerships are very much as I said in my comments a force multiplier. In every situation, we have a very explicit conversation around things that we partner to do and things that we can do we should do ourselves. And to the extent that it is a channel conflict question, we're very clearly clear of those areas, and so when we have those kinds of issues, we typically partner, and where we don't that's when you might find us actually offering the service ourselves.
Ramsey El-Assal -- Barclays Global -- Analyst
Thanks. That's helpful.
Mike Milotich -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Next question?
Ramsey El-Assal -- Barclays Global -- Analyst
Yes. Thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from Darrin Peller from Wolfe Research. Your line is open.
Darrin Peller -- Wolfe Research -- Analyst
Hey guys, thanks. Cross-border growth looked like it accelerated a bit, I think 8% in October, and there has been questions around macro trends and potentially slower cross-border just globally in September, October from different parts of the ecosystem and just doesn't look like you're seeing that. So maybe just if you can give us some comment on what you're seeing in cross-border trends a bit more granularity.
And then Vasant, it also looks like revenue growth accelerated in the international fees, I know there was pricing earlier in the year on cross-border, but FX vol had weighed some of that down last quarter. So are we now seeing was that better this quarter, are we seeing the full flow-through of pricing there. Thanks guys.
Vasant Prabhu -- Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer
Yes. On the second question. Yes, I mean the full impact of pricing is visible in the second half and it is definitely visible on the international revenue line. It also is the case that some of it was muted in the third quarter, because as you know, that line also includes some of our exchange FX revenues and the third quarter had some of the lowest volatility in five years. And the fourth quarter saw some improvement, volatility will still lower relatively speaking, but it will improve from the third quarter. So the benefits of pricing, which were largely washed out by low volatilities in the third quarter, but more visible in the fourth quarter. But you're right, that pricing is showing up in that international revenue line.
In terms of your first question on cross-border trends. Cross-border trends as I indicated was pretty good all over the place, we highlighted some areas where they were stronger like CEMEA, Southeast Asia, you know, inbound into Europe has stayed strong for quite a while in the mid-teens, this excludes the -- what we call the intra-Europe a cross-border transactions, inbound to the US, which we -- which is a sizable business for us. Improved a bit, but it is still quite weak. So the strong dollar is certainly holding down inbound to the US. There were spots of weakness, as you might expect like inbound to Hong Kong. In fact, both in and outbound to Hong Kong. But by and large, we saw good improvement in Latin America, good improvement in parts of Asia. You know, certainly strong inbound to Europe. So no real indication that there is any change in trend. I think there was, we said there was some slowdown in travel, but it was more than made up for improvements in e-commerce. So I'd say stable to improving is probably the best way to describe it.
Mike Milotich -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Next question?
Darrin Peller -- Wolfe Research -- Analyst
That's great. Thanks guys.
Operator
Our next question comes from Dan Perlin from RBC Capital. Your line is open.
Dan Perlin -- RBC Capital Markets -- Analyst
Thanks. I had a question about this -- I think your words were unprecedented levels of renewal activity and I'm thinking in terms of historically has been 20%, so it would have been parsed out a little bit more evenly. This is clearly more of a compression cycle. And so the question is, is it driven by competition, is it like strategic positioning on your part? Or is it important to like lock down your partners today, so you can drive all this new innovation through their distribution asset. I'm just trying to think through that. Thank you.
Alfred F. Kelly -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
You know, Dan every year we go in the year, just a couple of deals that come up that are -- we're not necessarily up for renewal that -- it happened during the course of the year and they are occur, because they're senior discussion about, hey, why don't we extend our relationship and be able to focus on growth over the next couple of years. And this year was no different than we're a couple of deals that were early renewals that just as happens every year. But they were just a couple of the bigger clients of ours with Chase leading the pack in that category and that's really what drove the number up to the 30% level from kind of a norm of around 20%.
Dan Perlin -- RBC Capital Markets -- Analyst
Okay, thank you.
Vasant Prabhu -- Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer
And the bunching of it sort of around the fourth quarter and the first half, that's just some timing that happens within the year. So it just so happens that it all is happening over to three quarter period where we have one-third of our business renewing, that's a little bit of the things moving around a bit and bunching around three quarters.
Dan Perlin -- RBC Capital Markets -- Analyst
High quality problem. Thank you.
Mike Milotich -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Next question?
Operator
Our next question comes from Tien-Tsin Huang from JPMorgan. Your line is open.
Tien-Tsin Huang -- JPMorgan -- Analyst
Thanks so much. Thanks for the presentation. I just wanted to ask on the outlook for fiscal '20 revenue growth guidance looks pretty consistent with what you expected for fiscal '19 a year ago. So do you see any major differences in sources of growth expected this year? I heard the incentives outlook, it sounds like there's a little bit tougher. So what might get better to offset? Is it pricing? Is it higher expectation for certain products or maybe certain geographies? Any thing you can share there. Thanks.
Vasant Prabhu -- Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer
Sure, we have some benefit in the US, because we start to lap the Cabela's conversion. Internationally, we have some wins and we have a couple of our conversion moving away from us happening. So there is -- I'd say that's a little bit of a wash. If you look at our cross-border business, our second half trends were somewhat better than our first-half especially fourth quarter, and we are sort of assuming the second half trends are what continue going forward and as you can see that is continuing. The pricing impact is actually smaller in 2020, we get the benefits of the '19 pricing through the first half, but it is lower in 2020. So the second half pricing benefit is smaller, especially in the service revenue line and in the international transactions line you should see that.
The other area of growth is our value-added services and new payment flow services like Visa Direct, like B2B where we expect, you know, some strong growth to continue. We had good growth this year as you saw, we expect strong growth to continue next year. So if you were to look at what are the above average growth parts of the business, it's new payment flows and its value-added services and those are clearly helping. On the flip side, the higher incentive will be something that we have to contend with that -- we didn't have last year, unfortunately exchange rates, which even three or four months ago look like may not be a drag. Now looking like could be a drag of roughly the same magnitude, as we had in fiscal year '19. So those are some of the pluses and minuses. And in terms of the underlying macro conditions, we were fairly clear that we're assuming that the trends we've seen in the last two quarters are the ones will that will persist.
Alfred F. Kelly -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Tien-Tsin, the only thing I would add too is related to everything that Vasant said is we're going to continue to invest in the business, we think there's a lot of opportunity to invest, so continuing to invest in the various levers that we think can grow the business over the next number of years, plus these acquisitions adding three points or four points to our expense growth. We're going to have some, we're going to have a healthy level of expense and investment in the business.
Mike Milotich -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Next question?
Operator
Our next question comes from Moshe Katri from Wedbush. Your line is open.
Moshe Katri -- Wedbush -- Analyst
Can you talk a bit about the SRC rollout. What are you going to do differently this time just to get better traction maybe you can talk a bit about that. And then maybe some more color about the UK, because it seems that based on what you're saying things may be improving on that part of the business? Thanks.
Alfred F. Kelly -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Good morning, Katri. I understand the -- what we've -- I know SRC, when you said what will happen this time versus some other time, I mean, this is -- I presume you might be referring to Visa Checkout, as I've said it number of times, the reality is that we -- the various network players really have not here before done good job in terms of the e-commerce checkout experience. The fact that we put merchants in a position where they have to have a connection via each of -- for each of the networks, and then everybody has their own version of checkout, it's difficult for merchants, it's confusing for consumers and if leading to some unpleasant friction in the e-commerce situation.
So, all of us now, we're going to abandon our proprietary offerings, but because those proprietary offerings are out there like Visa Checkout it's going to make for a much more streamlined way to get to the critical mass fairly quickly. As a reminder, in the case of Visa, we have 52 million Visa Checkout users, and we have 350,000 merchants on Visa Checkout. So we would expect that the conversion of those 350,000 merchants will be relatively easy, there is a little bit of work, but relatively easy, easier then put people who had not been signed up for Visa Checkout or MasterPass; for example in the case of MasterCard, it's just that the timing of the year now as we are getting to the end of October, we'll see some more merchants come on board in the coming weeks. But as we get into the holiday season most everybody kind of resist putting any kind of change into the payments ecosystem.
So I think we'll have a period where we will have a -- some merchants come on board, we'll get out worked out the kinks with those merchants and then after the holiday season, I expect to see a major pickup in the adoption of the SRC. And again, I think we'll have a great head start, because of the 52 million users, we had on Visa Check -- have on Visa Checkout and the 350,000 merchants that they're using it out. So that's what gives me confidence that we'll get there. It's a better user experience, it's a better merchant experience, and we plumbed a lot of the capability to get this SRC, but not by what the work we did it for Visa Checkout.
Mike Milotich -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Next question?
Operator
Our next question comes from Sanjay Sakhrani from KBW. Your line is now open.
Sanjay Sakhrani -- KBW -- Analyst
Thanks. Vasant, I guess the client incentive range is on the upper end generally it's been fairly conservative as we look out to the 2020 numbers. I mean, can you just walk us through, sort of, what's baked into at the upper end? And then secondly on the 3% to 4% expense growth related to M&A. How much of it is investments and how quickly can we make these investments profitable?
Vasant Prabhu -- Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer
Sure. On the client incentives given that the renewal 30% of our business was renewed in fiscal year '19, and more than half of that was in the fourth quarter, that's done. So those incentives are pretty well known. And the only reason they would be different is that volumes are different. But otherwise, you know, that should be pretty locked in. There is another, you know, we said 15% to 20% that is slated for renewals in the first half and therefore, you know, we should know about that fairly quickly.
So I would say, yes, in the last couple of years, we've ended up being lower than we expected, given how much is already renewed and given how front loaded 2020 looks. I think you should assume that the range we've provided you is the range where exactly will be in the range, you know, may depend a little bit on some timing, but not a lot, and it will get to that range pretty fast. As we said on the -- as I said in my comments, you should see us in the range as earlier in the first quarter. So that's the point of view on incentives.
In terms of acquisition, we said that the revenue impact is about 0.5 point, they are all capabilities we're buying, so essentially we need to now build them up from where they are to be able to scale them and so the expanses we have fall into four categories. One, is whatever expenses they came with what their run rate is, in every case, we're making investments to enhance their capabilities and to get them ready to scale. So we are certainly making investments in them in 2020. Then there are some one-time costs in 2020 that are related to integrating them into our system then -- and especially on the security side, we need in most cases to upgrade their security -- cyber security.
And then finally, as you know, in every acquisition, there is going to be some deal amortization. So when you put those all together, you get to that expense number -- that increases our expenses by as much as three points to four points and you get to the dilution of $0.05 to $0.06. So that's how we get there. We think it takes a couple of years before we get to getting out of this into the dilutive phase, but we'll keep you posted and how they're progressing.
Sanjay Sakhrani -- KBW -- Analyst
Thank you.
Mike Milotich -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Next question?
Operator
Our next question comes from Lisa Ellis from MoffettNathanson. Your line is opened.
Lisa Ellis -- MoffettNathanson -- Analyst
Hi, good afternoon. Thank you. Al maybe using Rambus's tokenization capabilities as an example. Can you elaborate on the strategy for selling these types of value-added services into domestic account to account networks. Meaning, how do you envisioning that will work in a way that doesn't just end up turning those domestic networks into more formidable competitors to Visa's own Visa net? Thank you.
Alfred F. Kelly -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Thank you, Lisa. So when we look at value-added services, we think that first of all, there is ability to make some of these capabilities available to directly to our customers. But beyond that, as you asked the question relative to specific networks, we're going to be awfully careful about what we do, I mean the -- that these RTP network that might allow account to account capabilities. Obviously is a very local business, they vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. I think there's probably two examples we had envision offering value-added services on RTP networks.
One is on Visa branded transactions that run on our network of network, so we may use our other people's Rails for the first mile. Over the last mile of money movement and in those particular cases if it's a Visa branded transaction that is moving regardless of what rails it touches, we would want to make value-added services available to deliver that value to the clients, and that's what I think they would expect.
I think the second situation we read envision using it Lisa, is where there is -- we've formed some kind of partnership with the operator of the alternative brand. [Technical Issues] but those two broad strategic categories that I described is where I would expect us to use and introduce value-added services, because we certainly don't want to just do it in every single case to give away value-added services that could make somebody's else's network, maybe not as good as Visa net, but enrich it in a way that could be competitive to us.
Lisa Ellis -- MoffettNathanson -- Analyst
Thank you. Thanks a lot.
Mike Milotich -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Next question?
Operator
Our next question comes from Bob Napoli from William Blair. Your line is open.
Bob Napoli -- William Blair -- Analyst
Thank you. Just on the new payment flows, I guess is there a way, can you comment on like the percentage of your business or way to track the addition to your growth that would come from new payment flows whether it's B2B or the or Visa Direct. And also on other contactless cards in the US, which I guess is kind of a new payment flow of sorts and any thoughts that you think the contactless cards would have on growth in the US, given your experience globally?
Alfred F. Kelly -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
So, Bob, I give you a little bit of insight in our my remarks. I think we were over a trillion dollars, so I said in my remarks, we had just under $9 trillion of payment commerce that ran over our network of that we were over a trillion in B2B. So it's about 12% over volume we know in the card, a B2B part of the world where we are still the market leader in the United States globally and in most markets. We also gave a little bit insight in Visa Direct. We said that we grew in triple digits and we reached the 2 billion transaction mark. So both of those are pretty substantive B2B being in the 12% area of all of our volume and Visa Direct getting to the point where it's 2 billion transactions.
So these are not kind of experimental or in any way, shape or form in any kind of the pilot mode at this point. These are kind of full-fledged new payment flows that we are continuing to invest in and we'll continue to grow around the world and they've reached a point where obviously their substantive contributors to our revenue and our profit. In the case of contactless, obviously we're very excited about getting to the point where the US starts to scale up, as it relates to contactless, I think getting now passed the 100 million card mark and getting 80% of, the top issuers involved and at the same time getting a lot of the large part of the merchant network out there plump for tap-to-pay. I think that there is going to be a great opportunity to see growth in what we have seen in the markets that are more mature in tap-to-pay that there is a spillover effect in terms of people who are tapping to pay start to increase their volume overall.
And we're going to continue to push. One of the -- what we think is a very, very important use case related to tap-to-pay, which is urban mobility projects particularly focused on mass transit system. Just in the last quarter, we launched contactless travel in Edinburgh, Scotland, Rome, Sao Paulo and now we have over, we've added 60 new metro areas, transit systems to our tap-to-pay network and we've got a 180 or so. Other live projects going on around the world. So I see a combination of driving what I think is one of the great use cases transit and continuing to roll out tap-to-pay around the world with a particular emphasis on the US, since it's been so far behind and in the US you might know in the New York subway system we have it up and going in a pilot. I think it's a 70 stops on four, five, six line from Grand Central Station to Atlantic Avenue in Brooklyn. And in September, we launched at the beginning of June and in September, we've reached a million tap and that's pretty incredible, given the fact that we're still in a very early stages of rolling out the tap-to-pay card.
So, I feel good about the progress so -- but the last point I'd make Bob as it typically takes the most time to get to the first 5% to 10% penetration in tap-to-pay, and then the growth rate starts to accelerate from there. And we are in the 2% to 3% point in the United States. So we're still in that more formative building stage. But I think by the end of 2020 if we hit the 300 million contactless cards and the MTA as one example rolls it out to there, I think it's like 270 subway station, as they we are going to see a real acceleration in the momentum of the growth.
Mike Milotich -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Jordan, we'll take one last question.
Operator
Our last question comes from Ashwin Shirvaikar from Citigroup. Your line is open.
Ashwin Shirvaikar -- Citigroup -- Analyst
Thanks. Hi, Alf. Hi, Vasant. Good to see you guys sounding more positive. I want to return to cross-border, if I can. Can you discuss, sort of, the traction and rollout that you have with B2B Connect and Earthport post acquisition? Any metrics on that, that you can provide in terms of how much do you expect these offerings to accelerate cross-border, perhaps in the coming to 12 months to 18 months?
Alfred F. Kelly -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
You want to separate the two. I mean, given what I just said about Visa Direct and that it's a very established platform that is delivering a substantive contribution to our business. Now, our aim is that fully integrate Earthport with Visa Direct by the end of the year to have A; a seamless platform that allows any card or any account to transfer money around the world to virtually any other card or account. And so I think the ability to see and in a not too distant future. A real great opportunity, as it relates to cross-border payments facilitated by Visa Direct and by Earthport is at -- is very real, and very, very exciting.
B2B Connect is a little bit further behind, but no less exciting. We now have the ability to and approvals to operate in over 60 countries. We've got three different ways that people can connect through -- to connect B2B Connect. One is, coding to our APIs through our Visa developer platform or they can connect through a technology provider and we've got relationships now with FIS, Bottom line, and Infosys. And then thirdly, they can connect and interact using a host and host secure file protocol infrastructure. The latter being, kind of, the slowest way to get it up and going, using and coding to our APIs being the fastest play.
So our focus right now B2B Connect is actually building out. Then the nodes in the 60 countries and by the way we want to grow the 60 countries too. So we try to grow the 60 countries and within the countries where we have the capability and the permissions and approvals to operate. We want to be growing, the node. So that's our focus, as it relates to B2B Connect. I think both of them represents enormous opportunity for us to move funds in a frictionless way, facilitating all the great capabilities of Visa Net from sanctions controls to broad controls, to risk management. And I think it all cases, our aim is to deliver capabilities that are faster, more transparent, and a simply better user experience for everybody involved, so it's exciting times on both those fronts.
Vasant Prabhu -- Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer
And what it allows us to do is that, in the B2B space, the cross-border B2B business we think is the most attractive part. And Earthport/Visa Direct will handle high volume, lower value B2B transactions and B2B Connect will handle the large enterprise, high value lower volume B2B transactions. And as Al said, they'll be in place very soon to pull all this together.
Mike Milotich -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
And with that, I'd like to thank you for joining us today. If you have additional questions, please feel free to call or email our Investor Relations team. Thanks again and have a great evening.
Duration: 71 minutes
Call participants:
Mike Milotich -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Alfred F. Kelly -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Vasant Prabhu -- Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer
David Koning -- Robert W. Baird -- Analyst
Harshita Rawat -- Bernstein -- Analyst
Ramsey El-Assal -- Barclays Global -- Analyst
Darrin Peller -- Wolfe Research -- Analyst
Dan Perlin -- RBC Capital Markets -- Analyst
Tien-Tsin Huang -- JPMorgan -- Analyst
Moshe Katri -- Wedbush -- Analyst
Sanjay Sakhrani -- KBW -- Analyst
Lisa Ellis -- MoffettNathanson -- Analyst
Bob Napoli -- William Blair -- Analyst
Ashwin Shirvaikar -- Citigroup -- Analyst
More V analysis
All earnings call transcripts

Story 28
Access Denied - Sucuri Website Firewall
If you are the site owner (or you manage this site), please whitelist your IP or if you think this block is an error please open a support ticket and make sure to include the block details (displayed in the box below), so we can assist you in troubleshooting the issue.
Block details:

Story 29
Mastercard launched Mastercard Accelerate, a global initiative that simplifies the way that Mastercard works with fintechs, giving them access to everything they need to grow quickly. Offering a simple, single entry-point to the companys wide portfolio of specialized programs, Mastercard Accelerate gives start-ups and emerging brands support and assistance for every stage of their growth and transformation, from market entry to global expansion.
Accelerate will enable fintechs to be onboarded to Mastercard in a matter of weeks and provide a guided experience through everything the company can offer. Program participants are connected to relevant parts of the business, to integrate Mastercards proprietary technology, leverage its insights and cybersecurity services, engage new customers, and reach new markets and segments. In addition, Mastercards commitment to financial inclusion drives focused product development, helping co-create solutions that enable a more inclusive economy.
Mastercard Accelerate is a single doorway to the countless ways Mastercard can help fintechs all over the world grow and scale sustainably, said Michael Miebach, chief product & innovation officer, Mastercard. Fintechs are contributing to the rapid digital transformation that makes lives more convenient, simpler, and rewarding. Were the partner of choice for the top Fintech brands worldwide, and with Accelerate we invite the next generation of global entrepreneurs to join us.
And for our financial institution partners and customers, Mastercard Accelerate provides access to the next generation of innovators, with a portfolio of start-up partners and fintechs ready to co-create and collaborate on new experiences, added Miebach.
Accelerate is comprised of a range of award-winning programs that have helped participants all over the world access and benefit from Mastercards ecosystem, customers and innovations:
Mastercard Fintech Express  Provides easy access to a customized set of rules, relevant resources and digital-first services designed to address the unique needs of fintechs and enable program launch and global expansion with speed.
 Provides easy access to a customized set of rules, relevant resources and digital-first services designed to address the unique needs of fintechs and enable program launch and global expansion with speed. Mastercard Engage  Connects fintechs to thousands of Mastercard technology partners, making it quicker and easier to work together.
 Connects fintechs to thousands of Mastercard technology partners, making it quicker and easier to work together. Mastercard Start Path  Invites later-stage startups to participate in a 6-month program, providing opportunities to scale and secure strategic investments. More than 200 companies have participated in the Start Paths program since its founding in 2014 and those companies have collectively gone on to raise $1.5B in capital.
 Invites later-stage startups to participate in a 6-month program, providing opportunities to scale and secure strategic investments. More than 200 companies have participated in the Start Paths program since its founding in 2014 and those companies have collectively gone on to raise $1.5B in capital. Mastercard Developers  Provides APIs for everything, empowering engineers with the ability to access Mastercard payment, security and analytics services via simple, user-friendly documentation, SDKs and sample code for the top programming languages.
Mastercard Accelerate  supporting fintechs, scaling businesses:
Mastercard is taking a thoughtful approach to partnerships by identifying the brightest companies with the most promising technology. Together, we are solving challenges with digital innovation, commercial connections and strategic investments.
Bridging the divide in entrepreneurship
At Brex, our mission is to help ambitious companies scale. We built our card issuing technology from the ground up to help entrepreneurs better navigate the financial and regulatory hurdles that exist today. We value Mastercard as a strategic partner in our ambition to create the best payments experience for all businesses.  Henrique Dubugras, Co-Founder & CEO of Brex
Seamless money movement among businesses and people
Payment products today have the unique opportunity to scale quicker than ever, and Mastercard as a global partner not only accelerates the process but also helps navigate key challenges that only experience and an existing global reach provides.  Roy Sosa, Chief Executive Officer, Rêv.
At TransferWise, we wanted to remove the financial barriers keeping people from managing their life across borders, so providing a multi-currency card for the worlds first global account was crucial to set us apart. Mastercards platform was the perfect option to help solve our problem and has been integral to bringing the debit card to customers all over the world. Theyve continued to help us identify new use-cases, provide marketing guidance, and push TransferWise into a high-growth phase.  Andrew Boyajian, Head of Banking for North America at TransferWise
Driving financial inclusion
From Mastercard Send to the launch of our new fee-free debit card, Mastercard has been an incredible partner in Branchs efforts to create financial technology that works for hourly workers. We look forward to continuing our partnership with Mastercard as we develop new solutions to help this demographic grow financially.  Atif Siddiqi, CEO and founder of Branch.
We are continuing to push the envelope on our digital strategy at Deserve, and Mastercard is making it even easier for our developers to create next-generation solutions with easy to use APIs. With MDES APIs we are able to make our onboarding frictionless while Mastercard card-link services helps us build real time engagement through instant gratification  Kalpesh Kapadia, CEO and Co-founder of Deserve.
To learn more about Mastercards partners and how they are working with us, visit mastercard.com/fintech.
# # #
About Mastercard
Mastercard (NYSE: MA), www.mastercard.com, is a technology company in the global payments industry. Our global payments processing network connects consumers, financial institutions, merchants, governments and businesses in more than 210 countries and territories. Mastercard products and solutions make everyday commerce activities  such as shopping, traveling, running a business and managing finances  easier, more secure and more efficient for everyone.

Story 30
The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) has come up with an exam notification for the candidates eagerly waiting for it. The commission has released the notification for the Combined Defence Services Examination (I), 2020. It will for the IMA Dehradun, INA Ezhimala, AFA Hyderabad and OTA Chennai Courses.
Interested and eligible candidates can apply for the positions till November 19, 2019.
UPSC CDSE (I) Vacancy Detail
Indian Military Academy, Dehradun: 100
Indian Naval Academy, Ezhimala: 45
Air Force Academy, Hyderabad: 32
Officers’ Training Academy (Men), Chennai (Madras): 225
Officers Training Academy (Women), Chennai: 16
Important to Note for Candidates
The online Applications can be withdrawn from 26.11.2019 to 03.12.2019 till 6.00 PM.
The eligible candidates shall be issued an e-Admit Card three weeks before the commencement of the examination.
The e-Admit Card will be made available on the UPSC website ( http://upsc.gov.in) for downloading by candidates. No e-Admit Card will be sent by post.
All the applicants are required to provide valid & active e-mail id while filling up online application form as the Commission may use electronic mode for contacting them.
Educational Qualifications
For I.M.A. and Officers’ Training Academy, Chennai – Degree of a recognised University or equivalent.
For Indian Naval Academy – Degree in Engineering from a recognised University/Institution.
For Air Force Academy- Degree of a recognised University (with Physics and Mathematics at 10+2 level) or Bachelor of Engineering.
NOTE: Graduates with first choice as Army/Navy/Air Force are to submit proof of Graduation/provisional certificates on the date of commencement of the SSB Interview at the SSB.
Application Fee
Candidates (excepting Female/SC/ST candidates who are exempted from payment of fee) are required to pay a fee of Rs. 200 (Rupees Two Hundred Only) either by depositing the money in any Branch of SBI by cash, or by using net banking facility of State Bank of India or by using Visa/Master/Rupay Credit/Debit Card.
Click HERE for more details.

Story 31
Getty
By Jessica Thiefels, Next Avenue Contributor
Transitioning from your nine-to-five career to becoming a business owner after 50 may sound enticing, with the freedom to set your own hours and profit from your passions. But midlife entrepreneurship comes with financial risks, too. Here’s how to manage them and set yourself up for success:
Be Mindful of Your Financial Commitment
Since you’ll need to continue saving for retirement or live on your current fixed income in retirement, it’s crucial to establish a budget for how much you can, and will, invest in your business. Ask yourself these questions:
How much money am I able to invest without taking on debt?
How much revenue do I need to be profitable?
What other financial commitments and expenses do I have? (e.g. insurance, mortgage, utilities, travel)
You may need to dig into your financial statements and do some research to get these answers. But putting in the time to do so will help prevent you from endangering your financial future. And before starting a business, get your debt paid off, says Chane Steiner, CEO of the personal finance site Crediful.
5 Funding Ideas for a Midlife Business
Once you’ve determined your monetary limits, consider the five funding ideas Business.com recommends: Bootstrapping, personal loans, government or venture capital, crowdsourcing and retirement accounts.
Also on Forbes:
Bootstrapping If you own the right equipment and have the knowledge to launch your business without help, use your own capital for initial costs. Just bear in mind that doing so will likely limit your financial ability to hire employees or invest in marketing.
Says Rob Stephens, founder of CFO Perspective, a small business advisory site: "The question I would ask is ‘How much money can you lose and still live the retirement you want to live?’
Steiner suggests leaving “six months’ worth of expenses in savings, in case things tank.”
Personal loans If you need money to buy materials, hire staff or contractors, or pay for advertising, borrow funds with a personal business loan. It will most likely have a lower interest rate than if you charged the expenses on a credit card.
These days, the rate for a personal business loan is often 4% to 6%, according to the ValuePenguin personal finance site. By contrast, the average credit card rate is about 17%.
Government or venture capital The U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) offers two ways to get a loan: federal lending institutions and venture capitalists.
The SBA’s free Lender Match program connects small business owners with SBA-approved lenders. Or you can find a private investor through the SBA’s Small Business Investment Companies network.
Crowdfunding Websites like Indiegogo, Kickstarter and GoFundMe make it easy to generate awareness for a business idea and turn public interest into financial support.
You can use crowdfunding platforms to create an online fundraiser and then share the crowdfunding campaign link with family members and friends through email, social media and virtual marketplaces such as Craigslist to drive donations.
Retirement accounts While borrowing against funds in your 401(k) should be a last resort, it can provide more control of your money than working with a lending institution.
And you can transfer funds from a personal retirement account into a new 401(k) formed specifically for the business. This avoids extra debt and tax penalties, but it could also risk your savings. So, talk to a financial adviser if you are considering this route.
Kenny Rose, founder and CEO of Semfia, an investment advisory firm, says Rollover for Business Startups (ROBS) can be one way to jump-start yourself. ROBS "allows you to do a partial rollover from a retirement account as your cash injection to get your business started — tax-free and penalty-free,” he says.
The ROBs strategy, Rose adds, can let you use pre-tax funds, avoid eating into your savings and invest in your next career.
There are substantial risks with ROBS, though, which the Internal Revenue Service explains in detail in its article on IRS.gov about the Rollovers as Business Startups Insurance project.
The IRS site says: ROBS plans, while not considered an abusive tax avoidance transaction, are questionable because they may solely benefit one individual — the individual who rolls over his or her existing retirement funds to the ROBS plan in a tax-free transaction. And, the IRS adds, “Preliminary results from the ROBS Project indicate that, although there were a few success stories, most ROBS businesses either failed or were on the road to failure with high rates of bankruptcy (business and personal), liens (business and personal), and corporate dissolutions by individual Secretaries of State.
Some people the IRS tracked who started ROBS plans lost not only the retirement assets they accumulated, but their dream of owning a business, too.
Before moving forward with any kind of funding for your new business, it’s wise to consult with a financial adviser.
Otherwise, says David Deeds, Schulze professor of entrepreneurship at the University of St. Thomas and executive editor of the EIX (Entrepreneurship and Innovation Exchange) Board (a funder of Next Avenue), it’s easy to get in an “escalating commitment” situation.
That means you start with a specific budget, but when it doesn’t go well — or the money doesn’t come rolling in —you go over budget and keep pushing your limits.
Says Deeds: “You need strong-willed advisers who can help you avoid this error. A startup business is a high-risk undertaking, and you do not want to threaten your financial future in retirement when there is no time to recover.”
(This article is part of America’s Entrepreneurs, a Next Avenue initiative made possible by the Richard M. Schulze Family Foundation and EIX, the Entrepreneur and Innovation Exchange.)

Story 32
The Oregon Lottery has sent nearly $1.2 million to the Bank of George, a key player in its sports betting operation.
Treasury officials said Wednesday that the lottery wired nearly $1.2 million in recent days to the Las Vegas-based bank in five different transactions.
“We can confirm that lottery has wired just under $1.2 million to the Bank of George or to Bankcard Services LLC account at the Bank of George,” said Rachel Wray, a spokeswoman for the treasury. “Without further research, we cannot confirm whether additional amounts have been sent through other payment channels.”
The lottery approved the hiring of the Bank of George as an important link in the sports betting program Scoreboard, which launched two weeks ago. The bank is a legitimate bank with FDIC protection. It’s a small community operation with just $277 million in total assets, which is minuscule in the banking world.
Lottery officials said they deposited the funds as a reserve to cover player volatility. The reserve covers what lottery officials called the “unlikely” event that players’ withdrawals exceed deposits. Secondly, said lottery spokesman Matt Shelby, the money will cover liability costs associated with managing Scoreboard like chargebacks and returns.
He added that lottery managers knew that “we would need some level of reserve, but I’m not sure how we arrived at the amount. Frankly, people should be worried if we didn’t have funds in reserve to cover wins.”
The transactions may add to the unease in some corners of the state about the way the lottery has structured its sports betting program. Lottery officials deferred some key decisions -- such as which bank to use -- to SBTech, the company hired by Oregon to run its betting games.
Lottery officials confirmed they performed little due diligence on the bank, deferring to SBTech. It did not conduct a competitive bidding process. What’s more, the bank is not among the “qualified depositories” approved by Oregon to hold state funds. State law requires that its funds be held in one of these 46 banks and credit unions.
Nevertheless, lottery officials approved the arrangement with the bank.
Shelby said it was SBTech that hired the Bank of George. The institution opens accounts for sports bettors who register with the state to participate in Scoreboard. The Lottery then steps in and reconciles the wagers, wins and losses. It then withdraws revenue from the Band of George account and deposits it into the lottery’s US Bank account on a weekly basis.
As small as it is, the bank has some powerful connections to the gaming industry. Dr. Tony Alamo, a director of the bank, is also chair of the Nevada Gaming Commission.
Todd Nigro, a long-time builder and developer in Las Vegas, also sits on the bank’s board. Last spring, a company he co-owns got approval from the gaming commission to remodel a chain of restaurants that feature gambling. The Bank of George did not return phone calls.
Oregon Treasury officials were uncomfortable enough with the lottery’s financial arrangements that it wrangled with lottery officials much of this year on how the program would be structured.
At issue was whether the sports betting money should be considered state money. That was a crucial question because state law requires that state funds be held only by approved financial institutions. The Bank of George is not among them.
Wray said in an email that “Treasury engaged in conversations with Lottery and DOJ through much of 2019, including on the potential flow of funds and whether those funds were public funds. During these conversations, we asked questions and raised considerations as Lottery was figuring out how to structure their program.”
Lottery officials argued that the money belonged to the bettors and not the state at least until the bet was finished. It ultimately prevailed in its argument with Treasury officials thanks to the Attorney General’s office. A lawyer from the Oregon Justice Department reportedly ruled the lottery’s arrangement passed muster.
“Different models were considered, but at a certain point, Lottery opted for a vendor model where funds do not become public funds until remitted by the vendor to Lottery,” Wray continued. “As that model was considered and selected, we repeatedly advised Lottery to work closely with DOJ to ensure a full understanding of the character of the funds as Lottery structured its contractual relationships with its vendors.”
In other words, the state lawyer sided with the lottery that at the front-end of a bet the money belongs to the bettor, not the state. And treasury eventually went along with it.
“We hired SBTech to deliver a turn-key solution,” Shelby said. “They facilitated the development of the framework. We worked with DOJ along the way to ensure everything aligned with Oregon banking laws.”
SBTech itself has been the subject of some scrutiny. A competing bidder protested the state’s choice of SBTech claiming it does business in countries that have banned gambling. That should have disqualified SBTech, the protesting bidder argued.
The terms of the lottery’s contract with SBTech have remained a closely guarded secret. The lottery has declined to divulge terms of its contract with the firm.
Through the first weekend since its launch on Oct. 16, the Scoreboard app saw 18,116 registrations and 55,880 bets with over $1 million wagered. Sports betting is a low-margin game compared to video poker and other more traditional lottery attractions. “We are up a little over $100K since launch,” Shelby said in an email referring to the total wagered less total won.
Before they can play, Oregon Lottery bettors have to successfully open an account with the bank, which requires them to share their Social Security number and sometimes, other proof of identity. The process was buggy in the first couple days of operation and extremely frustrating to bettors, some of whom waited hours to get through.
Once they successfully open an account, bettors must pre-pay the money they want to bet.
The Bank of George has experience in the gaming business. It serves several of the big sports betting players, including William Hill, one of the dominant sports book providers in the industry.
William Hill recently unveiled a priority access prepaid card. “You can now fund your William Hill Mobile Sports account right from your smartphone or tablet,” the company boasts on its website. “This card is issued by Bank of George Member FDIC.”

Story 33
Access Denied - Sucuri Website Firewall
If you are the site owner (or you manage this site), please whitelist your IP or if you think this block is an error please open a support ticket and make sure to include the block details (displayed in the box below), so we can assist you in troubleshooting the issue.
Block details:

Story 34
It’s no fun being left at the petrol bowser with no dosh, missing an electricity bill due date or coming up short for the cost of family dinner at the register because of a network crash at your bank. What can customers do to survive an outage?
Technology: When it’s working well, we love the convenience it can offer us, but it can also bring life to a standstill when a technical issue causes a freeze on your finances.
Customers of Commonwealth Bank (CBA) would know that well, having recently experienced a 12-hour outage that saw millions of people unable to transfer or receive money, while some had to wait several days for funds to clear.
@CommBank Urgently need to get money out and I am unable to. No cash, no nothing. Now I’m starving. Disappointed on such a humid day 😰Surely we deserve more than an apology. Time spent on this inconvenience is time I cannot get back. Robbing me of the most valuable currency ⏰ — Philip Juan Sillah Jr. (@JuanSillah) October 17, 2019
It’s not the only bank to have raised customers’ hackles over network failures, with National Australia Bank experiencing two outages within a week earlier this year.
Statistics released by the Payment System Board last Thursday – on the same day as CBA’s blackout – showed the frequency and number of outages had increased overall in the past year.
Australian Payments Network CEO Andy White told Canstar that participants in the payments system see reducing operational problems as a “priority”.
“Operational outages are relatively rare, but when they do happen they can be inconvenient and frustrating for customers,” Mr White said.
“We’re working to improve the actual incident data’s consistency by focusing it on customer impact, and to agree and implement a framework for disclosing such data.”
He said customers could be reassured by the widespread availability of ATMs and point-of-sale devices such as EFTPOS facilities, most of which have cash withdrawal options, to access their funds at any time.
Canstar money expert Effie Zahos said consumers needed to take matters into their own hands if a financial institution couldn’t ensure their software services were reliable.
“For some of us a bank outage is just an inconvenience, for others wanting to pay bills or settle on purchases, an outage can turn into a financial nightmare,” Ms Zahos said.
“If your bank continues to have software glitches then maybe the best thing you can do is pack up your accounts and give your business to somebody who has a better track record.”
Ms Zahos said for customers worried about how to survive a bank outage in the future, there are a few steps they could take.
Tips on how to survive a bank outage in Australia
1. Contact your creditors
First things first, contact your creditors to let them know your situation if you have any bills due. Whether it’s your phone, electricity or gas bill, the provider may be able to give you some wiggle room on the bill’s due date, or waive any late fees.
If you are still charged late fees, keep a record of those (see the next step).
2. Keep calm and keep a record
If you notice late fees or interest charges stacking up as a result of not being able to access your bank account during a network outage, Ms Zahos’ advice is to stay calm. She said chances are your bank should be coughing up to cover these costs.
“You want to be able to claim these costs back from your bank when things get up and running again,” she said.
CBA promised to refund any customers who incurred fees and charges associated with its network issue last Thursday, and has so far credited $50 to about 150,000 customers with the description saying “Sorry from CBA”.
3. Get thrifty with payment options
Did you know you can buy groceries with PayPal online? Woolies and Coles accept the money transfer service as a form of payment now, so Ms Zahos suggests this could be worth considering as a backup if you can’t use your credit or debit card or access online banking.
Alternative payment options like PayPal typically allow you to keep an account balance without having to withdraw any funds from your bank account.
4. Spread your (bank) love
Opening up an emergency fund with another bank could be a good option to help ensure you always have some money on hand, just in case your primary bank suffers an outage.
“If there’s one thing to be learnt from bank outages is that it pays to spread your love,” Ms Zahos said.
“An emergency account with a debit Visa or Mastercard connected to it – and no fees of course – that’s separate from your main account means you’re never at the mercy of just one payment provider.”
Follow Canstar on Facebook and Twitter for regular financial updates.

Story 35
CLOSE
Tine Eide, a former Tempe teacher, now leads the global fraud prevention division for American Express. (Photo: Ross Franklin/AP)
Corrections & Clarifications: An earlier version of this article gave an incorrect name for the report that compares fraud rates of major credit card companies. It is the Nilson Report.
Like most math teachers, Tina Eide remembers fielding questions from students about the need to study certain equations or formulas.
"They'd ask, 'Why do we need to learn this? We'll never use it'," recalled Eide, who formerly taught at Kyrene Middle School and Corona del Sol and McClintock high schools in Tempe.
She would answer that it's not necessarily the formula that matters, but the ability to learn how to solve problems.
"It's the analytic skill sets that are really valuable," she said. "You can go anywhere and use them."
Eide's comments proved prophetic, as she literally leveraged her background in mathematics and statistics to go someplace else — New York City — where she now oversees the global fraud defenses at American Express.
The financial services giant is a place where there's a "vast range of real-life problems to solve," largely in keeping crooks at bay, she said.
Small-town roots
New York is a far cry from where Eide grew up — in Tombstone, the southeastern Arizona town where her parents ran a recreational-vehicle camping park. She used her math skills at an early age there to help her parents calculate prices and payments.
Eide eventually moved to the Valley, where she earned a mathematics degree in 1991 at Arizona State University, with an emphasis on education. After teaching for nearly five years, she went back to ASU to earn a master's in statistics in 1998.
Tina Eide, originally from Tombstone, now heads American Express' global fraud division in New York. (Photo: Rob Tannenbaum)
She used that degree as a springboard to join American Express, working in several divisions before focusing on fraud management.
Eide now shuttles between American Express' headquarters in New York and Phoenix, where the company has a fraud-division staff of roughly 80 employees. All told, she supervises around 200 employees, mainly data scientists, including those located in India, Mexico City, Toronto, London, Tokyo and Sydney, as well as in the U.S.
Eide's team has dozens of open positions and is actively hiring for jobs including business architects, marketing analysts, user-interface designers, user-experience designers and engineers.
Fraud tactics: 'phishing' and 'vishing'
Her focus is making sure that customer interactions with American Express are safe and secure. It's a fast-paced field where reducing fraud is the goal.
"We're constantly building tools, monitoring and making adjustments," she said. "It's a constantly changing, evolving landscape."
Eide takes pride in key finding: that American Express' fraud rates are below those of competitors Visa, Mastercard and Discover, according to a Nilson Report study released earlier this year.
"We are leveraging the billions of transactions that American Express sees annually to investigate trends and patterns, to determine if transactions are fraudulent or legitimate," she said.
Fraudsters are constantly on the attack, often seeking personal customer information to gain access to their accounts.
Phishing, where crooks send emails to trick people into providing passwords or other sensitive information, remains a threat. So is "vishing," the voice version of phishing, where crooks call customers on the phone pretending to represent American Express or other financial institutions in hopes of tricking them.
"If you're not sure whom you're talking to on the phone, then hang up and call the number on the back of your card," she advises.
The teaching connection
Eide has two kids, an 18-year-old daughter and a 14-year-old son, and she likes to play golf in her spare time. She also enjoys mentoring other women who are seeking to move up the corporate ladder, calling American Express a great place for diversity and inclusion.
Eide said she misses teaching to an extent, especially in watching kids develop. But she sees a lot of parallels between teaching and success in business.
Communication skills, in particular, are critical to both.
"You must tell the story and convince people that what you're doing is valuable," she said. "Bringing other people along with you is the way you'll get things done."
Reach the reporter at russ.wiles@arizonarepublic.com or 602-444-8616.
Read or Share this story: https://www.azcentral.com/story/money/business/2019/10/24/tina-eide-global-fraud-prevention-american-express-was-tempe-math-teacher/4010784002/

Story 36
Access Denied - Sucuri Website Firewall
If you are the site owner (or you manage this site), please whitelist your IP or if you think this block is an error please open a support ticket and make sure to include the block details (displayed in the box below), so we can assist you in troubleshooting the issue.
Block details:

Story 37
Advertiser Disclosure
Editorial Note: Forbes adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. The content on this page may contain partner offers and/or affiliate links, and Forbes may receive compensation if you click through a link on this page. To the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available.
A whopping $68 billion was sent by individuals in the United States to individuals in low and middle income countries in 2017, according to the World Bank. That makes the U.S. the leading source of crucial “remittances” to these countries. Most of this money flow went from migrants working in the U.S. to family members back home.
This year remittances from the developed world to less wealthy countries will total $550 billion, the World Bank expects. But there’s a problem, it says: transaction costs for these crucial transfers average 7%—meaning $38.5 billion is been eaten up by fees, which come in the form of both explicit fees and unfavorable exchange rates.
On a more personal level, if you’re sending $1000 home, it could cost you $70. And that’s money that your relatives or you could put to better used. The current system in the U.S. for sending money abroad isn’t quick, either. The Federal Reserve has toyed with the possibility of creating a faster payments system to gain efficiency, but progress on the idea has been slow at best.
Fortunately, fintech startups (and some established companies) have been developing platforms and services to make sending money from one individual to another cheaper and faster. But these services aren’t one size fits all. Depending on whether you’re sending money domestically or internationally and what country you’re sending to, the best service can vary. It will also vary based on what bank accounts (if any) you and the recipient have.
Forbes analyzed numerous money transfer services to determine which was the best for a range of categories. Winners for each category were chosen based upon criteria including low fees, accessibility, a range of payment methods and time for delivery.
Best for Domestic Peer-to-Peer Transfers
Best for Domestic Transfers of Large Amounts
Best for Fast Domestic Bank Transfers
Best for Fast International Cash Transfers
Best for World Travelers
Best for Sending From the Developed to the Developing World
How to Choose the Best Services for Sending Cash to Developing Countries
Best for Domestic Peer-to-Peer Transfers and Domestic Transfers of Large Amounts
PayPal
You’ve heard of PayPal — and if you haven’t created an account yet, it might be the time. PayPal beats out other peer-to-peer (P2P) money transfer apps like Venmo and Zelle because of its accessibility and choice of payment methods. Funds are received instantly into a recipient’s PayPal account, and can be transferred to their bank account as soon as the next day. Another major advantage of PayPal is that if a recipient doesn’t want to link their bank account, they can use their PayPal balance to spend money instead—that’s because the platform is accepted as a method of payment at 75% of online merchants. PayPal also has more registered users than (PayPal-owned) Venmo, a social-centric P2P app best for smaller dollar transfers.
PayPal’s international transfers come with hefty fees, so it’s only best for sending money within the U.S. It also allows for the largest transfers amount with no limit to how much you can send in total (but individual transactions are limited to $10,000).
How it works: PayPal account holders can send money to friends and family through the app, or online via a web browser. Account holders can send money through a variety of payment methods; recipients also have to be PayPal account holders, but can sign up for free.
Payment options: Bank account (no extra fee), credit and debit cards (small fee to send money from these options)
Fees: Sending money domestically to friends and family via a PayPal balance or linked bank account is free. Sending to friends and family, also domestically, via a credit card, debit card or PayPal credit is subject to a charge of 2.9% of the amount sent through this method, plus a fixed fee of $0.30. (International transfers are subject to transaction and funding fees, plus a fixed fee for sending in other currencies.)
Time to receive funds: Funds are received instantly in the recipient’s PayPal balance and can be transferred to their bank account as soon as the next day.
Transaction limits: Verified accounts have no limit for the total money that can be sent, but are limited to up to $60,000 (or sometimes $10,000) in a single transaction.
Best for Fast Domestic Bank Transfers
Zelle
If you need to send money to someone, but don’t care about the added bonus of being able to pay directly from an app (like PayPal), Zelle is a great peer-to-peer tool for bank account transfers. Wire transfers from bank to bank can take days to process; Zelle, however, can complete the transfers in a matter of minutes. Over 5,400 financial institutions are now on the Zelle Network — meaning a significant number of people have access to fast, fee-free bank transfers. Over 171 million transactions took place on Zelle during Q2 2019, accounting for $44 billion in transfers.
How it works: Banks and credit unions work directly with Zelle to offer the service. To use, customers have to sign up with Zelle directly, which can often be done from their own bank’s app or web site, and enroll their profile. If your bank isn’t currently partnering with Zelle, you can still use the service through its Android and iOS apps (but the recipient must bank with an institution partnering with Zelle).
Payment options: You can only send money directly from your bank account with Zelle.
Fees: $0 to send or receive money (Zelle recommends confirming with your bank or credit union that it doesn’t charge additional fees to use the service.)
Time to receive funds: Recipients already enrolled with Zelle will receive funds in “a matter of minutes,” according to the company.
Transaction limits: Depends on the sender’s bank or credit union. Customers whose banks have not partnered with Zelle and who are using the service via its smartphone apps, can only send $500 per week.
Best for Fast International Cash Transfers
WorldRemit
While picking a service to send cash internationally, it’s important to pay attention to exchange rates and fees charged by the service — not every service charges the same amount. In fact, even some exchange rates used differ from service to service. WorldRemit has some of the lowest cash transfer fees, and offers a better exchange rate than competitor Xoom. Currently, users can send money to people in over 145 countries.
How it works: You must have an account to use WorldRemit, but signing up is free.
Payment options: Bank account, credit, debit or prepaid card, Poli, Interac, iDEAL, Soford, Google Pay, Apple Pay, Trustly
Fees: Transfer fees vary and depend on where you’re sending the money. For example, to deliver $50 to a Walmart in Mexico, there will be a $3.99 fee.
Time to receive funds: Most transfers are instant or near instant; home delivery can take 24 hours to seven days, depending on the location.
Transaction limits: Depends on the country you are sending the money from. If you’re sending from the U.S. with a debit, credit or prepaid card, you can send $5,000 per transaction with a maximum amount of $9,000 per 24 hours.
Best for World Travelers
Transferwise
If you’re someone who often finds themselves waking up in one country and going to sleep in another, managing money across borders can be difficult. Repeatedly exchanging cash into a foreign currency can cost a lot in fees. TransferWise, a company focusing on “borderless banking,” makes managing money in multiple currencies a breeze. It’s also possible to do regular money transfers through the platform without setting up its borderless bank account. (Disclaimer: The author of this post has a TransferWise borderless bank account.)
How it works: Setting up a borderless bank account with TransferWise is free and only requires an initial $25 deposit. Each section of the bank account can be designated for a certain currency; for example, if you add a euro balance, the bank account comes with a SWIFT number, just like it would in Europe; if you add a GBP balance, that balance will have a sort code. The bank account can hold and manage more than 40 currencies.
The debit card tied to your TransferWise account is a MasterCard and funds can be added a variety of ways. The account has the ability to convert currencies across balances (for a small fee), and withdrawing cash from a foreign ATM is about a sixth of the cost incurred with other debit cards, according to the company.
Payment options: Direct debit, wire transfer, debit card, credit card, Apple Pay. Fees for payment options depend upon currency being paid or converted to.
Fees: $0 monthly account fee, converting currencies using your card is subject to a 0.45% to 3% fee; ATM withdrawals of up to $250 per 30 days are free, anything over that is subject to a 2% fee.
Time to receive funds: The time it takes to receive funds on the MasterCard depends on how they’re added; some are available within seconds.
Transaction limits: There are no limits of how much you can receive and keep in all currencies other than USD. There is a $250,000 limit per transaction a day, and a $1,000,000 limit per year.
Best for Sending from the Developed to the Developing World
Remitly
If you’re sending money to a bank account overseas, and want to send directly in the destination country’s currency, Remitly is a cost-efficient option. The service also offers a promised delivery time — and if it isn’t met, you get your money back. One major advantage of Remitly is its express service, which comes at a $3.99 fee, can transfer funds within minutes. Remitly also offers a home delivery service to your recipient, which takes only 1-2 business days.
How it works: Signing up for a Remitly account is free. Once you’re in, choose where you want to send your money and how; you can either send in U.S. dollars or have it delivered in the destination country’s currency.
Payment options: Bank account, credit card, debit card.
Fees: Remitly’s transfer fees depend on how much is being sent, where the money is originating from and where it is being sent to. For example, sending USD to the Philippines, with the recipient receiving it in the local currency, will not incur any fees if transferring via economy — but that doesn’t mean it’s free, since Remitly’s exchange rates are inflated in order for the company to make money. In comparison, sending money from the U.S. to Argentina will face a $0.49 fee. Express transfer fees also vary on the same criteria.
Delivering payments in USD will also incur a fee, and that fee is based on the amount of money sent. Remitly also charges a 3% fee when paying via credit card or business debit card.
Time to receive funds: Economy transfer to bank: 3 to 5 business days; Express: Within minutes. Home deliveries are available with delivery time dependent upon the location it’s being sent. Remitly also has local partners for in-person pickups; for example, money sent to Mexico can be picked up at local Walmart locations.
Transaction limits: Remitly has three tiers of transaction limits, with each additional tier requiring additional verification information. The lowest tier sets a $2,999 daily limit, and the highest a $10,000 limit. More information about Remitly’s transaction limits here.
For more information on how to compare rates for sending money to specific countries, see below.
How to Choose the Best Services for Sending Cash to Developing Countries
Sending cash to the developing world can be difficult to navigate; not all money transfer services are available in every country, some don’t charge competitive exchange rates and finding a cash pick-up location near your recipient can be a challenge.
Forbes recommends using Monito, a money transfer comparison site, to determine the cheapest ways to send cash to common countries for remittances from the U.S. Monito fetches real-time transfer fees and exchange rates, and then calculates how much your transaction will cost with a list of popular transfer services. Monito will show you the best deal for each delivery method, and then provide other options, while including how much they will cost compared to the best one. Since exchange rates fluctuate, a different service could be the most cost-effective on any given day.
As with any money transfer, keep in mind that some are slower than others — so the cheapest might not always be the best, depending on the urgency of your remittance.

Story 38
European Commission - Questions and answers Frequently Asked Questions: Making electronic payments and online banking safer and easier for consumers 1. Payment Services Directive What is the Payment Services Directive 2 (PSD2)? The revised Payment Services Directive (PSD2) aims to further modernise Europe's payment services for the benefit of consumers and businesses. It promotes the development of innovative online and mobile payments, more secure payments and better consumer protection. At the same time, the directive aims to improve the level-playing field for payment service providers - including new players or FinTechs - and contribute to a more integrated and efficient European payments market. Overall, the updated rules will help to facilitate innovation, competition and efficiency in the EU online payments market. PSD2 also marks another step towards the completion of the digital single market in the EU andgives consumers more and better choices when it comes to retail payments Many elements of the PSD2 already entered into application across the EU on 13 January 2018 and more improvements come into application on September 14. PSD2 brings several major consumer benefits, such as: PSD2 tackles fraud in online payments: PSD2 introduces strong security requirements for electronic payments and for the protection of consumers' financial data to ensure their privacy is respected by all market operators. These rules should boost consumer confidence when buying online (as of September 2019); PSD2 opens the EU payment market to competition: PSD2 sets the stage for the future. With online financial services constantly evolving, the new rules will apply equally to traditional banks and to innovative payment services and new providers, such as FinTechs. These players, also called third party payment service providers (TPPs), will now be regulated under EU rules. They will be able to bring a wealth of consumer benefits. For instance, they can initiate payments on behalf of customers. They give assurance to retailers that the money is on its way, or give an overview of available accounts and balances to their customers (as of September 2019); PSD2 increases consumers' rights in numerous areas. These include reducing consumers' liability for unauthorised payments and introducing an unconditional ("no questions asked") refund right for direct debits in euro (in application since January 2018); PSD2 prohibits surcharging, which is additional charges for payments with consumer credit or debit cards, both in shops or online. These rules are applicable since January 2018; PSD2 improves complaints procedure - PSD2 obliges Member States to designate competent authorities to handle complaints from payment service users and other interested parties, such as consumer associations, if they consider their rights established by the Directive have not been respected. Payment service providers should put in place a complaints procedure for consumers which can be used before seeking out-of-court redress or before launching court proceedings. Payment service providers are obliged to respond in written form to any complaint within 15 business days (since January 2018). 2. Fighting online fraud What is strong customer authentication? PSD2 introduces strict security requirements for the initiation and processing of electronic payments. PSD2 obliges payment service providers to apply so-called “strong customer authentication” (SCA) when a payer initiates an electronic payment transaction. Payment service providers include banks and other payment service providers. SCA is an authentication process that validates the identity of the user of a payment service or of the payment transaction. More specifically, the SCA indicates whether the use of a payment instrument is authorised. Some EU Member States, such as Belgium, the Netherlands and Sweden, already use SCAs for electronic remote payment transactions, be it a card payment or a credit transfer from an online bank. In some other EU countries, some payment service providers apply SCA on a voluntary basis. The requirements of strong customer authentication across the EU will help reduce the risk of fraud for online payments and online banking, and protect the confidentiality of the user's financial data, including personal data. This means that European consumers will benefit from safer electronic payments. In terms of how it works in practice, customers will receive advice from their banks or payment providers. They will have to provide two or more of the following elements when making payments, which can be categorised as: Knowledge: something only the user knows, e.g. a password or a PIN code
Possession: something only the user possesses, e.g. a mobile phone, and
Inherence: something the user is, e.g. the use of a fingerprint or voice recognition. Banks and other payment service providers will have to put in place the necessary infrastructure for SCA. They will also have to improve fraud management. Merchants will have to be equipped to be able to operate in a SCA environment. Whenever a payer initiates an online transaction above €30, the SCA will be applicable, unless one of the nine exemptions apply (e.g. low value transactions, trusted beneficiaries, etc). Will all accounts and all payments have to apply strong customer authentication? Are exemptions possible? Strong customer authentication rulescover payment accounts in the scope of PSD2, i.e. all accounts where the holder can place and withdraw funds without any additional intervention or agreement of their payment service provider (such as a current account). As regards the types of payments, as a matter of principle, all electronic payments are subject to strong customer authentication. Exemptions include low value payments for remote (online) transactions below €30, as well as contactless payments at point of sale - whereby the amount of a single transaction must not exceed €50 and the cumulative amount of previous contactless payments since the last time SCA was performed (e.g. by inputting the card PIN) does not exceed €150. Other categories of exemptions concern corporate payments (see the question below). Further exemptions may apply, which are set in the Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2018/389and take account of the risks involved, the value of transactions and the channels used for the payment. Payment service providers that wish to be exempted from SCA must first apply mechanisms for monitoring transactions to assess if the risk of fraud is low, and must report certain data on fraudulent transactions to competent authorities and to the EBA. All payment service providers will need to prove the implementation, testing and auditing of the security measures. In case of a fraudulent payment, consumers will be entitled to a full reimbursement. For online payments, security will be further enhanced by linking, via a one-time password, the online transaction to its amount and to the beneficiary of the payment. This practice ensures that in case of hacking, the information obtained by a potential fraudster cannot be re-used for initiating another transaction. This procedure is already in application in some Member States and has led to significant fraud reduction for online payments. What about the security of corporate payments? The Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2018/389 also caters for the security of payments that are carried out in batches. This is the way most corporates make payments, rather than one by one. The new rules also take into account host-to-host machine communication, where for example the IT system of a company communicates with the IT system of a bank to send messages for paying invoices. Security mechanisms for these types of communication systems (corporate and host-to-host) can be as effective as strong customer authentication. Therefore, they can benefit from an exemption from the SCA, if this is approved by national supervisors. When will strong customer authentication become mandatory? The new SCA requirements are applicable as of 14 September 2019, and are being gradually introduced in line with migration plans designed under the authority of national and European supervisors. Some Member States are more advanced than others. We encourage all stakeholders to speed up their efforts to ensure that the new requirements are rapidly and fully in place across the whole EU. The European banking authority (EBA) acknowledged the challenges experienced by some stakeholders to introduce SCA fully by 14 September. The EBA therefore adopted an Opinion on 21 June 2019 allowing national supervisors to enforce the new SCA rules on online payments by cards with a degree of flexibility, granting where necessary ‘limited additional time' to migrate to compliant authentication methods. Consumers should continue to pay as normal in Member States that decide to avail of this flexibility. At the end of this period of time, consumers will be asked to perform the two-factor strong customer authentication, unless an exemption applies. 3. More choice in the EU payment market How does PSD2 change the payments markets? PSD2 also introduces more competition in the payments market by allowing non-bank companies to offer new innovative services to their customers. Since the adoption of PSD1 in 2007, new services emerged in the area of internet payments, where innovative players – known as FinTechs or ‘Third Party Providers (TTPs)' - offer specific payment solutions or services to customers. Until now, these FinTech companies faced difficulties when entering new markets, as they were operating outside of the financial services legal framework. PSD2 requires that these FinTechs follow the same rules as the traditional payment service providers: registration, licensing and supervision by the competent authorities, and PSD2 ensures that they can offer their services across the EU. Consumers who want to use such new services cannot be prevented by their banks from doing so. Any bank that offers online access to accounts must cooperate with FinTech companies or with other banks providing such services. Consumers and companies using these services will have to grant access to their payment data to third parties providing payments-related services (TPPs). These are, for example, payment initiation service providers (PISPs) and account information service providers (AISPs), or other banks. Consumers will be able to manage their personal finances more efficiently through applications that, for instance, aggregate information from their accounts held with different banks. In order to make that possible, banks must establish secure communication channels to transmit data and initiate payments. How will common and secure communication work? The Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2018/389 specifies the requirements for common and secure standards of communication between banks and FinTech companies. Customers will have to give their consent to the access, use and processing of their data. TPPs will not be able to access any other data from the payment account beyond those explicitly authorised by the customer. In other words, previous practices such as unregulated ‘screen scraping' will no longer be allowed. Banks will now have to put in place a communication channel that allows TPPs to access the data that they need. This communication channel will also enable banks and TPPs to ‘identify' each other when accessing customer data and communicate through secure messaging at all times. Banks may establish this communication channel by adapting their customer online banking interface. They can also create a new dedicated interface that will include all necessary information for the payment service providers. The rules also specify the contingency safeguards that banks have to put in place when they decide to develop a dedicated interface (the so-called "fall back mechanisms"). The objective of such contingency measures is to ensure continuity of service as well as fair competition in this market. How is personal data protected? In accordance with data protection rules under both PSD2 and the General Data Protection Regulation, account holders can exercise control over the transmission of their personal data under both PSD2 and no data processing can take place without the express agreement of the consumer. In addition, payment service providers can only access and process the personal data necessary for the provision of the services the consumer has agreed to. PSD2 regulates the provision of new payment services which require access to the payment service user´s data. For instance, this could mean initiating a payment from the customer's account or aggregating the information on one or multiple payment accounts held with one or more payment service providers for personal finance management. When a consumer seeks to benefit from these new payment services, she or he will have to explicitly request such services from the relevant provider. Payment service providers must inform their customers about how their data will be processed. They will also have to comply with other customers' rights under data protection rules, such as the right of access or the right to be forgotten. All payment service providers (banks, payment institutions or new providers) must comply with the data protection rules when they process personal data for payment services. QANDA/19/5555 Press contacts: General public inquiries: Europe Direct by phone 00 800 67 89 10 11 or by email

Story 39
Apple held a big event on March 25th at its headquarters in Cupertino, California, and much of the focus was on its new TV service, Apple TV Plus.
Apple invited Hollywood A-listers like Steven Spielberg, Reese Witherspoon, Jennifer Aniston, and even Oprah Winfrey to help celebrate the launch this fall of Apple TV Plus, which will feature Apple's original programming.
But the biggest announcement Apple made on Monday wasn't original TV shows, or even its new subscription services for magazines and video games. It was a credit card, called the Apple Card.
Forget Apple's new TV service coming this fall — the biggest announcement Apple made this week, full stop, is the Apple Card, an extension of the Apple Pay service that's been around for almost five years now.
On September 9, 2014, at the same event where Apple CEO Tim Cook unveiled the iPhone 6, Apple introduced a service called Apple Pay.
Apple said it created Apple Pay because plastic credit cards felt "outdated and vulnerable." A credit card can be stolen, and its important numbers and security codes are exposed by default.
Apple Pay offered a more elegant, secure way to pay for goods. A couple of button presses could summon your favorite payment method — credit card, debit card, gift card, you name it — on your iPhone or Apple Watch, which you'd then touch to a merchant's NFC panel to pay. That's it. All the identifying information on your card is kept private and secure from merchants, but also from Apple.
On March 25th, Apple took its vision of Apple Pay one step further by partnering with a pair of financial institutions (Mastercard and Goldman Sachs) to offer a credit card unlike any other out there.
The Apple Card brings Apple's trademark simplicity to the credit-card system. Apple not only redesigned the card itself, but reimagined what it looks like to pay for goods, get rewards for those goods, and pay off the card.
Here are the tenets of the Apple Card, and why it's Apple's biggest announcement of 2019 so far:

Story 40
The European Commission has fined the card scheme Mastercard €570 566 000 for limiting the possibility for merchants to benefit from better conditions offered by banks established elsewhere in the Single Market, in breach of EU antitrust rules.
Commissioner Margrethe Vestager, in charge of competition policy, said: “European consumers use payment cards every day, when they buy food or clothes or make purchases online. By preventing merchants from shopping around for better conditions offered by banks in other Member States, Mastercard's rules artificially raised the costs of card payments, harming consumers and retailers in the EU.”
Mastercard is the second largest card scheme in the European Economic Area (EEA) in terms of consumer card issuing and value of transactions. Under the MasterCard scheme, banks offer card payments-related services under common card brands, Mastercard and Maestro. Mastercard acts as a platform through which issuing banks provide cardholders with payment cards, ensure the completion of the card payment transaction and transfer funds to the retailer's bank.
Card payments play a key role in the Single Market, both for domestic transactions and for payments across borders or over the internet. European consumers and businesses make more than half of their non-cash payments through cards.
When a consumer uses a debit or credit card in a shop or online, the bank of the retailer (the “acquiring bank”) pays a fee called an “interchange fee” to the cardholder's bank (the “issuing bank”). The acquiring bank passes this fee on to the retailer who includes it, like any other cost, in the final prices for all consumers, even those who do not use cards.
Mastercard's rules obliged acquiring banks to apply the interchange fees of the country where the retailer was located. Prior to 9 December 2015, when the Interchange Fee Regulation introduced caps, interchange fees varied considerably from one country to another in the EEA. As a result, retailers in high-interchange fee countries could not benefit from lower interchange fees offered by an acquiring bank located in another Member State.
In April 2013, the Commission opened a formal antitrust investigation against Mastercard to assess whether these rules on 'cross-border acquiring' were in breach of EU antitrust rules. In July 2015, the Commission issued a Statement of Objections.
The Commission investigation found that because of Mastercard's cross-border acquiring rules retailers paid more in bank services to receive card payments than if they had been free to shop around for lower-priced services. This led to higher prices for retailers and consumers, to limited cross-border competition and to an artificial segmentation of the Single Market.
On this basis, the Commission concluded that Mastercard's rules prevented retailers from benefitting from lower fees and restricted competition between banks cross border, in breach of EU antitrust rules. The infringement ended when Mastercard amended its rules in view of the entry into force of the Interchange Fee Regulation.
As a result, the Commission decided to impose a fine on Mastercard.
Cooperation with Mastercard
Mastercard cooperated with the Commission by acknowledging the facts and the infringements of EU competition rules.
The Commission granted Mastercard a 10% fine reduction in return for this cooperation.Further information on this type of cooperation can be found on the Commission's Competition website.
Fines
The fine was set on the basis of the Commission's 2006 Guidelines on fines (see IP/06/857 release and MEMO/06/256). In setting the level of fines, the Commission took into account several factors, including the value of sales relating to the infringement, the gravity of the infringement and its duration, as well as the fact that Mastercard cooperated with the Commission during the investigation.
The fine imposed by the Commission on Mastercard amounts to €570 566 000.
Background
The Commission concluded that Mastercard's rules until 9 December 2015 infringed Article 101 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), which prohibits agreements between companies or decisions by an association of undertakings that prevent, restrict or distort competition within the EU's Single Market.
The Commission takes the view that Mastercard and its licensees (who issue Mastercard and branded cards to cardholders or acquire transactions with those cards for retailers) together form an association of undertakings.
More information on this investigation is available on the Commission's competition website in the public case register under the case number AT.40049.
Interchange Fee Regulation
As of 9 December 2015, the Interchange Fee Regulation capped interchange fees in the European Economic Area (EEA) to a maximum of 0.2% of the transaction's value for debit cards and 0.3% of the transaction's value for credit cards. Before that, these fees varied considerably from one country to another in the EEA.
Since the entry into force of the Regulation, retailers pay a reduced domestic or cross-border interchange fee, which brings retailers' costs down considerably.
Ongoing investigation concerning Mastercard
In the Statement of Objections addressed to Marstercard in 2015, the Commission also outlined its preliminary view that Mastercard'sinterchange fees applied to payments made in EEA with consumer debit and credit cards issued outside the EEA (“Inter-regional MIFs”) may breach EU antitrust rules.
The Commission is concerned that such fees applied by Mastercard may anti-competitively increase prices for European retailers accepting payments from cards issued outside the EEA and in turn lead to higher prices for consumer goods and services in the EEA. That part of the case is still pending.
In December 2018, the Commission invited comments from interested parties on commitments offered separately by Visa and Mastercard to address the Commission's competition concerns relating to inter-regional interchange fees for card payment transactions.
Previous Commission actions
Today's decision is the latest in a series of Commission's actions reducing card fees for merchants:
In December 2007, the Commission found that Mastercard's interchange fees on cross-border transactions in the EEA (e.g. when a Belgian citizen uses his card to pay in a shop in France) restrict competition between banks. In September 2014, the Commission's findings were confirmed by the Court of Justice.
In 2009, to comply with the Commission's 2007 decision, Mastercard reduced the (intra-EEA) cross-border interchange fees applied by its member banks to maximum weighted averages of 0.2% for debit cards and 0.3% for credit cards.
In December 2010 and February 2014, the Commission also adopted decisions making legally binding commitments offered by Visa Europe (the former Visa scheme association of banks in Europe) to cap at the same levels (0.2% and 0.3%) the interchange fees for all intra-EEA debit and credit card transactions. The 2014 commitments also allowed acquirers to apply a reduced cross-border interchange fee (0.2% for debit and 0.3% for credit) for cross-border clients.
In April 2015, the EU's Council of Ministers and the European Parliament adopted the Interchange Fee Regulation, which from 9 December 2015 capped interchange fees for cards issued and used in Europe (maximum of 0.2% for debit cards and 0.3% for credit cards). The Interchange Fee Regulation established a level playing field for the card payments in the intra-EEA transactions market as a whole. However, the caps of the Interchange Fee Regulation do not apply to inter-regional transactions (i.e. those involving cards issued outside the EEA), as the Regulation does not apply to cards issued outside the EEA.
Action for damages
Any person or company affected by anti-competitive behaviour as described in this case may bring the matter before the courts of the Member States and seek damages. The case law of the Court and Council Regulation 1/2003 both confirm that in cases before national courts, a Commission decision constitutes binding proof that the behaviour took place and was illegal. Even though the Commission has fined the companies concerned, damages may be awarded without being reduced on account of the Commission fine.
The Antitrust Damages Directive, which Member States had to transpose into their legal systems by 27 December 2016, makes it easier for victims of anti-competitive practices to obtain damages. More information on antitrust damages actions, including a practical guide on how to quantify antitrust harm, is available here.
Whistleblower tool
The Commission has set up a tool to make it easier for individuals to alert it about anti-competitive behaviour while maintaining their anonymity. The tool protects whistleblowers' anonymity through a specifically-designed encrypted messaging system that allows two way communications. The tool is accessible via this link.

Story 41
New York (CNN Business) As western companies jockey for a way into China's enormous digital payments business, PayPal has clinched a license to provide digital payment services in China, following its acquisition of a majority stake in a Chinese payments company.
PayPal's PYPL China's central bank has approvedacquisition of a 70% equity interest in GoPay, the companies announced Monday. PayPal says this makes it the first foreign firm licensed to provide digital payment services in China.
The terms of the deal, which is expected to close by the end of 2019, have not been disclosed, a PayPal spokesperson said. GoPay is a small Chinese payments provider that functions similarly to PayPal — it allows merchants to accept non-credit card payments straight from their websites.
the Chinese government has American payment and credit card companies have for years been trying to break into the world's second largest economy, where the growing middle class means a growing market of consumers seeking lending, credit card and money transfer services. In recent years,the Chinese government has opened the door to foreign firms to start applying for licenses to launch payments networks in the country, but the approval process has been slow-going. By taking on majority ownership of GoPay, PayPal acquired access to the Chinese firm's license to provide online payment services.
"We look forward to partnering with China's financial institutions and technology platforms, providing a more comprehensive set of payment solutions to businesses and consumers, both in China and globally," PayPal CEO Dan Schulman said in a statement on LinkedIn.
Read More

Story 42
ADVERTISEMENT
It's fat times for credit card companies.
Visa made $10.3 billion in profits in 2018 on just $20.6 billion in revenue, up from $6.7 billion and $18.3 billion respectively in 2017. Profits were up again to $3.0 billion in the first quarter of 2019, a 14 percent increase from the same period in 2018. Mastercard, meanwhile, took in $5.9 billion in profits in 2018, up almost 50 percent from 2017, and saw a similar 25 percent jump in the first quarter of 2019. Beyond that, individual banks who issue such cards rake in billions more, especially with credit cards. A 2018 Federal Reserve report shows that between 2011 and 2017, large credit card banks have collected returns on assets between 3.37 percent and 5.37 percent — as compared to 1.32 percent for all commercial banks in 2017.
These companies are part of the American payments system — the ways we move money from one place to another. And it's never been easier for consumers to move their money around, to pay for everything — from groceries to movie tickets to hotel rooms — either online or in person with little to no thought about what makes that possible. But these massive profit figures raise some questions: Why on earth are credit cards making so much money? Are the services they provide worth tens of billions? And why aren't debit cards, which function almost identically to credit cards, equally profitable?
In brief, payment card companies are piggybacking on public systems and guarantees to gouge the American public, especially with credit cards. They act as middlemen, skimming fees off transactions and using their size to bully businesses into accepting their terms — who then raise prices on all consumers. The associated profits, both for Visa and company and the issuing banks, are effectively a tax on everything Americans pay for.
And it doesn't have to be this way.
To understand what exactly the credit card companies do, it's first helpful to think about payment systems more generally. These are simply a way for entities (individuals, businesses, or even governments) to exchange money. That sounds easy, but as economist Perry Mehrling explains, the details are tricky. One has to consider the direction of payment (do you "push" payments from buyers, or "pull" them on behalf of sellers, or both?), the solvency of the participants, the net balance between them, and so on.
Imagining a simplified version of this situation leads directly to a foundational payment technology — the clearing house, which settles payments across all its members at the same time. Instead of every party having to negotiate with all other parties individually, they settle with the clearing house, which calculates net obligations across the whole group. So where bank A might have owed $50 to bank B, been owed $40 by bank C, and owed $5 to bank D, instead it just owes $15 to the clearing house, which in turn calculates the net payments or obligations for all the other banks as well. Most payment systems are at bottom some type of clearing house.
The American payments system specifically has six fundamental pillars: cash, checks, credit cards, debit cards, wire transfers, and the Automated Clearing House (ACH). They all developed separately, but they also overlap and support each other in fundamental ways. To understand how Visa and Mastercard are raking in so much cash, it's helpful to get a sense of the underlying infrastructure on which they rely.


Alex Wong/Getty Images

Cash is perhaps the most intuitive of these, but it's also quite peculiar relative to the other systems. Unlike the others, there is no "owner" of the cash system, and no central coordination mechanism where payments are cleared. Instead, payments are negotiated directly between individuals, based on trust. The U.S. dollar bill is one of the most familiar objects in the world, but the very idea of a national paper currency took many centuries to develop. Indeed, paper money was originally developed by private banks, which typically used them as a promissory note — thus the term "banknote." First in China, governments gradually cottoned on to the idea of using paper notes as a general medium of exchange (especially for payment of taxes), usually backed by precious metal reserves. In times of extreme stress (above all war), the metal backing was often abandoned, effectively paying for state needs through an inflationary tax. The resulting low value of paper usually pushed governments back onto gold afterwards. But as gold- or silver-backed money became ever more unworkable, gradually states converged on fiat currency backed by nothing but trust.
The history of American cash follows this pattern precisely. Initially, metal-backed currency was considered ideal, but the state was routinely forced to print to finance wars, with "Continentals" in the Revolutionary War and "Greenbacks" in the Civil War. After the world gold standard collapsed during the Great Depression, fiat currency became the de facto (and eventually legal) reality.
There is a similar history with checks. In the first half of the 19th century, checks from one bank deposited at another had to be cleared between each individual institution, at considerable expense and labor. But in 1853, New York bankers got together to establish the first check clearing house — a group of banks which agreed to accept each other's checks. Then each bank could simply calculate a net settlement each day with respect to the clearing house, dramatically simplifying the process. Other cities and regions quickly followed suit. Finally, the Federal Reserve (established in 1913), pressured banks to hook all the clearing houses together, and accept all checks at face value. Only then did checks become a national payment system.
After the Second World War, banks developed optical scanning systems, which simplified matters, and then the Fed pushed them to develop image-based processing, which allowed clearing with a simple picture. Today, with smartphones and apps, virtually all checks are cleared without the banks ever touching a piece of paper, and any check can be cleared at any bank.
Which brings us to the bigger financial pipelines, whose technology in turn undergirds the card payments system (as well as all businesses of any kind). First, there is the Automated Clearing House, originally developed by banks trying to get around the check-clearing headache. This was the birth of the direct deposit, allowing workers to get their paycheck placed directly into a bank account. Thus ACH is wired into every bank account in the country. What's more, unlike any other system, it can go in both directions — both pushing payments into accounts or pulling them out, allowing for easy automatic bill payment. And it's cheap, with very low transaction fees. Over the years, ACH evolved to become an important system for businesses as well.
Then there are the real heavy hitters — the wire transfer systems. There are two big ones in the U.S.: Fedwire, which is owned and operated by the Federal Reserve, and the Clearing House Interbank Payment System (CHIPS), which is privately owned. These are mostly used for very large transactions between businesses, mostly banks or other financial institutions. Fedwire conducts only individual transactions, and is available to any bank with an account at a Federal Reserve bank (which is most of them), while CHIPS is mainly used by the big Wall Street players and functions as a clearing house. Either are quite cheap to use. But at bottom they work like any online banking service, only with enormously greater security precautions, because the amounts involved are gigantic — routinely over $3 trillion per day at Fedwire, and about $1.5 trillion at CHIPS (which is also a customer of Fedwire).
All this arcane history points to an important lesson: American payments systems only function as well as they do because of state institutions and extensive state regulation. Cash is straight-up produced by the government. The U.S. dollar in general (as the vast majority of dollar transactions do not happen with cash) is a state creation. The Fed controls the national money supply, in addition to running the biggest wire transfer system and the biggest check clearing house in the country.
Government action has also been key in pushing improvements in payment efficiency. Universal check clearing only came about because of state pressure. Banks technically own the ACH, but it is extensively regulated to ensure stability and consistency, and prevent fraud — what's more, the Fed operates one of two ACH "switches" (which coordinate payments between ACH member banks). Moreover, the banks themselves are backstopped by state power at every level. Federal deposit insurance prevents bank runs, and protects savings when banks go under. And as we saw in 2008, when the financial system blows itself up with irresponsible lending and fraud, the state has been there to save it.
So, how do card networks fit in, and why are credit cards so ludicrously profitable?
The card networks are private companies — mostly Visa and Mastercard, which together account for about 72 percent of the market — that banks and merchants can join (American Express accounts for another 22 percent, but it is operated in-house, with no external bank involvement save a couple exceptions). Banks issue cards to their customers, which allows for payments at any merchant who is also part of the network, either directly out of a customer's bank account with a debit card, or with a short-term loan (usually unsecured) with a credit card. In the latter case, if the monthly balance is not paid in full, the bank charges a punishing interest rate on the remaining balance.


pixinoo/iStock


But the big money in credit cards today isn't in loans and interest, it's fees. First, there is the "interchange fee" — a percentage charge between the merchant's bank and the customer's bank, set by the network operator, for every transaction. Then the card companies themselves collect additional "swipe fees" (usually a percentage of every transaction), plus a smaller data processing fee and additional charges for international transactions. So when a customer buys something with a card, the money for the purchase price comes from their card-issuing bank and goes to the merchant, but then the merchant's bank pays the customer's bank an interchange fee. Finally, the merchant pays a swipe fee to the card company separately.
In other words, the card companies do not directly collect the interchange fees, but effectively collect a cut of it after the fact with their own fees, as the overall fee volume is mostly determined by the interchange rates, which they set. It's a complicated setup, but it allows the card companies to pose as if they are are not financial institutions (thus avoiding a lot of regulation), and to leave headaches like unpaid card balances to the banks.
There is no possible moral or economic justification for these fees. Credit card companies and their bank allies are just abusing their market power to soak the rest of society for easy fat profits.
It's key to realize that simple network effects account for a huge proportion of the value of these systems. The card companies (originally set up by banks, but later spun off into their own companies) did do a lot of work to get them off the ground with advertising, network-building, ensuring interoperability in multiple countries, and so on, but today their sheer size and universality are why credit cards are so ubiquitous. Once they got up to a big enough scale, everyone else had to join up or lose out on tons of business. As the 2018 Federal Reserve Payments Study notes, in 2000 there were 15.6 billion and 8.3 billion credit and non-prepaid debit card transactions respectively, while in 2017 the figures were 40.8 billion and 69.6 billion. That's why Visa and Mastercard are accepted at virtually every major business today.
Moreover, the card companies and card-issuing banks rely on the other major payment systems to move money around in their own right. The merchants from whom they extract money also require a stable payment system to conduct their business, as do their consumers to go about their daily lives. Without the underlying infrastructure of ACH, Fedwire, and so on, plus all the regulations to protect those systems, card networks would not be nearly as stable or reliable as they are. They might well not even exist at all.
So why aren't debit cards as profitable? Simple: They aren't allowed to be. As mandated by the Dodd-Frank financial reform, the Fed capped interchange fees on debit cards at 0.05 percent of the transaction, plus 22 cents (though not all types of debit cards are included). This slashed average debit interchange costs when it took effect in 2012.
But credit cards were not included in this section of Dodd-Frank at all, and naturally charge much higher amounts. For consumer credit cards, interchange fees typically run between 1.55-1.95 percent (that is, 31-39 times the regulated debit percentage fee) plus 10 cents, but can get as high as 2.95 percent for certain corporate cards. Indeed, all the big players have been steadily jacking up their fees over time — so high that some major businesses (like the supermarket chain Kroger) have begun to withdraw from Visa in protest.
There is no possible moral or economic justification for these fees. Credit card companies and their bank allies are just abusing their market power to soak the rest of society for easy fat profits. Merchants paid $64 billion in interchange fees just to Visa and Mastercard in 2018, an increase of 17 percent from the previous year and 77 percent from 2012. And while merchants pay these fees directly, and credit card holders do get a partial kickback in the form of various rewards programs, ultimately consumers pay in the form of higher prices — including those who don't even use credit cards. Indeed, the prices of all American goods and services are an estimated 1-2.5 percent higher to cover just interchange fees — effectively a moderate national sales tax that goes directly into the pockets of a few big corporations. (Last year Visa and Mastercard paid $6.2 billion to settle a class-action lawsuit from 12 million merchants, who accused them of illegal price-fixing.)
Illustration|13ree_design/iStock, nitiwa/iStock
There is no reason whatsoever why credit cards should not be regulated like debit cards — their obscene profit margins are evidence enough of that. Perhaps the Fed might grant them a slightly higher rate on account of larger and more complicated networks. Whatever the case, simply studying their books and mandating fee schedules that would cut card company profits by 95 percent, and bring card-issuing bank returns in line with regular banks, could be done easily, with an enormous net benefit. Some big spenders would lose out on cheap vacation flights, but the entire population (aside from a few investors and executives) would enjoy a substantial bump in their real income.
Or, the networks could simply be nationalized. The Fed already has its hands deep in every aspect of American payments systems, or is running them outright. It would be a trivial matter for it to take on credit card operations, setting the fees at whatever it takes to cover the system's operational costs and no more.
A third option would be for the government to set up its own card system, perhaps as part of a postal banking program. No-frills debit and credit cards, run as cheaply as possible, could provide an alternative for merchants and unbanked Americans alike, while good old-fashioned market competition would force Visa and Mastercard to cut prices. (Indeed, pushed in part by retailers like Walmart and Target, the Fed recently announced it is developing a real-time settlement system. This would primarily eliminate the lag between purchase and payment for debit cards, but could also eventually bypass the card networks altogether.)
Despite the tangle of institutions, most of the American payment system is quite cheap, efficient, and reliable — the result of well over a century of sustained government pressure and institution-building. Conversely, the immense profits of Visa, Mastercard, and the card-issuing banks are sheer parasitism. In an age of worldwide computer networks and near-instantaneous communication, it ought to cost virtually nothing to buy something. With just a little more public effort, that could become a reality.

Story 43
It's a trick that catches out even the most experienced travellers. I've made this mistake. I'm sure many other people have as well.
You're settling your hotel bill overseas, or you're finishing your meal at a restaurant, or you're about to buy some clothes at a shop, and you decide to pay by credit or debit card. You tap your card on the machine, or maybe insert the chip. You enter your PIN. And then you get a little prompt on the screen: "Would you like to pay in your own currency?"
Instinctively, you think: yes. Of course you would. It feels cheaper to pay for something in your own currency. It feels like you're dodging a conversion, like you're actually getting rid of a step and will save money in the process.
The truth is the opposite. If you choose to pay in your own currency, you'll be paying more than you should – probably somewhere in the range of 7 to 8 per cent more. That means, for example, that if you have a $450 hotel bill, you'll end up paying $486, or $36 more than you otherwise should have.
READ MORE:
* The best advice for getting the most out of your foreign currency exchanges
* Travel tips: The best pre-paid currency cards
* Tips and advice on saving money while you're travelling overseas
It's a total rip-off, and here's how it works.
Whenever you select "yes" to that innocuous question, you're not avoiding a currency exchange – you're leaving it in the hands of the institution that's processing the card payment.
That institution can set the exchange rate at whatever it likes. And while, yes, it's true that when you're prompted with the question of currency you'll also be shown how much you'll be charged in dollars, most people can't do a complex exchange calculation in their heads, which means you'll barely glance at the number before hitting the button and confirming the transaction.
123RF One of the most common spots for this rip-off is when checking out of a hotel.
The people handling the card payment know this, of course, which is why they can get away with offering travellers a shocking exchange rate and relying on them to still accept it. Sometimes there's even an extra conversion fee changed on top of your crappy exchange, a windfall that's decided and split between the merchant (the restaurant, the shop, the hotel) and the financial institution.
Some EFTPOS terminals I've recently used have also added an extra level to the process, asking, after you've hit the "no" button, something along the lines of: "Are you sure? If you choose to pay in local currency, the exchange rate will be set by your bank or financial institution."
That gives you pause again. It makes you think, wait, maybe I do want to pay in my own currency? What if my bank overcharges me?
And then you'll find some wait staff, as well as those working in shops and hotels, have been trained to guide you towards hitting that "yes" button, given the place they work at gets a cut of this juicy rip-off. Some will even make the selection for you, ostensibly as part of the service, so it's certainly worth checking before you sign or push "enter" on any transaction.
It's annoying to have to worry about this. This whole scheme is cheeky at best, and an outrageous scam at worst – and it's one being perpetrated by the institutions travellers tend to trust, hotel chains and high-end restaurants and the like.
Unfortunately there's not a lot you can do about it, except to remain vigilant. These "dynamic currency conversion" charges are perfectly legal, and the entire transaction is shown to you before you commit to the sale.
The trick is to be aware, and to make the avoidance of these charges part of a larger strategy to manage your money effectively when you're overseas.
123RF Paying in your own currency sounds good, but don't be fooled.
That strategy should involve looking for a bank or other financial institution back home that waives foreign transaction fees and foreign ATM fees. You could also consider using a pre-paid travel card that allows you to load up with foreign currencies, meaning you'll have no option to pay in "your own" currency.
Another tactic is to stick to using cash wherever possible while you're travelling. In countries where you feel safe doing so, that means taking out large amounts of money each time you go to the ATM, to avoid extra transaction or exchange fees where present, and to allow you to pay for most things without another exchange.
And, of course, the final thing to remember: always choose to pay in local currency when you use a credit or debit card. Never pay in your own. Just like that, you've saved a huge amount on your travel bill.
Have you made the mistake of paying in "your own currency" while travelling overseas? Do you think hotels and other institutions should be more upfront about the costs you'll incur?
- Traveller

Story 44
E-money is convenient, letting you quickly pay for coffee to go without fumbling for change. While its use appears to be spreading in Japan, the country is still lagging behind in the use of cashless payments compared to other nations.
The Japanese government has defined payments using credit cards, debit cards, and e-money as “cashless payments” and is aiming to achieve a key performance indicator—the ratio of cashless payments to private final consumption expenditures—of 40%, the global average, by 2025, the year of Expo 2025 Osaka.
Figure 1 shows the ratio of card-based payments to private final consumption expenditures as of 2016 for different nations. Bearing in mind that corporations are included in card-based payment data, the card-based payment ratio averages around 40% for all nations.
Japan’s cashless payment ratio is thought to have risen to 24% in 2018. While this shows some progress compared to the graph, this is still far below the global average. For this reason, Japan is frequently called an underdeveloped nation in cashless payments.
What this means is that credit cards and debit cards are used to a lesser degree in Japan than in other nations. The Japanese government aims to achieve its KPI of the wider use of cashless payments through card-based payments and e-money.
The initial objective of the government in boosting cashless payments was primarily to promote foreign tourism to Japan. In view of the 2020 Tokyo Olympic and Paralympic Games and the need for regional revitalization, the government has sought to encourage foreign visitors to use the credit cards and debit cards they are already comfortable with to for their spending, thereby invigorating Japan’s economy.
Accordingly, there is some merit in easing the use of foreign credit and debit cards in Japan by making payment terminals more widely available, one way for Japan to advance beyond its undeveloped-nation status in cashless payments. In a parallel measure, QR-code payment terminals are being installed in large cities and at tourist destinations for visitors from China.
A Leader in E-money
E-money is used in about 2% of payments in Japan, making Japan one of the nations with the highest use of e-money in the world. Of the nations listed in Chart 1, only Italy, Russia, and Singapore boast similar levels of usage; e-money’s share of payments is less than 1% in other nations.
A domestically developed noncontact chip (FeliCa) is used for e-money transactions in Japan. Japan was the first nation to begin using e-money, around the year 2000, and the first nation to launch mobile payments in 2004 when FeliCa chips were added to cell phones, a service that came to be known as a mobile wallet.
It cannot be said, however, that mobile payments using e-money have spread widely, and card-based payments continue to dominate. Factors that may have worked against the spread of e-money are the inability to transfer e-money when changing cell phones and the scarcity of places where cell phones can be charged.
A matter that bears noting about the cashless payment ratio is the existence of payment methods other than card-based payments and e-money that do not use physical currency. Examples are such services as bank credit transfers and the transfer of funds between individuals. We can see in Figure 2 that, as of 2017, cash payments (banknotes and coins) accounted for less than 50% of private consumption in Japan. Many people in Japan pay rent and public utilities through automatic credit transfers from bank accounts, and the extensive payment services of financial institutions cannot be ignored.
Large Companies Lead the Way
It is mainly large companies that are leading Japan toward a cashless society. Goals cited in the government’s Investments for the Future Strategy 2017 include the promotion of inbound tourism along with operational efficiency and the use of big data. Japan is at the stage of promoting cashless payments for the entire range of consumption.
As Japanese society ages and as its birthrate declines, cashless payments are being viewed as a possible response to the coming decrease of the labor force. The idea is to encourage operational efficiency by reducing the need to handle cash.
Specifically, going cashless will save time in cash management, reducing the need to maintain an adequate supply of change and to add up cash on hand after stores close, as well as cutting down the risk of theft and loss. The labor saved will permit the reassignment of staff, for instance in positions where they can deal with customers. Already large restaurant chains are establishing experimental no-cash restaurants, and convenience stores are installing self-checkout terminals. These efforts in going cashless are achieving some positive results.
Should the use of cashless payments spread steadily, financial institutions will be able to achieve efficiencies in branch and ATM operations. In autumn 2018, improvements were made to the interbank settlement system, and it became possible to provide real-time remittances for the full 24-hour day. Financial institutions are promoting the use of debit cards, and they are successively offering mobile remittance services.
Expectations are high for the application of big data in cashless payments. Companies are seeking to expand sale opportunities by collecting purchase history data in order to optimize the placement of products and provide advertisements that match the tastes and interests of individuals. Since smartphones make it easy to collect purchase histories and position data, large communications companies and IT companies are moving into the market for smartphone payments.
It has been noted that cashless payments have the characteristics of a platform—a service that connects users with users. One feature of platforms is the way their usefulness increases with the number of users, giving rise into a lock-in effect where customers become tied to particular products and services. One of the objectives of large companies entering the payment business is thought to be a desire to strengthen the retention of existing customers.
Smaller Businesses Less Enthusiastic
Small and medium-sized enterprises, however, are less enthusiastic about going cashless. SMEs benefit less from optimizing the placement of workers and from big data compared to large companies. In addition, such drawbacks as the cost of installing payment terminals and the cost of payment fees cannot be ignored. Unlike large companies in a strong negotiating position, SMEs pay a relatively high fee to payment service providers. It can also take two to four weeks to collect sales from many payment services, a burden on cash flow.
For these reasons, many SMEs are preferring to speed up the collection of funds through cash sales rather than paying the cost of payment services. For stores handling fresh foods and for businesses with thin margins and high turnover, there is no incentive to adopt cashless payments.
To encourage SMEs to go cashless, the government is planning to implement a reward points program where consumers making cashless payments at retail stores will be rewarded with points up to 5% of the value of their purchases. This program will be for a nine-month period from October 2019, when the consumption tax is hiked to 10%, to June 2020. The effect of this policy, however, will be limited unless it benefits SMEs in the long term. As a result, it is highly likely that many stores will revert to cash payments once the rewards end.
Some consumers appear to avoid cashless payments out of concern for the cost of payment fees and labor that stores must bear. Surveys also indicate that consumers select payment methods based on whether there are economic benefits, such as reward points or discounts. In Japan’s more rural regions, where human relationships are strong, there may be a tendency to choose such relationships over economic benefits. In contrast, a cashless and efficient payment system is needed in large cities to reduce the stress consumers experience waiting in queues.
Based on the above analysis, cashless payments are expected to spread in Japan for goods and services that are of high value or provided by large companies. What is needed for goods and services that are of lower value or provided by SMEs is the deployment of a public and nationwide payment method (such as mobile remittances) that will take the place of bank ATMs.
(Originally published in Japanese. Banner photo © Pixta.)

Story 45
Advertiser Disclosure
Editorial Note: Forbes adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. The content on this page may contain partner offers and/or affiliate links, and Forbes may receive compensation if you click through a link on this page. To the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available.
The credit card had a humble beginning. Diners’ Club introduced the first general-purpose credit card in 1950, followed eight years later by the first bank issued credit card. Americans have been using plastic credit cards since 1959 when American Express introduced plastic to replace its cardboard predecessor.
Today, credit cards have become ubiquitous in the United States. According to the Federal Reserve, Americans used their credit cards to pay a record 40.8 billion times in 2017, and those payments totaled $3.6 trillion. Statista reports more than a billion credit cards in the U.S. today and, according to the Federal Reserve, credit card debt now surpasses $1 trillion.
There are several reasons for the explosion of credit card use. One is the security and convenience of using a card instead of lugging around loads of cash. Another reason is the boom in online shopping. There’s also the number of banks offering compelling cash and travel rewards to their card users. Some credit card issuers offer a 0% introductory APR on purchases or balance transfers as a way to market their cards. And then there is a credit card’s ability to help consumers build a credit history and score that will help them later if they want to take out a mortgage, borrow for a car, or do anything else (like rent an apartment) that might require a credit check.
In this Forbes Guide to Credit Cards, we cover these and other topics you need to decide whether and how credit cards should be part of your financial life.
What Is a Credit Card?
Credit cards, which are a form of revolving credit, work differently than installment loans. With an installment loan, such as a car loan, a consumer borrows a fixed amount of money at a fixed or variable interest rate. A minimum monthly payment is set in advance, and it doesn’t change over the course of the loan.
With credit cards, it’s a different ball game. First, most credit cards come with a credit limit. A credit limit of $10,000, for example, enables a consumer to charge up to $10,000 on the card. Of course, there is nothing requiring the cardholder to use any or all of the available credit.
Second, the minimum payment on a credit card varies based on the outstanding balance. As the outstanding balance goes up, so does the minimum payment. Conversely, as the balance goes down, the minimum monthly payment also goes down.
Third, there’s no term on revolving debt. A car loan, for example, typically has a set term (e.g., 5 years). With a credit card, a consumer can continue to use the card so long as the balance doesn’t exceed the card’s credit limit.
The Types of Credit Cards
There are several different types of credit cards. These include cards for those with no credit or poor credit, business cards, and those looking for rewards. Here are the major types of credit cards available today.
Secured Credit Cards
In the world of credit cards, you’ll find there are two broad categories: secured and unsecured. Both report your payment history to credit reporting bureaus. Most credit cards you see advertised are unsecured, meaning they don’t require a refundable deposit to use them. Secured credit cards, on the other hand, require a security deposit to open the account.
Secured cards will likely have the word “secured” attached to its name—for example, there’s the Discover it® Secured card. To use this card, you’d deposit $200 to open a $200 line of credit with Discover. After eight months, your account, along with your other credit accounts, are reviewed monthly to evaluate your credit management. At that point, assuming you have paid off your balance every month and managed your other accounts well, Discover will likely refund your deposit and switch you to an unsecured card.
Secured vs. Unsecured Features Secured Unsecured Bases for credit limit Refundable security deposit Credit history and income Interest on carry-over balances X X Bonus offerings X X Rewards (i.e. cash back) X X Report to national credit bureaus X X Accepted nationwide X X Offers security and protection services X X Helps build credit X X Fees (i.e. annual fee, late fees) Depends on the bank’s offerings Depends on the bank’s offerings
Unsecured Credit Cards
Unsecured credit cards are what most people think of as traditional cards. What follows are various types of unsecured credit cards.
Student Credit Cards
A student credit card is designed for college students with limited or no credit. Student cards usually come with low to no annual fees and an educational component in the form of rewards. Some banks and credit unions will offer statement credits for maintaining a certain grade point average, for example. Other card features include cash back or rewards points. The credit limit on student cards is often low given the applicant’s limited income and credit history.
Business Credit Cards
There are two types of business credit cards: small business and corporate. Card issuers will have different qualifications for each card. For example, what one bank considers a small business, another might not.
A small business credit card operates like a personal credit card and it’s commonly used to establish credit for a young business. It’s similar to a personal credit card in that the small business may not have enough credit history to get a corporate card and so the business owner applies for credit through their own name.
Businesses that have more scale and a credit rating from one of the business credit rating agencies meet the requirements for a corporate credit card. Corporate credit cards give companies with millions in revenue the flexibility of authorizing multiple users and earning business related rewards like air mileage.
These cards aren’t hard to come by so you can shop around to find one that meets your business needs.
Reward Credit Cards
Credit cards offer a variety of valuable rewards. From cash back to free travel, rewards credit cards seek to build loyalty with card holders by rewarding them when they use the card.
Here are the major types of reward credit cards:
Cash Back Credit Cards
A cash back credit card offers discounts on purchases by giving cardholders cash in the form of a check, direct deposit or a statement credit. Cash back rewards typically range between 1% to 6% on purchases. For cards that pay the same rewards percentage on all purchases, the rewards range is from 1% to 2% in most cases. As the rewards rate rises above 2%, the rewards are limited to specific categories of purchases.
When choosing a cash back credit card, look for one that matches your spending habits. For example, if you spend a lot on groceries, you could choose a card that gives you a higher cash back rate at grocery stores. If you value simplicity, however, you could choose a card that offers 2% in unlimited cash back on all purchases.
Another feature to consider is monthly and annual fees. If your annual fee is equal to or bigger than your one-year cash back earning potential, it may not be a good fit for you unless you’re looking for the cash back to cover that fee. Likewise, if your interest rate is high and you will likely carry a balance, then you may not even get a chance to enjoy cash back rewards, since those rewards are likely to be more than offset by the interest you pay.
Look at when you can redeem the cash back, as well. Some cards give cash back after you’ve earned a number of points at certain merchants, others give cash back after a certain number of days or months, and some give you instant cash back. Read the redemption process for earning cash back to determine if its worth your time and energy.
Travel Reward Credit Cards
Credit cards are tools that can be aligned with your lifestyle. Travelers looking to earn mileage or discounts on hotels and travel packages have travel reward credit cards as an option. There are bank cards that are great for general travel and then there are branded cards that are great for flights on specific airlines or stays at specific hotel chains.
You could get a travel rewards card through a financial institution such as your bank. Bank of America’s Travel Rewards credit card gives you unlimited 1.5 reward points for every dollar you spend, plus 25,000 bonus points when you spend $1,000 or more within the first three months.
Some travel reward credit cards double as branded cards. Airlines offer credit cards that help you accumulate frequent flier points, which you can redeem for flights, free checked luggage, preferred boarding or discounts with their partners like other airlines. American Airlines partnered with Citibank to produce the AAdvantage Platinum Select World Elite Mastercard, which comes with all sorts of bells and whistles such as earning up to 50,000 bonus miles.
Hotel reward cards carry similar benefits. You would use a hotel card to earn points towards discounted rates, room upgrades, extended checkout or a free stay. The IHG Premier Rewards Club card gives free stays to cardholders on their card’s renewal anniversary.
Maybe hotel and flight discounts don’t excite you? Car rental companies like Avis offer credit cards, too.
Once again, pay attention to the fine print of how you can earn points, as well as how you will redeem those points. Some travel rewards programs may require you to cover your own taxes when redeeming your travel points—meaning, for example, that a free flight might not be really free.
Branded Credit Cards
Stores and other merchants partner with card issuers to create cards offering rewards or cash back. The Amazon Prime Rewards Visa Signature by Amazon.com, Chase and Visa Signature gives Amazon Prime members 5% cash back on purchases made on the site and at Whole Foods stores.
Charge Cards
Unlike credit cards, which allow you to carry a balance into the following month for whatever interest charge you qualify for, charge card issuers require that you pay your balance off every month. If you choose not to pay the balance off, you will incur a fee.
Another difference is the credit limit. Charge cards do not have a pre-set spending limit; however, there are some retail charge cards that do. No pre-set spending limit doesn’t mean you access to endless credit. The bank can limit your credit to your regular usage of the card or your payment history.
Though charge cards are no longer as commonplace as credit cards, some financial institutions still offer them. They are helpful tools for people who prefer to not have long-term debt.
These cards may come with rewards programs, too. With American Express charge cards, for example, reward points could be one to five times your purchase amount. The only downside is these cards tend to come with high annual fees.
Subprime Credit Cards
Subprime credit cards are designed for borrowers who have poor credit scores. Subprime cards often come with exorbitant fees on top of high interest rates. There are some, however, such as the Credit One Bank Visa, that keep their fees and interest rates in line with standard rates. If you have poor credit, your goal should be to rebuild your score so you can qualify for lower interest rates and save money in the long run.
0% Introductory APR on Purchases and Balance Transfers
Some credit cards offer an introductory 0% APR. The 0% annual percentage rate is an introductory feature. Once you reach the end of the introductory period, the rate goes up to a standard credit card interest rate. Credit card companies may extend their 0% APR offers to purchases, balance transfers or both.
It’s important to understand the difference between 0% on purchases and 0% on balance transfers. With purchases, consumers pay no interest on their balance during the introductory period. Once the introductory period ends, the interest rates goes to the standard purchase rate based on the cardholder’s individual’ creditworthiness.
Balance transfers work differently. Knowing that consumers want to avoid interest charges on their revolving debt, some issuers offer balance transfer promotions to obtain new customers. Once the customer is approved, she can transfer her balance from an existing credit card to her new credit card with a 0% APR. While she’ll benefit from the 0% APR during the introductory period, most balance transfer cards charge a transfer fee of 3% to 5% of the amount transferred. A few cards, like the Chase Slate card, waive the balance transfer fee for those who initiate the transfer within a set period of time.
As previously suggested, shop around, compare features and go with a card that benefits you the most.
Prepaid Debit Cards
Prepaid debit cards are not credit cards and they don‘t help you build your credit history. But if you do not have a bank account or if you want more control over your spending you might choose to use one of these cards for convenience. That’s because prepaid cards generally can be used anywhere that accepts credit cards.
Prepaid cards operate similarly to checking account debit cards. But since a prepaid card doesn’t have a checking account to draw from, you must first load money onto it before you can use it. Prepaid debit cards are reloadable, so you can continue to use the same card again and again.
There are a variety of ways to load money onto a prepaid care. For example, they generally accept direct deposit of paychecks, tax refunds, and government assistance payments. Many cards offer account access online and through a smartphone app. They also offer text alerts for low balances or other account changes. Prepaid cards often come with extensive fees, so one must understand the card’s fees before selecting a prepaid card.
Credit Card Networks
American Express, Discover, MasterCard and Visa are the largest credit card networks in the U.S. The most widely used network is Visa. According to Statista, an online market research portal, Visa had 337 million credit cards in circulation in the U.S. in the fourth quarter of 2018. Visa is accepted at over 46 million merchant locations, used by nearly 16,000 financial institutions and in over 200 countries, MasterCard had 231 million credit cards in U.S. circulation at the end of 2018 and AMEX had 54 million.
The Pros and Cons of Using Credit Cards
The Pros:
Protection – Federal consumer protection laws provide that your personal liability for credit card fraud is a maximum of $50 if you report that your card is lost or stolen within two days of realizing it. (Many credit card companies, however, offer $0 liability so long as you timely report the loss.) If you don’t report a card theft or loss within two days, your liability increases to $500. If you still have physical possession of your card and there are fraudulent charges made on it, you have $0 liability so long as you report the fraud within 60 days of the time your card statement showing the fraud is sent to you.
– Federal consumer protection laws provide that your personal liability for credit card fraud is a maximum of $50 if you report that your card is lost or stolen within two days of realizing it. (Many credit card companies, however, offer $0 liability so long as you timely report the loss.) If you don’t report a card theft or loss within two days, your liability increases to $500. If you still have physical possession of your card and there are fraudulent charges made on it, you have $0 liability so long as you report the fraud within 60 days of the time your card statement showing the fraud is sent to you. Convenience – Credit cards are easy to use because they are accepted by most merchants, they are handy for moments when you don’t have cash and if a card is lost or stolen, your potential liability is limited.
– Credit cards are easy to use because they are accepted by most merchants, they are handy for moments when you don’t have cash and if a card is lost or stolen, your potential liability is limited. Rewards – Credit card issuers like to reward customers for their business or loyalty with discounts and prizes.
The Cons:
Easy to Accumulate More Debt – Spending past what you can afford and missing your payments equals more debt than you can handle and a poor credit score.
– Spending past what you can afford and missing your payments equals more debt than you can handle and a poor credit score. Convenience – The convenience of these cards encourages people to spend more and use it more frequently than if they only had cash or a debit card. A 2001 study by Drazen Prelec and Duncan Simester on willingness-to-pay illustrates that participants were more willing to pay for an item when they were told to use credit instead of cash. It’s good business for banks, but it can be bad for your net worth..
– The convenience of these cards encourages people to spend more and use it more frequently than if they only had cash or a debit card. A 2001 study by Drazen Prelec and Duncan Simester on willingness-to-pay illustrates that participants were more willing to pay for an item when they were told to use credit instead of cash. It’s good business for banks, but it can be bad for your net worth.. High Interest Rates and Fees – These can get you into more financial trouble when you fall on hard times.
Credit Cards and Your Credit Score
We can’t give you a guide on credit cards without discussing credit scores. Credit card issuers use credit scores, which are based on your ability to manage credit as reported in your credit bureau file, to evaluate your creditworthiness.
Between VantageScore, FICO scores and specialty credit scores for renting or employment, you have many different credit scores. The one most widely used by credit card companies is a FICO score, which ranges between 300 and 850. The lower the score, the more of a credit risk you seem to creditors. The higher the score, the more creditworthy you seem to creditors.
Your FICO score is based on five factors:
your payment history (35%)
the share of your credit lines you are using (30%)
the length of your credit history (15%)
the diversity of your credit (10%)
new credit accounts you have opened in the past 12 months
Once you’ve applied for a credit card, the issuer performs a hard pull on your credit report to evaluate your creditworthiness. They might look at how much of your available credit you are using, how long you’ve held credit and if you are good at paying off your balance (or at least keeping it low). They also might check how many credit accounts you’ve recently opened and what type of credit you have received. What a credit card company looks at depends on that company’s approval process.
The credit pull helps credit card companies decide how high an APR you are eligible for. High credit scorers (700 and above) could qualify for a lower interest rate compared to low scorers. Credit card users who prefer to carry a balance instead of paying their balance off every month should aim to get the lowest interest rate. That way, they’ll pay less interest.
Use your credit cards with your credit score in mind and allow it to work for you, not against you.
Credit Card Sign-up Bonuses
Banks, especially major ones, offer bonuses for switching to their services. Common sign-up bonuses include cash bonuses of up to hundreds of dollars, if you spend a certain within the first several months of opening a card. These case rewards can come as statement credits on your bill, or even checks. Credit cards that offer reward points also offer sign-up bonuses equal to thousands of points that can be redeemed for merchandise or trips.
Pay attention to the fine print. Some banks will use the bonus as a token of their appreciation for your business while others will make you jump through hoops. You could find a bank who will give you cash for simply opening a new account with them. Or, you might choose a credit card where you would have to spend a few hundred or even a few thousand dollars to qualify for the sign-up reward. The fine print will tell you what you have to do to qualify for the sign up bonus. It will also tell you whether you would qualify to participate in getting the bonus. Some issuers will clearly state in the section that you are not eligible for the bonus if you’ve already received one from them within the past one or two years.
There are a couple of other things to watch out for with sign up bonuses, including hidden fees that could diminish your bonus. Finally, be sure to compare other sign-up bonuses currently offered by the same bank for other cards (they may be even higher) and by other banks.
Credit Card Fees
Types of credit card fees:
Late payment fee : Credit card issuers charge you a fee for any payments deemed late.
: Credit card issuers charge you a fee for any payments deemed late. Balance transfer fee: When you transfer your balance from one card to another, you may incur a fee on the card receiving the balance transfer.
Cash advance fee : You may find yourself in a situation where you need cash and you don’t have your debit card on you. You can withdraw cash from your credit card for a percentage fee.
: You may find yourself in a situation where you need cash and you don’t have your debit card on you. You can withdraw cash from your credit card for a percentage fee. Foreign transaction fee : When you use your credit card outside of its country of origin, the issuer will charge you a fee to cover the costs associated with using a foreign bank or foreign currency. Some cards, particularly those that are travel-related, waive this fee.
: When you use your credit card outside of its country of origin, the issuer will charge you a fee to cover the costs associated with using a foreign bank or foreign currency. Some cards, particularly those that are travel-related, waive this fee. Over-the-credit limit fee : This is much like the overdraft fee you see with checking accounts except it’s a charge the issuer adds to your bill for covering a transaction that went over the card’s credit limit.
: This is much like the overdraft fee you see with checking accounts except it’s a charge the issuer adds to your bill for covering a transaction that went over the card’s credit limit. Annual fee : This is an account maintenance fee that you would pay annually. Some accounts make you pay monthly. Many cards come without an annual fee.
: This is an account maintenance fee that you would pay annually. Some accounts make you pay monthly. Many cards come without an annual fee. Returned payment fee: When your credit card payment fails to go through because of insufficient funds, the card issuer will charge a fee.
Convenience fee: Some merchants will charge you a fee for using a credit card instead of cash.
Managing Credit Card Debt
People manage their credit card balances in two main ways and be described as either revolvers or transactors.
Revolvers leave a balance on their card and repay what they borrowed over time. They may make minimum payments, which carries interest and a bit of the principal, or chip away at the balance with a larger than minimum payment. Timely minimum payments keep you in good standing, but they also lengthen your time repaying the debt and cause you to pay more in interest. Because of this, we recommend revolvers aim for credit cards with low interest rates to save money.
Transactors are people who pay their balance off at the end of every month. These people might not worry about interest rates much since they avoid interest charges by paying off their balance in full each month. Instead, they should generally opt for credit cards that offer the highest rewards.
An interest rate, also known as the annual percentage rate (APR), is the yearly cost of the credit you are borrowing from a financial institution. A financial institution could be a traditional commercial bank, credit union or an investment bank with banking services. The APR is determined by your creditworthiness (i.e. credit score) and also by what you do with the credit card.
Some credit cards charge different APRs for different types of transactions. For example, the APR on purchases can be different than the APR on cash advance. A penalty APR can be even higher and apply when a cardholder violates the terms of the credit card agreement (e.g., missing a payment or going over the credit limit). If you slip into a penalty APR, you could go, for example, from paying an 18% APR on an outstanding balance to a 29% APR.
Grace Period
To avoid interest charges, you’ll need to be a transactor and pay your debt off every month by the due date. The time between the end of your billing cycle and due date is known as the grace period. Grace periods are at least 21 days and last up to the payment due date. By paying during the grace period, you avoid interest and only pay for the purchases.
When you fail to pay during that period, you incur interest and usually, a late payment fee. If you make a partial payment or a minimum payment instead of paying off your bill in full, you will also incur interest. What’s more, you’ll end up waiving your grace period for the next billing cycle until the bill is completely paid.
Balance Calculation Methods
Credit card companies have a few different ways of calculating interest. They can use either a daily periodic rate or a monthly periodic rate. The daily periodic rate takes the APR and divides it by 365 and then multiplies that number by the number of days in the billing cycle. Next, banks take that figure and multiply it by the outstanding balance. The monthly periodic rate is similar except it is the APR divided by 12 months.
Differences in calculation methods don’t stop at periodic rates. The rates are applied to the balance in various ways such as the adjusted balance, the average daily balance excluding new purchases, the two-cycle average daily balance including new purchases and the two-cycle average daily balance excluding new purchases. The least expensive are the adjusted balance and average daily balance (ADB) excluding new purchases. The most expensive are two-cycle ADB including new purchases and the two-cycle ADB excluding purchases.
Adjusted Balance
Credit card issuers charge an interest (1/12 of the APR) on the remaining unpaid balance after payment is due.
Average Daily Balance
For the average daily balance, credit card issuers charge interest from the date of the purchase. If payment hasn’t been made by the due date then interest will accrue. The bank decides whether new purchases will be included or excluded from each billing cycle.
Here’s an example calculation
Daily balance with new purchases = Beginning balance – (payments + credits) + (purchases + fees)
ADB = Sum of Daily Balances / Number of Days in the Billing Cycle
Two-Cycle ADB
This method has fallen out-of-style, but it still exists. The two-cycle ADB adds a current billing cycle with the billing cycle before it to calculate your interest. According to the Consumer Finance Protection Bureau, both the current and previous balances are calculated the same. The balances (including or excluding new purchases, and subtracting payments along with credits) of each day are added together and then divided by the number of days in the billing cycle. As you would imagine, this balance calculation method is expensive for the cardholder..
Making the Minimum Payment
When you make the minimum payment on a credit card bill, you are paying a percentage of the principal and the interest that accrued for that billing cycle. Usually, the minimum payment is a percentage of your balance, plus any interest and fees.
Minimum Payment = % of the balance + any interest and any fees
In your card member agreement you’ll find information about how you are charged an interest rate, what that interest rate is and what percentage of your balance will be your minimum payment. For example, my credit card agreement states that my minimum payment will be 1% of my balance plus the interest that accrues over my 26-day billing cycle. The interest doesn’t get applied until the end of the billing cycle.
Paying the minimum means you plan to carry a balance into the next billing cycle on your credit card. If you don’t pay the balance off in full by the next bill then your minimum payment will increase because you will have accrued more interest.
Making the minimum payment is one option in paying down your debt, but it takes longer and costs you more. The longer you wait to pay off a balance, the more you pay in interest (the fee the credit card issuer charges you for borrowing its money). To some cardholders, the minimum seems like a good idea since you’ll have more cash in your pocket, but there’s better ways to pay off your balance. It’s important to note that you should always—at least—pay the minimum to keep your payment history in good standing.
Low Interest Rate vs. Rewards
If you are searching for rewards cards, weigh the cost of the card against the rewards. As suggested before, revolvers should aim for cards with low interest rates. The rewards (points, miles, cashback) that are part of high interest cards may not outweigh the costs in fees and interest.
Credit Cards should be seen as tools and not as goals. Your goal should be to be as financially healthy as you possibly can. You can use credit cards to do that by choosing ones that will maintain or improve your credit file and score, enhance activities you already do such as travel, protect your cash and and are convenient.

Story 46
Apple's latest piece of hardware bears many of the physical hallmarks of its famous gadgets. The sleek edges, titanium structure and laser-etched logo of the Apple Card come straight from the design school of Sir Jony Ive.
But unlike the iPhone, Apple does not want you to delicately cradle its credit card in your hand for all to see. It wants the card to remain untouched at the back of your wallet, its dollars instead being spent through your phone. If Apple has its way, its credit card will be the last physical one you own.
The card, a joint effort between the tech giant and Goldman Sachs, marks Apple’s biggest foray into banking to date.
This week, the company began inviting American iPhone...

Story 47
As slick as the Apple Card is, its features are unique only in their mix, presentation, and integration into iOS. Doing business elsewhere doesn’t mean you miss out on real-time fraud alerts, payment reminders, cash back and the like.
In fact, the majority of the Apple Card’s defining features have been around for ages, and odds are they’re available in a credit card you already possess. That’s particularly so if it was issued by one of the large banks—Chase, American Express, Discover, Citibank, Capital One, or Bank of America.
Pitting those companies’ approaches against Apple’s doesn’t result in exact equivalents, of course. For example, while most credit cards from a single big bank come with the benefits we’ve outlined below, not every one does; you’ll need to verify the specific card you have or want has what you seek. Some features also require manual set up. And a handful of features can’t be replicated at all.
But having a choice beyond Apple means you can pick the right card for your personal finances. The Apple Card versus the competition isn’t a winner-takes-all scenario, as you’ll see.
Seeking specific credit card recommendations? We’ve made a list of the best Apple Card alternatives, with callouts for best overall, best for cash back, best for low-interest rates, and more.
Apple Card features you can get elsewhere
Cash-back rewards
You can get cash back as a reward with quite a few credit cards that have no annual fee. These cards vary in their approach. Some pay a flat rate for all purchases, with the best ranging between 1.5 to 2 percent. Others offer tiered rewards (like the Apple Card), where some categories of purchases qualify for different amounts of cash back. For example, the Discover it Cash Back doles out 5 percent on a rotating series of categories, and 1 percent on everything else, while the Citi Costco Anywhere Visa pays 4 percent on gas, 3 percent on travel and dining, 2 percent at Costco, and 1 percent on everything else.
Citibank The Citi Double Cash pays 2 percent on all purchases, unlike the Apple Card.
Some Apple Card fans have argued that the 3 percent back for Apple purchases can’t be beat. That’s true but not very relevant to most people, as they’ll spend greater amounts in areas like food, travel, and home improvements. The Apple Card won’t maximize rewards for them.
If you’re in the market for a new credit card anyway, a handful of the best come with sign-up bonuses or introductory bonus cash back, which can net juicy rewards that cancel out or exceed what you’d normally earn on an Apple Card. For example, the Wells Fargo Propel awards a $300 sign-up bonus if you spend $3,000 within 90 days. Buying Apple goods (say, a loaded MacBook) on the non-Apple Card is the smarter move, as you’d have to spend $10,000 on Apple products or services on an Apple Card to match that amount.
We name specific recommendations for cash-back cards in our Best Apple Card alternatives article, plus compare the numbers on cash-back percentages, interest rates, and fees in our rundown of the Apple Card and its two nearest rivals.
Contactless payment
Apple Because credit cards issued by major banks are compatible with Apple Pay, you won’t miss out on contactless payment as an option.
Skipping on an Apple Card actually can increase your options for contactless payment, since word on the street is that the physical version of the Apple Card doesn’t support it. The list of banks that support Apple Pay includes all the major credit card issuers we researched for this article, plus a good number of credit unions and smaller banks, too. On top of that, American Express, Capital One, Citibank, and Chase are all heavily pushing physical cards with tap-and-pay capabilities right now.
End-of-the-month payment due date
Does the due date for your credit card payment fall in an awkward part of the month? You can move it. All of the big banks let you pick your own, typically between the 1st and 28th of the month, provided your account is current. (In other words, you have no past-due payments.*) Most banks let you select the new date via their website, but if not, you can also do so with a phone call.
200degrees (CC0) You can change your payment due date in minutes.
Why the date-range limitation, and why can’t your payment due dates fall at exactly the end of every month, like with the Apple Card? It’s likely because of a strict adherence to the CARD Act of 2009. The regulations say that due dates for credit card payments must be the same day each month, and by disallowing the 29th, 30th, or 31st as options, card issuers can follow that law to the letter. (Or perhaps keep their software systems from choking.)
The upshot of this system that you can change the date to any day within that period. Perhaps you don’t get paid on the 1st or the 15th, or there are other bills that fall at the end of the month you’d prefer to space out. You can accommodate those.
*Some credit card issuers have further restrictions on how soon you can change your due date and how often you can do it. You may need to wait past the first billing cycle for a new card, or past 90 days since the last adjustment. Also, be aware American Express does distinguish between its credit cards and its charge cards, and Wells Fargo has some oddly specific dates that are acceptable.
Low interest rates
Because the Apple Card only has the lowest interest rates for a rewards credit card, it’s not hard to beat it on this one point. For one, you’re not guaranteed its absolute best annual percentage rates (APR)—that’s determined by how creditworthy Apple and Goldman Sachs find you.
Patelco Credit unions are the best source for straightforward, low-interest-rate credit cards.
Second, even if you are saving 2 to 3 percent over other rewards cards, you’re still accruing interest at a rate that’s anywhere from 6 to 27 percent higher than better alternatives. Whatever you earn in rewards won’t be enough to come out ahead.
You have two options for a low-interest rate credit card. The first is straightforward and easier to manage: a plain, no-rewards credit card with no annual fee. Credit unions are your best bet for this type of card, as their mission is to serve their members. They do so by offering lower interest rates on loans and credit cards, and higher rates on savings accounts and certificates-of-deposit. Currently you can find low-interest cards from select credit unions with rates starting as low as 7.25 percent.
A few credit unions actually offer rewards cards with interest rates this low, but finding such a card is based on luck of geography and your affiliations. Credit unions allow people to join based on where they work, live, worship, or if a relative is already a member.
The second option is a zero-interest credit card, which is suited solely for people who have excellent credit, a specific strategy around their debt, and the ability to pay it off quickly. These cards generally offer an introductory rate of 0 percent interest on new purchases and balance transfers for the first 12 to 18 months. If you go this route, look to avoid fees if transferring a balance, and eliminate your debt before normal interest rates kick in (anywhere from 16 to 26 percent).
Metal credit card
Metal cards similar to the Apple Card aren’t numerous, but if you drop further down the list of larger credit card issuers, you can find a slab of metal alloy with no annual fee and a tiered set of rewards.
Wells Fargo Like the Apple Card, Wells Fargo Propel American Express card is made of metal and has cash-back rewards.
The standout example is the Wells Fargo Propel, an American Express card that has no annual or foreign transaction fees, and up to 3 percent back on select categories. It’s not an ideal option for anyone planning to carry a balance from month-to-month though, as the interest rates are much higher than the Apple Card’s. (But as mentioned above, you really shouldn’t carry a balance on a rewards card anyway.)
Dedicated travelers have more choices, but going in that direction is a different strategy than with an Apple Card. To make the most out of a card like the Chase Sapphire Reserve or American Express Platinum, you must pay off your balance every month and dine out or travel with a certain frequency to overcome the hefty annual fees.
No fees
With an Apple Card, you completely avoid common fees like those of the annual, balance transfer, late payment, foreign transaction, cash advance, over the credit limit, and returned payment varieties. That’s a rarity, but not impossible to find elsewhere. You just need to sift through offerings from credit unions.
PenFed PenFed’s Promise Visa truly has zero fees.
Our searches uncovered one card available to everyone (provided that you can make a donation to charity if you’re non-military), Pentagon Federal Credit Union’s Promise Visa—and it’s possible that local credit unions in your area might have similar card. (Those near Macworld’s office are not completely fee-free, but the best have very few fees along with excellent benefits. The perks definitely vary from credit union to credit union.)
If you’re not able to avoid fees all together, you can and should avoid a few common ones. For starters, many good rewards cards don’t charge an annual fee. The best ones also don’t charge a foreign transaction fee, which is usually 1 to 3 percent of purchases made through a foreign merchant.*
As for late fees, you can typically request a waiver from customer service if you’re a customer who typically pays at least your monthly minimum due. Banks sometimes offer zero-fee balance transfers to select customers, as well. These options doesn’t remotely resemble the Apple Card, of course, but they do exist.
*Note: To avoid accidentally paying more for international purchases, always refuse being billed in U.S. dollars. The merchant’s bank will almost always use a worse conversion rate than your card’s network (Visa, Mastercard, etc.). This issue is separate from foreign transaction fees, so you’re not immune even with a card lacking fees.
Real-time fraud alerts
Virtually every bank and credit union offers real-time fraud alerts via text message, email, or through its app. Most credit card issuers automatically set these to fire if any suspicious activity is detected, but you can confirm they’re active by logging into your account. (Look for “account alerts.”)
Capital One The Apple Card is not the lone credit card offering real-time fraud alerts.
When performing that double-check, you can also change your preferences for how alert are sent. Receiving messages through the app is slightly more secure than text messages, as the latter are vulnerable to hijacking (primarily through someone stealing your phone number and transferring it to a SIM card in their possession).
In addition to fraud alerts, which rely on algorithms based on your spending habits and general fraud trends, you can also manually set alerts for charges as a backup for catching suspicious activity. You can set these to trigger if a purchase exceeds a certain amount, and some issuers like Bank of America and Chase also let you set it based on location, such as a gas station or online. The exact options vary by institution.
Payment reminders (and other alerts)
All of the major credit card issuers let you set up text message, email, or app reminders for when your payments are due. The time frame for how soon you can be alerted varies between bank, but often it’s a customizable period.
You can also opt in to other alerts, like balance transfers, refunds, or charges over a certain amount. As mentioned above, real-time fraud alerts are usually active by default on accounts, but you can check on those while logged into your account and customize them to suit your preferences.
The exact list of alerts varies slightly from bank to bank, with a few nuances particular to each one—for example, Bank of America lets you monitor online purchases made with your card. But overall, the approaches taken by the big card issuers mostly overlap.
Spending reports
Citibank Citibank provides a categorized summary of your purchases, which you can access via a desktop computer or on mobile.
Colorful bar charts do make it easy to see where your money’s going. So it’s fortunate that other credit card issuers also break down your spending patterns. Most of the big banks give summaries of your purchases, along with color-coded categories and the ability to drill into each to see the individual transactions. The feature goes by different names at each institution—like Spend Analyzer or Trend Summary—so you may have to hunt a little while logged in to find the option.
Of the bunch, Citibank stands out for the ability to go beyond weekly and monthly summaries. You can choose custom time periods that let you see even just a few days’ worth of categorized purchases. Other card issuers provide a minimum of yearly intervals, with companies like American Express and Discover offering a better set of time spans that include a monthly summary as the shortest period.
Text-based customer service
Apple Discover and Wells Fargo also use Business Chat to communicate with customers, though Wells Fargo’s service is still in a pilot phase and unavailable in our area for us to try.
Apple’s real-time, text-based customer service is a boon for people who hate talking on the phone, much less wasting time listening to dreary hold music. You get the same level of service and security as you would by calling in, as it’s handled by live agents over Apple’s Business Chat feature in iMessage.
Most big card issuers rely on standard SMS text messages for limited, automated interaction, but two of them—Discover and Wells Fargo—also make use of Business Chat, opening up that same ease of communication to their customers. (Wells Fargo is still in a pilot phase, however, so this contact method is only available in supported locations.) When we tried out Discover’s service, it worked just as the Apple Card’s does. Responses were reasonably timely, with minimal back and forth before our question was answered.
Virtual credit-card numbers
Virtual card numbers are a security benefit provided by both Apple and its some of its rivals, but their styles of implementation differ.
For the Apple Card, a virtual number protects you from fraud if your physical card goes missing. You only see it in the Wallet app, and only use it for purchases made online and over the phone. It’s separate from the physical card and how those transactions process.
Capital One Capital One and Citibank’s virtual card numbers are merchant-specific, which provides an added layer of protection if the number gets stolen or leaked.
This virtual number does not add any extra protection for digital and phone purchases. It remains constant until you decide to regenerate it through the app. If it changes, you will need to update your billing info with every business who charges you on a recurring basis (e.g., a cell phone provider). The process is the same as if you had to request a replacement physical card from a typical bank, but with fewer delays.
In contrast, Apple’s rivals on this front —Citibank, Capital One, and Bank of America—treat a virtual number as a random credit card number with a unique expiration date and CVV tied to your account. Its specific purpose is to provide privacy and security for shopping done online and over the phone. You can create more than one of these at a time through the bank’s website (or if available, an installed desktop application) and use them simultaneously, too.
Depending on the bank, these numbers can also be specific to the merchant they’re used with (Citibank, Capital One) and can have customizable expiration dates up to one year in the future (Bank of America, Citibank). Citibank also allows you to set a custom spending limit.
If you must replace your physical card with one that has a refreshed account number, you don’t need to make any updates involving your virtual numbers. You only have to update your billing info when the virtual number expires.
Next: Apple Card features you can’t get elsewhere

Story 48
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
Back in the day, writing a check was pretty much the only way to make an IRS payment. Now, however, there are a ton of options. Here’s how today’s IRS payment options work, what they cost and some pros and cons of each method.
Ways to make an IRS payment
Make an IRS payment directly from your checking or savings account
There are two options to make an IRS payment this way: IRS Direct Pay or the IRS’s Electronic Federal Tax Payment System (EFTPS).
IRS Direct Pay
How it works: You go to the IRS Direct Pay website, verify your identity and bank information, and authorize an ACH debit from your bank account.
Cost: Free
Pros:
Can be done online.
Also works for paying estimated taxes, installment agreement payments, and payments for amended returns and tax extensions.
Can schedule payments up to 30 days in advance.
Change or cancel a scheduled IRS payment until two days before the payment date.
Can get email notifications about your payment.
Can make same-day payments.
Cons:
Can’t make more than two payments in a 24-hour period.
Payment takes up to two business days to come out of your account.
No business payments allowed.
Can’t pay from an international bank account unless it has a U.S. affiliate.
Electronic Federal Tax Payment System (EFTPS)
How it works: You go to the IRS EFTPS website, provide identity and bank information, wait about a week for a PIN to arrive in the mail, set a password, go back online and authorize an ACH transaction from your bank account.
Cost: Free
Pros:
Can be done online or via phone 24/7.
Works for paying all federal taxes, including business taxes.
Can schedule payments up to a year in advance.
Can make same-day payments.
Change or cancel a scheduled IRS payment until two days before the payment date.
Can get email notifications about your payment.
Cons:
Takes longer to set up than Direct Pay.
Your bank may charge a fee if you have it initiate the payment for you (rather than scheduling the payment yourself on the EFTPS website or via phone).
Make an IRS payment with a same-day wire transfer
How it works: A wire transfer moves money electronically from one person to another using a bank or a nonbank provider.
Cost: About $25, depending on your institution
Pros:
Speedy money transfer.
Cons:
Your financial institution decides the availability, cost and cut-off times for the wire.
You have to fill out the IRS’ Same-Day Taxpayer Worksheet and take it to your bank first.
You must fill out a separate worksheet for each IRS payment you make.
The transfer is final once processed.
» MORE: Learn more about wire transfers
Make an IRS payment with a debit card
How it works: You go to the website of one of the IRS’s three independent payment processors, then provide the payment amount, your card information and other data. The processor sends the money to the IRS.
Cost: Between $2 and $3.95 per payment
Pros:
Can be done online or over the phone.
Works with PayPal, Samsung Pay, Android Pay, Visa Checkout, MasterPass, AMEX Express Checkout (depending on which provider you choose).
Cons:
Processing fees.
Payments over $1,000 may cost more.
Payments over $100,000 may require special coordination with the processor.
Usually can’t cancel payments.
Your information goes through a third party.
Make an IRS payment with a credit card
How it works: You go to the website of one of the IRS’ three independent payment processors, then provide the payment amount, your card information and other data. The processor sends the money to the IRS.
Cost: Between 1.87% and 1.99% of your payment; minimum fee is between $2.50 and $2.69
Pros:
Can be done online or over the phone.
Works with PayPal, Samsung Pay, Android Pay, Visa Checkout, MasterPass, AMEX Express Checkout (depending on which provider you choose).
Cons:
Fees usually cancel out the value of miles or other rewards earned for using your credit card.
Higher interest rate may apply if you carry the balance on your credit card.
Putting a large amount on your credit card could affect your credit score.
Usually can’t cancel payments.
Your information goes through a third party.
» MORE: If you insist on paying taxes with a credit card, here’s how
Make an IRS payment with a check, money order or cashier’s check
How it works: Have one made out to the U.S. Treasury and mail it to the IRS. Make sure it includes your name, address, daytime phone number, Social Security number, the tax year it should be applied to and related tax form or notice number.
Cost: Stamps and/or mail delivery tracking, plus a possible fee to get a money order or cashier’s check
Pros:
You don’t need a bank account to get a money order.
You may not need a bank account to get a cashier’s check.
Money orders and cashier’s checks can’t bounce.
Money orders and cashier’s checks are trackable, so you can verify receipt.
Cons:
You have to go to the bank or another provider to get a money order or cashier’s check.
Money orders have a $1,000 limit.
You must mail the check, money order or cashier’s check.
Payment may take days or weeks to get there and post.
Regular checks can bounce if there’s not enough money in the account or you don’t have enough overdraft protection.
» MORE: See more differences between cashier’s checks and money orders
Make an IRS payment in cash
How it works: Go to the IRS’ PayNearMe website and follow the instructions to make a cash IRS payment. You get an email confirming your information, and the IRS verifies your information. You get a second email with a link to a payment code and instructions. You then go to the retail store in the email, have the clerk scan your code and then you hand over your cash. You get a receipt and payment confirmation.
Cost: $3.99 per payment
Pros:
Doesn’t require a bank account.
Could be cheaper and more convenient than getting a money order or cashier’s check.
Available in 44 states.
Cons:
Only three retailers participate: 7-Eleven, ACE Cash Express and Casey’s General Store.
Can take five to seven business days to process payment.
Can only pay $1,000 per day.
Getting the cash may require a trip to a bank.
Might involve carrying a large amount of cash.
Make an IRS payment via app
How it works: IRS2Go is the IRS’ official mobile app, and you can use it to make payments via IRS Direct Pay for free or with a debit or credit card (for a fee).
Cost: App is free
Pros:
Mobile-friendly.
Can generate login security codes for certain online services (rather than send them via text message).
Can also use the app to file your return, find free tax software and find free tax help.
Cons:
Only Direct Pay, credit card and debit card payment methods are mobile-friendly.
Using Direct Pay via the app is free, but paying with debit or credit cards still comes with a processing fee.
Make IRS payments over time in installments
How it works: If you can’t pay your tax bill in full when it’s due, you can get on a payment plan with the IRS. There are two types of plans: short-term (for people who can pay off the balance in 120 days or fewer) and long-term (for people who need more than 120 days to pay).
Cost: $0 to $225, depending on the plan you select, how you enroll and whether you’re a low-income taxpayer (see all the details here)
Pros:
Sign up online fairly easily (also by phone, mail or in person).
Most taxpayers qualify.
Lets the IRS know you’re making an effort to pay.
Can arrange to have payments automatically come out of your account (direct debit).
Plans can be restructured or reinstated (for a fee of $10-$89).
Cons:

Story 49
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
UPDATE Aug. 20, 2019: The Apple Card is now available. Below is our article from March 29, 2019, after the card was first announced, updated to reflect the latest features of the card.
Apple, with its usual product-launch hoopla, touted how different its new Apple Card is from the competition. But the product’s differentiators — and there are significant ones — are more subtle than sublime.
Apple has partnered with Goldman Sachs as the card issuer and Mastercard as the network to launch a credit card into a market that is already fiercely competitive. Issuers, including deep-pocketed megabanks, have been regularly improving and innovating their card offerings, especially in recent years.
Still, Apple has come up with a different digital-first flavor of credit card. Here’s how it will work.
» MORE: Should you get the Apple Card? What to know before you bite
Nerd Tip: TERMS TO KNOW Apple Card: The credit card.
The credit card. Daily Cash: The card’s cash-back rewards currency.
The card’s cash-back rewards currency. Apple Pay: Mobile payment system compatible with iPhone 6 and later. It allows wireless checkout at store terminals and in apps and websites that support it.
Mobile payment system compatible with iPhone 6 and later. It allows wireless checkout at store terminals and in apps and websites that support it. Apple Cash card: Virtual debit card that lives on your iPhone for sending and receiving money (similar to Venmo and PayPal). This is where Daily Cash will be credited.
Virtual debit card that lives on your iPhone for sending and receiving money (similar to Venmo and PayPal). This is where Daily Cash will be credited. Wallet app: A native iPhone app that includes your credit cards to be used with Apple Pay, as well as perhaps airplane boarding passes, loyalty cards and other virtual cards you’ve added.
How do I apply for the Apple Card?
Instead of filling out an online form or a paper one, you apply for the Apple Card through the iPhone Wallet app. To see the application in Wallet, you must be running iOS 12.4 or higher. Approval (or rejection) will come in minutes, and you’ll have immediate access to the credit line on the account. That means you can start using the account via Apple Pay right away. Not all credit card issuers allow you to immediately use your credit line upon approval, but it’s not unusual. American Express, for example, offers it on all its credit cards.
If you want to use the physical version of the Apple Card, however, there’s a separate hoop to jump through. You don’t get that sleek titanium card automatically; you must request it separately once your Apple Card application is approved. (To do that, go to the Wallet app and tap “Apple Card.” Tap the more options button (the one with the three dots), tap “Get Apple Card,” and then follow the instructions.)
How good does your credit need to be?
Apple isn’t saying specifically, although it says it wants to make the card widely available, which suggests it might not require excellent credit (a FICO score of 720 or better).
Can I add authorized users?
You cannot add authorized users, Apple says. So it’s not an account that a married couple could share, for example.
Is there a sign-up bonus?
Apple has said there is no sign-up bonus with the card.
How do I pay with the Apple Card?
Via an Apple Pay terminal
The Apple Card will live among other credit cards tucked in your iPhone Wallet app and will work with Apple Pay terminals the same way those cards do. If you haven’t tried Apple Pay at the checkout register, it works like this to use the card you designated as the default:
Pay with iPhone via Face ID. Double-click the side button, glance at your iPhone to authenticate with Face ID or enter your passcode. Then, hold the top of your iPhone near the contactless reader.
Double-click the side button, glance at your iPhone to authenticate with Face ID or enter your passcode. Then, hold the top of your iPhone near the contactless reader. Pay with iPhone via Touch ID. Rest your finger on Touch ID (but don’t press it to activate Siri). Hold the top of your iPhone near the contactless reader.
Rest your finger on Touch ID (but don’t press it to activate Siri). Hold the top of your iPhone near the contactless reader. Pay with Apple Watch. Double-click the side button and hold the display near the contactless reader. Wait until you feel a gentle tap.
With successful payment, you’ll see “Done” and a checkmark on the display.
You can also use Apple Pay in apps and on websites that offer that checkout option.
Without Apple Pay
The physical card can be used normally, by swiping or inserting it into payment readers. But this version won’t have a card number on it, nor will it have a CVV security code, expiration date or signature.
If you need to enter the card number online or on paper, those usual numbers are in the Wallet app.
» MORE: How the Apple Card stacks up against the competition
How do I get cash-back rewards?
Earning rewards
The Apple Card will earn cash back, which it calls Daily Cash, at the following rates:
CASH-BACK RATE CATEGORIES 3% cash back • Apple Pay purchases made directly with Apple (including Apple stores, within the App Store and for Apple services).

• Uber and Uber Eats purchases via Apple Pay.

• Walgreens and Duane Reade purchases via Apple Pay.

• In-store T-Mobile purchases via Apple Pay. 2% cash back All other purchases made via Apple Pay. 1% cash back All purchases made with the physical Apple Card.
If you use Apple Pay, cash-back rewards are good: 2% back on all purchases is above average and 3% is competitive for purchases from a specific retailer. But limiting those rates to Apple Pay purchases only is a big restriction.
The physical card’s 1% cash back is not competitive today. The new normal is 50% more, 1.5% back.
Spending rewards
Daily Cash will be credited daily to customers’ Apple Cash card within their phones. (That’s more frequent than with most cards, where your rewards are typically credited monthly.) If you’ve never used it, the Apple Cash card already sits in your iPhone Wallet. Apple Cash can be used right away for purchases using Apple Pay, to put toward your Apple Card balance or to send money to friends and family by text message.
There is no option to receive a check by mail. The other redemption option is direct deposit into a bank account. You can do that by transferring money from Apple Cash to a bank account anytime for free.
In sum, earning rewards with the Apple Card is a mixed bag, but using your cash back is adequately flexible.
What fees can I expect?
Good news: The card charges no annual fee, late fees or foreign transaction fees.
Simple cash-back cards often have no annual fees, so that’s not a competitive edge. But its lack of late fees or any charges for making purchases abroad is more unusual for this category of card.
Apple also touted no over-the-limit fees, but those fees have been essentially extinct for years.
So all you’ll have to pay to hold the card are interest charges when you carry a balance from month to month. When the card began accepting applications in August 2019, Apple said the interest rate was a variable APR of 12.99% to 23.99%, based on creditworthiness. The low end of that range is around 1 to 3 percentage points lower than many top cash-back credit cards from major banks, although credit union cards tend to carry even lower rates.
Apple won’t offer balance transfers from other cards at launch.
How will Apple Card’s security features work?
Mobile payment systems like Apple Pay are more secure than a physical card. So it’s mostly the system, not the card, that will make Apple Card secure when using Apple Pay. In fact, Apple’s description of Apple Card’s security is very similar to its description of the Apple Pay service launched in 2014.
Whether you’re using Apple Card or a different card in the Wallet for an Apple Pay transaction, the phone stores a unique number — different from your credit card number — and each transaction is authorized with a one-time, unique dynamic security code.
For Apple Card itself, the company created additional security and privacy measures so Apple doesn’t know where a customer shopped, what they bought or how much they paid.
And with rampant breaches of credit card numbers — if you learned that a website you shopped at had been compromised, for example — you could generate a new card number anytime within the Wallet app. The old number would be invalidated.
What money insights will it offer?
Among the goals Apple talked about is offering customers information on their spending, so they can make wiser financial choices.
Categorizing spending — into food spending, shopping and entertainment — is useful information, but not a groundbreaking offering. It’s available through many card issuers, banks and third-parties like NerdWallet and Mint.
One feature the Apple Card offers that you don’t see everywhere is relabeling cryptic transactions with easy-to-understand descriptions helped by machine learning and Apple Maps. That potentially will also help to accurately categorize spending.
The Apple Card will also encourage you to pay a little more on your credit card to avoid interest charges, a healthy habit.
What if I need help?
Round-the-clock support will be available via text message, Apple said. You can also place a voice call from the Wallet app.
What’s the deal with the titanium card?
The physical card associated with the account lacks the identifying numerical details you would typically expect to find — there’s no card number or security code on it, which Apple said makes it more secure. (Again, that information is in the Wallet app.)
If you choose to get it, though, you should probably just frame it and hang it on a wall at home. Its 1% cash back rate isn’t competitive among today’s cash-back cards.
The bottom line? Apple Card is a good choice for your digital wallet, but a poor choice for your real one.

Story 50
The Apple credit card is here. But unless you really value convenience of paying with your phone, you might find better perks elsewhere.

Five months after the initial announcement, the Apple credit card made its official debut Tuesday — at least, to a select number of iPhone users who had signed up to be the first to get an invitation to sign up for the card. (The broader rollout will take place later this month.)
As a MasterCard issued by Goldman Sachs — an institution more associated with investment banking than credit cards — the Apple Card is already a bit of an anomaly. We wanted to see how it compared to some of the cards we featured in our annual Best Credit Cards roundup.
Here are some of the highlights:
Fees — Or Lack Thereof — And Security Features
Apple is known for premium products with pricing to match, so it’s refreshing that its new credit card doesn’t charge an annual fee. While we understand that sometimes annual fees can be worth the trade-off for certain high-end cards, especially in the travel space, we also know there are plenty of MONEY readers for whom paying a fee just to spend money is a dealbreaker. Apple also says on the Apple Card landing page that there are no cash‑advance fees, international fees, over‑limit fees, returned‑payment fees, late fees or penalty APR fees.
The biggest difference between the Apple Card and other cards, though, is that it “lives” in your iPhone’s Apple Wallet. (For analog purchases, there’s a shiny titanium card). Its digital-first format gives Apple the opportunity to use some of the phone’s key security features to make the card safer. Online or in-store, for instance, you authenticate a purchase using Face ID. The card itself doesn’t have the numbers printed on it — and you need Face ID to “unlock” the Apple Wallet section where it’s stored. Apple also says it’s structured account, payment and user data in such a way that preserves your privacy.
APRs and Rewards
The APR range of 12.99% to 23.99% is pretty typical for a bank-issued credit card. In fact, we’d characterize the low end of 12.99% as pretty good; most of the APRs for top-tier credit don’t dip much lower than 14% or 15% for bank-issued cards. A rule to follow if you’re looking for low interest, though, is to check out credit unions. In MONEY’s “Best Of” annual credit card roundup, credit unions consistently rise to the top, some with APRs that (still!) start below 10%.
Like MONEY’s pick for the best retail credit card of 2018, the Amazon Prime Rewards Signature Visa — which gives users 5% cash back on Amazon and Whole Foods purchases — the Apple Card’s rewards structure is designed to incentivize people to spend more on its platform. You get 3% cash back for Apple purchases, which covers hardware and devices, including those bought at an Apple retail store, as well as App Store and iTunes purchases, along with games, in-app purchases and Apple subscriptions to services like Apple Music and iCloud storage. More credit cards today offer accelerated rewards-earning for streaming entertainment services, so Apple’s offering here isn’t super-unique, although it might be a good deal for someone who’s already committed to Apple’s media and software ecosystem.
Apple also is trying to promote the use of Apple Pay by offering 2% cash back for purchases made on that platform, along with 1% cash back elsewhere. Depending on the density of offline merchants that take Apple Pay in places where you spend money, the 2% cash back offer could be a good deal.
Still other cards offer potential rewards that are just as generous and arguably easier to claim. MONEY’s top pick among cash back cards for 2018, the Double Cash Card from Citi gives users 2% cash back on all purchases when you don’t revolve a balance. Other cards, including the Capital One Quicksilver Rewards and Chase Freedom Unlimited, offer 1.5% cash back on purchases with no special categories or hoops to jump through.
Account and Money-Management Features
Some of the Apple Card features aimed at demystifying or at least making your account management easier seem useful; for instance, the card overlays the iOS Maps function onto your transaction history so you can see where you bought stuff rather than relying a possibly-obscure merchant code. And its seamless connection with Apple Wallet makes buying stuff or sending money to people painless and as quick as a look at your screen and a couple of taps.
Some of its ideas are pretty common among other issuer and budget apps, though: A chart that shows your purchases by category or a reminder to pay your bill, for instance, are nice but not exactly breakthrough innovations. Apple’s pitch is that it delivers all this via Apple Wallet rather than a card’s own site or app — but again, the advantage there is dependent on whether or not you actually use, or could be persuaded to adopt, Apple Wallet.
Apple’s very clear breakdown of how much you pay in interest goes above and beyond what regulators require (and the bare minimum most cards provide). Seeing how much you’re paying to service your debt can be a helpful motivator to paying it off sooner (or not acquiring it in the first place).
A Couple of Caveats
There are two big areas where the Apple Card comes up short: One is its lack of a signup bonus. Many credit cards, even among those that don’t charge an annual fee, offer either cash back or a bucket or points or miles equivalent to cash, with most valued in the $100 or $150 range — and a few go even higher.
The other is the Apple Card’s lack of a promotional 0% APR on either purchases or balance transfers. Many cards out there offer one, if not both, for a year or even longer. Apple obviously has name recognition and a fan base that would inspire envy among even the biggest banks, so the simplest and most likely explanation is that it’s not offering these inducements because it doesn’t have to.
If you count yourself among the many devoted Apple fans and iOS users, not chasing a signup offer is fine. If you’re going to make the Apple Card your primary credit card and plan to keep the account for years, it’s definitely arguable that the convenience factor as well as the rewards you could accrue over time might outweigh those other perks. Their absence is worth factoring in, though, if you’re looking for a new credit card and want to compare apples to apples (to Apple).

Story 51
The rollout of the much-discussed Apple Card unleashed an avalanche of media coverage only a few months after a pre-launch announcement stirred up a similar media frenzy. It’s the Apple mystique. Everything they do is seen as larger than life.
But, really, this is about a credit card. How could that be a threat to traditional banks and credit unions? It’s not like this is about Amazon moving full-bore into banking.
While Apple is very different from the ecommerce giant, the two do share one thing in common: They’re both customer experience companies. Apple has built a consumer product empire on seeking out ways to improve the consumer experience in computing, music, phones and more. Most people think of Apple as a product company, and they sell billions of products to be sure. But always the focus is on the design, the function, the experience.
The company has explored co-branded cards before, and has an existing arrangement with Barclaycard. But the Apple Card is at another level altogether, being mainly a virtual card integrated into Apple Pay, the company’s mobile wallet launched in 2014. As Ben Bajarin, Principle Analyst with Creative Strategies, observes, “The opportunity for Apple to insert themselves into payments was clear with Apple Pay, and extending into the banking arena is a natural progression.”
And they’re extending in partnership with Goldman Sachs, the Wall Street giant, itself already deeply embedded in retail banking with its Marcus brand.
It’s likely that if the relationship is successful, it won’t stop there. As it is, in the view of several industry observers, the Apple Card is already much more than “just a credit card.”
A Virtual/Physical Combo With User-Friendly Features
Briefly, the card is primarily virtual, residing in the Apple Pay wallet. The card also exists as a physical card, a stunning white-titanium card containing a chip, issued for free, on request, to be used in places that don’t accept Apple Pay — or don’t have NFC (near field communication) capability. Apple says about 70% of U.S. merchants accept Apple Pay.
( Read More: Is Apple’s New Credit Card The Next Big Thing in Banking? )
( sponsored content ) Right-sizing Branch Networks to Leverage Perceived Presence with ‘The Network Effect’ Branches are still the #1 driver of market share for bank brands. Learn how to effectively balance efficiency and experience to rightsize your retail network. Click Here Digital Banking Consumer Engagement New report provides strategies on how to build ‘best in class’ engagement with digital banking customers. Click Here
The card has no fees, and offers cashback rewards of 3% on purchases made directly with Apple using the card in Apple Pay, 2% on all other purchases made using Apple Card on Apple Pay, and 1% for all purchases made with the physical cards. These rewards, about average in the highly competitive card rewards market, feature an unusual twist: they are paid daily and available to use for (almost) any purpose in the Daily Cash feature of the Apple Card app. Apple says it will extend the 3% cashback reward to additional merchants and has already added Uber and Uber Eats since the initial release.
A large selection of money management features is also part of the Apple Card experience: weekly and monthly spending summaries grouped in color-coded categories; an interactive tool to see how much interest will be charged at any amount a consumer decides to pay.
Surveys Predict Strong Uptake for the Card
The Apple Card was released on a limited basis to people who had requested to be notified when it was available. That was followed quickly by a full rollout. The expectations were for strong demand.
In a survey done about three months after the initial announcement, J.D. Power found that 38% of U.S. adults were already aware of the Apple Card. Among Millennials, the percentage was much higher — 52%. Further, of those who were aware of the new virtual card, 35% said they were either very likely or somewhat likely to apply for it. The research firm concluded from this and other factors that the Apple Card would be a hit, according to Jim Miller, Vice President Banking and Credit Card Intelligence.
In a survey conducted earlier, Cornerstone Advisors found that more than one in five Millennials intended to apply for an Apple Card. As Cornerstone’s Managing Director of Research, Ron Shevlin, notes, “If the Millennials who said they’ll apply for the Apple Card actually do (and are approved), Apple will have the second-highest market share among young Millennials behind Capital One, and third-highest market share among older Millennials, tied with American Express behind Capital One and Bank of America.”
Shevlin points out, however, that consumers rarely do what they say they’ll do in a survey. Also, 42% of the respondents didn’t have an iPhone, and while they could still apply for an Apple Card and use the physical card, that would seem unlikely.
Even if demand isn’t as strong as expected, various people have noted that other Apple products have seen slow adoption at first, notably the Apple Watch … and Apple Pay.
“Apple has always been great at the long game — getting the critical pieces in place over time to deliver a game-changing experience. This is the early beginnings of “The Bank of Apple’,” notes Dominic Sancto, an independent artificial intelligence software developer, in a LinkedIn post.
Read More:
REGISTER FOR THIS FREE WEBINAR Branding Retail-Based ATMs: What’s The ROI? ATM distribution plays a key role in this new world. How do you optimize your existing footprint yet find the resources to grow and defend markets? Enter your corporate email address
Strong Impact Likely on Traditional Credit Card Issuers
The Apple Card’s marketing message is very powerful:
No fees
Help consumers pay less in interest
Instant issuance and immediately available to use (the virtual card)
Privacy protected and data won’t be shared
Easy to get help via 24/7 text.
“This is where it’s an advantage for Apple and Goldman to be new entrants,” Jim Miller tells The Financial Brand. “They don’t have to worry about cannibalizing existing business by eliminating those fees.”
If the card becomes popular, that could put pressure on traditional card issuers to follow suit, hurting profits.
“While [Apple Card] competes with other credit cards, which offer similar things,” says Ben Bajarin, “it is the total experience and the sum of its parts that separate it from the pack. It is a fully integrated experience, something Apple does very well, and its deep integration with iPhone is a differentiator.”
“Ultimately,” says Bajarin, “I think Apple will raise the bar, and other credit card companies will likely feel pressured to step up their game.”
Maybe more than “credit card companies.” The Apple Card experience will likely raise consumers’ expectations for frictionless banking, once they’ve had a taste of it.
As analyst and author Brian Roemmele observed after the initial announcement: “Apple has reengineered everything” about the credit card user experience. The Founder and President of Read Multiplex only increased his enthusiasm once the cards began to be issued. “The Apple Card application experience is the best in the payments industry,” he says in a tweet. “Apple will have about 67% of iPhone owners using an Apple Card with Apple Card top-of-wallet default,” he predicts.
There were 102 million iPhone users in the U.S. in 2018, according to Statista. Apple Pay requires Touch ID, which arrived with the iPhone 5S, but most of the 102 million Apple phones are that model or newer.
Read More:
From Zero to Spending in Three Minutes or Less
Richard Crone, an influential voice in the payments world, wrote on LinkedIn that he was able to use his new virtual Apple Card within three minutes of receiving the invitation by email.
“The Apple Card raises the bar for true, mobile account opening and instant issuance, a standard that no other bank can match,” Crone wrote. “Last week, Goldman didn’t know me; yesterday within three minutes they extended me a generous credit limit that I could start spending immediately.”
“Onboarding is one of the biggest drop-off points for users,” states 9to5Mac in a tweet. “[Consumers] need to give companies a significant amount of personal information before they can access the actual product, which requires a lot of trust in a brand.”
Legacy financial institutions still have an edge in consumer trust. J.D. Power found that 59% of iPhone users surveyed trust their current bank or credit union to protect their personal data and privacy compared with 49% who say they trust Apple. Only 12% trust Facebook. But data from The Digital Banking Report show that the majority of traditional banking providers don’t yet have the kind of frictionless mobile account opening and activation processes that Apple has now made a reality, although the number is rising.
( Read More: Moving From Digital Banking To Embedded Experiences )
Apple Card the Next Step to… Apple Banking
Will the Apple-plus-Goldman card venture be the launching point for banking by Apple?
“An [Apple] checking product would make a ton of sense as the next step, particularly for younger consumers who really like debit cards.”
— Jim Miller, J.D. Power
“A checking product would make a ton of sense as the next step, particularly for younger consumers who really like debit cards,” J.D. Power’s Miller maintains. He predicts that Goldman Sachs will launch a checking account one way or another — under its Marcus brand or with Apple. Miller believes they would have more success combining it with the Apple Card.
Banks will be angry in the future, “when they realize Apple has just stolen their customers [with Apple Card] when it decides to become a digital bank,” says Bill Field, Founder of Payments Global and Digital Money Group, on LinkedIn.
A Boost for Digital Wallets Should Help All
Several experts have noted that the Apple Card is Apple’s way of boosting the low usage rates of Apple Pay, its digital wallet.
Launched in 2014, it was the first mobile wallet in the U.S. market but is only actively used on about a quarter of U.S. iPhones, according to Loup Ventures. But no mobile wallet has been a big winner in the U.S. compared with China and several other countries where they dominate payments. The question is whether the Apple Card will be enough of an incentive to convince U.S. consumers to break the plastic habit.
The ability of rapid transit commuters in New York, Portland, Ore., and other cities to use Apple Pay (and other NFC wallets or contactless cards) to pay their fares, could begin to hasten adoption.
Jim Miller sees Apple Pay as the real winner from the Apple-Goldman card venture. Launching Apple Card as primarily a virtual card, encourages consumers to use Apple Pay. “If people see the person in front of them waving their phone to make a payment,” says Miller, “even if they don’t sign up for the Apple Card, if they have a Chase or Citi card in their Apple wallet, Apple gets a cut of that, so that’s another area where Apple’s going to win on this.”
The analyst believes that Apple Card may in fact benefit the banking industry in the sense that it drives up usage of mobile wallets and drives down consumer use of cash.
Read More:
Daily Cash: Possibly Apple Card’s Secret Sauce
Critics have said that most people aren’t spending that much in a given day or week to see any significant amounts add up in a daily cash feature. 30 cents here or $1 there doesn’t compare favorably to redeeming points for something sizeable like an airline ticket or a significant amount from one of the higher-paying cash reward cards.
That said, Apple Card’s Daily Cash feature is embedded in the Apple Wallet where a consumer can not only see, but use, any available cash at any time right from the wallet. That’s potentially powerful versus having to stop to look something up and make a transfer or take additional steps to use the cash or points, observes Miller.
Some consumer social media comments suggest that Apple may be on to something with Daily Cash.
Not only everyday consumers. Ben Bajarin, who is an Apple Card user as well as an analyst, observes how the cash rewards feature is habit-altering. Even though he often used Apple Pay, he says that at certain stores he still pulled out his credit card, even though they accepted Apple Pay. “All of that changed once I got Apple Card,” he says. “The 2% cashback was the start, but seeing that daily cash show up on a daily basis was even more psychologically rewarding.”
Anecdotal evidence, to be sure, but clearly the feature deserves close attention by all financial services marketers.

Story 52
Screenshot by Jessica Dolcourt/CNET
Apple Card is available to everyone now. Here's how you can apply for Apple Card today. Taking on its own credit card, rather than piggybacking on your bank card, is a bold move for Apple that no other media giant has sought, even Google and Samsung, two companies that also have robust mobile payment systems may not follow Apple's footsteps.
Backed by Mastercard and Goldman Sachs, Apple's brand-new credit card lets you pay for goods and services online and in stores. Apple Card is different from Apple Pay but builds on that feature, it's a mobile payment system based on your existing credit card that Apple has had in place since 2014.
Read: Apple Card vs. Amazon Prime Rewards Visa
You're brimming with questions, and so are we. Will a digital Apple Credit card finally make mobile payments ubiquitous? What kinds of perks will owners be able to get? How will it affect their credit if they switch phones? Unfortunately, we don't have all the information yet, but Apple will release more before the Apple Card's official launch.
Here's everything we know about Apple Card so far, including the fine print.
Apple Report All the latest Apple news delivered to your inbox. It's FREE!
What is Apple Card anyway?
Apple Card is a new branded credit card for iPhone ( ) users. It's both a digital card that lives on your iPhone, with a traditional credit card backup that you can use where Apple Pay isn't available. (It seems like everyone gets this when they sign up.) However, Apple believes you'll predominantly use the digital version.
The physical Apple Card is made out of titanium and has your name etched on it, for a little drama, and so you can show off by clinking it loudly against a glass.
Can I use Apple Card with an Android phone?
No, Apple Card is for iPhone users only. You sign up for the credit card using your phone and make payments from the iPhone as well. All digital card transactions take place locally on your phone as well -- you won't be able to do any of these from a separate browser or app.
Now playing: Watch this: Apple Card FAQ: What you need to know
What do I do if I lose my Apple Card?
If you lose your physical card, you can easily request a new one from Apple, while your virtual card remains in use. Find out more details in our guide on using your Apple Card.
If I lose my iPhone, can I still pay my bills?
Losing your iPhone is much more frightening than losing your titanium Apple Card, but you can still pay your bills while you search for your phone. Here are all the ways you can protect your Apple Card information if you lose your iPhone.
Where can I use Apple Card?
You'll be able to use Apple Card in apps, online (e.g., web stores) and in physical stores, anywhere in the world where MasterCard is accepted. (More on the banking aspect further below.)
James Martin/CNET
How do I sign up for Apple Card?
Apple Card will live in the Wallet app on your iPhone, and you'll sign up for it by tapping on the Apple Card prompt within the Wallet. Here's how the Apple Card application process works. You can also sign up on Apple's site if you're interested in more details. Keep in mind that you'll need to receive an invitation from Apple before you can begin. Here are more details on how to sign up for Apple Card from your iPhone.
Do I have to wait for a credit check?
You do need to be a well-qualified customer, though Apple doesn't share details on what that means. Apple says that if you are approved, you'll be eligible to use your Apple Card within minutes.
Screenshot by Jessica Dolcourt/CNET
Is Apple Card coming to other countries, too?
Apple Card is available in the US, but Goldman Sachs thinks Apple Card will roll out internationally. Apple might be using the US as a testbed before expanding into other countries. It's also possible that Apple is already negotiating with other banks and global institutions.
Which bank backs Apple Card?
Apple is working with Goldman Sachs as its bank to issue Apple Card, a Mastercard.
How will Apple Card help me track my finances?
If you've ever used a service like Mint or other financial apps before, you might be able to get a sense of Apple's vision with your finances.
You'll be able to see visuals clearly depicting how much you spent on what, when it's due, and how much you owe. Apple also uses its Maps engine to link a purchase with a business, so it's clear what your payment goes toward (these things tend to be cryptic, like: "New York LLC" when you've taken a cab ride. Apple says it uses machine learning to connect the dots.
Screenshot by Jessica Dolcourt/CNET
You'll also be able to see how much you've spent so far in a given week or month, and track purchases by category, like meals and transportation. There's a view to show how long will it take for you to pay back what you owe.
What if I need help using my Apple Card?
Apple says if you run into trouble, you can send a text straight from the app.
What are Apple Card rewards like?
Apple doesn't opt for a points structure. It gives you cash back on every dollar you spend, through a program called Daily Cash.
Here's how much you get when you make a purchase:
1% when you use the titanium Apple Card (physical card)
2% when you use the Apple Card (digital) on any purchase
3% when you use the Apple Card (digital) on purchases you make directly from Apple
There's no cap to daily earning...as long as you're within your credit limit. For example, if your spending can't exceed $3,000, then your earnings can't either. You'll be able to keep track of your Daily Cash through a card in your Wallet app.
Apple
How does Apple Card compare to Chase Sapphire and Amazon Prime Rewards Visa?
We broke that down for you:
What's the difference between Apple Card, Apple Pay, and Apple Cash?
It's confusing, we know. We broke that down for you, too: Apple Card versus Apple Pay versus Apple Cash.
Is Daily Cash real cash? Where can I spend it?
Yes, this is real cash you can use right away. You can spend in stores, send to friends, use in apps or on the web, or use to pay down your balance.
Screenshot by Jessica Dolcourt/CNET
What about paying interest rates and fees?
Apple Card will let you pay more often than once a month. For example, you can pay every week or every other week. It isn't clear if you can pay daily if you want or if there's more of a structure.
There are no late fees, annual fees, international fees or fees for going over your limit. But you will pay interest rates. Apple says that variable APRs will range from 13.24 percent to 24.24 percent "based on creditworthiness." Rates are susceptible to change.
What happens if I miss a payment?
Apple won't slap you with a penalty on top of your missed payment (e.g. it won't cost $25 in addition to what you already owe). However, you will accumulate more interest on top of your existing balance. More here.
Now playing: Watch this: Every single service Apple announced this week
Is Apple Card secure?
Apple highlighted four main ways it's keeping Apple Card secure.
The card number: Apple will create a unique card number for each device, which is stored in the Security Element, a security chip on your iPhone. You get a one-time dynamic security code each time you make a purchase, and authenticate each purchase biometrically, through either Touch ID or Face ID. Even if someone steals your phone, Apple says they can't use your Apple Card.
Device, not cloud: Apple doesn't track what you bought or where and how much you spent. All the tracking happens on the device, not on Apple's servers.
Your data isn't for sale: "Goldman Sachs will never share or sell your data for marketing or advertising," Apple's Bailey said.
An almost-blank physical card: If you're using the physical Apple Card, you'll notice that your name is on it, but there's no card number, no CVV, no expiration date and no signature. If you need the details, it's in the Wallet app. This is presumably so that others can't swipe these essential details for security fraud by either stealing a glance or stealing the entire card.
Is it bad that the physical Apple Card has no signature field?
Not necessarily. In late 2018, Mastercard became the first payment network to make signatures optional on cards and at payment terminals.
Apple
If I lose my physical Apple Card, can I order a new one?
Yes. If your card is lost or stolen, you can use the Wallet app to freeze your card and order a new one.
Does the physical Apple Card have a magnetic stripe?
Yes, and it also has a chip you can insert into a chip reader as well.
Will it work with my iPad ( ) and Apple Watch ( ) ?
Yes, Apple says you'll be able to make payments from all your iOS devices. We'll need to confirm if it will work with MacOS as well as the iPhone, iPad and Apple watch.

Story 53
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
If your funds are spread across accounts at different institutions, it helps to have an easy way to make transfers between them. Online transfers are a convenient way to transfer money from one bank to another.
Online transfers are generally free at online banks and some traditional banks, but others charge for this service. You will want to check with your institution before setting up your first transfer so you won’t be hit with unexpected fees.
» Looking for online accounts with low fees? Read NerdWallet’s list of best high-yield savings accounts.
How to transfer money from one bank to another online
Before you can start, you’ll need to set up a relationship between the two accounts you have at different banks — the one that will send money and the one to receive it.
Link the paired accounts. Log in to the first bank’s website or mobile app and select the option for making transfers. There may be a choice for internal transfers; you want the external option. The former is for transactions within the same bank — moving money from checking to savings, for example. An external transfer moves funds to a different bank.
Log in to the first bank’s website or mobile app and select the option for making transfers. There may be a choice for internal transfers; you want the external option. The former is for transactions within the same bank — moving money from checking to savings, for example. An external transfer moves funds to a different bank. Provide external account information. Have the bank routing number and personal account number handy for the account that will receive the funds. You can usually get this information from a bank statement or printed paper check.
Have the bank routing number and personal account number handy for the account that will receive the funds. You can usually get this information from a bank statement or printed paper check. Confirm the new account. After you enter the required information, the first bank will typically want to verify that you have access to the second bank’s account. You might be asked to enter your username and password, which the first bank would then verify. Another way the first bank could verify the account is to make a small deposit or two (think a few pennies each) and ask you to confirm the amounts. This process could take a couple of days to complete.
After you enter the required information, the first bank will typically want to verify that you have access to the second bank’s account. You might be asked to enter your username and password, which the first bank would then verify. Another way the first bank could verify the account is to make a small deposit or two (think a few pennies each) and ask you to confirm the amounts. This process could take a couple of days to complete. Set up transfers. Once the account is confirmed, you can set up transfers from the sending bank’s website. Choose the sending and receiving accounts, and enter the amount to be transferred and the date for the transaction to occur. From there, you can usually see which date the funds are expected to be available in the receiving account. You’ll also want to choose whether you want to make a one-time transaction or a recurring transfer (once a week, for example). After you’ve made your choices, select the option to submit them.
Use bank transfers to boost savings yields
Bank transfers are common for people who have checking accounts at one bank but want higher-yield savings accounts at other banks. If they open a new savings account, they can link their existing checking account for automatic transfers.
This also works for online bank customers, who often need to link their existing bank accounts to fund their online accounts when those are first opened. These folks tend to get the benefit of better rates while having the convenience of keeping their existing accounts.
Here’s a quick comparison among a large national bank, Chase, and two online banks, Discover and Ally:

NerdWallet bank rating
Learn more at Chase Bank

NerdWallet bank rating

Learn more at Discover Bank
NerdWallet bank rating

Read Review Savings APY

0.01%*


Monthly fee

$5


Bonus features

Sign-up bonus for new customers
(Expires 1/21/2020)
Savings APY

1.85%


Monthly fee

$0


Bonus features

Solid CD options

Savings APY

1.80%



Monthly fee

$0


Bonus features

24/7 customer service

Compare high-yield savings accounts *Effective 6/14/19; rates are variable and subject to change
Limits to savings withdrawals
You can generally make as many transfers into savings accounts as you’d like, but there are some rules when it comes to taking money out. Online withdrawals are considered convenience transactions, and per federal regulations, you can’t have more than six convenience transactions a month. If you try to have more than that, you may be charged an excess withdrawal fee, sometimes around $15.
»Learn more about savings withdrawal limits and Regulation D.
Sending money to others
If you don’t own the account you plan to send money to, you may need to explore other options. Many banks offer online bill pay services, which send a check or electronic payment to a merchant or vendor on your behalf. If you need to send money to another individual quickly, you can also use a peer-to-peer payments service, such as Venmo or PayPal. And if you need to send thousands of dollars quickly, it may make sense to wire the money.
» Curious about the best ways to transfer funds? Check out NerdWallet’s list of the best ways to send money.
Transferring funds from one bank account to another does not have to be a burden, especially if you have accounts that don’t charge transfer fees. Moving money from one account to the next can be just another easy online banking convenience.

Story 54
Access Denied - Sucuri Website Firewall
If you are the site owner (or you manage this site), please whitelist your IP or if you think this block is an error please open a support ticket and make sure to include the block details (displayed in the box below), so we can assist you in troubleshooting the issue.
Block details:

Story 55
App-based debit card Glint, which allows users to pay based in gold, has fallen into administration.
However, for five days after this occurred the company did not mention the matter on its website.
Glint Pay, which allowed users to buy and store gold and use a Mastercard debit card to spend it, went into administration on Wednesday, according to a post published on the Financial Conduct Authority's website on Friday evening.
Glint told This is Money that its app still worked as normal and users could still deposit money into it. However withdrawals cannot be made at the moment.
Despite going into administration last Wednesday, Glint made no mention of this on its website when This is Money first checked it yesterday afternoon
There has been no activity on the company's website or its Twitter feed since Friday, and until late afternoon yesterday there was no reference on its website to being in administration. It has now since updated its website with a disclaimer.
Since FRP Advisory LLP were appointed as joint administrators the company's website continues to encourage people to sign up and deposit money into the app, and users were still receiving debit cards.
Money deposited with Glint is not protected by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme, as it held an electronic money licence from the FCA rather than a full banking licence.
Customers were told on the FCA website: 'Glint holds funds on behalf of its customers.
'Safeguarding is a key consumer protection measure within the EMRs and Payments Services Regulations. The purpose of safeguarding is to protect customer money if a firm fails in a disorderly way.
'Safeguarding requirements apply to Glint and are a condition of Glint's authorisation that the firm must comply with at all times.'
Glint allowed users to buy gold bullion using cash for cheaper than a broker and spend it using a Mastercard debit card
According to the firm's website, Glint 'maintain a secure and segregated full reserve of all user funds at Lloyds bank in London. Your gold really is your gold – it's physical gold bullion that is legally allocated to you and stored in a vault in Switzerland.
'Your money really is yours. For every pound, dollar and euro held in your Glint account, Lloyds holds an equivalent amount of assets in their reserve.
Glint has now put a disclaimer on its website telling users it has gone into administration
'For every ounce of gold held in your account there is an ounce of physical gold owned by you in the vault in Switzerland. There is no token, fund or bank that sits in between you and ownership of your money.
'Glint users can be 100 per cent confident that their money is safe, at all times.'
Glint would be the second e-money institution in the last four months to go bust, after digital banking app Loot fell into administration at the end of May.
In that situation, customers were assured their money was safe as it was held by Germany payments provider Wirecard.
The FCA encourages any Glint customer or client concerned about how they might be affected to contact FRP Advisory at glintpay@frpadvisory.com.

Story 56
Text size
It was 2013 and the talk of Silicon Valley was about the “mobile wallet” and how Apple and other tech giants were about to muscle into the financial industry’s turf with digital payments.
“I think it’s just getting started,” Tim Cook, the Apple CEO, told analysts at the time, leaving Wall Street thinking of a major disruption.
But when Apple...

Story 57
The EU is working towards making payments in euros cheaper. Paying or withdrawing money in euros anywhere in the EU will soon cost the same as at home.
The Council today adopted a regulation on aligning the costs of cross-border payments in euros between euro and non-euro countries and increasing the transparency of charges related to currency conversion services across the EU.
Since 2002, the same charges have applied to cross-border and national payments in euros within the euro area, while cross-border payments in euros from non-euro countries are subject to high fees.
The reform will align the charges for cross-border payments in euros for services such as credit transfers, card payments or cash withdrawals with the charges for corresponding national payments of the same value in the national currency of the Member State where the payment service provider of the payment service user is located. This measure will extend the benefits of cheap cross-border euro transfers to an additional 150 million non-euro area consumers, and a potential extra 2,5 billion transactions per year.
In addition, further transparency requirements will be introduced on charges for currency conversion services. When consumers make card payments or withdraw cash abroad, they can choose whether to pay in the local currency or their home currency. According to the new rules, consumers will be informed of applicable charges before making their choice. This will be achieved by introducing an obligation to disclose the charges applied as a percentage mark-up of all currency conversion charges over the latest available exchange rate of the ECB. This new level of transparency is intended to raise consumers' awareness, thereby enhancing competition between different currency conversion services providers.
Most of the provisions will become applicable as of 15 December 2019.

Story 58
“This is a bit controversial, we know that,” deputy prime minister Michael McCormick told the National Party’s federal council, which on the weekend voted for a national roll-out of cashless debit cards for anyone younger than 35 on the dole or receiving parenting payments.
The Nationals have joined the chorus within the federal government proclaiming the cards a huge success.
The Minister for Families and Social Services, Anne Ruston, has even gone so far as to claim welfare recipients are “singing its praises”.
Really?
Both McCormick and Ruston have proclaimed success based on the most recent trial of cashless welfare in Queensland. This trial began barely six months ago, and the independent evaluation by the Future of Employment and Skills Research Centre at the University of Adelaide is ongoing.
A more complex story emerges out of my research into lived experiences of the first cashless debit card trial, which began in Ceduna, South Australia, in March 2016
I spent about three months in the town of Ceduna between mid 2017 and the end of 2018 talking to people about life on the card.
www.shutterstock.com
All communities are diverse and people’s experiences diverge. Some liked the card, or had come to accept it, others were caught up dealing with far more significant problems.
Read more: The Cashless Debit Card Trial is working and it is vital – here's why
But I talked to people who found the card “an insult”. They told me it made them feel “targeted” and “punished”. They talked of degradation and defiance. They also told me the card didn’t work.
As for the the claim by both Ruston (and her ministerial predecessor Paul Fletcher) that the card empowers people to “demonstrate responsibility”, the opposite was true. In the words of June*, an Indigenous grandmother, foster carer and talented artist: “It has taken responsibility away from me. It’s treating me like a little kid again.”
Indigenous testing grounds
Ceduna, in the far west of South Australia, was the first of four sites chosen to trial cashless debit cards. The second was in the East Kimberley
The location of these two trial sites meant early trial participants have been predominately Indigenous. I am of the view that Indigenous communities are being used as testing grounds for new technologies and controversial measures.
Read more: Expansion of cashless welfare card shows shock tactics speak louder than evidence
AAP
In the first two trial sites, income support recipients younger than 65 have just 20% of their payment deposited into their bank account. The remaining 80% goes on to their debit card, which cannot be used at any alcohol or gambling outlet across the nation. Nor can they be used to withdraw cash.
The lead-grey cashless debit card is similar but different to the lime-green BasicsCard, introduced as part of the 2007 Northern Territory National Emergency Response (the “Intervention”). The use of the BasicsCard as an “income management” tool was extended to non-Indigenous people in the Northern Territory in 2010, and to other states in 2012.
The BasicsCard generally quarantines 50% of a social security recipient’s income so that it cannot be spent on alcohol, gambling, tobacco or pornography. BasicsCard holders need to shop at approved stores. In contrast, the cashless debit card, administered by financial services company Indue, can theoretically be used wherever there are Eftpos facilities.
Shame and humiliation
My research wasn’t based on collecting statistics but “hanging out” and getting to know people. I came to see the stigma associated with the “grey card” sometimes resonated with past experiences.
Robert*, for example, told me about growing up on a mission and then suddenly finding himself as “one little blackfella” in a large high school. He was acutely sensitive to the “smirks” and judgements of others whenever he used the grey card to pay for things.
Pete* left high school after a couple of weeks to join an itinerant rural workforce that has since vanished. After decades of manual work, finding himself unemployed due to ill health was devastating enough. Being issued the grey card compounded his humiliation.
Others voiced their belief the grey card was designed to induce shame. But they refused that shame, expressing instead a defiant belief in the legitimacy of their need for support.
The welfare system often defines people by the one thing they are not currently doing – waged employment. But many people I spent time with in fact laboured constantly: it just wasn’t recognised as work. People like June*, for example, looked after sick kin, the elderly and children. Yet the grey card treated them as dependents.
I heard about ways of getting around the card’s restrictions. As one acquaintance put it: “Drunks gonna drink!” One strategy involved exchanging temporary use of the card for cash. With terms that nearly always disadvantage the card holder, it has the potential to make life tougher for people living in hardship.
These observations concur with the sober assessments of experts such as the South Australian Aboriginal Drug and Alcohol Council.
The evaluation of the Ceduna trial for the Department of Social Services was more positive, noting that alcohol drinkers and gamblers reported doing so less frequently. But it also noted no reduction in crime statistics related to alcohol consumption, illegal drug use or gambling. And the Australian National Audit office was so critical of the government’s evaluation it concluded that it was difficult to ascertain “whether there had been a reduction in social harm” as a result of the card’s introduction.
Which makes simplistic claims about the card’s success look a bit rich.
*Pseudonyms are used throughout.

Story 59
Strong Customer Authentication (SCA) represents a new effort by the European Union (EU) to standardise the level of security offered to financial services customers across all member states and as a result boost competition between competing banks.
The mechanism forms part of an upcoming EU directive, the Second Payment Services Directive (PSD2), which is set to come into force on 14 September 2019. This directive will demand that businesses offering payment services within the European Economic Area (EEA) would have to deploy additional security measures on payments on more than €30. This chiefly arises as variants of multifactor authentication (MFA) on electronic transfers.
After this date, all 'customer-initiated' transfers, such as single card payments and bank transfers, will be subject to SCA safeguards. Those payments considered to be initiated by merchants, such as a direct debit, will sit outside this directive and will continue to operate as they do today.
The aim is to reduce the number of fraudulent payments by forcing users to confirm their identity using another verification method, namely a PIN number or biometric data - something only the customer will be able to produce on request. Customers who access their online bank account, send online payments, or engage in a remote channel that could carry a risk of fraud, will be subject to SCA.
The changes also mean that, as of later this month, any qualifying payments that have not gone through additional layers of protection will likely be rejected by a bank.
The rise of tech in banking
There's been an explosion of people in the UK using mobile devices to access financial services and make payments in the last few years. This feeds into a wider trend that has also seen the use of cash fall dramatically, with debit card payments eclipsing cash transactions for the first time in 2017.
According to the British Retail Consortium, meanwhile, card payments account for more than three-quarters of all retail sales last year. Modern card transactions are already covered by something of an equivalent to SCA through the Chip and Pin mechanism, but this has yet to extend to online payments.
There has also been a growth in digital banks like Monzo, which don't have any physical branches and instead run exclusively online. Approximately one in ten in the UK are estimated to have an account with a digital-only bank, with a quarter of the population projected to have one by 2023.
Keeping money safe
Paying with cash means it's easy to prove the money belongs to us; given we hand this over physically. But digital payments makes things complicated by making payments more abstract, and it's a little more difficult to tether the payment to either party without a physical transaction being made.
It isn't surprising that while new methods of payment are more convenient than legacy methods, they have also led to an explosion of fraud. Losses on cards issued in the UK exceeded £671 million last year, according to UK Finance, which represented a 19% increase on the previous year.
SCA, a key plank of PSD2, has been designed to combat this very trend, and dramatically reduce the volume of fraudulent payments. The directive itself covers a wide scope around payments and will make key changes in the way digital transactions occur. One key thing to point out is that it's expected to apply in the UK regardless of the outcome of Brexit, principally because the biggest financial institutions will want to remain aligned with customers across the continent.
The biggest change rendered when SCA is introduced from 14 September will be the need for MFA when making payments above the €30 threshold. This second factor for verification will demand two out of three different types of authentication to be used for every payment. This could include a piece of knowledge like a PIN number combined with something we would have physical access to like a credit card or mobile phone - or even biometric data, like a fingerprint scan.
Don't we already have this in place?
MFA, currently, exists in the form of 3D Secure (3DS), used mainly for credit card transactions, but is only deployed in cases where there's an obvious risk of fraud. When making online purchases, for instance, a second action window may open and ask for further details. This can often be frustrating when in-browser and while browsing on a mobile device due to poor configuration. A revised version allows for biometrics (fingerprint or face), which is more amenable to phone users.
3DS also offers the ability for the seller to opt-out of the second verification factor, making transactions smoother, but reducing the security element and potentially putting buyers at risk.
PSD2 abides by a different set of regulations, with transactions under €30 passing without the SCA's MFA requirement, but beyond that, the rules dictate there will be a mandatory request for another form of verification.
The likelihood of a second factor being needed is based on the fraud rate of the acquiring bank and the issuer. The less fraud a bank experiences, the more you can spend before a second factor is required. Crucially, the merchant no longer has a say in whether they require MFA from their users or not. Moreover, every fifth transaction below that €30 threshold will be challenged, as well as when the combined value of transactions exceed €100.
How to secure payments under SCA
An updated version of 3DS, dubbed 3D Secure 2 (3DS 2), is set to roll out this year to coincide for the SCA coming into force. The newer standard aims to reduce some of the added frictions that MFA could bring without compromising on necessary security.
3DS 2 functions by allowing more information to be sent from a provider to the customer's bank. This may include details specific to the payment, like the shipping address, as well as drawing on contextual information like device data, transaction history, server information, and even the time zone. All these details feed into a risk assessment run by the customer's bank as part to determine whether additional authentication checks are needed.
By default, any payment process that already uses MFA will be compliant under the SCA directive, like the swathe of digital banks that require biometric verification, or services like Apple Pay.
There are a host of exemptions to the SCA directive, however. For services that rely on recurring payments or subscriptions, MFA will only be needed on the first customer-initiated payment.
It's important to remember that the cardholder's bank decides whether MFA is required, and whether an exemption from SCA is valid.
What does this mean for everyday banking?
SCA aims to harmonise user protections and reduce fraud - which has to be good for both us as consumers and employees, but for banks and merchants too. Sellers might also switch to banks that have lower fraud rates, so as to minimise the need for MFA and reduce payments friction. This might lead banks to be sharper at reducing fraud, which is, again, a very good outcome for the industry as a whole.

Story 60
On 4 July 2019 the Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”) published its findings following a review of the safeguarding arrangements in 11 non-bank payment service providers (“PSPs”). The FCA has identified certain compliance failings. The FCA now requires all non-bank PSPs (essentially, payment institutions and e-money institutions) to self-certify, by completing a specific form available on the FCA website, that they are in compliance with the relevant safeguarding requirements by 31 July 2019.
This article summarises the relevant safeguarding requirements for payment institutions (“PI”) and e-money institutions (“EMI”) and discusses some of the issues with the safeguarding requirements. This is the first of two articles on this topic, which focuses on the FCA self-certification requirement and the scope of the safeguarding requirements.
The safeguarding requirements are set out, for PIs, in Regulation 23 of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (“PSR2017”) and, for EMIs, in Regulations 20-23 of the Electronic Money Regulations 2011 (“EMR2011”). The substantive requirements for both PIs and EMIs are essentially the same, with certain complexity for EMIs.
Who must comply?
With respect to PIs, the safeguarding requirements are mandatory for “authorised payment institutions” but voluntary for “small payment institutions”. In other words, an authorised payment institution must comply with them, whereas a small payment institution may choose whether or not it wishes to comply.
The certification form for PIs only refers to “authorised payment institutions”, which seems to suggest that only authorised PIs are required to submit the self-certification form. However, this is not entirely clear. For small PIs that have voluntarily chosen to comply with the safeguarding requirements, it may be prudent to conduct the internal audit and submit the form as well.
With respect to EMIs, all EMIs (i.e. whether authorised or small) must comply with the safeguarding requirements in relation to funds received in exchange for e-money, and submit the confirmation of compliance form by the end of July. Where an authorised EMI also provides payment services that are not related to the issuance of e-money (“unrelated payment services”), then the EMI must comply with the safeguarding requirements in relation to funds for such unrelated payment services. Where a small EMI also provides unrelated payment services, it may choose whether or not it wishes to comply with respect to funds for its unrelated payment services.
The certification form for EMIs contains two tick boxes: one to confirm the EMI has ceased operation; the other to confirm the EMI in compliance with the safeguarding requirements for its e-money business AND the safeguarding requirements for its unrelated payment services. This means that when an EMI ticks the compliance box, it will have confirmed compliance regarding both its e-money safeguarding arrangements and the safeguarding arrangements for unrelated payment services.
For a small EMI engaging in unrelated payment services that has voluntarily chosen to comply, this seems to suggest that it would have to audit/confirm its safeguarding arrangements for unrelated payment services. However, what if the small EMI has not voluntarily chosen to comply with the requirements for its unrelated payment services? Would provide a confirmation (given there is only one tick box) put the small EMI at risk of providing misleading information to the FCA?
It would be helpful if the FCA could clarify these points as soon as possible given the short certification timeline.
What must be safeguarded?
Only “relevant funds” must be safeguarded. The concepts of “relevant funds” are slightly different for PIs and EMIs.
For PIs, “relevant funds” means, in summary, sums received from or for the benefit of a customer, including those received from a PSP on behalf of a customer, for the purpose of executing a payment transaction. A PI is regarded as having “received” such relevant funds once the funds are credited into the PI’s account within a payment system or at a bank (e.g. its operational account at a bank).
For a PI that also engages in non-payment service businesses, only “relevant funds” connected with payment services need to be safeguard. The FCA in its Approach Document for Payment Services and Electronic Money (the “Approach Document”) specifically discusses, PIs having unregulated foreign exchange business, when customer funds would become “relevant funds” and thus subject to the safeguarding requirements. For example, if a PI buys pound sterling and pays USD to a customer, such USD funds would not be relevant funds and thus do not need to be safeguarded. Whereas if the PI buys pound sterling but instead of paying out USD to the customer it transfers the USD funds, as instructed by the customer, to a third party, such USD funds would become relevant funds upon the completion of the exchange and thus must be safeguarded from that point in time.
Therefore, it is important for PIs that operate hybrid businesses to understand clearly where the line is between its payment service business and non-payment service business.
For EMIs, “relevant funds” catch two type of funds: (i) funds received in exchange for e-money that has been issued (“e-money relevant funds”, also known as the e-money float); and (ii) (if the EMI also provides unrelated payment services), funds received for unrelated payment services (“PS relevant funds”). The e-money relevant funds and PS relevant funds must not be commingled together; i.e. they must be safeguarded separately.
As EMIs must apply separate safeguarding processes for (on one hand) e-money relevant funds and (on the other) PS relevant funds, it is thus crucial for EMIs to understand under what circumstances a payment service would be considered to be related to the issuance of e-money.
There is a judgement by the Court of Justice of the European Union dated 16 January 2019 on this point (Case C-389/17). The case was referred to the CJEU for a preliminary ruling by Lithuania’s Supreme Administrative Court. The CJEU first concluded that the redemption of e-money was inherently related to the issuance of e-money and then ruled that, in determining whether or not a payment service is related to the issuance of e-money, the test was essentially whether the provision of the relevant services triggers the issuance or redemption of e-money in a single payment transaction. The Lithuanian court’s first question was where e-money redeemed at par and then transferred as instructed to a third party, whether the transfer service could be considered to be linked to issuance of e-money. The CJEU ruled that such a transfer service could be so considered provided it was within one single transaction.
The FCA also briefly touches upon this point in the Approach Document; it gives an example that a transfer from an e-money account to pay bills is considered linked with the issuance of e-money (see para 10.39, Approach Document). This seems to be broader than the conclusion of the CJEU judgement (admittedly the CJEU could only rule on the specific questions asked of it).
Other than these, there is no specific guidance from either the FCA or at the EU level.
This calls into question where, e.g. a customer is merely using an e-money product (e.g. a prepaid card) to make purchases and the EMI processes such transactions, whether or not such processing would be considered payment services (execution of payment transactions) related to the issuance of e-money. Such processing does not seem to trigger issuance (value spent was already issued). While “redemption” is not defined in EMR2011, it seems from the relevant provisions (see Regulation 44 EMR2011) that redemption is used to refer to a customer exchanging the e-money (i.e. the value) for funds with the EMI. On that basis, such processing does not seem to trigger redemption either. Therefore, such processing may be “unrelated” to the issuance of e-money according to the CJEU judgement. However, it appears to fall within the FCA example and thus should be “related” to the issuance of e-money.
Further, funds will only become the e-money relevant funds when they are received in exchange for e-money that has been issued. The FCA found (as one of the identified failings) that some PSPs were unable to identify when they were issuing e-money. However, the difficulty for EMIs is that there is a similar uncertainty on what “issuing” means in this context.
The FCA vaguely discusses this points (see PERG 3A, Q22) and suggests that to issue e-money means to “create” e-money. But it does not explain what “create” means for this purpose.
For a device-based loadable e-money product (e.g. a prepaid card), arguably e-money is issued or created when the value is loaded onto the device/card. For an account-based e-money product, it may be argued that e-money is issued/created when the value is credited into the customer’s e-money account. However, it is not clear how the FCA would view such arguments. Even if such arguments hold, given the variety of e-money products on the market, there may be products that do not fall neatly into these models.
Continued in Part 2, which discusses the specified methods of safeguarding and some related issues.

Story 61
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
The Citi® Double Cash Card – 18 month BT offer is a standout in the crowded field of cash-back credit cards, thanks to its high rewards rate on every purchase and its annual fee of $0.
For consumers who want to maximize rewards while keeping things simple, there’s a lot to love about the card.
Here are the benefits of the Citi® Double Cash Card – 18 month BT offer:
High cash-back rate
Simplicity of rewards
The key feature of this card is its high flat rate of 2% back on everything you buy: You’ll earn 1% back when you make purchases and 1% back when you pay them off, as long as you make at least the minimum payment on time each month. Among its competitors in the rewards space, 1.5% cash back is more typical , so the card differentiates itself with this higher rate.
If you’re the kind of person who doesn’t want to think about rotating categories or opting in to different reward options each quarter, the Citi® Double Cash Card – 18 month BT offer could be the card for you, since you earn a high flat rate back on every purchase without having to take any extra steps.
Attractive intro balance transfer offer
The Citi® Double Cash Card – 18 month BT offer provides an intro 0% on Balance Transfers for 18 months, and then the ongoing APR of 15.74% - 25.74% Variable APR. While you don’t earn cash back on transferred balances, moving an existing balance onto the card can help you avoid accumulating more debt at a high interest rate while you pay it off.
Redemption flexibility
To redeem your cash back, you need to have earned a minimum of $25. Then, you can opt for a statement credit, check or direct deposit into a linked Citi savings or checking account (or another checking account that you’ve used at least twice to pay a Citi credit card bill).
Also, as of fall 2019, Citi says the Citi® Double Cash Card – 18 month BT offer will allow you to convert your cash-back rewards into Citi ThankYou points, which can be redeemed for things like travel, gift cards, purchases at eligible retailers and other options. It’s unclear what the transfer rate will be, however.
» MORE: Citi ThankYou points: How to earn and use them
Citi Entertainment feature
The Citi® Double Cash Card – 18 month BT offer grants you special access to presale tickets and exclusive experiences for eligible concerts, sporting events, dining and more.
More about the card

Story 62
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
The Target REDcard™ Credit Card doesn’t aim for flash.
It doesn’t offer traditional rewards, and the razzle-dazzle it does provide — a 5% discount — is limited to eligible purchases at Target. But if you already do most of your household spending there (entirely possible at a retailer of Target’s size), that’s a lot of potential savings, which is why it’s among NerdWallet’s best store credit cards
Still, as with any card, you should use a Target card smartly and responsibly.
I didn’t. Don’t be like me.
» MORE: Full review of the Target REDcard™ Credit Card
Mistake No. 1: I used it outside Target — frequently
Target’s REDcard products include a debit card and two credit cards, all of which have an annual fee of $0 and offer the same 5% discount. But there’s a key difference in where you can use these cards:
The Target REDcard Debit Card and the Target REDcard™ Credit Card are “closed-loop” cards, meaning you can use them only at Target or Target.com.
Target REDcard Debit Card and the Target REDcard™ Credit Card are “closed-loop” cards, meaning you can use them only at Target or Target.com. The Target REDcard Mastercard is an open-loop credit card, meaning you can use it anywhere that takes Mastercard. You can’t apply for this card directly. Once you have the Target REDcard™ Credit Card, it might be offered to you as an upgrade.
I got into trouble with the second one.
I opened the Target REDcard™ Credit Card in the mid-aughts, after some salesmanship from the checkout clerk who promised me I could save money immediately on that day’s purchase by filling out an application.
The clerk may have mentioned the ongoing 5% discount, but it didn’t even register for me at the time. All I heard was “upfront savings today!” — and all I knew was that I now had another way to pay for things at Target.
I was approved and got that one-time upfront discount, and all went well at first. I didn’t shop at Target much, so the risk of overextending myself was low. But after some time as a Target REDcard™ Credit Card cardholder, I got upgraded to the open-loop Mastercard.
I used my card almost anywhere BUT Target — and had nothing to show for it except a high ongoing interest rate.
Again, the notice in the mail may have reemphasized the 5% discount at Target, but all I took away from it was that I now had another way to pay for things anywhere!
And that I did, using the card almost anywhere but Target, which defeated its purpose and left me nothing to show for it except a high ongoing interest rate. The ongoing APR is 25.15% Variable.
» MORE: Before you get a retail credit card, consider your options
Mistake No. 2: I maxed it out
As you might imagine from such reckless shopping abandon, I bumped up against the card’s credit limit — often. I treated my Target card as if it were money I actually had in my own bank, and I carried large balances from month to month.
So not only was I not getting the 5% discount on my purchases that is the single selling point of the card, and not only was I incurring massive interest charges, but I was also running up my credit utilization.
I was well above the 30% credit utilization threshold on my Target card for years, and my credit scores suffered as a result.
Credit utilization is the amount of debt you owe as a percentage of your available credit, and it’s one of the largest factors in your credit scores. Typically, you want to aim for 30% or below.
I was well above that threshold on my Target card for years, and my scores suffered as a result.
» MORE: 30% credit utilization rule: The lower the better
Mistake No. 3: I used retirement money to pay it off
Any financial advisor will tell you that this is a big no-no. Even if you’re deeply in debt thanks to sky-high credit card APRs, it’s almost never a good idea to withdraw retirement funds early, thanks to taxes and withdrawal penalties. Plus, you’ll sacrifice future gains from that money, and future gains are the entire point of such funds.
At the time, in 2012, I had more than $10,000 of debt on my Target card alone. I’d just moved from South Carolina (low cost of living) to Los Angeles (extremely high cost of living), and bills were piling up like cars on the 405. I felt quite frankly like I was drowning.
It was certainly not the smartest money decision I’ve ever made, and I paid for it dearly at tax time the next year.
To my younger and less financially educated self, the ability to pay off a large and extremely high-interest debt in one fell swoop felt worth it, especially since it didn’t completely drain my IRA. The truth is, I was so happy to be rid of that debt that I didn’t care about the consequences.
It was certainly not the smartest money decision I’ve ever made, and I paid for it dearly at tax time the next year. A much wiser move would have been to open up a balance transfer credit card with a lengthy 0% intro APR offer and move the Target debt there. But — and this probably isn’t stressed enough in these cases — for someone with little knowledge of or experience with credit cards, opening yet another card when you’re already struggling so mightily can seem daunting and counterintuitive.
» MORE: How to choose a balance transfer credit card
Mistake No. 4: I cut up the credit card and stopped using it
It didn’t register as a “mistake” to me at the time — quite the contrary. I was so proud of destroying the card that I joked about it on Facebook:
I wince every time I see that post pop up in my “Memories,” because closing an existing credit account — or allowing it to be closed for lack of use — may not be the best move. By 2012, my Target card had been open for a healthy amount of time. Losing it reduced the average age of my active accounts, which is another factor in credit scores.
I should have kept the account open, although at least now I recognize it as a teachable moment:
» MORE: More store credit cards are competing to be your everyday card
What I wish I’d done differently
I’m in a much better place these days with my credit and my scores, but I still think about these mistakes and what I would have done differently.
For starters, applying for a store card didn’t make a lot of sense for me. I wasn’t a frequent Target shopper then, and I’m still not today. I would have been much better off applying for a general rewards credit card, which might have offered me a sign-up bonus to defray my Target purchase that day and would have rewarded me for the spending I was doing elsewhere. Plus, the interest rate on a general rewards card would probably have been lower.
Of course, I wasn’t paying off my balance each month anyway, so interest would have still destroyed any rewards-earning potential. I should have paid off purchases immediately after making them, but I barely grasped what an APR in the high 20s even meant.
I should have paid off purchases immediately after making them, but I barely grasped what an APR in the high 20s even meant.
Would I have advised a younger me to dip into retirement funds to pay off this debt? Probably not. And yet, it’s still hard for me to say I regret doing it. I was barely treading water back then, struggling to pay monthly bills, and wiping out $10,000 in high-interest debt came as a big relief. I can’t say I knew enough about any other options, and I certainly can’t say I was sorry to see that debt go away. Seventy-year-old me? He may beg to differ.
And while I don’t really miss the Target credit card itself, I do kick myself for cutting it up and never looking back. As a father of two young children, I’m much more likely to walk into a Target now than I was in 2005. And a 5% discount on diapers, clothes, toys and snacks? That sure would come in handy right about now.
» MORE: Read some other #CreditCardFails from our experts

Story 63
A debit card withdraws money directly from your checking account, either to make a payment or to convert into cash.
Once you have a checking account, getting a debit card is as simple as asking for one.
To use a debit card, you'll need a checking account and a PIN number.
Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.
A debit card withdraws money directly from your checking account, either to make a payment or to convert into cash.
Because a debit card is connected to your checking account, the money is immediately deducted as you spend, and you don't build balances that incur interest charges like you would on a credit card.
However, you also don't earn rewards like you would with a credit card, you don't get the time to pay off your balance like you would with a credit card, and you don't build credit like you would with a credit card. Using a debit card to make a payment is almost exactly like using cash, just with an electronic transaction and record of your purchase.
Most checking accounts automatically come with debit cards, so you can withdraw cash from an ATM. Here's how to get one:
How to get a debit card
1. Open a checking account
Checking accounts can be easily opened at a bank or credit union, although some may have a minimum open balance requirement — the amount of money you must store there in order to keep the account open without paying fees to the bank. Be prepared to put money in the account immediately.
Some checking accounts might also have activity requirements, which dictate how often you must be depositing money or using the account in order to avoid paying fees. Also, you'll probably want to choose a bank or credit union with a wide network of ATMs in your area, which you should be able to use to withdraw cash without paying fees.
You will need to complete paperwork and some type of application to open a checking account. Typically, several forms of valid identification are needed, which could include a combination of driver's license, passport and/or Social Security card. People under are 18 may need an adult to co-sign on the account.
2. Ask for your debit card
When you are opening your checking account, tell the banking representative you would like a debit card to be linked to your account. It may take a week for the card to arrive in the mail. In some cases, you may be given a temporary card to use until the official one is generated.
3. Activate your debit card
When you receive your debit card, it will need to be activated, which is as simple as visiting a website or calling the bank's dedicated phone number. When you get your card in the mail, it will comes with directions on how exactly to activate it. It must be activated before it can be used.
If activating the debit card online, be sure to use a secure internet connection. Don't activate your debit card on a public Wi-Fi connection like in a coffee shop.
4. Create a PIN (Personal Identification Number)
A PIN is simple a password you use to verify transactions through your debit card.
Although your debit card may arrive with a pre-set PIN, you can select your own PIN, and you can generally change it during the activation process. Like any other password, your PIN should be kept private; it provides access to important services like the ability to withdraw cash, change personal information, and more. Unlike most passwords, a PIN is numeric only — there are no letters or special characters in a PIN.
Because PINs protect sensitive information (and your cash), you'll want to choose a PIN that is not predictable should your debit card be lost. The Balance has some good guidelines to remember when choosing a PIN.
Don't use:
Simple number sequences like 1234 or 0000 (including repetition: 1122 or 2233)
Dates, such as your birth year or spouse's birthday
Any part of your Social Security Number
Any part of your address or phone number
5. Figure out where you should use your debit card
While you can generally use a debit card at any ATM, you'll usually have to pay a fee for the privilege of using one that isn't affiliated with the bank or credit union that issued the debit card.
This is more of an issue with traditional banks; some new online banks reimburse you for debit card fees up to a certain amount. If your bank does that, it will tell you upfront.
Ideally, you'll want to choose an ATM that does not charge a fee (which is why you took this into consideration in Step 1). Even $1 or $2 at a time adds up. Plus, why should you have to pay to access your money?
If there is a fee, make sure to check your statement to ensure the fee was charged correctly. Also, be aware that this fee is deducted from your checking account balance — you can't opt out of paying the fee.
6. Act quickly if your debit card is lost or stolen
Because your debit card pulls funds directly from your checking account, it's important to take swift action if your card is lost or stolen. The quicker you can have your bank or credit union cancel the card, the less opportunity someone has to use your card to make purchases or withdraw cash.
"Pick up the phone," says Joshua Hastings, founder of Money Life Wax. "Call your financial institution to notify them it has been lost or stolen. Your financial institution will cancel your existing card and replace it; this typically takes 10-14 business days."
You'll also want to monitor your checking account closely to make sure no one is using your card who shouldn't be.

Story 64
Instant fraud: Consumers see funds disappear in Zelle account scam
The digital payment service embedded in banking apps has made it easier for thieves to access funds in personal checking and savings accounts, experts say.

Story 65
Crypterium – a financial technology startup based in Estonia — launched the Crypterium Card, the first crypto card available globally.
Prior to this launch, crypto cards, such as the Coinbase Card, were only accessible in specific countries or by region, according to the company. Coinbase recently announced it would roll out services to six additional European countries after being only available for users in the U.K.
Crypterium believes that crypto cards are the “easiest and fastest way for holders to access their digital currencies,” but were concerned availability was too limited or arbitrary to make it a legitimate option for crypto payments on the world stage.
“By ‘global’ we mean that no matter where people are based, they can order and receive it in only 3 business days,” said Matias Lapuschin, in an email to CoinDesk. This point is repeated on the company website, that “no matter where you are based,” a Crypterium Card can be shipped to your door.
The company has already tested the payment services through 5,000 Estonian clients who preordered, to confirm it works as a payment option.
Card developers also tested the product while travelling to cryptocurrency conferences across the world, using the prepaid plastic to purchase goods and services in bitcoin, ether, and litecoin across the Americas, Asia and Europe, thus confirming the advertised claim of global application, Siranush Sharoyan, company representative, told CoinDesk in an interview.
Interest in the card is admittedly concentrated in regions where banking services are less developed, such as in South America and Southeast Asia, according to Sharoyan. Though she also said there are a number of requests coming from the U.S.
The card is linked to the Crypterium App, which has over 500,000 users in the U.S. and U.K. Those that are interested will need to provide proof of identity — passport, national ID or driver’s license — and proof of residence in the form of utility bill, bank or credit card statement.
The card does not charge transaction fees, though there is a 1.5% fee when adding prepaid funds. There are also daily and monthly limits, which top off at $10,000 per day, and $60,000 per month — “which should be enough for anybody,” said Sharoyan.
Crypterium alleges it is fully compliant with U.K. and Estonian laws, and that it issues the cards using their bank partner’s license, according to Sharoyan. Though, when asked which bank the company partners with, Sharoyan did not immediately recall the name, and said she needed to “look at the [bank’s business] card,” which was not immediately handy.
Later, when CoinDesk asked for confirmation, a company spokesperson said, “Our legal department says that we aren’t allow to disclose the partnership for reasons concerning competition among card players. We are, however, able to confirm that it is a top financial institution in the Philippines, fully compliant with local laws, as well as UK and EU regulations.”
However, the crypto card’s website states, “The Crypterium Card is a UnionPay prepaid debit card.” The card can be used wherever UnionPay is accepted. “Nowadays, there are nearly 23 million merchants connected to the UnionPay network in over 175 countries.”
“Unlike other players in the market, we opted for UnionPay as a card processor because it’s the only one that enables global coverage. Visa and MasterCard work in regions: UK, Central Europe, US, etc.,” said Matias Lapuschin, representative for Crypterium. “For UnionPay, it’s either China or non-China. That gives us flexibility to serve all countries left behind by the rest of the cards in the market.”
The company established more than 300 partnerships with e-commerce retail services after building the first mobile payment service based on QR scanning in Eastern Europe.
It raised $1 million in a Series A funding, $7 million in a Series B financing in 2015, and $51 million during its 2017 ICO. It is backed by KPMG and H2 Ventures. Former general manager of Visa Europe, Steven Parker, serves as CEO. The company aims to make “cryptocurrencies as liquid as cash,” through its two main projects.
Crypertium saw that the regions where people actually treated crypto as a currency were also undeveloped in terms of services. “The main players in the [crypto card] market are focusing on developed countries, like the UK, US or EEA. That’s leaving behind plenty of holders from countries like Venezuela, Brazil, India, South Korea, etc. The Crypterium Card was designed to promote inclusivity in crypto-based financial services,” said Lapuschin.
In time, Crypterium will expand the coins it offers for the card, but will be selective about the currencies it selects. Sharoyan said the company is primarily looking at “major cryptocurrencies,” as well as companies “that are prepared to help us promote the product” through co-marketing or partnering to create solutions for their communities.
Card image via ShutterStock

Story 66
DALLAS, Sept. 9, 2019 /PRNewswire/ -- MoneyGram (NASDAQ: MGI), a global provider of innovative money transfer services, today announced the launch of a new debit card deposit service in partnership with Visa (https://usa.visa.com/) via Visa Direct, Visa's real-time1 push payments platform, which enables payments to over a billion cards worldwide.
The person-to-person (P2P) money transfer option allows customers in the U.S. to conveniently send money domestically through the MoneyGram app or via the MoneyGram website to other U.S. recipients' eligible debit cards. The new service reflects MoneyGram's commitment to make it easy for customers to send and receive money any way that is convenient for them.
"We strive to create the best possible experience for sending and receiving money, and this new product offering empowers our customers by giving them yet another way to send money to friends and family," said Alex Holmes, MoneyGram chairman and CEO. "And in partnering with Visa, the world's leader in digital payments, we're providing our customers with a dependable option that they know and trust."
"Visa and MoneyGram share a common goal of providing customers with a fast and reliable way to pay and be paid," added Bill Sheley, Senior Vice President, Global Head of Visa Direct, Visa. "By implementing Visa Direct, companies like MoneyGram are able to offer choice, flexibility and peace of mind to customers, knowing that each transaction is backed by the security, reach and capability of Visa's global payments network."
Pricing for the debit card deposit service starts at $1.99 and allows customers to transfer funds to a bank account linked to the eligible debit card at any time, including weekends and holidays. Currently available in the U.S. only, plans are also set for the service to expand soon to other markets outside the U.S.
About MoneyGram International, Inc.
MoneyGram is a global leader in omnichannel money transfer and payment services that enables friends and family to safely, affordably, and conveniently send money for life's daily needs in over 200 countries and territories.
The innovative MoneyGram platform leverages its leading digital and physical network, global financial settlement engine, cloud-based infrastructure with integrated APIs, and its unparalleled compliance program that leads the industry in protecting consumers.
For more information, please visit moneygram.com.
MoneyGram Media Contact:
Noelle Whittington
media@moneygram.com
214-979-1402
1 Actual fund availability depends on receiving financial institution and region. Visa requires fast-funds enabled issuers to make funds available to their recipient cardholders within a maximum of 30 minutes of approving the transaction. Please refer to the Visa Direct team and the Visa Direct Original Credit Transaction Global Implementation Guide for more information.
SOURCE MoneyGram
Related Links
www.moneygram.com


Story 67
Apple is touting its recently launched Apple Card as another in a long line of innovations, claiming it “completely rethinks everything about the credit card." But that’s a bit of an overstatement.
While the Apple Card does boast some compelling attributes, perhaps the most innovative thing about it is that it combines several hard-to-find — but not unprecedented — features into a single package.
“We need to keep in mind that this is simply a credit card," says Brian Riley, director of the credit advisory service for Mercator Advisory Group, a payments and banking industry consulting group, via email. Noting that the Apple Card will be competing against some well-established issuers, including Chase and American Express, he says it will be “a case study in loyalty. Will the masses follow Apple?"
If you’re tempted to take the Apple Card plunge, here’s how to separate the helpful features from the hype.
» MORE: Should you get the Apple Card?
No, the Apple Card doesn’t ‘completely rethink everything’
The Apple Card doesn’t so much break new ground as consolidate it.
Unlike many other cash-back credit cards, this one is clearly designed for mobile-first users. In fact, the only way you can apply for the Apple Card is via an eligible iPhone, which is unique (if also a potential roadblock).
The Apple Card doesn’t so much break new ground as consolidate it.
“As with all Apple products, there is indeed an elegance to it," Riley says.
But virtually any credit card can be added to a mobile wallet and used the same way.
The Apple Card does incentivize the use of a mobile wallet, earning the following rewards:
CASH-BACK RATE CATEGORIES 3% cash back • Apple Pay purchases made directly with Apple (including Apple stores, within the App Store and for Apple services).

• Uber and Uber Eats purchases via Apple Pay.

• Walgreens and Duane Reade purchases via Apple Pay.

• In-store T-Mobile purchases via Apple Pay. 2% cash back All other purchases made via Apple Pay. 1% cash back All purchases made with the physical Apple Card.
But many Apple Card competitors earn similar rates or higher without requiring that you use a mobile wallet to get them.
And about that physical, “laser-etched titanium" card, which you must request separately, by the way? Apple has gone to great and hilarious lengths to explain how to care for it, but the best way to take care of it — and yourself — is to simply not carry it around at all. Its rewards rate just isn’t competitive today.
» MORE: How 1.5% cash back became the industry gold standard
When it comes to fees, the Apple Card trumpets its lack of them — but you can find any number of cash-back cards that similarly charge neither an annual fee nor any “over-the-limit" fees, which have been extinct for years. More interesting is the Apple Card’s lack of foreign transaction fees or late fees. It’s harder (though not impossible) to find cash-back cards that don’t charge a fee for purchases abroad, and though other cards already waive late fees, typically those products don’t earn rewards.
So what is new about the Apple Card?
The Apple Card did rethink — that is, it opted against — offering a sign-up bonus, a 0% intro APR period or the ability to add authorized users, all of which are common features of its competitors.
But it’s certainly not all bad news. The Apple Card does bring some truly fresh offerings to the table:
See your credit limit and APR before committing to the card. If approved for the card, you can decide — based on the credit limit and APR you’re offered — whether you want to accept the deal. Apple says you’ll have up to 30 days to make your decision and that “your credit score is not affected until after you accept." You’ll be hard-pressed to find another card that shows you this information before pulling your credit.
If approved for the card, you can decide — based on the credit limit and APR you’re offered — whether you want to accept the deal. Apple says you’ll have up to 30 days to make your decision and that “your credit score is not affected until after you accept." You’ll be hard-pressed to find another card that shows you this information before pulling your credit. Access 24/7 text-message-based customer support. Round-the-clock customer service isn’t new, but carrying on a conversation with the issuer via text is novel, and ideal if you loathe phone calls and long hold times. (You can also call through the iPhone Wallet app.)
Round-the-clock customer service isn’t new, but carrying on a conversation with the issuer via text is novel, and ideal if you loathe phone calls and long hold times. (You can also call through the iPhone Wallet app.) Use Apple Maps to help clarify your purchases. You can tap on individual charges you make with the card to pinpoint that merchant’s location on your iPhone’s Apple Maps app.
And what is just rare or interesting?
The Apple Card also offers some features that, while not unheard of, are still nice to have and not a given:
Instant access to your card upon approval. Start making purchases immediately, with no need to wait days before receiving a physical card in the mail. Instant credit access is uncommon, but not new.
Start making purchases immediately, with no need to wait days before receiving a physical card in the mail. Instant credit access is uncommon, but not new. Ability to accrue (and spend) rewards in real time. There’s no minimum redemption amount and no waiting until the billing cycle is over to access your stash. These features are welcome, but available elsewhere.
There’s no minimum redemption amount and no waiting until the billing cycle is over to access your stash. These features are welcome, but available elsewhere. A billing cycle that’s always at the end of the calendar month. Apple calls this a payment schedule “based on common sense," and it can certainly make it easier to keep track of when your bill is due. But other issuers already allow you to set your own billing date.
Apple calls this a payment schedule “based on common sense," and it can certainly make it easier to keep track of when your bill is due. But other issuers already allow you to set your own billing date. Access to financial tools to help you break down and categorize your spending. Helpful, but available via many other credit cards and third-party sites, NerdWallet included. (One drawback: Downloading your transaction history to Mint or similar financial apps is not supported.)
Helpful, but available via many other credit cards and third-party sites, NerdWallet included. (One drawback: Downloading your transaction history to Mint or similar financial apps is not supported.) Instant card replacement: If you suspect your Apple Card might have been compromised, you can generate a new card number and invalidate your old one, all within the Wallet app. This is nifty and can save time, but other cards offer free overnight card replacement and/or the ability to “freeze" or “lock" a misplaced card.
The Apple Card claims to take security a step further, instituting additional privacy measures so that Apple can’t tell where you shopped, what you bought or how much you spent. (Apple notes that Goldman Sachs, on the other hand, does have access to your data.)
Are its interest rates ‘among the lowest in the industry’?
When the Apple Card debuted in August 2019, Apple noted that it would have a variable APR of 12.99% to 23.99% based on creditworthiness.
The low end of that range is better than average — and better than what many other cash-back credit cards offer. But only those with excellent credit are likely to qualify for that rate.
Although the low end of the Apple Card’s APR range is better than average — and better than what many other cash-back credit cards offer — only those with excellent credit are likely to qualify for that rate.
And you might be able to do even better still with a credit union credit card.
It’s worth noting that the Apple Card app has some terrific visual incentives to help you understand how much credit card interest you’re potentially accruing if you don’t pay your bill in full every month. The “Choose Amount" dial goes from red to green as it displays an estimate of the interest you’ll pay, based on the payment amount you choose.
There’s also a longer-than-average grace period that lasts until the end of that month’s billing cycle, rather than the typical 21-day window, giving you some extra time to pay your bill before you start accumulating interest on your balance.
» MORE: NerdWallet’s best low-interest credit cards
‘Created by Apple, not a bank’?
Apple obviously had a big hand in developing this product. But the card is still issued by Goldman Sachs, an investment bank. And it’s Goldman Sachs that will review your application, along with your credit scores, credit report and the income you claim on your application to decide whether you will be approved for the card.
It’s Goldman Sachs, not Apple, that will review your application — including your credit scores, credit report and the income you claim — to determine whether you will be approved.
That kind of underwriting is standard for the vast majority of credit cards on the market. A handful of so-called “alternative credit cards" can evaluate creditworthiness beyond credit scores and history — but the Apple Card isn’t one of them.

Story 68
For years, banks have been warned that that the fintechs will relegate banks to handling infrastructure. It hasn’t happened. As David Murphy, SVP EMEA & APAC Banking Lead, Publicis Sapient argues, fintechs are small, so they feel “like ankle biters.” Sure, they put pressure on pricing but most haven’t been big enough to steal market share.
And while everyone has been looking over their shoulders at what Amazon might do, Apple quietly reinvented the credit card business. In concert with Goldman Sachs, Apple laid bare the weak spots and pain points of credit cards from the consumer’s point of view and launched a product that puts the Silicon Valley giant with the world’s most loyal customer base squarely in banking’s’ front yard. Not everyone agrees with that assessment, but no bank or credit union can afford not to pay attention to it.
“Apple is not a small fintech,” says Murphy. “They can put pressure on pricing and steal significant share.”
That may explain why the official launch of the new Apple Card, even though most knew it was coming, stirred up more commentary than all the fintech announcements of the past two years combined.
Apple Inc. is the original fintech, after all. The company’s whole culture — its vibe — has defined disruptive innovation for decades. Apple has stumbled a few times, and more than one analyst has said the iconic firm has lost its mojo since the death of co-founder Steve Jobs in 2011.
Maybe it has. And maybe the voices are right saying that the Apple Card product is just a slick presentation of ideas others have already invented and introduced.
But even a casual student of the Cupertino, Calif.-based company knows that part of Apple’s genius is that often it is not the first mover on a new technology, but the first to popularize it. Even the Macintosh computer and its mouse-based graphical user interface was a perfected version of technology developed by Xerox.
( sponsored content ) Digital Banking Consumer Engagement New report provides strategies on how to build ‘best in class’ engagement with digital banking customers. Click Here Five Big Strategic Questions for 2020 As institutions try to balance growth and profitability, these five questions should be considered by all financial institutions as we approach strategic planning season again. Click Here
As author/analyst Brian Roemmele, Founder and President of Read Multiplex, observes in a blog on the new card, Apple does not need to invent new things.
“Apple has reengineered everything we have come to know about the entire [credit card] experience,” says Roemmele. Not just the technology, in other words, but the entire user experience.
Forrester Research Principal Analyst Alyson Clarke expands on that point, telling The Financial Brand that Apple Card is a true differentiator, because it was “born digital.” Contrast that, she says, with cards from traditional banking issuers which fundamentally have not changed for decades. “The only thing they’ve done is tweak rewards and maybe tweak pricing and stuck a digital front end on it,” Clarke states.
Referring to a customer advocacy report she does each year that ranks various financial institutions, the analyst states that “year after year the credit card banks and credit card divisions are at the bottom of the pack. So there is a gaping hole in the market for enabling people with credit and treating them well as opposed to just going after them for another fee.”
Apple recognized that as an opportunity to rethink the card experience. But it’s a bigger play than that.
“I completely expect to see Goldman and Apple extend this relationship into a day-to-day banking product. That should scare a lot of banks”
— Alyson Clarke, Forrester Research
“Everyone’s looking at this and comparing credit card to credit card,” Clarke states. “It’s not about that. It’s the start of a relationship and a very different way of banking — digital from the ground up. It’s more secure and it’s about helping you improve your financial position. I completely expect to see Goldman and Apple extend this relationship into a day-to-day banking product where you can put your salary and pay your bills with a savings product. That should scare a lot of banks including a lot of the digital banks.
Read More:
Reactions to Apple Card’s Most Innovative Features
That may or may not play out, but what is certain is that a very different card product — the co-branded Apple Card — is due to hit the market this summer. Its features deserve serious attention.
Issued by Goldman Sachs Bank, the Apple Card is primarily a virtual card built into the Apple Wallet app on users’ iPhone or any Apple device. The card, which runs on the Mastercard network, can be used online, in apps, and in all stores accepting Apple Pay (Apple’s near-field communication-enabled mobile payment system). Apple Pay is accepted at more than 70% of U.S. merchants, according to Apple.
Some other basics about the new card:
Apple Card works only with Apple devices
Cards are set up on the iPhone and can be functional in minutes
Customer queries are handled by texting, available 24/7
There are no fees associated with the card account, specifically no late fees, over-limit fees, or international fees
Interest rates will range from 13.24% to 24.24% based on creditworthiness
Beyond those characteristics, the Apple Card boasts four noteworthy features that banks and credit unions should understand.
on-demand webinar Winning At Acquisition In Times of Change Technology is developing as rapidly and the consumer mindset about finance has shifted. How can you continue to attract high quality new households, deposits and cross-sell accounts? Enter your corporate email address
1. Apple Card as Financial Coach
Apple is taking its success with its Health app on the iPhone and Apple Watch and adapting it to financial health. As Apple says, Apple Card encourages consumers to pay less interest and gives them a better understanding of how much it will cost if they want to pay over time. The card app provides weekly and monthly spending summaries. It groups them into color-coded categories such as “Food and Drink” and “Travel.” It also uses machine learning and Apple Maps to translate often-cryptic merchant names appearing on card statements into names and locations people can easily recognize.
The card bills on a calendar month cycle and does not have a minimum payment. However, as Jennifer Bailey, VP for Apple Pay says, Apple’s goal is to help consumers save on interest. The app includes an interactive circular tool that allows users to see what they owe, and determine what amount of payment they wish to make. Moving a button on the circular slider shows how much interest will accrue at any amount.
In addition, cardholders can elect to make monthly, twice-a-month, or weekly payments. And Apple Card will send reminders when the due date is approaching, using Apple Wallet push notification, according to Brian Roemmele.
“These features align well with what Apple did when they pivoted away from having an Apple Watch as a fashion accessory to be more health focused,” observes Nick Hassebrock, Senior Research Analyst, Mintel Comperemedia. Clarke agrees, adding “I completely expect with the power of Apple for us to start to see true financial coaching. Just telling me where I’m spending my money is not financial coaching. Helping me pay down my debt, be smarter about how I spend, is.” Clarke states that Apple and Goldman are repositioning the credit card business with this approach, thinking about the customer first and helping them stay out of excessive debt.
Various financial apps developed by fintechs have similar features. The difference is that Apple is integrating them into its huge product ecosystem and pitching it to its enormous worldwide user base.
2. Cash Rewards, Paid Daily
Apple and Goldman elected not to try to be top-of-chart on cash-back rewards rankings. Their reward levels are about average — 2% cash back for every transaction using Apple Card with Apple Pay, 3% for all purchases made directly with Apple, and 1% for purchases made with the physical card.
What the two companies are counting on is a feature called Daily Cash. Rewards are paid in cash — daily — to an Apple Pay Cash card set up in the Apple Wallet. The reward is paid immediately. These cash balances can be used for purchases, to reduce card balances, or to send to someone using Apple Pay Cash, Apple’s person-to-person payment platform. There is no limit on the amount of Daily Cash that can be earned.
Various experts consider this feature unique. “No one pays daily cash rewards that are instantly redeemable,” Richard Crone wrote in a LinkedIn blog. The CEO of Crone Consulting believes that even though Apple didn’t mention it, Daily Cash balances likely will be available through Mastercard, Maestro and Discover-connected ATMs.
Brian Roemmele calls this feature “pure brilliance” and “profoundly important.”
“Apple in effect is creating ‘new money’ that has no net cost to Apple,” he states. The analyst believes that this “new money” ultimately will form the basis of a new payment system in which micro-transactions (below $1) and nano-transactions (below 1¢) will become popular and move the internet away from an advertising model.
Some observers are not so enthused. Mercator card analyst Brian Riley, quoted in The Financial Times, says that a consumer spending $20,000 a year on Apple Card — about $55 a day— would earn cash back of $1.10 per day (at 2%), which Riley describes as in the “so-what zone.” A Lightspeed analysis of credit card cash-back redemptions from 11 issuers found that the average number of redemptions per month was 1.2 and the average amount redeemed was $68.
Forrester’s Clarke notes that high net worth customers would be better off with something like the Chase Sapphire or American Express Platinum rewards cards. However, cash rewards are the number one type of program people look for, says Clarke, and Apple Card is on par with what’s out there. Plus, she points out, Apple (and anyone else) can change reward levels at any time.
Read More:
3. Laser Focus on Privacy and Security
An Apple hallmark — security integrated between hardware and software — is applied to the Apple Card. When consumers are approved for an Apple Card on their phone, a unique per-device card number is created and stored in the phone’s “secure element” chip. After that, each payment uses a one-time dynamic security code. Also, users are authenticated by the touch or facial ID capabilities of the iPhone.
All payment tracking and categorization happens on the phone so Apple does not see purchase details. Further, Goldman Sachs Bank, the card issuer, will not share or sell Apple cardholder data to third parties for marketing or advertising, according to Apple.
Given Apple’s very public stances on privacy issues, from CEO Tim Cook’s stonewalling the government’s request for “back-door” access to iPhones, to his criticism of privacy practices at competitors, it’s no surprise the company made privacy a pillar of Apple Card. Roemmele believes the nonsharing of transaction data with marketing partners is unique. It indicates that Apple is ahead of the curve on an issue becoming more important every month.
4. The Titanium Card — Instant Status Symbol
Few companies do product design as well as Apple. The company’s take on the lowly credit card made the crowd gasp when it came up on the screen at the launch event. The slick, white, titanium card, laser-etched with the cardholder’s name and the Apple logo, will be issued to Apple Card account holders to be used wherever Apple Pay is not accepted. (The company did not indicate if the metal card will be free.) The titanium card is mag-stripe and chip enabled (but not NFC), but does not show an account number, expiration date, or CVV code. Those data are accessible on the user’s iPhone if needed.
Banker Chris Nichols, Chief Strategy Officer for CenterState Bank, summed up best the overwhelmingly positive reaction to the physical Apple card: The card has “a look that will turn heads,” he says. The thin, all-white titanium card “has become a status symbol literally overnight.”
Read More:
Game Changer?
The two analysts cited earlier clearly believe the Apple Card — and the payment system it is part of — is a major development in consumer credit and retail payments. More than significant, they feel it’s a game changer. Others, however, don’t see it that way.
“Frankly, I’m underwhelmed,” says Ted Rossman, industry analyst at CreditCards.com. He thinks people will sign up for the Apple Card, but only because they love Apple. The card’s features are no better than anything that already exists.
“My reaction when I saw the announcement was all of the features that are in that card are offerings we have today.”
— Catherine Bessant, Bank of America
Bank of America’s Chief Technology Officer Catherine Bessant, said on CNBC: “My reaction when I saw the announcement was, first competitively, all of the features that are in that card are offerings we have today.” She did add, however: “I think it’s an interesting announcement. We’ll pay a lot of attention to it.”
Even Goldman Sachs’ own analysts weren’t particularly impressed with the new venture. The equity analysts, assessing the new product’s impact on Apple’s earnings, felt that card uptake would be hindered by the limited reach of Apple Pay, which, according to Loup Ventures, is active on just 24% of all iPhones in the U.S. compared with 47% of international iPhone users.
Apple CEO Tim Cook reported at the launch event, however, that Apple Pay is on track to hit ten billion transactions this year and has reached greater than 70% merchant acceptance in the U.S. Acceptance is even higher in some of the more than 40 countries where Apple Pay is used, including 99% in Australia. Transit systems in Portland, Ore., Chicago and New York City will begin accepting Apple Pay later this year, which could help give the platform a boost.
To be sure, Apple Pay has been growing after a slow start. In the U.S., however, digital wallets in general have not taken consumers by storm. Apple and Goldman Sachs appear to be betting that a turning point has been reached. As Forrester’s Alyson Clarke observes, “I believe this is a long-term game and I would never underestimate Apple or Goldman — the capital they have behind them, the digital drive, and the innovation. They are not looking at this like a traditional bank looks at products. It’s more about helping people with their finances as opposed to making money on every single transaction.”

Story 69
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
Almost half of Americans who have credit cards (47%) don’t pay off their balance in full each month, according to a new NerdWallet survey. And over the past five years, carrying a balance has gotten significantly more expensive, with the average credit card interest rate rising 35% since 2014, from 12.74% to 17.14%.
Even with the recent rate cut by the Federal Reserve, credit card interest rates remain near post-recession highs. Paying your balance in full avoids interest entirely, but not everyone is in a position to do that.
For Americans with credit cards, 77% surveyed said they have paid interest at some point. The next best thing is minimizing the interest you pay, leaving you more money to pay down your debt more quickly. Here are five easy things you can do to cut your interest costs and get out of debt faster.
1. Learn your interest rates and pay off highest-rate cards first
Almost 2 in 5 Americans with credit cards (38%) say they don’t know all the interest rates on their cards, which can cost them when they’re deciding how to pay off their balances. To save the most money and eliminate your debt in the shortest amount of time, pay off your cards in order of annual percentage rate. Make the minimum payment on each card, then put all your leftover money toward the card with the highest rate.
Let’s say you have three credit cards and can afford to allocate $150 a month to pay them off:
Card A: $3,000 balance, 20% APR, $60 minimum payment
Card B: $2,000 balance, 18% APR, $40 minimum payment
Card C: $1,000 balance, 15% APR, $20 minimum payment
The minimum payments on these cards add up to $120, leaving you an extra $30 to start. If you used that extra money to pay off the cards in order of interest rate, highest to lowest, you would end up paying a total of $3,316 in interest. By contrast, if you decided to pay off according to balance — lowest to highest — you would pay $3,588 in interest. This means a savings of $272 in interest costs, just by paying the cards off in order of interest rate. The more you owe, the bigger the impact with this debt payoff method.
2. Double your minimum payment
More than 1 in 10 Americans who have credit cards (11%) make only the minimum required payment. Minimum payments are enough to cover the interest on your account, so they can keep you from falling behind, but they don’t get you much closer to eliminating your debt. One simple way to make a huge impact is to pay double the minimum. Say you owe $2,000 on a credit card with a 20% APR and a $40 monthly minimum payment. If you could find an extra $40 in your budget and you paid $80 each month, you would save $1,727 in interest and get out of debt more than six years faster.
3. Apply any extra money in your budget to your payment
Credit card interest rates are likely to drop following the Fed’s action. Close to half of American cardholders who ever pay interest on a credit card (44%) say they would put any money they saved on credit card interest toward reducing their actual credit card debt. This is a wise use of that money because even small additions to your credit card payment can add up to big savings.
Say you owe $5,000 on a credit card with an 18% APR and a minimum payment of $100. It would cost you $4,311 in interest if you just paid the minimum. But what if you cut your monthly expenses by $25 and made a $125 payment each month instead? You would save $1,618 in interest charges and almost three years of payments. If you could find an extra $50 in your monthly budget, you would save $2,328 in interest and pay your debt off four years faster.
4. Split your payment in half and pay twice
Credit card interest isn’t calculated based on how much you owe on the due date or at the end of a billing period. Instead, if you carry a balance from one month to the next, your interest is based on your average daily balance. Because of this, making smaller payments more frequently can reduce the amount of interest you owe.
Let’s say you owe $4,000 on your card and you can afford to pay $500 a month. If you make that $500 payment on the 25th day of a 30-day billing cycle, your average daily balance would be $3,900. But if you make two payments of $250, one on the 10th day and another on the 25th day of the billing cycle, your average daily balance would be $3,775. Therefore, you would be accruing interest on $125 less than you would be if you made only one payment. The more months you do this, the more savings you’ll enjoy.
5. Transfer your balance to a 0% credit card
If you have good credit — generally a credit score of 690 or higher — you may be able to transfer your balance to a credit card with a 0% introductory rate that lasts 12 to 18 months. With no interest to worry about, you can focus on whittling down the core debt as fast as possible.
In general, you can’t transfer debt among cards from the same issuer — for example, you can’t transfer a Chase balance to another Chase card. Most cards charge a fee of 3% to 5% of the amount transferred, although a few cards don’t charge a fee for balances moved within a certain time frame.
If you choose this route, make a plan to pay off your full balance before the introductory period ends to avoid accruing interest charges.

Story 70
Advertising
Since Facebook announced its new digital currency project “Libra,” it has faced fierce pushback from global regulators and financial sectors. Libra, designed with an associated global payment system, has the ambition to make monetary transactions as convenient as messaging for billions of people worldwide.
Libra is joining a global online payment revolution led by China, where nearly half of the world’s digital payments are made. QR codes have conquered China’s stores, restaurants, and public transportation for instant payments; using cash and credit cards is obsolete. Mobile payment platforms such as Alibaba’s Alipay and Tencent-backed WeChat Pay generated 81 trillion yuan in transactions ($12.8 trillion) last year.
“China is probably the one place where digital payment has already been achieved at real massive scale,” said Shiv Putcha, principal analyst at tech research firm Mandala Insights in Mumbai.
While Libra is still struggling to get governments’ approval to launch, many of its aspirations have already been realized by companies in China — and so have some of the concerning impacts warned about by lawmakers.
In east China’s Nantong city, Liangliang Huang, 31, no longer carries cash or a credit card with her when going out. From ordering meals to buying Starbucks coffee to purchasing groceries in markets, she pays by simply scanning a QR code. Living cash-free has become prevalent among Chinese cities, and it’s not a privilege unqiue to young people, Huang said. “My parents, who are over 50, also live their lives on Alipay and WeChat Pay. It’s much easier than using cash or cards.”
Enjoying this article? Click here to subscribe for full access. Just $5 a month.
For merchants, what’s more appealing about digital payment is the low cost. Chinese banks charge retailers credit card swipe fees of 0.5 percent to 0.6 percent of each transaction. By contrast, the rate for mobile wallets is as low as 0.1 percent, and sometimes even feeless. Merchants also gain from quick checkouts, easy setup, and low risk of receiving fake currency.
The beneficiaries are not only those living in major big cities; residents in the country’s vast less-developed areas are also taking part. A recent joint survey by Fudan, Nanjing, and Renmin Universities found that the majority of small and micro enterprises in China’s fourth- and fifth-tier towns mainly rely on digital apps for daily transactions. Cash contributed to less than 10 percent of payments of the surveyed businesses, many of which can’t afford to get a card reader.
“It allows a great level of financial inclusion,” said Aaron Klein of the Brookings Institution. “You don’t need a bank account to be part of the system.” In China, even beggars are replacing their tin cups with QR codes to get donations.
Advertising
For Facebook’s Libra, such advantages could be even magnified for international consumers. “Imagine somebody in India or Bangladesh is working in the U.K. and is sending money home,” Putcha said. In theory, Libra users can make cross-border transfers in real-time, with almost no fees – the current global average cost of sending a $200 remittance is $14, according to the World Bank. “It has a very compelling vision for the people,” Putcha said.
But there are flip sides too. China’s banking system has suffered overwhelming impacts and lost a large portion of revenue to the new ecosystem, according to Klein. “Alipay and WeChat Pay have taken large positions in dominating retail payment, which has historically been a strong revenue producer for banks.”
Jianning Zhang, a senior manager of a state-owned bank branch in Zhongshan, Guangdong province, echoed the statement. Since digital payment was commonly adopted in the city in 2015, his bank has lost “about half of credit card revenue,” which previously contributed one-eighth of total revenue. Interest revenue from small-scale loans was also affected, since more people are turning to the small loans available on the payment apps with merely one click.
What’s worse is that banks are losing track of their customers, as consumer data goes directly to Alipay and WeChat Pay’s system, not the banks’ database. “When consumers swipe our credit cards, we get information about where and what transaction they made. With data analytics techniques, we can match them with targeted financial services to create new revenue,” said Zhang.
Diplomat Brief Weekly Newsletter N Get first-read access to major articles yet to be released, as well as links to thought-provoking commentaries and in-depth articles from our Asia-Pacific correspondents. Subscribe Newsletter
On a national level, the loss can have a broader ripple effect across the county’s economy, as Putcha pointed out: As more deposits and revenue are swallowed up by online payment platforms, banks and the central bank would become short of funding to invest in projects and loans to industries. The Libra system poses even greater risks to banks since it, unlike Alipay and WeChat Pay, which are still tied to people’s bank accounts, is designed as an alternative to the existing banking system and local currencies.
New market forces have accelerated the reform of Chinese banking services, Zhang said. New changes are taking place in major state-owned banks, such as adopting artificial intelligence technology and improving service quality, according to Zhang. “We strive to provide personalized services to win back our customers.”
Although Libra has the potential to shake up the world’s financial system and reshape billions of people’s payment habits, the impacts would take years to come. Unlike many Chinese financial technology advances, which prospered under authorities’ policy green lights, the global project has to clear huge regulatory hurdles and obstacles already set up in multiple countries, said Putcha.
Enjoying this article? Click here to subscribe for full access. Just $5 a month.
Dongyao Nie is a news researcher at Al Jazeera English based in Washington DC.

Story 71
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
Credit card companies want to turn your unused credit line into cash that you can borrow for things like home improvements or unexpected expenses. But accepting this loan offer may not be the best choice for your wallet or your credit score.
In recent months, two of the largest credit card issuers, Citi and Chase, have announced they’ll offer credit card loans to eligible cardholders. Citi is offering its Citi Flex Loan, while Chase plans to launch My Chase Loan in late 2019.
The new products appear to be aimed at taking a share of the ballooning market for personal loans, which hit a record $143 billion in the first quarter of 2019, according to credit reporting agency TransUnion, an increase of 19.2% year over year.
Credit card loans are fast, convenient and cheaper than cash advances. But personal finance experts say the loans are still costly and can lower your credit scores, making it more difficult to obtain credit with low interest rates in the future.
Before you accept this seemingly simple way to get cash, consider the risks and compare your alternatives.
How a credit card loan works
Citi and Chase customers don’t have to request a loan — or even apply. The companies are promoting their “flexible financing offering” or new “loan feature” via email, direct mail or on account log-in pages.
“It’s very tempting because it’s so fast and easy, with no application,” says David Rae, a certified financial planner based in Los Angeles. “If you’re already in debt, it can cause that debt to snowball and become a big problem.”
The amount you can borrow depends on how much credit line you have available. Once you choose a loan amount and repayment term, the issuer transfers the cash to your bank account within a couple of days. Citi will alternatively mail a check.
The loans have payback terms of one to five years, and monthly repayments are added to your card’s minimum payment due. Citi and Chase say they report payments to the credit bureaus as credit card payments, not as separate loan payments.
Having different types of credit on your reports can positively affect your scores. In this case, “there’s no added benefit to your credit score, beyond just having a credit card and making a payment,” Rae says.
You can continue using your credit card, but you’ll want to track your balance and stay under the credit limit to avoid costly fees. You also won’t get cash back, miles or points with the Citi or Chase loan.
The costs and risks
Rae advises the loans should only be considered for emergency expenses if you don’t have savings, rather than discretionary purchases.
“If you’re trying to book a vacation or shopping for clothes, I wouldn’t recommend this product,” he says.
Credit card loans may cost less than cash advances, but they aren’t cheap.
Citi Flex Loans carry annual percentage rates that range from 7.99% to 8.99%, while My Chase Loan offers vary from 16.99% to 22.24% APR for borrowers with excellent FICO credit scores (over 720).
For example, a five-year, $5,000 Citi Flex Loan at 8.99% APR would have monthly payments of $104 and total interest of $1,226.
Taking the loan also increases your credit utilization rate — how much of your credit limit is used. Most financial experts recommend keeping your total utilization below 30%.
This loan can push you above that threshold and lower your credit score, says Bruce McClary, spokesperson for the National Foundation for Credit Counseling.
Compare alternatives
Whenever you borrow, compare interest rates on multiple loan options and consider features that build your credit or offer flexible payment schedules.
Personal loans may offer lower rates, especially if you have excellent credit, and higher loan amounts. They also show up as separate accounts on your credit reports, helping to diversify your accounts and indicate you can handle different types of credit, ultimately lifting your scores.
If you qualify, a 0% APR credit card is an interest-free loan, as long as you pay the balance before the introductory offer period ends. Also, you may earn cash back or travel rewards with this credit card.
“If you’re able to get a credit card with no interest, and you pay it off within the time frame, you’re going to be way better off financially,” Rae says.
This article was written by NerdWallet and was originally published by The Associated Press.

Story 72
Monese was among the very first banks in the United Kingdom to only be available via a mobile app. The bank’s founder opened the bank due to his inability to open a bank account in the UK because he did not have local utility bills or a credit history. Noticing that he was not the only one with the problem, The Monese Bank and App was born.
Visit Monese or Get Monese App (Android or iOS)
A Brief History of Monese
In 2014, Monese founder Norris Koppel moved from Estonia to the United Kingdom. He had no utility bills to prove his address and no UK credit history. This meant that Koppel found it impossible to open a bank account. Without a bank account, Koppel could not rent an apartment or receive his salary.
Koppel launched Monese in September 2015, so others would not have to experience the same struggles. Monese was designed as a banking service that is on-demand, instant, and inclusive.
When Monese launched, it was the very first 100 per cent mobile current account in the United Kingdom. Now, it is possible for those across Europe to open a current UK account in a matter of minutes.
Monese also avoids the restrictions and hidden fees common of legacy banks.
Monese was a success from the beginning, and it earned the 2016 European Fintech Awards’ Best Challenger-Bank honour. By 2017, the customer transactions on Monese were more than half a billion pounds.
Easy & Accessible UK Bank Account
Monese continues to remain true to its roots, offering a current UK account that is simple to open. It is accessible for everyone, regardless of whether they have documentation for utility bills or perfect credit scores.
Monese also now offers both GBP and EUR accounts – useful for keeping dual accounts for spending money abroad or hedging against the pound dropping.
So far, Monese has opened tens of thousands of on-demand accounts that are mobile-only for customers across the UK and EU. Monese even received €1.1 million from the European Commission to use for innovation and research.
Monese Regulations
Monese is fully registered with the Financial Conduct Authority of the UK for 100 per cent security.
Monese is a registered agent for PrePay Technologies Limited, an electronic money institution that the FCA authorises following the Electronic Money Regulations 2011 (900010) to issue electronic money and payment instruments.
Why Is Monese Necessary?
Monese offers an alternative to the shortcomings that come with traditional banks. Most banks in the UK require a credit history, utility bills, and plenty of fees. By contrast, Monese accepts nearly every single customer that applies for an account. There is no need to have a regular fixed income, a credit history, or even be established in the country.
Opening an Account with Monese – What Do You Need?
As mentioned, Monese was designed to make it simple to open an account. To open an account with Monese, you must live within the European Economic Area (EEA), although the bank is constantly expanding its reach to appeal to more customers.
To open an account with Monese, you do not need to provide any proof of address. There is also no need to visit a branch in person or have a good credit history.
When you are ready to open a UK current account, you just download the mobile application and then follow the on-screen step-by-step instructions to open and then verify the account.
To open the account, you will need to use your smartphone’s camera to take a photo and send an image of an ID document.
This document can be an ID card or passport, and it does not matter which country issues it. The application uses advanced technology to confirm your identity, so you can get account details in minutes, including the account number as well as sort code.
What Types of Accounts Does Monese Offer?
Monese offers three account types: Simple, Classic & Premium.
Regardless of account type, there is a maximum balance for the account of £40,000 for UK-based accounts. It is possible to switch between account types at any point.
Those opening an account in the Eurozone will notice a €10,000 maximum balance for all account types in France and a maximum of €50,000 for Plus and Premium accounts in other countries.
Simple accounts are free (£0 per month), and there is no fee for using the contactless debit card. There is a £1 fee for ATM cash withdrawals, a 2 per cent foreign currency exchange fee (minimum of £2), a 0.35 per cent fee for instant top-ups, a 2 per cent fee (£2 minimum) for post office cash top-ups, and a 3.5 per cent fee (£3 minimum) for PayPoint top-ups.
Classic accounts cost £4.95 per month and add six free ATM cash withdrawals per month. This type of account lowers foreign exchanges fees to 0.5 per cent (£2 minimum) and cash top-ups to £1 at the Post Office and 2.5 per cent (£1 minimum) for PayPoint.
Premium accounts cost £14.95 per month but have no fees, including for currency exchanges and both cash and instant top-ups. They also have unlimited ATM cash withdrawals for free.
Simple – £0/month
Contactless debit card
FREE
FREE ATMs & cash top-ups
£200 FREE monthly
2% fee after
£200 FREE monthly 2% fee after Foreign currency card spending
£2,000 FREE
2% fee after
£2,000 FREE 2% fee after Foreign currency transfers
FREE & instant to other Monese accounts 2% fee when sending to non-Monese accounts £2 minimum fee
Classic – £4.95/month
Contactless debit card
FREE
FREE ATMs & cash top-ups
£800 FREE monthly
2% fee after
£800 FREE monthly 2% fee after Foreign currency card spending
£8,000 FREE
2% fee after
£8,000 FREE 2% fee after Foreign currency transfers
FREE & instant to other Monese accounts from 0.5% fee when sending to non-Monese accounts £2 minimum fee
Premium – £14.95/month
Contactless debit card
FREE
FREE ATMs & cash top-ups
FREE
FREE Foreign currency card spending
FREE
FREE Foreign currency transfers
FREE & instant to other Monese accounts FREE when sending to non-Monese accounts
Main Features of an Account with Monese
With a Monese account, you can engage in unlimited transactions, receive euros or pounds via bank transfers, make use of fast bank transfers, make direct debits, get cash at ATMs around the world, and use a contactless debit card.
Monese Fees
There are no hidden fees associated with opening a Monese account. There is also no minimum balance required.
Traditional banks make their profits by a combination of reinvesting the money of customers and charging incredibly high fees.
Those fees typically apply to everything from high interest rates for loans and overdrafts to missed direct debits, money transfers, and using the card overseas. By contrast, Monese does not charge these excessive fees.
Monese Debit Card
The Monese debit card functions exactly as you expect a debit card to work. This is also a contactless debit card for extra convenience.
The Monese debit card is accepted in more than 200 countries around the world, as well as by most mobile app services and major online retailers. Essentially, it is possible to use your Monese debit card to pay for your daily transactions around the world.
It is also important to note that the Monese debit card acts as a prepaid card. This means that if you wish, you can set a budget, and the card will not let you overspend or run up a debt.
The contactless nature of the Monese debit card means that you can make transactions in seconds. There is no need to enter the PIN, either, if your transaction is £30 or less.
There are no security concerns with contactless payments since the merchant will only be able to take the specific amount of the transaction a single time.
Contactless payments let you avoid carrying spare change for smaller transactions, save time, and reduce the risk of fraud since you never have to let your card out of your hand.
Apple Pay
In Feb 2019 Monese made the announcement that they have added Apple Pay for personal UK and European Monese cards in the UK and France. This means you can make payments in person using your iPhone or for iOS apps and around the web where it is accepted.
With a tap on your phone you now have the ability to pay thousands of shops and other merchants.
Apple Pay is available in 27 countries.
How Do You Lock Your Monese Card?
If you ever suspect that your card has been compromised or do not want to risk spending your money, you can easily and instantly lock the Monese debit card via the application. Unlocking is also simple via the application. Once you lock your debit card, you can easily order a new one from Monese.
How Do You Make Deposits to Your Monese Account?
Monese makes it simple to deposit funds into an account using one of several methods. Those who are in the United Kingdom will appreciate that the current accounts include an account number and a sort code that make it possible to receive UK bank transfers.
These transfers can be from companies or individuals and include direct payments from employers.
Those who are outside of the United Kingdom can make payments into a UK Monese account using European IBAN.
To complete this type of deposit, you just make a bank transfer into Monese’s European IBAN account with the payment reference of your Monese ID.
Monese will then use the real exchange rate for the currency conversion, so you get the best exchange rate possible. From there, Monese will route the funds into your UK Monese account in the form of GBP.
In addition to the ability to deposit funds into a Monese account via UK or European transfers, it is possible to top up cash at one of the more than 40,000 locations in the UK.
Monese partnered with PayPoint and the Post Office, so clients can go anywhere with the PayPoint logo and instantly top up cash in their Monese account.
This means that you can visit any off-license, corner store, or high-street convenience store with the PayPoint logo or go to your convenient Post Office.
If you choose to top up with cash at the Post Office, just give the cash to the cashier. You will then insert your Monese debit card into the card reader, and the money will arrive in your Monese account the following business day.
For PayPoint transactions, you just ask to use PayPoint at the counter and give the cashier your Monese card as well as your cash.
Withdrawal Fees from Monese
Opting for a Monese Plus account gives you six free withdrawals from ATMs each month, so you can easily and freely get additional access to cash. You can use the debit card at any ATM which accepts MasterCard. Most ATMs will be free to use unless explicitly stated otherwise.
How Can You Make Payments with Monese?
You can use your Monese debit card to make payments just like you would with any other MasterCard.
It is also possible to make payments via your mobile application. In just a few taps, you can pay utility bills, rent, or for goods and services.
You also can pay an individual or company via a bank transfer. Any payment between Monese accounts will be free and occur in real-time, without any limit on the number of transfers you can make.
You can also make regular bank transfers to accounts from other banks. It is also possible to sign up for Direct Debits with Monese accounts, perfect for ensuring bills are accurate and then paying them.
With Monese, it is also possible to transfer money internationally in your choice of eight different currencies.
Best of all, the fees are as much as 8 times less than what you would pay if you used a bank. Monese can offer incredibly low rates because the company processes transactions worth millions of pounds daily, letting the company purchase currency using wholesale rates, which it then passes onto clients.
International Money Transfers with Monese
Monese makes it possible for clients to convert their funds using the interbank rate for quick international money transfers at very low costs.
The fact that Monese charges clients the same wholesale exchange rate used by banks means that customers save as much as 88 per cent when they send money abroad using the application.
With Monese, you can send money to Belgium, Bulgaria, Austria, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Finland, France, Denmark, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Hungary, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Latvia, Norway, the Netherlands, Malta, Portugal, Romania, Poland, Slovenia, Spain, Slovakia, Sweden, or the United States via a transfer. In terms of currencies, you can send GBP into one of several currencies, including BGN, CZK, DKK, EUR, HUF, NOK, PLN, RON, SEK, or USD.
Help with Budgeting
With Monese, account holders can use some features to help with budgeting. There is 24/7 access to your account via the application, so you can always keep an eye on your account.
There is also a convenient “Instabalance” feature that displays a real-time view of the balance of your account right in your smartphone’s notifications tray. This lets you know at a glance how much you can spend.
Within the application, you will find a balance graph for a visual representation of how you spend money. This can help clients track spending goals and analyse the times of the month when they are likely to spend more or too much.
Additionally, Monese does not follow the format of other banks that let you spend more than your balance and then charge you high fees via penalties.
Instead, Monese only lets you spend the amount that you already have in your account. This helps encourage healthy spending and budgeting and delivers peace of mind that you will not accumulate overdraft fees.
What Types of Notifications Does Monese Provide?
Monese provides you with notifications for certain actions, both as a convenience and as a security measure. Every time you spend money with your Monese card, top up money, or receive a payment, you receive a notification.
Monese & Avios Partnership
Just recently announced is a new partnership between Monese and Avios. Avios is a reward points currency for British Airways Executive Club, Iberia Plus, AerClub, Vueling Club and Meridiana Club. Millions of customers collect Avios in over 190 countries world-wide.
Monese is the world’s first current account linked with Avios and it offers a new, seamless financial and lifestyle management service.
Sitting within the Monese app, Avios appears as a separate account, alongside other Monese currency accounts such as euros and pounds. This allows customers to track and maximise their Avios as they fly, travel, or spend across hundreds of Avios partner brands such as ASOS, John Lewis and Just Eat.
Customers will soon also be able to earn Avios points by paying with their Monese card and for referring friends. They will also be able to send and receive Avios between Monese customers.
Monese Security
As mentioned earlier, Monese lets you easily lock and unlock your debit card via the application. This is a great security feature that can help prevent unauthorised spending if you lose your debit card or it is stolen.
Monese also takes a more secure approach to your PIN. You do not need to write it down anywhere or wait to receive a written PIN in the mail. To keep your PIN safe, you instead view it right in the Monese application.
To view it, just securely log into the application and enter your card’s CVV number. From there, you can instantly see the PIN. This not only ensures no one will find a paper with your PIN written down or intercept it in the mail but also means that if you lose your PIN, you can easily find it in a secure yet simple-to-access location.
Monese also makes the security of both personal information and money a priority. Monese uses breakthrough processes and technologies to protect accounts from unauthorised access.
For added security, it is only possible to access Monese from a single mobile device. This means that it is impossible for anyone to get control of your account while in another location.
When you want to access your account through a new device, you will first need to manually authorise it via a multi-factor authentication process for enhanced security.
If your phone gets stolen, the thief will not be able to enter your Monese application since you must enter a secure 5-digit passcode that only you know to access the app.
Additionally, Monese has around-the-clock monitoring via advanced banking infrastructure. This monitoring takes place 24 hours a day and seven days a week.
There is also protection of the funds in your Monese account due to the bank’s authorisation by the FCA and its registration. While banks typically reinvest customer funds, Monese does not do this. Additionally, Monese keeps all client funds separate to ensure that all customers would be able to receive their full balance in the unlikely event that Monese can no longer be in business.
Conclusion
Monese is a bank account for those living in the Eurozone and the UK that is only available via a mobile app.
This bank account has competitive fees and is designed to have nearly guaranteed approval, making it possible for those without utility bills, proof of address, or a UK credit history to open a bank account.
Monese is a great option for people who need basic banking with the option of a debit card, the mobile app is well designed and easy to use.
However, it does lack some features of a full bank account such as an overdraft option and paying interest on savings.
If you need access to a basic bank account which is easy to setup via the mobile app then we do recommend you take a look at Monese.
Visit Monese or Get Monese App (Android or iOS)

Story 73
SINGAPORE - Customers of United Overseas Bank (UOB) were unable to access several banking services for close to two hours on Saturday (June 22).
Some of them took to social media to air their grievances, posting to UOB's Facebook page to complain about the service disruption.
Complaints started surfacing on other social media platforms as well after 5pm.
In response to queries from The Straits Times, an UOB spokesman confirmed that ATM, card payment, internet banking and mobile application services were disrupted shortly after 5pm on Saturday.
All services were restored by 6.45pm, the spokesman said, apologising to customers affected by the disruption.
Facebook user Lim Kun Tee wrote in a post at 6.13pm: "Are the iBanking Services down? I can't even use my card for the payment gateway!"
Another user, Tien Goh, said that she was unable to access ATM and online banking services as well.
In a post at 6.40pm, Facebook user Vik Ramakrishna said that he was unable to access cash withdrawal and internet banking services. He was told that the service disruption was an islandwide issue when he contacted UOB's customer support, he wrote.
Some customers also wrote about their inability to make payments with the card.
Twitter user @yoonsy said that she was unable to use her card for Nets and contactless payments, and was unable to get through to the bank's customer service hotline.
In its response, UOB did not specify the cause of the service disruption.
"We thank you for your patience and once again, are sorry for the inconvenience caused," the spokesman said.

Story 74
What was mispronounced? Optional: help us by adding the time
Around 7m Iraqis are now receiving welfare benefits or public sector salaries electronically, as the government replaces cumbersome cash dispersals with biometric debit cards that can be used at ATMs and in shops.
It is a significant step towards financial inclusion in one of the Middle East’s most underbanked countries. Iraq’s banking sector, which is still mostly state-owned, has been hobbled by the country’s conflicts since 2003. It has become synonymous with images of looted branches and corruption scandals.
Only 23 per cent of Iraqis aged 15 and over held an account with a financial institution in 2017, according to the World Bank — although that figure has doubled since 2011. Of those who do not hold an account, a quarter say it is because they do not trust banks. Many Iraqis prefer to keep wads of cash under the mattress, or hold easy-to-sell assets like gold.
But International Smart Card, a Baghdad-based company that is 70 per cent owned by a group of private investors and 30 per cent owned by two state banks, has been quietly linking Iraqis to the financial system. Starting in 2007 as an electronic payments system disbursing government benefits, ISC has expanded and now pays public sector salaries, benefits and pensions to some 7m Iraqis, about one in six of the population, and even provides access to loans.
Hala (not her real name), a 32-year-old public sector employee in Baghdad, began receiving her salary electronically two months ago. It is the first time she has had a bank account. After years of receiving cash at work, she is enjoying the novelty of withdrawing money from ATMs in malls when she goes shopping.
“I honestly don’t know how we managed to live before,” says Hala, who wished to remain anonymous. “The process now feels so neat and efficient.”
Bahaa Abdul Hadi, founder and chief executive of ISC, believes its card has “managed to make the Iraqi people’s life slightly better”. “We at least helped them to overcome a little bit of their daily challenges,” he says.
Traditionally, government employees have been paid in cash by accounts departments. Pensioners and other people entitled to welfare benefits had to pick up their payments from state-owned bank branches — an often maddeningly inconvenient process.
Pensioners, for instance, only received payments every other month on a scheduled day, because of limitations to state banking services. “Normally people lined up at 5am, even though the branch opened at 8,” recalls Mr Abdul Hadi.
The QI Card uses biometric data to recognise users
Using ISC’s Qi Card — its name a nod to the Iraqi dinar, which has the currency code IQD — pensions, salaries and benefit payments arrive monthly and electronically. The debit card allows the employee or beneficiary to withdraw cash.
“From day one we realised the traditional chip-and-pin form of payment was not suitable” because of problems with identity fraud in Iraq, explains Mr Abdul Hadi, an architect by training.
Biometric data taken when an individual enrols for the card include iris scans and facial recognition — a feature that Mr Abdul Hadi says compensates for Iraq’s weak paper document system.
For people who struggle to make it to bank branches due to illness or disability, ISC developed a network of local agents to deliver benefit payments. The customer provides a finger scan and a pin number to access and confirm receipt of the payment. “In 2010 when we started the private agent licensing, or network, we had salary-to-home delivery when at that time pizza delivery was not available in Baghdad,” says Mr Abdul Hadi. The company now has 1,000 employees.
A tie-up with Mastercard since 2016 has spawned new cards, like Hala’s, that can be used abroad as well as in shops that have Mastercard point-of-sale devices.
In a Baghdad shopping centre, Arkan, a 34-year-old owner of a small cosmetics shop, has recently installed such a device just to cater for public employees now using the cards.
While the cards and accounts make life easier for public employees, Mr Abdul Hadi says ISC’s biometric technology has also helped remove thousands of fraudulent or “ghost” beneficiaries from the government’s books — a problem the Iraqi state continues to struggle with.
“Definitely there were organised crimes milking the government programmes,” says Mr Abdul Hadi. “In the worst case we captured a guy with 36 different IDs.”
Although ISC currently operates under a payment service provider licence, and does not hold money in the same way a bank does, it is eyeing a virtual bank accreditation. Last year it facilitated $2bn worth of loans from Rafidain, Iraq’s largest bank, that were credited directly on to the Qi Cards. Some 60 per cent of borrowers used their loans to start small businesses, ISC’s data showed.
The company has set its sights on other corners of the Arab world. Mr Abdul Hadi says it is now looking to export the Qi Card technology and is in discussions with governments in Sudan, Libya and Palestine. The founder says his scheme has won over sceptical government officials at home: “In the beginning they doubted, but it’s proved to be the right investment.”

Story 75
Fintech, short for financial technology, describes how the financial industry has leveraged technology to make financial services cheaper, faster, more efficient, and more accessible.
Modern fintech applications range from the simple to the complex, including:
Why fintech matters
Fintech is important because it democratizes financial services, making it cheaper and more convenient than ever for the average person to perform basic financial tasks.
There is also growing evidence that fintech is at least partly responsible for the shrinking number of people who are unbanked or underbanked, defined as adults without access to basic financial services such as bank accounts and alternative means of payments beyond cash. In 2017, the World Bank reported there were still 1.7 billion unbanked adults across the globe, a large number to be sure, but far less than the 2.7 billion unbanked population in 2011.
There are many benefits to financial inclusion. The World Bank cited studies from around the world in its 2017 Global Findex Database that showed that people who had access to bank accounts could save more, invest in their own businesses or farms, and spend more on things such as education and more nutritious food.
The World Bank report states, "A growing body of research reveals many potential development benefits from financial inclusion -- especially from the use of digital financial services, including mobile money services, payment cards, and other financial technology (or fintech) applications." Companies such as PayPal Holdings (NASDAQ:PYPL), Mastercard (NYSE:MA), and Square have proactively worked on solutions to help meet this need.
How popular is fintech?
There can be little doubt that the demand for fintech products and services is rising among consumers. In its April 2019 Where Will We Bank Next? study, PYMNTS.com found that "trust" was still the most-cited answer (63%) from consumers asked why their financial institution fit their needs. It was followed closely, though, by other answers such as easy-to-use online banking services (the second-most-cited answer, at 57.6%) and easy-to-use mobile apps (sixth-most, at 44.4%).
In the same survey, 42.5% of respondents stated they would not be interested in looking to another consumer brand for their banking needs. However, among the majority of consumers (57.5%) who stated they would consider nonfinancial institutions to fulfill their banking needs, the top choices were mostly from the ranks of big tech and existing fintech companies. In fact, of the five most popular brands listed:
30.5% said they would consider PayPal
24.8% Amazon.com
17.5% Walmart
14.9% Alphabet
13% Apple
An increasing number of consumers are interested in mobile apps on their smartphone to accomplish basic financial tasks. According to the 2017 Total System Services U.S. Consumer Payment Study, the following percentage of respondents are either interested in or already using their smartphones to:
Stop fraudulent transactions (80%)
Instantly view credit and debit card transactions (72%)
Turn a card on or off based on merchant, time, and location (64%)
Receive instant offers from a store they are visiting (59%)
Keep loyalty and reward points on a phone (56%)
All these categories also show double-digit percentage-point increases from the same study's 2015 results, demonstrating that consumer demand for fintech solutions is only growing. In addition, more than 50% of the survey's respondents said they were using, or interested in using, their phone for P2P payments, making purchases, and changing the PIN on their debit and credit cards.
What's happening in the fintech sector now?
The fintech sector has undergone a great deal of growth and disruption, and it's being funded more from venture capital (VC) investment rounds than initial public offerings (IPOs). In 2018, according to CB Insights, VC-backed fintech companies raised a record $39.75 billion over 1,707 deals, more than twice the amount that was raised through similar deals in 2017. Because venture capital has played such a large role in early-seeding investing for these fintech companies, investors can likely expect that companies will be much larger, on average, when they eventually go public, leaving less upside for individual investors. This influx of private capital has created a number of unicorns in this space -- private companies valued at $1 billion or more.
Among public fintech companies, there has been a great deal of consolidation and dealmaking. So far in 2019, two of the three largest fintech deals ever have occurred, and they were notable for how similar they were to each other.
In January 2019, Fiserv acquired First Data for approximately $21.8 billion. Less than two months later, Fidelity National Information Services, commonly referred to as FIS, acquired Worldpay for $35.3 billion. In both cases, the deals featured some of the largest issuing processors, Fiserv and FIS, targeting some of the largest merchant processors, First Data and Worldpay. (Issuing processors settle and authorize credit and debit card payments for financial institutions, while merchant processors, also called acquirer processors, facilitate card and digital payments for merchants).
Separately, these two deals would be notable, but they are far from alone. Ultimate Software Group, a company that provides a cloud-based, software-as-a-service (SaaS) human capital management platform, was gobbled up by a private investment group for just under $11 billion.
This is on top of a number of acquisitions made by larger payments and financial services companies in recent years. In 2018, PayPal made four acquisitions for a combined total close to $3 billion. Mastercard is developing a reputable track record of making smart acquisitions to augment its services-based revenue, most notable among them its $920 million deal to buy VocaLink, a company specializing in enabling instant bank account transfers. Visa (NYSE:V), after finishing its integration with Visa Europe, has also begun making acquisitions again, most notably outbidding Mastercard for Earthport, a cross-border payments specialist.
The sector's vast consolidation, merger activity, and VC funding speaks to its opportunity and risk. Smaller disruptors are shaking up the industry from below, racing to find customers with their innovative solutions before larger financial institutions and legacy financial services innovate enough to keep their account holders within the fold.
What to look for in fintech investments
As with any growing industry, when investing in fintech companies, investors will want to look at important metrics such as revenue growth rates, gross and operating margins, and the company's total addressable market. However, when I invest in fintech companies, the most important question I want answered is whether the company is just selling a nifty product or service, or an entire ecosystem of products and services.
In my experience, companies that sell a product can be mimicked and have little competitive advantage. A company that sells ecosystems, however, soon has its customers so wrapped up in its offerings that leaving would be almost unthinkable, even if similar products and services could be found elsewhere. When a company continues to foster a culture of innovation, it can develop product lines strategically,
One of the best examples of this is Square. When Square was founded, it introduced a product that allowed small merchants to accept credit and debit card payments with a simple dongle that plugged into smartphones and tablets. The product was revolutionary, opening a world of opportunity to small businesses. Yet this was soon copied and mimicked by most other payment processing companies. If Square maintained just this one product, without growing out its ecosystem, it would have never grown into the $30-billion-plus payments behemoth it is today. Instead, it grew its product line to include all sorts of services, including everything from in-app payments and food delivery to payroll services and business loans.
Risks to investing in fintech
There are three primary risks to investing in fintech:
Credit exposure. This risk is especially applicable for companies whose entire business model is based on making loans; it will not be at all applicable to companies with no exposure. A good rule of thumb to remember is that companies with credit exposure will almost always get a lower valuation multiple from the market than companies with no such liability.
Consolidation. Fintech is shaking up the financial industry quickly, and it is often hard to know what the eventual winners will be. In some cases, it will undoubtedly be the nimble upstarts; in other cases, deeper-pocketed legacy players that react quickly enough to keep account holders within the fold.
Regulation. Consider Robinhood, the mobile-based brokerage app that offers commission-free trading. Robinhood's plans to offer checking and savings accounts with 3% interest rates to account holders were interrupted by federal regulators, who stated that the money would not be insured by either the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) or the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC).
Who should invest in fintech?
Whether you are an income, value, or growth investor, there are fintech companies offering solid investment returns within your wheelhouse. For income investors, there are big banks investing heavily in technology while still offering decent yields. For value investors, there are unloved credit card companies and banks that trade at P/E ratios far below the S&P 500's average. Of course, dividend-paying banks with low P/E ratios will naturally have limited growth due to fintech initiatives alone, and come with all the risks listed above: They are exposed to debt, heavily regulated, and risk losing market share to more nimble industry upstarts.
That's why fintech will probably prove to be the greenest pasture for growth investors, since the sector includes companies growing revenue and earnings at double-digit rates, with large addressable markets still untapped. We'll explore several companies fitting that description later in this article.
Fintech ETFs, the easy way to invest in fintech
With fintech behind so many large trends, it's easy to see why investors would want to look for ways to profit from this theme. One of the easiest ways to do so is by investing in an ETF -- a basket of securities collected under one entity that can be traded on major exchanges -- designed to track the fintech industry. Besides being simple, ETFs offer instant diversification within the sector, limiting the risk of only being invested in a few different stocks. Two such ETFs match this criteria, including the Global X FinTech Thematic ETF and the Ark FinTech Innovation ETF. These ETFs offer investors instant diversification within the fintech sector and preclude them from having to pick individual winners.
The Global X FinTech Thematic ETF says it "seeks to invest in companies on the leading edge of the emerging financial technology sector, which encompasses a range of innovations helping to transform established industries like insurance, investing, fundraising, and third-party lending through unique mobile and digital solutions." Since its inception in late 2016, it has beaten the S&P 500 index by a significant margin. This is not surprising given that its top holdings include PayPal, Intuit, and Square.
The Ark FinTech Innovation ETF invests in companies that it says are "engaged in the theme of Fintech innovation," which is determined by whether a company has derived "a significant portion of its revenue or market value from the theme of Fintech innovation, or ... has stated its primary business to be in products and services focused on the theme of Fintech innovation." Be aware that this definition sometimes seems to be loosely interpreted when it translates to Ark's holdings, as some of its top-allocated positions include Apple, NVIDIA, and Zillow Group.
Top fintech stocks for 2019 and beyond
Top Fintech Stocks Bullish elevator pitch Alibaba Group Holding NYSE:BABA) Alipay is one of world's largest mobile payments platform, and Ant Financial is the largest investor in fintech unicorns around the globe. BlackLine NASDAQ:BL) An SaaS company that automates tedious and laborious accounting practices for its enterprise clients. Global Payments NYSE:GPN) Payment processing company that is embedding its payment services into vertical software stacks serving niche industries. JPMorgan Chase NYSE:JPM) One of the best-run big banks that possesses the means to (and is not afraid to) invest heavily in new technology. MarketAxess Holdings NASDAQ:MKTX) This company operates the world's largest electronic fixed-income investment trading platform. Mastercard The world's second-largest payments network has made a number of acquisitions to build out its supplemental services in areas such as AI-powered fraud prevention and data analytics. MercadoLibre NASDAQ:MELI) This Latin American powerhouse is much more than an e-commerce platform, with a fast-growing digital payments platform that can be used off-site and even a new asset management platform in Argentina. PayPal Holdings Digital wallet platform with more than 267 million user accounts, including 21 million merchants. Q2 Holdings NYSE:QTWO) Its software products allow small banks to compete with the big banks by providing the digital tools necessary to build out the digital and mobile platforms that today's consumers demand. Visa The world's largest payments network is showing a renewed interest in making sure it stays ahead of the times, after making a key acquisition.
Let's take a closer look at some of these stocks to see what makes them particularly attractive for investors over the next several years.
Alibaba Group Holding
It is getting harder and harder to leave Alibaba Group Holding off any "best of" fintech list, thanks to its large stake in Ant Financial, the company behind Alipay, the mobile payments provider with more than one billion active global users. Its mobile payments platform includes 390 million users who can make secure payments based on their own biometric identification.
Ant Financial is much more than a mobile payments platform; it also offers a set of solutions for asset management, insurance, and lending. For instance, its insurance solutions promise to use AI so that individuals receive the best policy based on their own personalized risk assessment. Its asset management platform offers optimized investment advice within seconds.
The best part about owning Alibaba is that it gives shareholders access to the world's largest investor in private fintech unicorns. In 2018, almost $40 billion was invested in private fintech start-ups through more than 1,700 deals. Incredibly, $14 billion of this funding, or about 35% of the total, came from one source -- Ant Financial. Most of these investments were spread across Southeast Asia in mobile payments and other fintech platforms that are exploding in popularity in their home countries, where cash is still heavily used and credit cards have never gained meaningful traction.
BlackLine
BlackLine offers a cloud-based, accounting software-as-a-service platform to its enterprise customers. BlackLine's platform enables companies to practice continuous accounting, rather than batch processing. Batch process accounting involves doing a large amount of work to close and reconcile books near the end of a pre-determined period, such as a month or quarter. Continuous accounting allows companies to reconcile in real time, as data from transactions and sales become available.
BlackLine founder and CEO Therese Tucker compares continuous to batch processing accounting:
There are some people of an age that remember ... you got paper bank statements in the mail and you would take those paper bank statements and you would compare them to your actual checkbook. That's gone away by now. But most companies still operate as though they have to wait for the paper in the mail to arrive before they can close their books each month, OK?
Tucker says investors would be "astonished by the level of manual work that goes into closing the books." By switching to continuous accounting, companies can make decisions using up-to-date data and free up key personnel for analysis and more important tasks.
BlackLine is not just a one-trick pony, however, as it has been working hard to expand its line of products to include other valuable accounting tools. In a February 2019 conference call, Tucker said, "We put a lot of effort into product innovation and bringing the market new products that drive real accounting and finance transformation and help expand our strategic value." These products include tools that automate and simplify traditionally difficult and labor-intensive accounting tasks, such as financial closes, bank statement reconciliations, and credit card matching.
Once companies switch to BlackLine, away from the tedious methods of manual accounting, they find it incredibly difficult to leave the company's platform, as evidenced by its 98% customer renewal rate in 2018.
Global Payments
Global Payments offers payment processing services to businesses, allowing merchants to accept card and digital payments both online and at the point of sale. Payment processing is a fiercely competitive business where it is hard to stand out without massive scale that allows companies to compete at cost.
What Global Payments has managed to do, however, is embed its payment processing services in mission-critical, software vertical stacks in a variety of niche industries. CEO Jeff Sloan said he expects 60% of the company's revenue to come from this "technology-enabled distribution" by the conclusion of 2020.
Global Payments has done this through a series of partnerships and acquisitions to help it achieve this goal. For instance, in August 2017, the company acquired ACTIVE Network for about $1 billion, an athletic-event planning software platform whose customers include Ironman and the YMCA. In 2018, Global Payments purchased AdvancedMD for $700 million, which provides back-office software solutions for small, U.S.-based physicians offices.
By intertwining its payment services with these software platforms, Global Payments has given itself a successful software makeover, making it extremely costly for its customers to leave for a payment processing rival, especially in terms of training and convenience.
Mastercard
This global payments network hardly needs an introduction. Mastercard has more than 2.5 billion credit and debit cards in global circulation, almost all issued from financial institutions to account holders, and moves more than $1.5 trillion each quarter from purchases made using its cards. One of the best things about Mastercard's business model is that it is not directly exposed to any debt liability, removing one of the primary risks involved when investing in fintech companies discussed above.
This asset-light business model allows Mastercard -- and Visa, which shares a similar business model -- to sport an extremely high operating margin, which almost always comes in above 50%, which is the threshold that management lists as its long-term target. Such a high operating margin also allows Mastercard to invest heavily back into its business, including offering supplementary services to its enterprise clients. These services range from fraud prevention to loyalty program management to data analytics. By the end of 2018, this suite of services, collectively accounted for under the company's "Other revenues" segment, was its fastest-growing division and generating almost $1 billion per quarter.
These services, once sold to financial institutions, make it a difficult proposition for a company to consider leaving Mastercard's ecosystem. Once a customer is relying on Mastercard for payment services, fraud prevention, and other crucial services, it cannot easily decide to leave because a competitor is offering a slightly better price.
PayPal Holdings
PayPal operates a digital payments platform that lets its users transfer money via digital means as an alternative to using cash or writing checks. By the end of 2018, PayPal had reached a total of 267 million active user accounts, including 21 million merchant accounts. Management expects this total to surpass 300 million active users by 2020. The platform's fast-growing user base is quickly allowing the company to achieve a powerful network effect, meaning that its service gains in value the more users it has.
In a January 2019 conference call, CEO Dan Schulman stated:
[T]he virality of Venmo and the network effects on core PayPal are clearly coming into play. You've got 21 million-plus merchants accepting PayPal. Consumers see that, want to be a part of it. You've got 246 million-plus consumers using PayPal. Every merchant now wants to be a part of that. So you've got a good network effect both on core PayPal and on Venmo.
One of the primary drivers of PayPal's user growth is that its platform is completely agnostic to what bank users belong to, what device-maker or operating system users prefer, or which merchant the customer is shopping at. Consider a simple P2P payments example, where diners wish to split a bill. To use Apple Pay for this simple task, everyone would need to own an iPhone. For Zelle to be used, everyone would need to belong to a participating bank or credit union. PayPal is agnostic to all these elements, and the fact that its user base is so much larger than competitors' makes it the most likely platform (or its fast-growing Venmo subsidiary) to be used for such a task.
Investing in fintech
Technology is changing every industry, and its mark on the financial industry will be no less profound. Fintech is important as it democratizes crucial financial services to the world's underbanked population and lessens the cost for global consumers to move and manage their own money. These companies are not only offering catalysts for this change, they also offer investors the best chance to profit from these trends.

Story 76
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
The next time you’re binging on Netflix or assembling a Spotify playlist, you could be earning rewards on that subscription. Video and music streaming services have become a hot bonus category among credit card issuers as media consumption patterns change.
Of course, elevated rewards on streaming alone may not add up to much and aren’t the sole reason to choose a card. Your monthly Hulu subscription is probably small potatoes compared with more substantial household expenses like groceries, gas or dining. But streaming can be a nice complementary bonus category to have.
Here are several of our favorite cards offering rich rewards for streaming.
» MORE: NerdWallet’s best credit cards for entertainment spending
Blue Cash Preferred® Card from American Express
Our pick for: High overall rewards
Blue Cash Preferred® Card from American Express Apply Now on American Express's secure site Recommended Credit Score
690 850 Good - Excellent See if you may qualify
Card Details
Pros Leading cash-back rewards at U.S. supermarkets Bonus offer for new cardholders Intro APR period on Purchases and Balance Transfers Cons Has annual fee — but if you spend more than $31 per week at U.S. supermarkets, the rewards offset the fee American Express isn’t accepted at as many merchants as Visa or Mastercard $25 minimum redemption View Rates and Fees Annual Fees $95 APR APR: 14.74% - 25.74% Variable APR Penalty APR: 29.99%, Variable Cash Advance APR: 26.99%, Variable Bonus Offers $250 statement credit after you spend $1,000 in purchases on your new Card within the first 3 months. Terms Apply. Intro APR 0% intro APR on Purchases and Balance Transfers for 12 months $95$250 statement credit after you spend $1,000 in purchases on your new Card within the first 3 months. Terms Apply.
Additional Information
Earn a $250 statement credit after you spend $1,000 in purchases on your new Card within the first 3 months. NEW 6% Cash Back on select U.S. streaming subscriptions. NEW 3% Cash Back on transit including taxis/rideshare, parking, tolls, trains, buses and more. 6% Cash Back at U.S. supermarkets on up to $6,000 per year in purchases (then 1%). 3% Cash Back at U.S. gas stations. 1% Cash Back on other purchases. Over 3 million more places in the U.S. started accepting American Express® Cards in 2017 and 2018. Low intro APR: 0% for 12 months on purchases and balance transfers, then a variable rate, currently 14.74% to 25.74% $95 annual fee. Terms Apply. View Rates and Fees

CARD DETAILS
Rewards:
6% cash back on select U.S. streaming subscriptions. (Full list here).
6% back at U.S. supermarkets on up to $6,000 per year in purchases (then 1%).
3% back on transit including taxis, rideshare services, parking, tolls, trains, buses and more.
3% back at U.S. gas stations.
1% back on everything else.
Terms apply.
Welcome offer: $250 statement credit after you spend $1,000 in purchases on your new Card within the first 3 months. Terms Apply.
Annual fee: $95.
APR: An intro 0% on Purchases and Balance Transfers for 12 months, and then the ongoing APR of 14.74% - 25.74% Variable APR.
WHY WE LIKE IT
The Blue Cash Preferred® Card from American Express offers something for nearly everyone, including a market-leading rewards rate on eligible streaming services. You’ll also earn elevated rewards on many different methods of transportation — even if you gas up your own car. So pop in some earbuds and enjoy your Apple Music on that bus ride to work, or tune in to your favorite Sirius XM channel on a road trip. Either way, you can earn rewards twice over. (Note that if your subscription is bundled with another product or service, or if it’s billed through a third party, it may not qualify for the higher rate.) But the card’s main attraction remains its industry-leading rewards rate at U.S. supermarkets. Terms apply. These features make it ideal for many kinds of spenders.
DRAWBACKS
There’s a hefty annual fee, which is atypical among cash-back credit cards. And it’s not an ideal card for those who spend a lot of money on restaurant dining.
» MORE: Full review of the Blue Cash Preferred® Card from American Express
Wells Fargo Propel American Express® card
Our pick for: High overall rewards with no annual fee
Wells Fargo Propel American Express® card Apply Now on Wells Fargo's secure site Recommended Credit Score
690 850 Good - Excellent See if you may qualify
Card Details
Pros No annual fee Sign-up bonus No foreign transaction fee Intro APR period on Purchases and qualifying Balance Transfers Cons American Express isn’t accepted at as many merchants as Visa or Mastercard Requires good/excellent credit Annual Fees $0 APR APR: 15.74% - 27.74% Variable APR Bonus Offers Earn 30,000 bonus points when you spend $3,000 in purchases in the first 3 months - that's a $300 cash redemption value Intro APR 0% APR for 12 months on purchases and qualifying balance transfers $0Earn 30,000 bonus points when you spend $3,000 in purchases in the first 3 months - that's a $300 cash redemption value
Additional Information
Earn 30,000 bonus points when you spend $3,000 in purchases in the first 3 months - that's a $300 cash redemption value $0 annual fee and no foreign currency conversion fee Earn 3X points on eating out and ordering in Earn 3X points on travel including flights, hotels, homestays and car rentals Earn 3X points on gas stations, rideshares and transit Earn 3X points on popular streaming services Earn 1X points on other purchases Select "Apply Now" to learn more about the product features, terms and conditions View Rates and Fees

CARD DETAILS
Rewards:
3 points per $1 spent on eligible streaming services (Apple Music, Hulu, Netflix, Pandora, Sirius XM Radio and Spotify Premium).
3 points per $1 spent on dining out or ordering in.
3 points per $1 spent on gas stations, rideshares and transit.
3 points per $1 spent on travel including flights, hotels, homestays and car rentals.
1 point per $1 spent everywhere else.
Terms apply.
Welcome offer: Earn 30,000 bonus points when you spend $3,000 in purchases in the first 3 months - that's a $300 cash redemption value.
Annual fee: $0.
APR: An intro 0% on Purchases and Balance Transfers for 12 months, and then the ongoing APR of 15.74% - 27.74% Variable APR.
WHY WE LIKE IT
The Wells Fargo Propel American Express® card offers triple points across a broad array of everyday spending, including several streaming services — all for an annual fee of $0. So spool up your Spotify account on that long Lyft ride to the airport; if you also bought your plane ticket with this card, you’d earn elevated rewards three different ways in that scenario.
Drawbacks
The card’s list of eligible streaming services isn’t as exhaustive as others. And if most of your money goes toward groceries, you can find much more rewarding options.
» MORE: Full review of the Wells Fargo Propel American Express® card
U.S. Bank Cash+™ Visa Signature® Card
Our pick for: Customizable 5% cash back
U.S. Bank Cash+™ Visa Signature® Card Apply Now on US Bank's secure site Recommended Credit Score
690 850 Good - Excellent See if you may qualify
Card Details
Pros High rewards rate Bonus cash back categories No annual fee Intro APR period on Balance Transfers Cons Complex rewards require maintenance Foreign transaction fee Annual Fees $0 APR APR: 15.74% - 25.24% Variable APR Cash Advance APR: 25.74%, Variable Bonus Offers $150 bonus after spending $500 in eligible net purchases within the first 90 days of account opening. Intro APR 0% Intro APR* balance transfers for 12 billing cycles $0$150 bonus after spending $500 in eligible net purchases within the first 90 days of account opening.
Additional Information
Earn up to $550 cash back in the first year. $150 bonus after spending $500 in eligible net purchases within the first 90 days of account opening. 5% cash back on your first $2,000 in combined eligible net purchases ($100 per quarter) on two categories you choose. That adds up to $400 cash back! 2% cash back on your choice of one everyday category, like gas stations or grocery stores. 1% cash back on all other eligible net purchases. No limit on total cash back earned. 0% Intro APR* on balance transfers for 12 billing cycles. After that, a variable APR currently 15.74% - 25.24% No annual fee* Great Offer from U.S. Bank, a 2019 World's Most Ethical Company® - Ethisphere Institute, February 2019 View Rates and Fees

CARD DETAILS
Rewards:
5% cash back on two categories of your choice from a list of several options (on up to $2,000 spent per quarter on combined purchases).
2% cash back on an everyday category of your choice, such as gas, groceries or restaurants.
1% cash back on all other purchases.
Sign-up bonus: $150 bonus after spending $500 in eligible net purchases within the first 90 days of account opening.
Annual fee: $0.
APR: 0% on Balance Transfers for 12 billing cycles, and then the ongoing APR of 15.74% - 25.24% Variable APR.
WHY WE LIKE IT
The U.S. Bank Cash+™ Visa Signature® Card lets you choose your own 5% bonus categories from a list every quarter. As of May 2019, one of those 5% options was “TV, internet and streaming services.” Examples of services that qualify include Netflix, Hulu, Sling TV, Apple Music, Spotify, Pandora and Sirius XM. And to truly optimize this card for entertainment, you could select one additional 5% bonus category — say, fast food or movie theaters — not to mention a separate 2% “everyday” bonus category, such as restaurants. Now you’re ready for a night out or a night in.
Drawback
This is a high-maintenance card. You must keep track of multiple bonus categories — not to mention a spending cap — and remember to opt in to those bonus categories every quarter.
» MORE: Full review of the U.S. Bank Cash+™ Visa Signature® Card
Amazon Prime Rewards Visa Signature Card
Our pick for: Amazon Prime loyalists
Amazon Prime Rewards Visa Signature Card Apply Now on Chase's secure site Recommended Credit Score
690 850 Good - Excellent See if you may qualify
Card Details
Pros High rewards rate on Amazon purchases No minimum redemption amount Cons No annual fee, but requires paid Amazon Prime membership Annual Fees $0 APR APR: 16.24% - 24.24% Variable APR Cash Advance APR: 26.99%, Variable Bonus Offers None Intro APR N/A $0None
Additional Information
5% Back at Amazon.com and Whole Foods Market with an eligible Prime membership* 2% Back at restaurants, gas stations, and drugstores 1% Back on all other purchases No annual credit card fee No foreign transaction fees The information related to the Amazon Prime Rewards Visa Signature credit card has been collected by NerdWallet and has not been reviewed or provided by the issuer of this card

CARD DETAILS
Rewards:
5% back at Amazon.com and Whole Foods Market.
2% back at restaurants, gas stations and drugstores.
1% cash back on all other purchases.
Sign-up bonus: None.
Annual fee: $0, but you must be an Amazon Prime member. Membership costs $119 annually ($59 a year for students).
APR: The ongoing APR is 16.24% - 24.24% Variable APR.
WHY WE LIKE IT
The Amazon Prime Rewards Visa Signature Card doesn’t specifically reward you for streaming services — but Amazon Prime video and music streaming services are automatically included with your Prime membership, which you can pay for (and earn 5% back for) with this card. You’ll also earn that same rich 5% back on digital downloads, and on virtually any purchase you make on Amazon.com. Shop there for nonperishables, hit Whole Foods for your groceries, and reap big rewards as you catch up on “The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel.”
Drawback
Officially, this card’s annual fee is $0. Unofficially, your Amazon Prime membership — which is required if you want this card — will cost you $119 annually.
» MORE: Full review of the Amazon Prime Rewards Visa Signature Card
Deserve® Pro Mastercard
Our pick for: Limited credit
Deserve® Pro Mastercard Apply Now on Deserve's secure site Recommended Credit Score
690 850 Good - Excellent See if you may qualify
Card Details
Pros Bonus cash back categories No annual fee No foreign transaction fee Cons No sign-up bonus No intro APR period on Purchases and Balance Transfers Annual Fees $0 APR APR: 17.74% to 24.74% Variable APR Bonus Offers None Intro APR N/A $0None
Additional Information
Available to L1, O1, and H1B visa holders. Priority Pass™ Select Membership (valued at $99), after you make $1,000 of purchases with your new Deserve Pro Mastercard within the first 90 days after activation. 3% cash back on travel & entertainment. 2% cash back on restaurants. 1% unlimited cash back on all purchases. Credit limits up to $10,000. $0 annual fee & no foreign transaction fees. No security deposit or co-signer required. Helps students and professionals build a credit history and gain financial independence. Use anywhere in the world where Mastercard is accepted. Includes Mastercard Platinum Benefits like Travel Assistance Services, Extended Warranty, and ID Theft Protection. Complimentary cellphone insurance up to $600.

CARD DETAILS
Rewards:
3% cash back per dollar spent on travel and entertainment and 2% cash back at restaurants on up to $500 in combined purchases per billing cycle.
1% back on all other purchases.
Sign-up bonus: None.
Annual fee: $0.
APR: The ongoing APR is 17.74% to 24.74% Variable APR.
WHY WE LIKE IT
Unlike most cards, the Deserve® Pro Mastercard doesn’t only rely on the traditional FICO scoring model to evaluate your creditworthiness. Deserve’s underwriting process may allow exceptions if you can meet income and employment verification requirements. Its “entertainment” rewards category includes streaming services such as Netflix, Hulu, Sling TV, DirecTV Now, Vudu, ESPN Plus, Starz, Spotify, SiriusXM, Soundcloud and Apple Music, to name a few. (Deserve notes that qualifying services can change from time to time.)
Drawbacks
You’ll face a monthly spending cap on bonus rewards. And unlike a lot of other cash-back cards, there’s no sign-up bonus or 0% introductory APR offer.
» MORE: Full review of the Deserve® Pro Mastercard
PayPal Cashback Mastercard®
Our pick for: Simplicity
PayPal Cashback Mastercard® Apply Now on PayPal's secure site Recommended Credit Score
690 850 Good - Excellent See if you may qualify
Card Details
Pros High rewards rate No annual fee No foreign transaction fee Cons High APR Annual Fees $0 APR APR: 22.24%, 26.24%, and 29.24% Variable Bonus Offers None Intro APR N/A $0None
Additional Information
Earn 2% cash back* on every purchase, no restrictions, no maximums, no rotating categories to keep track of No annual fee**, no foreign transaction fee** Redeem cash rewards right to your PayPal balance* at any time, use however you want. No thresholds or minimums *Select ‘Apply Now’ to view the Rewards Program Terms and important information on redeeming Cash Rewards to your PayPal balance. Subject to credit approval. You must be at least 18 years old and reside in the US or its territories to apply. **For New Accounts: Variable Purchase APR is 22.24%, 26.24% or 29.24%. The APRs are accurate as of 1/1/2019 and will vary with the market based on the Prime Rate (as defined in your credit card agreement). Minimum interest charge is $1.50 for all types of cards in any billing cycle in which you owe interest. View Rates and Fees

CARD DETAILS
Rewards:
Unlimited 2% cash back on everything.
Sign-up bonus: None.
Annual fee: $0.
APR: The ongoing APR is 22.24% - 29.24% Variable.
WHY WE LIKE IT
The PayPal Cashback Mastercard® is a low-maintenance card with high flat-rate rewards. No tiered or rotating bonus categories to activate or keep track of; just 2% back on all purchases. And if you’re already paying for your streaming subscriptions via PayPal, you can incorporate this card pretty seamlessly — and get cash back for it.
drawbacks
You’ll need a PayPal account to apply for this card, although it’s free to create one. There’s also no sign-up bonus, nor does it offer a 0% intro APR period.
» MORE: Full review of the PayPal Cashback Mastercard®
Information related to the Amazon Prime Rewards Visa Signature Card has been collected by NerdWallet and has not been reviewed or provided by the issuer of this card.
To view rates and fees of the Blue Cash Preferred® Card from American Express, please visit this page.

Story 77
Caxton FX Review
Today we are going to be reviewing a very interesting company called Caxton FX. This firm is dedicated to helping people deal with their international currency transactions.
Dealing with foreign currencies can be confusing and complex, and if not done right, you could be losing a good deal of money on commissions and fees.
This is why Caxton FX tries to simplify this process and make international transactions affordable for its uses.
To do this, Caxton offers two services:
Currency card
International trading online platform
In this review, we will be looking at both these services and figuring out whether this is a service you could benefit from, and if so, how you can actually go ahead and work with Caxton FX.
Let’s begin by analyzing Caxton FX’s currency card.
Visit Caxton FX
How Does a Currency Card Work?
Caxton FX is a prepaid debit Mastercard that you can use at home and abroad to make purchases. There’s not much more to it.
The real issue is: Why would I use a currency card?
Caxton Fx promises to make this process cheap, easy and safe.
All you have to do is load your Caxton card before or during your trip. You can do all this using the Caxton app or via your online account.
Choose the currency you want and lock in a great exchange rate, as well as check balances and transactions, using the Caxton Mobile App.
It doesn’t matter where you go, Caxton has virtually every currency available out there. Furthermore, you will be getting access to real time exchange rates via your online account or the Mobile App
How do I use a Currency Card?
But using a card abroad isn’t as straight forward as you might think. There are a few things you must take into account when paying for things abroad:
Always Choose Local Currency
When using your Caxton Card to pay for things you may get offered the choice of paying in either euros /dollars or in sterling. Always choose the local currency.
ATMs and retailers may give you the choice, and you might think that paying in sterling saves you money. It doesn’t.
If you pay in pounds the retailer converts your payment at their exchange rate and you lose out. This is called Dynamic Currency Conversion (DCC) and could catch you out.
Remember to check the screen before authorizing transactions. If the value is shown in pounds – ask that it is changed.
Security Deposits and Petrol Stations
You should never use your Caxton Card as a security deposit, this could to funds being held in reserve, for up to 20 calendar days. This includes hotels, car hire, bicycle hire and deposits of all kinds.
Use another card for the security deposit and your Caxton Card when the actual payment is required. Although you can use your Caxton Card at automated petrol pumps, you should know that an amount of €120-€500 may be held for up to 20 days on your card.
Have a plan B
Take a back up card, in case of emergencies. It would be advisable to take a secondary card and leave it in the hotel safe. That way, if your card does get lost or stolen, you can block it and use your backup.
ATMs
You can use the Mastercard locator to find an ATM. Stick to bank ATMs, as many third-party ATMs aren’t affiliated with banks, but are often situated near major banks and labeled with names such as Travelex, Euronet, Moneybox, Cardpoint, and Cashzone. We suggest you avoid these because they might charge higher fees.
Complimentary Services
Caxton cards are useful, but the fun doesn’t stop there. With your Caxton account, you may also have access to a couple other useful services at no extra cost.
Travel Savings Plan
With Caxton’s travel savings plan, you can easily start saving up with monthly payments for your next big holiday, romantic escapade or honeymoon.
You simply login to your Caxton account and setup a Travel Savings Plan in any amount between the currency equivalent of £200 and £10,000 and in any Caxton card currency, including GBP. Choose your currency and the number of monthly payments and Caxton will calculate and automate a series of monthly payments to achieve your goal.
As soon as you have made your final monthly payment, the total amount in the currency will be added to your Caxton card ready for your travels.
Cash on Delivery
This is one of the services which outs Caxton a step above the rest. Their Cash Delivery service is designed for those who prefer to arrive at their destination with some local cash in their pocket, as well as the currency which is securely loaded onto their Caxton card.
This can come in very handy for example when taking your first taxi ride and to avoid the pressure of finding the nearest ATM, you can now have currency in cash delivered directly to your door. All you have to do is log into your Caxton account and select Cash Delivery.
Cash delivery is available in 52 different currencies. The minimum required amount is 250 pounds and it will only take 1 business day to arrive.
Certainly, in my opinion, quite a nifty little service.
Other Services
Caxton FX also offers some other very helpful services in the currency exchange and travel department. The following two services, however, require additional fees.
Buy Back Guarantee
Caxton FX will buy back your unused currency at the same rate you bought it for. This means if the exchange rate moves against you, you won’t lose out.
All you need to do is take out their Buy Back Guarantee (£4.99) when you buy your travel money, and make at least one transaction with that currency. When you redeem your balance at the end of your trip (and within the given time frame), Caxton will buy it back at the exact same exchange rate that you bought it for.
Thanks to this service you can load up as much money as you need and more, with the confidence of knowing that you will not be loosing out.
Travel Insurance
Caxton offers a range of travel insurances depending on your specific needs.
For example, you can get Caxton Plus for 99 pounds.
This will include travel insurance and oversees emergency medical assistance.
To be eligible for Caxton Plus, you must first be a Caxton card holder.
They also offer family plans
Caxton Card Advantages & Disadvantages
Now that we have a comprehensive idea of what services you can get with a Caxton Card, we can make a list of pros and cons.
Pros
You can have multiple currencies in one card.
You can use the Caxton prepaid card pretty much anywhere around the globe
Caxton offers exchange rates better than High Street banks
There are no commissions on transactions
Caxton doesn’t charge you any fees for withdrawing money abroad
You can have your Caxton card delivered to your door in under 5 days.
Cons
As mentioned before, you should refrain from using the Caxton Card to make deposits, since your funds could be held up for some time.
Some people have had problems dealing with customer service, it is not my personal experience but I thought it was worth mentioning.
The App can be a bit glitchy sometimes, closing without warning, though it’s not a big inconvenience and doesn’t affect your money.
How to get a Caxton FX Card
To be a primary cardholder you need to be 18 or over, resident in the UK and have a UK debit card.
Like with most things these days, all you need to do is visit Caxton FX’s website, type in your details, including valid form of ID and voilá, you will receive your Caxton FX card in 3-5 business days.
Caxton FX International Payments
Caxton also offers fee-free international money transfers. A simple and secure way to transfer your money abroad. Good rates, no fees, and outstanding customer service. Buy currency and send it when it’s convenient for you
For trades over £20.000 pounds, you will receive the best possible rates and the help of an account manager to get a personalized quote.
On top of this, Caxton FX also offers its Premier service, an upgraded service of the platform where high-value users can receive around the clock advice and support from industry professionals.
Finally, Caxton also offers FX solutions for businesses of all sizes.
The business services include:
International Payments: Banks can charge fees for every transaction so, with multiple payments per month, costs quickly add up. To remedy this, Caxton provides a fee free international payment service.
Banks can charge fees for every transaction so, with multiple payments per month, costs quickly add up. To remedy this, Caxton provides a fee free international payment service. Hedging: Caxton offers multiple Options Contracts that meet the needs of most corporate hedging requirements. Structured Option contracts can protect your currency from volatility.
Caxton offers multiple Options Contracts that meet the needs of most corporate hedging requirements. Structured Option contracts can protect your currency from volatility. Multi-currency account: When your business is international, working with different currencies through your business bank can be costly to set up and use. Send and receive payments in up to 33 currencies.
When your business is international, working with different currencies through your business bank can be costly to set up and use. Send and receive payments in up to 33 currencies. Currency cards: A better way to manage business travel expenses and much more. Using a Caxton Corporate Currency Card is as simple as using your debit card without the costs of using it abroad.
Customer Reviews
On the UK website for Customer Reviews, TrustPilot, Caxton FX has a rating of 5 out of 5 stars which is classed as “Excellent” and a Trust Score of 9.2 out of 10.
These are great scores and over 81% of people have given them the top score of “Excellent”
Any bad reviews seem to have been addressed by a member of staff which is reassuring to see.
Here’s what some of Caxton FX’s clients are saying
I had an issue with a payment being taken twice whilst away in Australia. I’m not sure whose fault it was either Caxton or the tour company, but the way it was dealt with so promptly (by Claire sims) has restored my faith in Caxton as a company. Top job
Andrew Booth
I had need to contact Caxton FX today (170119) with a problem regarding the balance showing on my account. My query was dealt with by Claire Sims. It was a pleasure to speak to Claire, she has a very friendly telephone manner and was very helpful and explained the reason for the problem and was able to solve it easily.
Andrew Reed
I’ve used my Caxton FX twice going to America a few years ago and I had no trouble with it at all. Topping up is easy and it looks cool too using the card compared to clumsy American dollars. I would definitely recommend using this card if you intend to travel overseas.
Hugh
Have used Caxton FX regularly over the past 3 years when travelling in Europe and the USA. A safe and reliable method of holding travel money. It has always been easy to load more funds to my card even when abroad. Highly recommended!
Ronan Coyne
Fees and Charges and Limits
Here is a complete breakdown of the different fees and limits for the Caxton FX Card.
FEES & CHARGES GBP Card purchase and annual fee Free Secondary Card purchase (applied to the card balance) 5.00 Load and reload Free Point of sale transaction – international Free Point of sale transaction – domestic 1.50 ATM transaction – international Free ATM transaction – domestic 1.50 Over the counter cash – international 4.50 plus 2% of withdrawal amount Over the counter cash – domestic 4.50 plus 2% of withdrawal amount FX mark-up where a transaction is performed in a currency different from the currencies available on the card 2.49% Available balance enquiry – ATM 0.30 Available balance enquiry – online Free PIN reminder* Free Card renewal Free Card replacement fee – damaged/lost/stolen 5.00 Redemption processing fee 1.50
LIMITS GBP Minimum load 50 Maximum single load 12,000.00 Maximum total available balance 12,000.00 Maximum number of loads per day 2 Maximum load amount per year 50,000.00 Maximum number of point of sale Transactions per 24-hour period 20 Maximum number of ATM withdrawals per 24-hour period 2 Maximum value of single ATM withdrawal 300 Maximum withdrawal amount in 24 hours 300
Conclusion
If you are regularly traveling and making transactions in foreign currency, I would definitely recommend signing up for a Caxton Card.
As far as the competition goes, I believe Caxton is competitive in terms of both transaction and ATM fees.
It’s buy back guarantee is a great way to buy insurance when purchasing foreign currency so you can easily convert back any unspent holiday money.
Overall, I think the company provides a useful service for travelers and holiday makers, with attractive fees and use of the MasterCard network you should have no trouble spending your money abroad.
Visit Caxton FX

Story 78
Become an FT subscriber to read:
Leverage our market expertise
Expert insights, analysis and smart data help you cut through the noise to spot trends, risks and opportunities.
Join over 300,000 Finance professionals who already subscribe to the FT.

Story 79
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
Financial emergencies, setbacks and major life changes can come at you quickly, making it difficult to meet monthly financial obligations like credit card payments.
Before you fall behind, you can pick up the phone and ask your card issuer for help. Many lenders offer access to a credit card hardship program that can provide assistance to those who are struggling with circumstances beyond their control. After all, a bank wants to collect what it’s owed, and that’s less likely to happen if you default.
Hardship programs aren’t widely advertised — not all issuers offer them — and enrolling in one may still have consequences for your account and your credit scores. But if you need help, it may be an option.
» MORE: Need a favor from a credit card issuer? Make a call
What is a credit card hardship program?
A credit card hardship program is typically a payment plan that you negotiate with your card’s issuing bank. The bank may waive fees and/or lower interest rates over a specific time frame — often a short-term period such as three months or longer.
A credit card hardship program is typically a payment plan that you negotiate with your card’s issuing bank. It may waive fees and/or lower interest rates over a specific time frame.
Terms vary depending on the financial institution, the circumstances of your hardship and the deal you agree to.
Note that different kinds of hardship programs exist for different products, including mortgages, student loans, personal loans and more. Banks may even refer to them by different names such as an “assistance program” or a “hardship case,” for example. (This is, of course, assuming the lender offers such programs at all.)
» MORE: Credit card payoff calculator: See your debt-free date
Where to find a credit card hardship program
While this is not a comprehensive list of such programs, major issuers such as American Express, Bank of America®, Capital One and U.S. Bank confirmed to NerdWallet that credit card hardship programs are available at their institutions. Discover also offers general information about its hardship program through its website.
But only a few were willing to comment on the specifics of their programs. For that, you’ll need to call your lender and begin the conversation.
American Express, Bank of America®, Capital One and U.S. Bank confirm that credit card hardship programs are available. Discover offers information about its hardship program on its website.
“We understand that some of our customers may be facing financial challenges as a result of a natural disaster or another disruptive life event, and we’re prepared to help customers manage through the difficulties they may face as they recover,” a Capital One spokesperson noted.
It can be a pride-wrenching task, but possibly an essential one to pay down debt.
“The earlier we can get to somebody, the more chances we have of being able to help them,” says Theresa Williams-Barrett, vice president of consumer loans and loan administration at Affinity Federal Credit Union in New Jersey.
Circumstances that may qualify for a hardship program
Every hardship is taken on a case-by-case basis. Examples of hardships that might qualify include:
Nerd Tip: Service members have other options to explore under the Servicemembers’ Civil Relief Act , a law that requires lenders to cap interest rates on debts incurred before active-duty service.
Jason Zook — co-founder of Wandering Aimfully, a membership community for creative entrepreneurs — qualified for hardship when his prior business, in T-shirt marketing, failed. By 2013, he and his wife shared $80,000 in credit card debt, the majority of it incurred from that business.
Zook enrolled in a hardship program for a few of his cards. He recalls American Express as being the most accommodating issuer, specifically on a card that was charging an annual percentage rate of 24%. At that rate, he was able to make only the minimum payment every month.
“They basically said, ‘For six months we’ll give you 0% APR,'” Zook says.
Zook notes the APR on the card increased incrementally from there. After those six months, he says it rose to 3%. Three months later, it increased to 9%. In the following year, the APR kicked back up to 18%, he says, and has since increased further.
But those initial lower interest rates made it possible for Zook to put a dent in his balance.
American Express confirms that it’s willing to work with cardholders faced with financial difficulties, but, of course, each case is different.
“We work with cardmembers to find the most equitable solution for their particular situation, which can include financial relief through reduced payments and interest rates and the waiver of certain fees,” an American Express spokesperson said via email.
The earlier we can get to somebody, the more chances we have of being able to help them. Theresa Williams-Barrett, vice president of consumer loans and loan administration at Affinity Federal Credit Union in New Jersey
» MORE: How to negotiate a lower credit card rate
Steps for getting into a hardship program
The steps for enrolling in a credit card hardship program may vary depending on your issuer, but here’s a brief outline of how to approach the process:
1. Get a grasp on your new budget
Before contacting your card issuer, make sure you understand the financial impact of your hardship, says Katie Bossler, a certified counselor at GreenPath, a nonprofit credit counseling agency that helps cardholders navigate their financial options, which may include hardship programs. That means building a budget based on your new reality: for example, your lower monthly income (due to a pay cut or illness) versus your expenses and bills.
Nerd Tip: can afford to pay the issuer, and that requires knowing what you’re paying in interest on your card right now. That will be a key number in your negotiation. You can find your APR on your Regarding monthly credit card bills, remember that interest is a factor. The goal is to determine what youafford to pay the issuer, and that requires knowing what you’re paying in interest on your card right now. That will be a key number in your negotiation. You can find your APR on your credit card statement . The average rate for accounts that incurred interest in 2018 was 16.04%.
If your issuer offers a hardship program, your revamped budget can help you better explain your circumstances to that lender as you negotiate. In some cases, an updated budget might even be a prerequisite for enrolling in a plan. If your issuer does not offer a hardship program, you’ve at least taken a key first step toward getting your finances under control.
2. Call your issuer
Now that you have a good idea of how your hardship will affect your ability to pay, your next step is to call the number on the back of your card. Your issuer may not offer a hardship program at all, but the only way to know for sure is to ask the representative. Be prepared to spend time being transferred or placed on hold, but remain polite and respectful. Remember: You’re asking the bank for a favor.
Once you reach the right department or representative, be clear and honest about your situation and your needs, based on your new budget. Explain that you want to be able to fulfill your payment obligation, but that you’re struggling at the moment and need assistance. If you have a long history of making on-time payments, the issuer may be more willing to work with you on a payment plan.
3. Agree only to terms you can afford
Don’t accept new terms just because your issuer offers a lower interest rate than what you’re paying now. Make sure it’s a rate you can actually afford. And if you share household expenses with a partner, consult that person, too.
“When someone is in these hardships, we’re not always thinking clearly and we might jump to whatever the creditor is offering without understanding fully what it is,” Bossler says. Depending on the issuer, failing to meet new terms by, say, missing a payment may cancel the arrangement, she notes.
If the new interest rate or timetable doesn’t work, you can attempt to keep the negotiation going. Ultimately, though, you don’t have to accept a deal.
When someone is in these hardships, we’re not always thinking clearly and we might jump to whatever the creditor is offering without understanding fully what it is. Katie Bossler, Certified counselor at GreenPath, a nonprofit credit counseling agency
Potential hurdles and drawbacks of a hardship program
In addition to meeting hardship requirements, you might have other hurdles to clear, depending on the issuer, such as:
Proving your hardship, which may require documentation.
Meeting with a credit counselor or completing a debt management program.
Signing an agreement.
Setting up automatic withdrawals from your bank account.
At Affinity Federal Credit Union, for example, cardholders must prove their hardship by meeting with a credit counselor who will give them a budget. The credit union will then refer to that budget to work with them if they’re eligible, Williams-Barrett says.
Your credit card issuer may also take actions on your credit card account once you accept the terms of a hardship plan, including:
Freezing your credit card account.
Closing your credit card account.
Lowering your credit limit.
A closed account or a lower credit limit could hurt your credit scores by affecting your length of credit history and/or your credit utilization. But that alone shouldn’t keep you from using a hardship program if you need one. The impact on your credit won’t be as bad as the aftermath of defaulting on your bills.
Even if your credit card issuer doesn’t take any actions on your account when you enroll in a hardship program, you should abstain from using your credit card so that you can work toward paying it off.
» MORE: 3 steps to spring-clean your credit card debt
Alternatives to a credit card hardship program
If your credit card issuer doesn’t offer a hardship program, or if its terms don’t work for you, consider some other avenues.
For credit scores of 690 or higher
A balance transfer credit card: When other issuers wouldn’t offer budget-friendly terms, Zook transferred debt from high-interest credit cards to low-interest credit cards. Like Zook, you may have to pay the 3% to 5% balance transfer fee generally charged by most cards, but it could be worth the short-term cost to get a long-term break on interest payments. The ideal balance transfer credit card has a $0 annual fee and a lengthy introductory 0% APR. You might even be able to find one that charges no balance transfer fees within a certain time frame.
The ideal balance transfer credit card has a $0 annual fee and a lengthy introductory 0% APR.
» MORE: NerdWallet’s best no balance transfer fee credit cards
Debt consolidation loans for multiple credit cards: If your debt is spread across multiple credit cards, it might be easier to explore a debt consolidation loan. It allows you to combine high-interest debts into one low-interest fixed payment, making it much easier to manage.
For any credit score
A debt management plan: For a fee, a debt management plan via a nonprofit credit counseling agency can potentially lower interest rates and waive fees for debt, typically giving you a period of between three and five years to pay it off. It’s worth the cost if it saves you money in interest over the long term.
Any options you choose will likely require effort and organization. For Zook and his wife, trimmed expenses, hardship programs and balance transfers helped them pay off their debt in 2015.
“It was humbling to make those hardship phone calls, and it was a process to sign up for those balance transfer offers,” Zook says. “It took work, but that work paid off.”

Story 80
MEXICO CITY/NEW YORK (Reuters) - Mexico’s new leftist government is betting on financial technology to help lift people out of poverty.
FILE PHOTO: A worker moves boxes with green tomatoes through the corridors of the wholesale market "Central de Abastos" in Mexico City, Mexico January 11, 2019. REUTERS/Daniel Becerril/File Photo
The administration of President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador recently announced measures aimed at making financial services more affordable in a nation where more than half the population is unbanked.
It is planning a digital payments system run and built by the central bank that will allow Mexicans to make and receive payments through their smartphones free of charge. A pilot roll-out for the platform, known as CoDi, is expected by March.
“In the future, it will no longer be necessary to have a bank in the sense of a traditional, established bank,” said Arturo Herrera, Mexico’s deputy finance minister. “Mobile phones will become banks.”
Phone-based banking has proven a hit among the poor in other emerging markets such as China, India and Kenya. Those efforts have been driven by private sector companies that offer user-friendly, affordable apps.
Whether Mexico’s state system will prove as nimble and easy to use remains to be seen. And it will initially require help from the very same banks that for decades have shut out low-income Mexicans with pricey fees.
Other hurdles include Mexico’s spotty telecoms. While cell phone and internet coverage have improved in recent years, basic infrastructure is still missing in many remote areas.
“Mexico has a lot of the key ingredients to succeed, but it’s not plug and play,” said Monica Brand Engel, a partner at Quona Capital, a global venture capital firm that invests in fintechs focused on the unbanked in emerging markets.
CATCH-22
An estimated 42 million Mexicans lack bank accounts. Steep fees and past scandals have put many off the country’s mainstream banks. Many shun accounts to stay off the radar of tax collectors.
That hobbles Mexico’s growth. Coffee farmer Martin Romero is a prime example of why.
His small town in the state of Oaxaca, one of Mexico’s poorest, has no bank branch. Romero is paid in cash. He travels hours to pay bills and is unable to save or borrow for larger expenses.
“Of course I would like a bank account,” Romero said. “That way we could save at least a little of what we earn.”
While many Mexicans applaud Lopez Obrador’s push, some fintech executives are grumbling about getting shut out of the loop.
To use CoDi, consumers must have an account with an institution participating in Mexico’s existing interbank payments system, which will power the new platform.
Jaime Cortina, director of operations and payments at the central bank, said the goal was to develop a payment method that Mexicans could use to make payments between each other, in shops and online.
Current members of the system include established institutions such as BBVA’s Bancomer, Banco Santander and Citigroup Inc’s Citibanamex. Fintechs that want to join need an electronic payment institution license, a process that new players fear could take up to a year.
That presents unbanked Mexicans with a bizarre Catch-22: To access the government’s free mobile payments system, at least initially, they would have to open accounts with banks that many do not want to join or cannot afford in the first place.
Adolfo Babatz, CEO of payments startup Clip, said Mexico’s government should be looking to fintech entrepreneurs to bring true innovation to the financial system, not banks that have benefited from high barriers to entry. His Mexico City-based company has created a low-cost mobile credit card reader that fits on smartphones.
Mexico should “look at the examples from the rest of the world,” Babatz said.
In Kenya, for example, mobile payment system M-Pesa was launched in 2007 by a private company, mobile network operator Safaricom. M-Pesa is now a surrogate bank account for millions of users. In China, hundreds of millions of previously unbanked consumers have flocked to Alipay, the payment app owned by Alibaba affiliate Ant Financial.
GRAY ECONOMY
Low-cost banking alone may do little to lure Mexicans out of the shadows. Nearly 57 percent work off the books, according to government data. An estimated 90 percent of transactions are done in cash.
“People who work and live in the informal economy do not want to be taxed,” said Carlos Lopez, director for retail strategy and new digital business at Mexico’s largest bank, BBVA Bancomer.
Herrera, the deputy finance minister, told Reuters the government is making efforts to reduce cash in circulation to cut down on money laundering and corruption, and to draw more people into the formal economy.
He said the administration plans to transition to direct deposit or digital wallets to dispense welfare benefits over the next 18 months. At present, many Mexicans rely on government-issued cards that can be used at ATMs to withdraw their benefits in cash.
He also expressed optimism that fintechs would bring needed competition to the money transfer business, reducing the cost of remittances sent home by Mexicans abroad.
Slideshow (2 Images)
But even in cosmopolitan Mexico City, a future of cashless payments seems far off for people such as Paula Martinez. She sells traditional sweets, chewing gum and single cigarettes from a wooden basket in the fashionable Roma neighborhood.
The mother of three does not have a bank account, and says she and her husband have never considered it.
“We don’t earn enough,” Martinez said.

Story 81
Visa is launching a blockchain product to help businesses transfer money faster and more cheaply. © 2016 Bloomberg Finance LP
Visa seems to do everything on a massive scale. Last year, it moved $11.2 trillion over its payment rails across more than 200 countries for purchases ranging from cups of coffee to cars. Now it’s eyeing an even bigger market: cross-border, business-to-business (B2B) transactions, where banks transfer money on behalf of corporate customers. Visa says it’s entering a $125 trillion market and using distributed ledger technology—software where transactions must be confirmed by multiple computers on a network to be considered final—to make these payments faster, cheaper and more transparent.
Most cross-border payments are done through the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication, or Swift, a Belgian organization started in 1973 that counts 11,000 financial institutions as members. But its legacy system has inefficiencies. Because few banks are connected directly to each other, a payment that originates in Kansas City and is bound for Nairobi might have to stop at banks in New York and London before reaching its final destination, with each bank extracting a fee. It’s also difficult to track the transfer’s progress and predict how much it will cost, including what foreign exchange rate you’ll get.
In 2017, Swift launched a new service, gpi, to speed transactions and transparency. With this product, nearly all transactions settle within 24 hours, says Harry Newman, head of banking at Swift. So far, 3,500 banks have signed up, and they move $300 billion a day over the service, roughly half of Swift’s total daily volume.
Visa's new product aims to connect banks more directly, lowering the cost of money transfers. Visa
Visa is also making transactions faster and more transparent with its newly launched B2B Connect product, says Kevin Phalen, Visa’s global head of business solutions. Its newly launched distributed ledger software facilitates direct bank connections. Financial institutions can also see payment fees upfront. Transactions settle quicker, in one to two days. The B2B Connect rails are new, so Visa isn’t leveraging the ubiquitous credit card rails it has spent decades building and maintaining. But it is leveraging its vast experience in areas like complex payments, cybersecurity and compliance.
Phalen’s team created Visa B2B Connect using distributed ledger technology because it provides more transparency and traceability than a typical state-of-the-art database, he says. They used Hyperledger Fabric, the blockchain software developed in part by IBM and hosted by Linux, to build it, and it has taken two years to launch. Unlike cryptocurrency-based blockchains including Bitcoin and Ethereum, Visa’s product isn’t decentralized, since the payments giant has complete control over it. Visa made Forbes’ first-ever Blockhain 50 list earlier this year.
Visa B2B Connect is focused on facilitating high-value B2B transactions of about $15,000 and up, which represents a roughly 10% chunk of the $125 trillion cross-border market, Phalen says. It’s partnering with FIS, a Jacksonville-based payment processor and financial technology provider to more than 20,000 financial institutions. That will give Visa access to FIS’ rich set of bank clients, who can choose to use B2B Connect for payments if they wish.
Why doesn’t a company like FIS, with its valuable distribution network, want to build a product like Visa B2B Connect on its own? “FIS has at times looked at introducing new networks into the market, but in most cases, we play the role of the integration partner that helps financial institutions participate in networks,” says Raja Gopalakrishnan, FIS’ international head of banking and payments.
Introducing Forbes Blockchain 50: Learn about the companies investing in the tech that will speed up business processes, increase transparency and potentially save billions of dollars.
With additional reporting by Michael del Castillo.

Story 82
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
Many people who carry Walmart-branded credit cards reported that their credit scores dropped soon after the retailer switched issuers in October 2019, moving from Synchrony to Capital One. Unfortunately, temporary declines in credit scores can occur as a side effect of these kinds of transitions.
Such a decline is typically short-lived, although that may be cold comfort to people who need to apply for credit during the affected period. The magnitude of the decline depends on what else is in the cardholder’s credit file.
As of Oct. 28, Capital One confirms that all the accounts transferred should now be showing up on cardholders’ credit reports. That means that if your credit score dipped during the transition, it should have bounced back, assuming that nothing else in your credit file changed significantly.
Here’s how a credit card transition like Walmart’s affects cardholders’ credit.
A short-term dip
Short-term declines in credit scores as a result of issuer transitions are rooted in how creditors report account information to credit bureaus, the companies that compile the credit reports that form the basis of credit scores.
When Walmart’s credit card business moved from Synchrony to Capital One on Oct. 11, the old Synchrony accounts were reported to the credit bureaus as sold and closed. But in many cases, the new Capital One accounts had not yet been added to cardholders’ credit reports. During this period, scores dropped for a time for affected cardholders. In some cases, credit scores dropped sharply for those with few or no other credit cards or loans on their credit reports. But when the Capital One account began showing up on credit reports in the following days and weeks, credit scores recovered.
Not considered ‘an application for credit’
Existing holders of Synchrony-issued Walmart cards were sent a new Capital One card that’s eligible for the new Walmart rewards program — but they didn’t have to apply for it, and it won’t be treated as a new account.
That’s good news if you’re shopping for a mortgage or auto loan, for example. When you apply for credit and issuers pull your credit reports in the course of making a decision, it generally triggers a hard inquiry. A hard inquiry can temporarily ding your credit scores, and it can remain on your credit report for two years.
But in cases like these, where you’re not actively applying for new credit, you shouldn’t get hit with a hard inquiry.
“The transition of the account to Capital One will not be considered an application for credit,” Daniel Mouadeb, senior vice president and head of the Walmart partnership at Capital One, said in an email prior to the transition, when asked when if it would trigger a hard inquiry.
Two entries, same open date
When Walmart cardholders look at their credit reports after the transition is complete, they can expect it to be a bit longer than before.
“There will be two tradelines on the credit report — the old Synchrony account and the new Capital One account,” Lisa Lanspery, senior vice president of public relations at Synchrony, said in an email. A “tradeline” is a credit account reported to credit bureaus that includes details about your payment history.
The Synchrony tradeline should show the date that the original account was opened, and it should indicate that the account has been sold to Capital One.
should show the date that the original account was opened, and it should indicate that the account has been sold to Capital One. The Capital One tradeline should show the same account opening date as the Synchrony tradeline.
Capital One has confirmed that the dates will be the same. For example, if you opened your Walmart credit card in January 2017, the new Capital One tradeline on your credit report would also show that you opened the account at that time. That’s reassuring for longtime cardholders concerned about losing their card’s history in the transition. Length of credit history is among the major factors that determine your credit scores.
It’s also in line with credit-reporting conventions. Under the current reporting format, issuers are required to report accounts that have been purchased with the same “open date” and payment history as reported by the former lender, assuming the old issuer converts cardholders’ account history to the new issuer’s system. Additionally, the previous issuer is required to report such an account as sold.
In such transitions, “the average age of accounts would likely not change,” Griffin of Experian says.
Where to look for help
When a big credit card portfolio moves from one issuer to another, the transition can be incredibly complicated. There’s a chance you might run into some hiccups — or perhaps something about how your account is reported just doesn’t make sense to you. But when two issuers are involved, which one should you turn to for help? It depends.
“Cardholders should contact the institution who reported the credit data,” Mouadeb said via email. “For information about the Capital One account on their credit file, they should contact Capital One.”
Likewise, “any questions relative to account reporting prior to the transfer will be handled by Synchrony,” Lanspery of Synchrony said in an email.
Keep in mind that during the first few days of a big transition, customer service lines might be overwhelmed. Unless your question is urgent, consider calling at a later time; you might be able to get a faster answer.
This article has been updated. NerdWallet staff writer Kimberly Palmer contributed to this article.

Story 83
Getty
Putting weeks of speculation to bed, Global Payments and TSYS made it official, announcing a $21.5 billion merger of the two payments companies.
It marks the third mega-deal in the industry since the start of 2019 and underscores the changing nature of the marketplace. With digital payments growing in popularity, the industry is looking to capitalize and expand its offerings, fueling a spate of mergers. In January Fiserv announced a $22 billion deal to acquire First Data Corp. Shortly thereafter Fidelity National Services purchased WorldPay for $34 billion.
Under the terms of the deal, TSYS shareholders will receive 0.8101 Global Payments shares for each share of TSYS common stock. Global Payments shareholders will get 52% of the combined company while TSYS shareholders will own 48%. The offer price represents a 20% premium to where TSYS shares closed Friday. Troy Woods, TSYS’s Chief Executive will become chairman and Jeff Sloan, the CEO of Global Payments will continue as Chief Executive once the deal closes.
“The combination of Global Payments and TSYS establishes the leading pure-play payments technology company with unparalleled vertical market and payment software capabilities and e-commerce and omnichannel solutions, operating at scale in fast-growing markets globally,” said Sloan in prepared remarks. “This transformative partnership accelerates our technology-enabled, software-driven payments strategy and provides exposure into attractive and complementary businesses while enhancing our financial strength and flexibility.”
Combined, Global Payments and TSYS will provide payment services to around 3.5 million small to medium-sized merchants around the world and more than 1,300 financial institutions, spanning roughly 100 countries. TSYS will also expand Global Payments e-commerce presence in the U.S. and give it exposure to some of the fastest growing digital payment trends. TSYS operates in the credit card issuers market, ranking third in payment processing in the U.S. Global Payments is a merchant acquirer, helping small and mid-sized businesses accept and process credit and debit card payments. With fintechs including Square and PayPal dominating the digital payments market, the traditional players have been looking at ways in. TSYS gives Global Payments that entrance.
Global Payments and TSYS said the deal will result in cost savings of at least $300 million a year due to combining operations, streamlining technology, getting rid of duplicate corporate and operational structures and aligning strategies. The company expects to realize $100 million in annual synergies by cross-selling through a combined distribution network.
This isn’t the first transaction for either payment company. In recent years they have been acquisitive as the industry consolidates with TSYS buying iMobile 3 in 2018 and TransFirst in 2016. Last year Global Payments acquired SICOM Systems and in 2015 Heartland Payment Systems.
For some time now shares of Global Payments and TSYS have been moving higher over M&A speculation. With the Fiserv and Fidelity National Services moves earlier this year, both companies were seen as targets or merger partners. Recently shares of Global Payments was trading down 2% while TSYS was up more than 5%. “In this exciting merger of equals, our new company will truly be a payments powerhouse that is perfectly poised to lead the industry in delivering merchant, issuer and consumer payments technology, solutions and service to our customers,” Woods said in prepared remarks.

Story 84
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
TransferWise, an international money transfer service, announced this week the launch of a new Mastercard debit card alongside its foreign currency account that will make it cheaper and faster for customers to spend, send and receive money overseas. Travelers can spend on the card in any of more than 40 currencies and TransferWise will automatically convert the charge at the best rate from the customer’s account.
Dubbing it a “borderless account” that’s “like an international Venmo,” TransferWise aims to make it easier and less expensive for people to convert money quickly between currencies, especially when traveling or living abroad.
Card benefits include no foreign transaction fees, no annual or monthly fees, free ATM withdrawals up to $250 every 30 days, the ability to freeze and unfreeze your card, an app, and, for U.S. customers, Apple Pay, Google Pay and Samsung Pay capabilities.
In addition to catering to travelers, the service is meant to ease financial complications for those who have moved away from their home countries, according to the company. The TransferWise website includes an area dedicated to the stories of immigrants to the U.S. and other countries, including narratives from company co-founders Kristo Kaarmann and Taavet Hinrikus and “Queer Eye” star Tan France.
The account converts money based on the mid-market exchange rate (the rate you’d see on sites like Google or Yahoo Finance) and charges a relatively small fee to do so. TransferWise also offers money transfer services to more than 70 countries.

Story 85
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
The Capital One® Quicksilver® Cash Rewards Credit Card is a no-hassle option ideal for minimalists or those who want easy-to-manage rewards.
You don’t have to track rewards categories, spending limits or redemption thresholds with this $0-annual-fee card. It works well solo as a go-to option for all purchases, and it pairs well with other credit cards that offer higher rewards in popular spending categories.
Here are the benefits of the Capital One® Quicksilver® Cash Rewards Credit Card.
Straightforward rewards
1. 1.5% back on everything
Wherever you use the Capital One® Quicksilver® Cash Rewards Credit Card, you’ll earn a solid industry-standard rate of 1.5% cash back on all purchases. The rewards can add up quickly if you use the card for most purchases, and you can redeem them at any amount. Rewards redeem for cash back, statement credit or gift cards, and they don’t expire as long as your account is open and active.
» MORE: Which 1.5% cash-back credit card should you choose?
Introductory incentives
The Capital One® Quicksilver® Cash Rewards Credit Card has solid welcome offers that could help offset the cost of your purchases.
2. A sign-up bonus for new cardholders
You don’t have to be a big spender to meet the requirements for a generous sign-up bonus: One-time $150 cash bonus after you spend $500 on purchases within 3 months from account opening. You can plan your application around months with added expenses to meet that goal.
3. A lengthy 0% introductory APR
You’ll get an intro 0% on Purchases and Balance Transfers for 15 months, and then the ongoing APR of 15.74% - 25.74% Variable APR. That’s a lengthy amount of time to finance your purchases and save on interest charges.
» MORE: NerdWallet’s best credit card bonus offers
Travel-friendly features
4. No foreign transaction fees
Many cash-back credit cards charge a fee for purchases made outside of the U.S. — typically 1% to 3% per transaction. The Capital One® Quicksilver® Cash Rewards Credit Card doesn’t charge this fee, so you can save money on these potentially costly transactions when you’re traveling abroad.
5. International merchant acceptance
As part of the Visa network, the Capital One® Quicksilver® Cash Rewards Credit Card is widely accepted by merchants abroad.
» MORE: NerdWallet’s best no foreign transaction fee credit cards
Protections: Shopping and travel benefits
The Capital One® Quicksilver® Cash Rewards Credit Card offers different side benefits depending on whether you’re approved for the Visa Signature or Visa Platinum version of the card. (Capital One will make this determination when you apply.)
Here are some benefits that both versions provide:
Visa Signature and Visa Platinum benefits
6. Extended warranty protection
This benefit adds up to one year to manufacturers’ warranties of three years or less when you’ve used the card to purchase qualifying items. Terms apply. Learn more about extended warranty protections.
7. Travel accident insurance
You and eligible family members are insured up to a certain amount against qualifying accidents that may happen while entering, exiting or traveling in a licensed common carrier as long as you charge your entire travel fare to the Capital One® Quicksilver® Cash Rewards Credit Card. Coverage may also extend to qualifying transportation to and from the airport, depending on whether you charged the fare to your card prior to departing. Terms apply and will differ for the Visa Platinum and Visa Signature card versions.
8. Auto Rental Collision Damage Waiver
Get covered in case of car damage or theft when you use your card to pay for an auto rental and decline the car rental agency’s insurance coverage. The coverage is secondary to your own insurance policy, meaning you’ll have to go through them first if the rental car is damaged or stolen. Without your own insurance policy, this benefit reimburses the amount covered for theft and damages, in addition to other qualifying charges that the auto rental company may impose when the car is out of commission. Terms apply. Learn more about credit card rental car coverage.
9. Travel and emergency assistance services
If you experience an emergency abroad, this benefit can help you find medical, legal and travel services by connecting you with local emergency and assistance resources at your destination. The benefit extends to you, a spouse and children that are dependents under 22 years of age. Terms apply.
» MORE: NerdWallet’s best Capital One credit cards
More about the card

Story 86
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
If you have a Costco membership, you can apply for the Costco Anywhere Visa® Card by Citi, a card with rewards as rich as the store’s baked-goods department.
While a store membership will run you at least $60 a year, the annual fee for the card is $0*, and frequent shoppers should have no trouble racking up cash-back rewards.
Here are the benefits of the Costco Anywhere Visa® Card by Citi.
Rewards on spending
1. High ongoing cash-back rates in multiple categories
The Costco Anywhere Visa® Card by Citi earns an impressive 4% cash back on gas purchases (at Costco or elsewhere) on up to $7,000 of spending a year. That translates to $280 back a year if you hit that limit. (After $7,000 in spending, the rewards rate goes down to 1%.) The card also earns 3% cash back on restaurants and most travel purchases, 2% back at Costco and Costco.com, and 1% back on all other purchases.
2. Useful redemption options
Every year at the closing of the February billing statement, cardholders receive their cash-back reward certificate. That certificate can then be redeemed at physical Costco stores anytime before the end of the year, in exchange for either cash back or merchandise. So if you’ve been saving up for a big-ticket item, you can put that rewards certificate toward it.
Travel perks and protections
3. No foreign transaction fees
The Costco Anywhere Visa® Card by Citi is a good card to bring on trips, not least of all because it charges no foreign transaction fees. That means you won’t be charged an extra 3% to 5% on purchases you make abroad. And you continue earning rewards whether you’re on the road at home or overseas.
4. WORLDWIDE CAR RENTAL INSURANCE
As long as you pay with your Costco Anywhere Visa® Card by Citi and decline the car rental company’s collision loss/damage insurance, your card can cover you against theft and damage.
5. Travel and emergency assistance
The Costco Anywhere Visa® Card by Citi offers 24/7 emergency assistance when you’re traveling. So if you suddenly find yourself in need of medical and legal assistance or emergency travel arrangements, you have a number to call.
6. Roadside assistance dispatch service
If you get stuck on the side of the road with car problems, this service will send help, as long as you are in the U.S., Puerto Rico, or the U.S. Virgin Islands.
Shopping and entertainment protections and perks
7. Damage and theft purchase protection If the items you buy with your card are damaged or stolen within 120 days of buying them (or 90 days for residents of New York), the Costco Anywhere Visa® Card by Citi offers coverage. 8. Extended warranty The card automatically adds 24 months of warranty coverage when you use it to pay for at least part of your purchase. 9. Special tickets The Costco Anywhere Visa® Card by Citi gives you access to tickets for thousands of events before they’re available to everyone else, via the Citi Entertainment program. So if you have your eye on a popular concert or sporting event, it can help you score seats. 10. High level of security Not only does the Costco Anywhere Visa® Card by Citi come with $0 liability fraud protection, but Citi Quick Lock lets you instantly shut down your card if you can’t find it, and then just as easily turn it back on again when you locate it.
More about the card

Story 87
This week, the state of New Jersey passed a law banning businesses – with the exception of parking lots, car rental companies and a few others – from not accepting cash. The move, which follows a comparable law recently enacted in nearby Philadelphia (Massachusetts has had similar legislation in place 1978) – has sparked a debate.
Why shouldn't there be a Yelp-like app for Trump-supporting diners? Read more
Is this fair? Is this discriminatory? Is this anti-business? Oh please. To me, the law doesn’t go far enough.
If you’re a supporter of “cash-less” stores you’re probably a chain store like Sweetgreen or a disruptor like Amazon. These companies argue that cashless stores are safer for employees, provide a quicker and more seamless experience for their customers, and encourage more productivity and better accounting. They’re probably right about that.
They’re also probably correct when they say that most of their customers prefer not to use cash because the use of mobile and credit card payments is so popular. Of course, Sweetgreen, Amazon and others like them have their reasons. Amazon, for example, is launching a chain of self-serve grocery stores across the country where all transactions are done via a mobile app so the company has an obvious reason to fight this kind of legislation.
What about those silly small business owners that won’t accept credit cards for small purchases? What, are these people independently wealthy?
Opponents argue that cash-less stores are a form of discrimination. “Many people don’t have access to consumer credit and any effort by retail establishments to ban the use of cash is discriminatory towards those people,” the Democratic New Jersey state assemblyman Paul Moriarty said in a New York Daily News report, which also cited a 2017 FDIC survey which found that 6.5% of all US households did not have an account at a banking institution and that black and Latino households were among the most affected.
Unfortunately, these laws aren’t going far enough. Why?
What about those silly small business owners that only take cash or won’t accept credit cards for small purchases? I have personally walked out of restaurants and left products on store counters because they refused to accept my preferred form of payment. What, are these people independently wealthy?
They say it’s to “minimize their credit card fees”. I say it’s also because they’re monkeying around with their taxes. Whatever the reason, they’re stupidly losing revenue. Go ahead, charge me extra if I use a credit card. But don’t let me walk away without buying anything, dummy!
Accepting cash or not accepting cash isn’t a legislative issue. It’s a customer service issue. Maybe Amazon and Sweetgreen can afford to turn away customers that don’t have credit cards or a smartphone but most businesses I know can’t.
The smartest clients I work with accept any form of payment possible – cash, credit, euros, wampum, bitcoin (not recommended), a chicken, a firstborn child … whatever the customer wants to use as payment is fine by them. They don’t turn away customers because they prefer to use a credit card. And they wouldn’t withhold a sale because a customer only has cash.
If legislatures in New Jersey, Philadelphia and other places around the country really want to do a service they should pass laws that ban businesses who don’t accept all forms of payment. Except, of course, a first-born child. Did I really need to say that?

Story 88
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
Virtual window shoppers who use Rakuten.com — formerly known as the cash-back shopping website Ebates — could be earning even more cash back on their purchases with the Rakuten Cash Back Visa credit card.
In 2019, Ebates rebranded as Rakuten, but the $0-annual-fee credit card’s rewards structure remained the same. The new name, which means “optimism” in Japanese, reflects the name of the internet service company that owns it. Rakuten is headquartered in Tokyo, but the card is issued by Connecticut-based Synchrony.
Paired with deals found on Rakuten’s website or app, the card can be used to double-dip on cash-back rewards for purchases ranging from everyday household items to vacation packages.
Here are five things to know about the card.
1. Cash-back rewards are stackable …
Rakuten.com is an online shopping portal that rewards you for shopping with its partners that range from department stores to travel-booking websites, and it’s free to create an account. If you shop through the portal, you’ll earn cash back regardless of whether you have the Rakuten Cash Back Visa credit card. You’ll earn even more cash back, though, with the card.
The Rakuten Cash Back Visa credit card earns 3% cash back on qualifying purchases made through Rakuten.com, in-store offers, Rakuten hotels and Rakuten travel. All other purchases earn 1%. You can combine cash back earned on the credit card with the rewards you earn for shopping with Rakuten’s partners.
So if, for example, you’re getting 3% at a department store by shopping through Rakuten.com, you’ll earn a total of 6% cash back with the Rakuten Cash Back Visa credit card.
Nerd Tip: The option to “stack” rewards in this way is not unique to the Rakuten Cash Back Visa. Use any rewards-earning card on Rakuten.com and you’ll double-dip, collecting rewards for the purchase both through your credit card and through Rakuten. But using the Rakuten Cash Back Visa does mean your rewards will all come in the same currency.
2. … But you’ll have to wait a while for your rewards
Cash back can add up quickly if you’re strategic about using both the platform and the card for most purchases — but it will be a while before you can redeem it. Rakuten sends your cash back quarterly, and you must earn over $5 in rewards to get a “Big Fat Check” in the mail or a “Big Fat Payment” via PayPal. If you choose the PayPal option, it will require some extra steps to create a free account if you don’t already have one.
Also of note: While you’re waiting for your cash-back redemption, it’s crucial to keep your Rakuten.com account open. If it’s closed for any reason, you’ll no longer earn rewards with your Rakuten Cash Back Visa. (With other credit cards, you typically have to worry about keeping only your card account open and active to continue to earn rewards.)
3. Introductory incentives are lean
The Rakuten Cash Back Visa credit card won’t help you offset the cost of a big purchase with a hearty sign-up bonus as some other cash-back credit cards do. You’ll have the opportunity to earn a $10 bonus upon creating a Rakuten.com account, and with the card itself, you’ll get a $10 first-purchase bonus. That’s meager when compared with other rewards cards.
This card doesn’t offer a 0% introductory APR period either, so it’s not ideal for financing a large purchase upfront.
The only other bonus available — unrelated to the credit card itself — is a potential $25 referral bonus, earned when you get friends or loved ones to join Rakuten’s platform and make their first $25 worth of purchases.
» MORE: NerdWallet’s best rewards credit cards
4. The high APR can be costly for balance-keepers
The Rakuten Cash Back Visa’s APR varies depending on whether you’re approved for a Visa Platinum or Visa Signature version. Regardless, the ongoing variable APR will be well above 20% (as of August 2019).
It’s not uncommon for rewards credit cards to have a higher-than-average interest rate, but that means you don’t want to carry a balance on the card month to month. If you do, it will eat away at any cash back you might earn.
» MORE: The 3 levels of Visa credit card benefits
5. The card has perks that can save you hassle and money
Benefits vary depending on whether you’re approved for the Visa Platinum or the Visa Signature version of the card, but some of the perks that both versions share include:
Additional terms apply to all of these benefits.

Story 89
Getty
OBSERVATIONS FROM THE FINTECH SNARK TANK
According to company reports, Zelle processed $35 billion in P2P (person-to-person) payments in Q4 2018 versus $19 billion for Venmo. For the full year, Zelle's total was $122 billion, almost double Venmo's $62 billion.
So Zelle is winning the P2P payments war, right?
Not so fast. A consumer study from Q2 and Cornerstone Advisors sheds light on the P2P payments market and reveals the nuances in understanding who's winning--and who will win--the P2P payments battle.
Here are five facts about mobile P2P payments that make calling a winner at this point a bit premature:
1) Banks are the real (current) leaders in the P2P payments race. Consumers moved more than $172 billion in funds to other people through their banks in 2018--and that doesn't count the $8 billion and change that was transacted through PopMoney. In addition, consumers transferred nearly $142 billion through PayPal. Take that, Zelle.
Source: Q2/Cornerstone Advisors
However, with nearly 230 institutions signed up--but only 60 currently offering the service--Zelle is poised to cannibalize the bank volume and overtake PayPal for the top spot (based on dollar volume). Take that, PayPal.
2) Venmo adoption beats Zelle adoption. Only about a quarter of young Millennials (those in their 20s) use Venmo--roughly the same percentage that smartphone-owning Gen Xers do. Overall, just 12% of respondents are Zelle users.
Source: Q2/Cornerstone Advisors
3) Most mobile P2P payers use more than one service. Of Millennials and Gen Xers who make mobile P2P payments (most do), half use three or more services. And among smartphone-toting Baby Boomers, two-thirds use more than one service (typically PayPal and their bank's).
4) Transaction size varies by service and age. Judging by the data, Young Millennials must dine at really expensive restaurants. Either that, or they're using Venmo to pay their roommates for their share of the rent, or using the app to pay the landlord directly. Conversely, Boomers are making huge payments through Zelle, which I bet reflect a lot of account-to-account transfers within the family and maybe things like alimony payments.
Source: Q2/Cornerstone Advisors
5) Google Wallet beats out Venmo and Zelle for potential use as a debit card. In a previous study, Cornerstone asked consumers how likely they would be to use the P2P providers if they offered a general use debit card. While PayPal was the clear winner there, a slightly higher percentage of respondents across each generation expressed interest in Google Wallet than in Venmo or Zelle. When the survey was conducted in late 2017, I'm not sure that a lot of consumers knew that Zelle was a P2P service from banks.
Source: Cornerstone Advisors
So Who's Winning the P2P Payments War?
The answer--which no one will like--is "no one." Zelle can point to its impressive growth rates and transaction volume, but I wouldn't pronounce them the winner of the battle for four reasons:
This isn't a winner-take-all battle. People will choose the P2P app that is most convenient to them at the moment they want to do something. For example, if there are people I regularly text with (using our iPhones), and they don’t care that the money will go onto an Apple Pay cash card instead of into their bank account, then I might pay them using Apple Pay--bypassing Venmo and Zelle altogether.
People will choose the P2P app that is most convenient to them at the moment they want to do something. For example, if there are people I regularly text with (using our iPhones), and they don’t care that the money will go onto an Apple Pay cash card instead of into their bank account, then I might pay them using Apple Pay--bypassing Venmo and Zelle altogether. It's not a fair fight. I'm a Zelle user. Not because I choose to use Zelle, but because my bank is a Zelle bank. When I first started transferred money to my kid's account they weren't Zelle transactions--but now they are. As Zelle brings on the 170 banks in the queue (and those that follow), more consumers will become Zelle users by default. C'mon, that's not a fair fight.
I'm a Zelle user. Not because I choose to use Zelle, but because my bank is a Zelle bank. When I first started transferred money to my kid's account they weren't Zelle transactions--but now they are. As Zelle brings on the 170 banks in the queue (and those that follow), more consumers will become Zelle users by default. C'mon, that's not a fair fight. Zelle's economics are a tough pill for banks to swallow. The transaction costs for Zelle transactions are not insignificant (although there is conflicting information floating around out there about what those costs are). Regardless, with no direct revenue coming in from these transactions, what's the economic benefit? Please don't give me the "deeper engagement" or "retention benefit" story. I've heard that for the past 20 years with every online (and now mobile) feature that comes along. Fighting deposit displacement might be the best argument here.
The transaction costs for Zelle transactions are not insignificant (although there is conflicting information floating around out there about what those costs are). Regardless, with no direct revenue coming in from these transactions, what's the economic benefit? Please don't give me the "deeper engagement" or "retention benefit" story. I've heard that for the past 20 years with every online (and now mobile) feature that comes along. Fighting deposit displacement might be the best argument here. The lines between P2P and B2C are blurring. When consumers use Venmo to pay their rent to a property management company or pay a lawn service for cutting the grass, are those P2P or B2C payments?
It's a Stupid War, Anyway
What should banks do about Zelle?
Many are currently wrestling with this question. Unfortunately, it's the wrong question to ask. The more important question to deal with today is:
What's our checking account (and payments) strategy going to be?"
With the threat of PayPal/Venmo, Apple Pay, and Square Cash moving into retail payments, those services may cannibalize banks' existing debit activity. Will offering Zelle help them stem that tide?
On the other hand, Zelle's potential move into B2B payments may help banks improve their small business and commercial banking offerings, compensating for the tough economics on the retail side.
Adopting Zelle might be the right thing for an institution--but it will only know it's the right answer if it understands how P2P payments fits into it checking account and payments strategy.
***
To download a (free) copy of the Q2/Cornerstone report Fintech Adoption in the United States: The Opportunity for Banks and Credit Unions, click here.

Story 90
Alphaville is completely free.
All you have to do is register.
Ready to subscribe, View our subscription options

Story 91
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
The Platinum Card® from American Express is like a flashy suitcase overflowing with premium benefits for your travel experience.
It has a $550 annual fee, yes, but it also packs a slew of valuable contents that can easily make up for that cost, assuming you’ll use them: from travel credits and airport lounge access to purchase protections and exclusive services, this card is all about luxury.
Here are the benefits of The Platinum Card® from American Express:
Points: Rewards on spending
The Platinum Card® from American Express earns Membership Rewards points, which offer flexible redemption options that vary in value.
1. A jet-setting welcome offer
The introductory offer can take your travel further: Earn 60,000 Membership Rewards® points after you use your new Card to make $5,000 in purchases in your first 3 months. Terms Apply.
2. Big travel rewards
You earn ongoing Membership Rewards at the following rates:
5 Membership Rewards points per dollar spent on flights booked directly with airlines or with American Express Travel.
5 points per dollar on prepaid hotels booked on amextravel.com.
2 points per dollar on other eligible travel expenses booked through amextravel.com.
1 point per dollar on all other purchases.
Terms apply.
Perks: Goodies that come with the card
The Platinum Card® from American Express offers a long list of perks, most of which require you to use the card to qualify for them.
Credits
3. Up to $200 in annual credit for airline incidental fees
You can choose one qualifying airline to receive up to $200 per calendar year in statement credit when you charge incidental fees such as checked bags or in-flight refreshments to your card. Learn more about travel credits.
4. Up to $200 in Uber cash for rides
You’re automatically enrolled in Uber VIP status, which connects you with top-rated drivers. And you’ll get up to $15 monthly in Uber Cash for rides in the U.S. on your Uber account, plus a bonus of up to $20 in December. You must add your card as a payment method in the Uber app.
5. Up to $100 in statement credits annually at Saks Fifth Avenue
Receive this amount annually for purchases made in-store or online with your card. Credits are divvied up in $50 increments; one from January through June, and the other from July through December. Enrollment is required.
6. reimbursement of application fees for TSA Precheck ($85) or Global Entry ($100)
You get a statement credit once every four years for Global Entry and once every 4.5 years for TSA Precheck. Learn more about TSA Precheck and Global Entry.
Terms apply.
Airport lounge benefits
7. Access to the American Express Global Lounge Collection
This portfolio includes Centurion Lounges, Delta Sky Clubs (when flying Delta only), Priority Pass Select, International American Express lounges, Airspace and Escape lounges.
Terms apply.
Hotel-friendly benefits
8. Upgrade to Marriott Bonvoy Gold Elite status
You don’t have to do much work to earn this status. Simply enroll and you’ll be eligible for a 25% Marriott Bonvoy points bonus, an enhanced room at check-in (when available), 2 p.m. late checkout, enhanced in-room internet access with premium Wi-Fi and more. Terms apply.
9. Upgrade to Hilton Honors Gold status
When you enroll in this status, you get room upgrades at select properties (when available), a complimentary fifth reward night on standard room reward stays of five nights or more, and 80% bonus points on all Hilton Honors base points. Terms apply.
10. Money-saving perks for stays booked through The Hotel Collection
If you book a stay of at least two consecutive nights with The Hotel Collection at over 600 properties, you can get a $100 hotel credit to spend on dining, spa and resort activities. You can also qualify for a room upgrade upon arrival depending on availability.
11. Complimentary benefits through Fine Hotels & Resorts
At over 1,000 properties, you can get a room upgrade (when available), daily breakfast for two, guaranteed 4 p.m. late checkout, noon check-in (when available), complimentary Wi-Fi and amenities such as a spa, food and beverage credit valued at $100.
Terms apply.
Services
12. Free shipping with ShopRunner
Get unlimited free two-day shipping and free return shipping on qualifying items when you sign up for a ShopRunner membership using your card.
13. Concierge Service
You have 24-hour access to assistants for personal, travel or credit card-related needs. The service is free, but fees may apply for costs incurred to fulfill your requests.
14. Low fares through the International Airline Program
You and your travel companions could earn savings on International First, Business and Premium Economy Class tickets on over 20 participating airlines when you book through American Express Travel. There’s a $39 servicing fee per ticket.
15. Savings with the Cruise Privileges Program
Use your card to book cruises of five nights or longer through American Express Travel and get up to $300 in shipboard credit per stateroom. Additional perks include exclusive amenities that vary per cruise line and one extra Membership Rewards points per dollar spent.
16. Deals through the Amex Auto Purchasing Program
You’re connected with over 10,000 dealers that accept American Express. Dealers on the auto purchasing program’s website accept your card for at least $2,000 and up to the full purchase price of the car. These same dealers also offer a Guaranteed Savings Certificate on your configured car and in-stock cars that align with your preferences.
17. An extra point when booking Platinum Destinations Vacations
Get one extra Membership Rewards point per dollar spent with your card on an eligible vacation package booked through the Platinum Travel Service.
18. Membership discounts through the Travel Collection by Travel Leaders Group
Get complimentary access to membership in The Travel Collection by Travel Leaders Group. As a member, you have access to specialists who can provide you with discounts and amenities when you book qualifying flights, cruises, hotels, car rentals and tours through them.
19. A subscription to Departures Magazine
This magazine is published seven times a year for cardholders.
20. Additional value through the InCircle rewards program
Enroll your card into InCircle, a Neiman Marcus and Bergdorf Goodman rewards program, and you can earn a $100 point card every time you earn 10,000 InCircle points. Points cards can be used to shop at Neiman Marcus, Bergdorf Goodman, Last Call, Horchow and CUSP.
Terms apply.
Access to unique experiences
21. The Global Dining Collection
Get access to exclusive culinary events with famous chefs, customized experiences at restaurants around the world and special table access.
22. exclusive events
The “By Invitation Only” platform offers an open invitation to purchase tickets to exclusive events from sporting and fashion to dining, art and performances.
23. An open invitation to events with Membership Experiences
Get access to presale tickets, offers, special events and experiences in music, theater and sports, to name a few.
24. A better view with American Express Preferred Seating
Get dibs on coveted seats and advance ticket sales for concerts, sports and entertainment events.
25. Discounted travel opportunities through the Premium Private Jet Program
Get discounts when you purchase a Delta Private Jets card, a Sky Access membership or Aircraft Management program. This benefit is available only for purchases made through Platinum Travel Services.
Terms apply.
Convenient features
26. No foreign transaction fees
The Platinum Card® from American Express doesn’t charge foreign transaction fees, but you may experience limited merchant acceptance abroad. American Express cards aren’t as widely accepted internationally as Visa and Mastercard credit cards. See NerdWallet’s best no foreign transaction fee credit cards.
27. No preset spending limit
The Platinum Card® from American Express doesn’t have a preset spending limit since it is a charge card. You’ll still have a general limit, though, that fluctuates with changing factors such as your purchases and credit history. Regardless of how much you spend, you’ll have to pay it off in full every month.
28. Skip the annual fee on additional Gold Cards
You can add authorized users to your account with a complimentary Gold card and earn Membership Rewards points for all qualifying purchases made by your additional card members.
Terms apply.
Protections
Retail and travel
29. Purchase Protection
This benefit protects qualifying purchases made with your card if they’re accidentally damaged, stolen or lost for up to 120 days (90 days in certain regions) from the purchase date. Coverage includes up to $10,000 per incident for up to a maximum of $50,000 per year. Learn more about purchase protection.
30. Return Protection
If a merchant won’t take an item back after 90 days, American Express may refund you the value up to $300 item purchased with your card (for a maximum of $1,000) per year. The benefit doesn’t cover costs for shipping and handling. Learn more about return protection.
31. Extended Warranty
Get up to two extra years added to an original manufacturer’s warranty of five years or less when you use the card to pay for qualifying purchases. Terms apply. Learn more about extended warranty protections.
32. Baggage Insurance Plan
If your luggage is lost, damaged or stolen, this plan covers you up to $2,000 for checked bags and up to a combined maximum of $3,000 for checked and carry-on baggage. You have to pay for the entire fare with your card to be covered. Terms apply.
33. Car Rental Loss and Damage Insurance
This benefit offers secondary coverage for a rental car that is damaged or stolen. To qualify, you must pay for the rental car with your card and decline the collision damage waiver. Exclusions and terms apply. Learn more about credit card rental car coverage.
34. Travel Accident Insurance
If you have an emergency when you’re traveling by plane, train, ship or bus, this benefit can offer financial security. You have to pay for the entire fare with your card to be covered.
Terms apply.
Emergency services: Assistance 24 hours a day
35. Premium Roadside Assistance
The Premium Roadside Assistance benefit offers help when you have an emergency on the road. You can call the number on the back of your card at any time of day. Eligible services include towing up to 10 miles, changing a flat or jump-starting a battery, and American Express pays for these services up to four times a year. Exclusions and terms apply.
36. Premium Global Assist Hotline
If you’re traveling farther than 100 miles from home, American Express offers around-the-clock medical, legal, financial or other select emergency and assistance services. This benefit may also provide emergency medical transportation assistance. You may be responsible for any costs charged by third-party service providers.
More about the card

Story 92
EU cross-border payments in euro are very cheap or even free in euro area Member States (priced as domestic payments) but still expensive in non-euro area Member States.
The two amendments proposed by the Commission in March 2018 to the Regulation on cross-border payments will reduce the cost of intra-EU payments within the entire EU and unify the single retail payments market.
This will benefit in particular citizens and businesses from the non-euro area Member States by letting them have access to cheaper intra-EU euro payments. Transactions made in EU currencies other than the euro are not impacted by the revised Regulation; however, Member States are free to extend the rules to other currencies.
The revised Regulation also makes currency conversion charges fully transparent, setting standardised transparency requirements for card-based transactions and credit transfers and allowing consumers to compare the costs of different conversion options and make a fair choice.
What is the situation under the current rules and how will it change as of 15 December 2019?
Today, a transaction in euro across the euro area, i.e. from France to Portugal, costs exactly the same as an equivalent transaction within one Member State. Depending on the bank, it may be free of charge or cost only a few cents. This allows customers in the euro area to make transactions across borders at the same cost as within the same country.
In contrast, for example, a transaction in euro from a non-euro area Member State (e.g. Bulgaria) to a euro-area Member State (e.g. Finland) is currently priced between €15 and €24, even if the amount transferred from Bulgaria is only €10. This means that consumers and businesses in non-euro area Member States face higher fees for euro payments as soon as they operate across borders. This is a major barrier to intra-EU exchanges and is detrimental to the Single Market. Furthermore, this raises issues of equal treatment and the level-playing field for businesses across the EU. Non-euro area consumers and businesses should not have to pay more than their counterparts in euro area Member States when engaging in similar types of cross-border exchanges within the Single Market.
With the new Cross-border Payments Regulation, as of 15 December 2019, the price of an intra-EU transaction in euro from Bulgaria to Finland is expected to decrease, from between €15 and €24 to about €1.
What is dynamic currency conversion and what has been done to protect consumers from opaque currency conversion offers?
When consumers make card payments while travelling abroad or when paying online, they can often choose whether to pay in local currency or their home currency. When choosing the local currency, their bank will convert the amount of the transaction and consumers only know a few days later, when looking at their bank statement, how much the transaction really cost.
If consumers decide to pay in their home currency, a payment service provider converts the amount of the transaction on the spot in exchange for a fee. This process is called dynamic currency conversion (DCC). While DCC allows consumers to know immediately how much they have to pay, the use of this service is often more expensive than their bank's.
At present, consumers are not able to compare fees they will be charged for using either the local currency or their home currency. The revised Regulation will bring more transparency on currency conversion charges levied on card-based payments and credit transfers, so that consumers can make informed choices for instance when they are confronted with alternative currency conversion options either in shops or at ATMs.
The Regulation ensures currency conversion charges for card-based payments are comparable. How?
Under the new Cross-border Payments Regulation, whenever Dynamic Currency Conversion is offered at either a shop, in an online marketplace or when withdrawing cash at an ATM, the applicable currency conversion charges will have to be disclosed to the consumer before the transaction takes place. These charges shall be expressed in a harmonised way.
All payment service providers offering either debit or credit cards will have to disclose the cost of their currency conversion service in the very same way. This information will have to be provided in the Terms & Conditions of a card, as well as channelled to the consumer through an electronic message (e.g. SMS, email, bank app notification) immediately after a bank received a payment order denominated in another EU currency. This electronic message should be sent once a month (in case of recurrent payments in said other EU currency).
What type of information will consumer see when sending money abroad through their bank?
Under the new Cross-border Payments Regulation, when consumers initiate credit transfers involving a currency conversion, payment service providers will have to disclose an estimate of the applicable currency conversion charges, as well the estimated total amount of the credit transfer in the currency of the consumer's account, including any transaction fee and any currency conversion charges. Payment service providers will finally disclose the estimated amount to be transferred in the payee's national currency unless the consumer decides to send money in his own currency, in which case the consumer's bank will not perform a currency conversion.
Will the transparency provisions included in the Regulation apply also to payments involving non-EU currencies?
No, the provisions on transparency of currency conversion charges only apply to cross-border payments involving a currency conversion between two EU currencies.
More information
Factsheet
Agreement on the cross-border payments regulation

Story 93
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
UPDATE Oct. 11, 2019: The Capital One® Walmart Rewards™ Mastercard® is now available, and the switchover from Synchrony to Capital One is now official. Below is our article from Sept. 17, 2019, updated to reflect those changes.
If you previously had a Walmart credit card, it’s gotten a major upgrade, thanks to a new partnership between Capital One and Walmart.
The revamp, which includes more generous and flexible rewards, comes as Capital One replaces Synchrony as Walmart’s credit card partner. Cards became available to new applicants as of Sept. 24, 2019. For existing Synchrony cardholders, the rewards changeover took effect Oct. 11.
Better rewards
There are two new credit cards. The Capital One® Walmart Rewards™ Mastercard® is an “open-loop” card, meaning it can be used anywhere Mastercard is accepted. The Walmart Rewards Card is a “closed-loop” card that can be used at Walmart and Walmart.com.
Both have $0 annual fees, and neither charges any foreign transaction fees. They earn rewards at the following rates:
5% back on Walmart.com purchases and on items purchased through the Walmart app (including items you buy online for in-store pickup as well as for Walmart Grocery Pickup and Delivery).
2% back on in-store purchases at Walmart (including at both Murphy USA and Walmart gas stations).
2% back on travel and restaurants ( for the Walmart Mastercard only ).
). 1% back on everything else (for the Walmart Mastercard only).
That’s an improvement over the now-defunct Synchrony Bank-issued versions of the card, which offered 3% cash back on Walmart.com purchases, 2% cash back on Murphy USA and Walmart gas stations, and 1% cash back on other purchases, including in-store Walmart purchases.
The new rewards structure is also on par with other retailer co-branded credit cards: The Amazon Prime Rewards Visa Signature Card offers 5% back on Amazon and Whole Foods purchases; 2% back at restaurants, gas stations and drugstores; and 1% back everywhere else. The Target REDcard™ Credit Card, which can be used only at Target, offers a 5% discount on eligible Target purchases.
“Within a Walmart context, 5% and 2% back has a whole different meaning,” says Wilbert Noronha, vice president of financial services and innovation architecture at Walmart. “We are a price leader. You get extraordinary value every day.”
The Capital One® Walmart Rewards™ Mastercard® doesn’t come with a traditional sign-up bonus, but you get 5% back in Walmart stores for the first 12 months with Walmart Pay, after approval. Walmart Pay is a digital wallet that you access via the Walmart app. It allows you to pay at in-store registers with your phone.
“We don’t do bonuses. Walmart is about everyday value,” Noronha says.
The ongoing APR is 17.99% - 26.99% Variable APR for the Capital One® Walmart Rewards™ Mastercard®.
More flexible redemption
With the new Capital One Walmart cards, all rewards points are worth one cent apiece, although they may be redeemed in multiple ways, including:
As a statement credit.
At Walmart.com during checkout.
For gift cards.
For booking travel (must redeem via Capital One portal).
There is no minimum redemption requirement, and rewards don’t expire.
With the Synchrony versions of the cards, cash back was available only as a credit on your next statement, and rewards were automatically turned into statement credit the next month — meaning you couldn’t “bank” rewards for a big purchase.
Access to digital tools
As with other Capital One credit cards, cardholders can lock or unlock the card easily if it’s lost or misplaced, receive account alerts about things like potential fraud or purchasing errors, and track spending through text alerts.
What to know about the rollout
It’s important to know what to expect when your credit card moves to a different issuer. Here’s a brief timeline for this switch:
Oct. 11, 2019: The new Capital One Walmart Rewards program began, and existing Synchrony cardholders were able to begin earning the new rewards rates. Any debt balances were (or will be) eventually be forwarded, and any rewards balances were (or will be) applied as a credit on the final statement of the Synchrony card. Note that if you had set up monthly autopay or other scheduled payments for after Oct. 10, they were canceled; you should set up new ones with your subscriptions or other recurring services.
The new Capital One Walmart Rewards program began, and existing Synchrony cardholders were able to begin earning the new rewards rates. Any debt balances were (or will be) eventually be forwarded, and any rewards balances were (or will be) applied as a credit on the final statement of the Synchrony card. Note that if you had set up monthly autopay or other scheduled payments for after Oct. 10, they were canceled; you should set up new ones with your subscriptions or other recurring services. Oct. 14: Existing customers were able to download the Capital One mobile app and set up their new online accounts.
Existing customers were able to download the Capital One mobile app and set up their new online accounts. Through early 2020: New physical Capital One cards will continue to be mailed out on a rolling basis. Primary cardholders retain their same card numbers, but cards have new expiration dates and security codes.
New applicants who don’t qualify for the Capital One® Walmart Rewards™ Mastercard® will be considered for the Walmart Rewards Card instead.
“We want to serve the full spectrum of Americans,” Noronha says.

Story 94
From spend notifications to instant invoicing, challenger banks offer better visibility and control of finances to businesses and consumers. But which one is right for you?
A good business account is about more than just storing money and transfers.
The best business bank accounts will go that extra mile – they can help ease the administrative burden of day-to-day business, and help their customers manage their finances as they grow.
What’s more, many providers offer flexible lending services that can be used to ease cashflow, or to invest in short or long-term growth plans.
This article will focus on the best challenger bank accounts for business. Challenger banks is the term for the numerous mobile digital-only and mobile-first that have arisen over the last decade, offering features that give customers more visibility and control of their finances.
It can be difficult to compare the cost of different business bank accounts directly, as their pricing structures vary. While some don’t charge a monthly fee, they do charge for other services, which can add up.
Choosing which one is best for your business will come down to what services you’re likely to use. For example, if it’s necessary for you to withdraw cash regularly, don’t opt for a provider that charges astronomical withdrawal fees.
Challenger business banks include:
Compare business bank accounts
To help you choose the business bank account that’s genuinely going to help you grow your business, we’ve compared some of the best business bank accounts available.
All the information is taken directly from the provider's websites and is accurate as of June 2019.
Bank Fees Revolut Monthly fee: Three plans – free, £6.99 per month, £12.99 per month
Card payments: Free up to £5,000, then 0.5%
Bank transfers: Free
ATM cash withdrawals: Free (within limits)
Cash deposits: Does not support cash deposits Starling Bank Monthly fee: Free
Card payments: Free
Bank transfers: Free
ATM cash withdrawals: Free
Cash deposits: £3 Soldo Monthly fee: £0-£7
Card payments: Free
Bank transfers: Free
ATM cash withdrawals: Free
Cash deposits: Free Mettle Monthly fee: Free
Card payments: Free
Bank transfers: Free
ATM cash withdrawals: Free
Cash deposits: Free Countingup Monthly fee: £0-£4.95
Card payments: Free
Bank transfers: 20p
ATM cash withdrawals: £1
Cash deposits: £1 Cashplus Monthly fee: £69 per year
Card payments: Three free each month, then 99p each
Bank transfers: First three every month free
ATM cash withdrawals: £2
Cash deposits: Free (up to £1,000 a month) Tide Monthly fee: Free
Card payments: Free
Bank transfers: 20p
ATM cash withdrawals: £1
Cash deposits: £1 Monzo Not yet available CardOneMoney Monthly fee: £12.50
Card payments: Free
Bank transfers: £5
ATM cash withdrawals: £1.50
Cash deposits: Free to £1.50 (+£3.50 giro paying in book)
Find out how to open a business bank account here.
Revolut
Launched in 2015, Revolut allows you to set up a business bank account from your phone in minutes.
The banking service has more than four million customers around the world, and has facilitated over 350 million transactions at a total value of £40bn.
Touting itself as a global business account for international payments, Revolut allows businesses to hold, receive, and exchange 29 currencies without unfair charges. Not just that, but you can spend in over 150 currencies at the interbank exchange rate. Revolut claims this can cost you 10 times less than using a bank.
Features
Multi-currency cards – cut travel expenses and avoid foreign exchange mark-ups
cut travel expenses and avoid foreign exchange mark-ups Fast payments – transfer money to any other Revolut account for free, and save when you make payments to businesses around the world
transfer money to any other Revolut account for free, and save when you make payments to businesses around the world Payment approval – any of your team can raise payments that need your approval, while bulk payments allow you to make up to 1,000 payments with a single click
any of your team can raise payments that need your approval, while bulk payments allow you to make up to 1,000 payments with a single click Integrations – Using an open API, Revolut Connect allows you to integrate with a range of popular software including Xero, Slack, Zoho, and Sage
Using an open API, Revolut Connect allows you to integrate with a range of popular software including Xero, Slack, Zoho, and Sage Partner discounts – Revolut offers exclusive discounts and perks from partners to help you get your business up and running
Revolut offers exclusive discounts and perks from partners to help you get your business up and running Priority support – a support team are available to help 24/7
Pricing
Revolut offers three tiers:
Start – less than £100,000 incoming funds per month (£25)
less than £100,000 incoming funds per month (£25) Standard – between £100,000 and £1m incoming funds per month (£100)
between £100,000 and £1m incoming funds per month (£100) Professional – more than £1m incoming funds per month (£1,000)
All tiers offer the same functionality. The price depends on the amount of funds you have incoming each month.
Visit Revolut today to open an account.
Starling Bank
Starling Bank’s business offering prides itself on being free, uncomplicated, and quick to set up.
You can also feel safe in the knowledge that your deposits are protected by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) up to £85,000 – as long as you meet the organisation’s eligibility rules.
However, at the moment, the business account is only open to owners of limited companies with significant control. Meanwhile, the sole trader account is only open to people with a Starling personal account (although there are plans to open this up).
To open an account, you need to enter some personal details, then verify yourself by sending a short video and some identification documents. You’ll then need to provide some information about the online presence and day to day activities of your business, while Starling carries out credit checks.
Features
Notifications – the app sends you notifications every time money enters or leaves your account
the app sends you notifications every time money enters or leaves your account Categorised transactions – these give you a valuable insight into where your business is spending most
these give you a valuable insight into where your business is spending most Flexible overdraft – need to borrow against your overdraft? The Starling Bank flexible overdraft is available to give your business a cashflow boost at 15% interest
need to borrow against your overdraft? The Starling Bank flexible overdraft is available to give your business a cashflow boost at 15% interest Integrations – integrate with Xero and FreeAgent and share your transaction feed with your accounting software instantly
integrate with Xero and FreeAgent and share your transaction feed with your accounting software instantly CSV exports – download and share key transaction data with your accountant
download and share key transaction data with your accountant Goals – a unique feature that allows you to create financial savings goals, then set money aside towards them
Pricing
It stacks up nicely next to competitors when it comes to fees: there are none for electronic payments, domestic transfers, monthly account fees, or ATM withdrawals (as long as you have fewer than 10 employees, and less than £1.7m in annual turnover).
The only thing it does charge for is depositing cash at one of the UK’s 11,500+ Post Office branches, which will cost you £3 .
Soldo
Soldo is a spend management platform that offers prepaid business cards to help businesses with expense management.
It acts as a central hub for all employee card payments and company purchases, giving you full visibility and control over who’s spending what (and why).
Soldo isn’t actually a bank, and “doesn’t want to be one.” Rather, it sees itself as trying to complement banks’ traditional offering.
It is authorised and regulated as an e-money institution, and follows strict compliance processes.
Features
Customisable budgets and rules – you can control exactly how company funds are spent, and even set specific rules for different users depending on how much freedom they should have
you can control exactly how company funds are spent, and even set specific rules for different users depending on how much freedom they should have Track spending – check balances and receive notifications for transactions, refunds, or payments blocked by your rules
check balances and receive notifications for transactions, refunds, or payments blocked by your rules Soldo Mastercard – once you have an account, you can create as many prepaid cards as you need in GBP, EUR, or USD
once you have an account, you can create as many prepaid cards as you need in GBP, EUR, or USD Reporting and analysis – get full visibility over your business, with the ability to generate tailored reports and export the data
get full visibility over your business, with the ability to generate tailored reports and export the data Integrations – with a range of accounting systems, including Xero, Sage, Quickbooks, and NetSuite
Pricing
Soldo has three small business plans. The free option, Soldo Start, is a free basic spending solution. Soldo Pro costs £3 per card per month as an introductory offer, while Soldo Premium is £7 per card per month.
All plans include Soldo Mastercard cards, web console and mobile app, accounting integration, free and unlimited transactions, no deposit for charges, and support.
These prices exclude a VAT card issuance fee of £5 per plastic card, and £1 per virtual card.
Mettle
One of the newest players in the digital banking space, high street bank NatWest launched Mettle in 2018 as a “new, forward-looking way” for businesses to manage their finances.
However, it is run independently from the bank, with both current and non-NatWest customers able to apply for an account.
Free to join, anyone can open a Mettle account provided they’re running a business and own an iPhone. You just need to register your email on the website and answer a few questions about your business.
Features
Tasks – this creates a daily list of tasks for you to focus on, including overdue invoices, bills, or receipts you need to capture
this creates a daily list of tasks for you to focus on, including overdue invoices, bills, or receipts you need to capture Instant invoicing – enables you to create and send invoices from within the Mettle app. You can also track incoming payments and match them to outstanding invoices.
enables you to create and send invoices from within the Mettle app. You can also track incoming payments and match them to outstanding invoices. Tailored reminders – if a customer is late in making a payment, you can give them a nudge with a personalised reminder
if a customer is late in making a payment, you can give them a nudge with a personalised reminder Track transactions – you can capture receipts and track expenses within the app, making life a lot easier for you when it comes to bookkeeping and end-of-year taxes
you can capture receipts and track expenses within the app, making life a lot easier for you when it comes to bookkeeping and end-of-year taxes Card control – lock and unlock your card from the app
Pricing
At this stage, Mettle doesn’t charge for… well, anything. The app is free to download, sending and receiving payments is free, and cash withdrawal and card payments are free of charge.
However, you may be charged fees by other vendors or third parties, and Mettle’s pricing strategy may change.
Countingup
With Countingup, you can open your mobile bank account in five minutes and ensure your financial data is accessible from anywhere.
Boasting a 9.2 Trustpilot score, Countingup aims to simplify the banking experience for its small business customers, so they can get on with the more important aspects of entrepreneurship.
Countingup pitches itself as a business bank account that works for everyone, whether you’re a pre-startup, a new business, or an established venture.
Features
Professional invoices – quickly create and send invoices directly from the app, and receive a notification as soon as its settled
quickly create and send invoices directly from the app, and receive a notification as soon as its settled Expense management – easily manage your expenses by snapping a photo of a receipt, or remind yourself to claim tax relief on the purchase
easily manage your expenses by snapping a photo of a receipt, or remind yourself to claim tax relief on the purchase Countingup card – freeze and unfreeze your card from within the app if it’s lost or misplaced
freeze and unfreeze your card from within the app if it’s lost or misplaced Direct debit – manage all payments from within the app
manage all payments from within the app Data control – stored safely and securely in the cloud, all your business data is available for download as CSV or PDF transaction history
stored safely and securely in the cloud, all your business data is available for download as CSV or PDF transaction history Profit and loss – get real-time insights into the financial health of your business
Pricing
Countingup is available at three price tiers:
Free – less than £750 of incoming funds per month
less than £750 of incoming funds per month Standard – between £750 and £1,750 of incoming funds per month (£2.95 per month)
between £750 and £1,750 of incoming funds per month (£2.95 per month) Premium – more than £1,750 of incoming funds per month (£4.95 per month)
All offer the same features, and are subject to the same charges: £1 for ATM withdrawals and cash payments at the Post Office, 20p for bank transfers in or out, and 3% taken for paypoint cash payments or foreign currency transactions.
Cashplus
If you’re saddled with a poor credit history, look no further than Cashplus. There are no credit checks to get approved for an account – all you need is a company name and address.
Like Soldo, Cashplus is not a bank. Having been founded in 2005, it’s one of the longest running prepaid card services– to date, it’s issued 1.9 million cards and processed an astonishing £10bn in payments.
Features
Business Mastercard – with you three to five days after approval
with you three to five days after approval Employee cards – you can add up to 20 additional cards to your account for employees
you can add up to 20 additional cards to your account for employees Centralised account management – any additional employee and business expense cards or travel cards can be managed via the online system. You can also track expenditure, move funds between accounts, add or block cards, and restrict transactions
any additional employee and business expense cards or travel cards can be managed via the online system. You can also track expenditure, move funds between accounts, add or block cards, and restrict transactions Cashplus API – integrate your account with new and existing applications
integrate your account with new and existing applications Download statements – improve your tax reporting and record keeping by downloading statements in CSV straight from your online account
improve your tax reporting and record keeping by downloading statements in CSV straight from your online account Business cash advance – up to £15,000 available to give your business a leg up when you encounter cash flow issues
up to £15,000 available to give your business a leg up when you encounter cash flow issues iDraft – a low cost fixed credit limit that's attached to your business current account. Add a business iDraft to your account with a limit of up to £2,000
Pricing
Rather than monthly fees, Cashplus charges a flat rate of £69 per year. Your first card is free, with additional cards costing you £5.95 each.
The first three card payments and bank transfers each month are free (then 99p each). ATM cash withdrawals cost £2, while cash deposits are free (up to £1,000 a month).
Tide
Founded in 2015, Tide has been created from the bottom up to save small businesses time and money, so they can focus on growth. There are no personal accounts available here.
Tide is one of the biggest players in the business banking space. In fact, in June 2019, the bank has reached 85,000 members, which it claims amounts to 1.5% market share.
It’s authorised by the FCA, and all money is held in a regulated, ring-fenced account for protection.
To sign up, you just need to download the app, scan your ID, take a selfie, fill in some details, and wait as little as five minutes for approval. Your card should be with you in a few days.
Features
Contactless Mastercard – can be used without incurring purchase fees or foreign transaction fees, and you can freeze and reorder your card instantly from the app
can be used without incurring purchase fees or foreign transaction fees, and you can freeze and reorder your card instantly from the app Auto categories – label income and expenditure for easy identification when it comes to expenses
– label income and expenditure for easy identification when it comes to expenses Instant invoicing – create and pay invoices from your phone at any time
create and pay invoices from your phone at any time Multiple accounts – you can create and instantly switch between multiple accounts, to organise your business budget
you can create and instantly switch between multiple accounts, to organise your business budget In-app support – have a question for your bank? You can send a chat message directly to someone in the Tide team from within the app
have a question for your bank? You can send a chat message directly to someone in the Tide team from within the app Security – your account is protected by PIN, thumbprint ,and face ID verification. If you get a new phone, you can scan your ID and take a selfie to get up and running in a moment
your account is protected by PIN, thumbprint ,and face ID verification. If you get a new phone, you can scan your ID and take a selfie to get up and running in a moment Integrations – Tide integrates with popular accounting software providers, including Xero, Sage, and FreeAgent
Tide integrates with popular accounting software providers, including Xero, Sage, and FreeAgent Cards – order up to 35 cards for your team, and easily identify who’s made what payment
order up to 35 cards for your team, and easily identify who’s made what payment Credit – Tide has partnered with iwoca to allow you to borrow up to £150,000, repaid on your own schedule without penalty
Tide has partnered with iwoca to allow you to borrow up to £150,000, repaid on your own schedule without penalty Receipts – attach photos and notes to transactions
Pricing
Tide doesn’t charge monthly or annual fees. Card payments are free, and transfers between Tide accounts are free.
So, what does it charge for?
Tide charges 20p for transfers between your account and non-Tide accounts. It also takes a £1 fee for ATM cash withdrawals and cash deposits at the Post Office.
So, although the lack of monthly fees is a plus, the charges levied for other services are less predictable.
Monzo
Monzo Business Accounts are yet to launch officially, but you can register your interest.
As such, there’s not much information yet available on the features on offer, or the pricing.
However, The Sunday Times has reported that Monzo will charge a small fee for its business accounts.
For now, all Monzo has said is that it that it won’t lump all businesses into a loosely defined bucket depending on size. Instead, it has designed its business account with features to solve specific problems and to help achieve your business goals.
At the moment, it’s running a trial with some businesses to find out what they’d find useful. A wider roll out is expected later in the year.
CardOneMoney
Another option for individuals with poor personal credit history, CardOneMoney is a current account and prepaid card provider designed specifically for small businesses.
Find out how to build business credit when your personal credit rating is poor here.
Launched in 2007, this independent and FCA authorised business banking service has opened £80,000 accounts and processed more than £3bn in customers’ money to date. Its directors have more than 40 years of combined experience in the sector.
Features
Additional cards – you can get up to four additional prepaid corporate Mastercards (£5 each), which are linked to your business account
you can get up to four additional prepaid corporate Mastercards (£5 each), which are linked to your business account Online, phone and SMS Account Access – pay bills using Faster Payments from your smartphone or tablet
pay bills using Faster Payments from your smartphone or tablet Bill payment service – direct debits with enhanced security
direct debits with enhanced security Reporting – export statements to cloud accounting network
export statements to cloud accounting network Text alerts – each time money is paid in, and confirming bills are paid
each time money is paid in, and confirming bills are paid Administration access – to enable/control employee expenditure
to enable/control employee expenditure Account manager – based in the UK, they can take care of managing your monthly outgoings, and are available over the phone or by email
Pricing
As well as a refundable £55 application charge, you’ll be paying a minimum monthly charge of £12.50 to use your CardOneMoney business account.
Outgoing standing orders and direct debits cost 30p each, while bank transfers will cost you £5. There’s no charge for using your card with a card machine, but ATM use will cost you £1.50.
FAQs
Why should I use a business bank account?
A business bank account keeps your business finances separate from your personal finances.
This is a requirement if you’re a limited company and your business is a separate legal entity. But, even if you’re a sole trader, it’s wise to open a business bank account so you can keep cleaner records and make submitting self-assessments easier.
What are challenger banks?
Challenger banks is a broad name for the many digital-only and mobile-first banks that have been established in the last decade as an alternative to traditional financial institutions.
These challenger banks can be characterised by their shared mission to introduce more transparency and control into banking. This includes features and services that put the power back into the hands of the consumer.
Is my money safe with challenger banks?
Most banking apps feature hi-tech in-app authentication such as face or voice recognition and fingerprint scanning. So, in terms of access to the app, you can feel safe.
You should also expect your banking app to be regulated and approved by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Many are also protected by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS), which covers you against the loss of the first £85,000 of your savings.
Are there any free business bank accounts?
Many challenger bank accounts offer a free trial period, so you can decide if the account is right for your business without committing. Some also don't charge a monthly fee, but bear in mind that you're likely to incur charges for using other services or from third parties.

Story 95
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Mobile payments are growing in popularity - but may not work everywhere
More than five million people led a close to cashless lifestyle last year, as debit cards secured their position as the most popular method of payment.
Two million more people used cash no more than once a month in 2018 compared with the previous year, a report by banking trade body UK Finance has said.
However, 1.9 million people mainly used cash, primarily to budget.
The figures will reignite the debate over the future of bank branches, ATMs, and digital security.
"More and more customers are now opting for the speed and convenience of paying with their contactless cards. This rapid rate of technological change is set to continue over the coming decade," said Stephen Jones, chief executive of UK Finance.
"However, technology is not for everyone and cash remains a payment method that is valued and preferred by many, so maintaining access to cash will be vital to ensure no customer is left behind."
A total of 39 billion transactions were made in the UK last year by businesses and individuals, the UK Payment Markets report said.
The vast majority of these (34.9 billion) were by consumers, and most (29.7 billion) were spontaneous, rather than scheduled payments. Businesses made 4.4 billion payments, but often of much higher value.
Debit cards were the most frequently used method of payment, accounting for 15 billion payments. The report forecast that half of all payments would be made by debit card by 2024.
This is driven primarily by the use of contactless - which itself was boosted by adoption on public transport systems. Take-up has been increasing across all age groups, particularly among pensioners last year, and regions of the UK.
Cashing out
The volume of payments using cash fell by 16% in 2018 compared with the previous year, down to 11 billion transactions.
Whereas cash accounted for 60% of payments in 2008, this proportion fell to 28% last year. UK Finance predicted this would drop to 9% - fewer than one in 10 transactions - in a decade's time.
It suggested cash would become "less important than in once was", but that the UK would not become a cashless society.
It said there was a chance of cash being used less frequently than credit or charge cards in 10 years' time. However, evidence shows many turned back to cash amid the financial crisis, and a return of an economic recession or shock could increase cash use.
The fall in cash use has led to debate over the need for cash machines, and fears that they are disappearing from rural areas.
John Howells, chief executive of ATM network operator Link said: "The sharp drop in cash usage means that it is vital now to reform how cash is distributed to maintain broad, free access for all consumers. Link is determined to deliver this with the support of industry and regulators."
The switch to payments by card or on devices also raises concerns among many over the exposure to security flaws, and that financial institutions will be armed with data showing how and where almost every penny of our money is spent.
Along with the disappearance of cash goes the anonymity than it offers, for better or worse.

Story 96
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
At its core, the Apple Card is a cash-back credit card. The $0-annual-fee card offers the following rewards:
Via Apple Pay: 3% back on all purchases made directly with Apple (including Apple stores, the App Store and for other Apple services); 3% at selected merchants and through selected apps; and 2% back on all other purchases made through Apple Pay.
3% back on all purchases made directly with Apple (including Apple stores, the App Store and for other Apple services); 3% at selected merchants and through selected apps; and 2% back on all other purchases made through Apple Pay. Via the physical card: 1% back on all purchases.
There’s no sign-up bonus or 0% intro APR offer, but the Apple Card’s 2% cash-back rate on most purchases equals what you’ll find on some of the best flat-rate cards available — assuming you can use Apple Pay liberally. Here’s how the card compares with some of those best-in-class options.
» MORE: Should you get the Apple Card? What to know before you bite
Citi® Double Cash Card – 18 month BT offer
Annual fee: $0.
Rewards: 2% cash back on all spending: 1% when you make the purchase and another 1% when you pay your bill.
Sign-up bonus: None.
APR: 0% on Balance Transfers for 18 months, and then the ongoing APR of 15.74% - 25.74% Variable APR.
How it compares with the Apple Card: When it comes to flat-rate cash-back cards, the Citi® Double Cash Card – 18 month BT offer remains the pound-for-pound champ. Use it anywhere and earn the same high rewards rate back on everything — no Apple Pay point-of-sale required. Plus, you’ll get an intro APR promotion. There is, however, a minimum required redemption of $25. The Apple Card has no such minimum.
» MORE: See NerdWallet’s review of the Citi® Double Cash Card – 18 month BT offer
Alliant Cashback Visa® Signature Credit Card
Annual fee: $0 the first year, then $99.
Rewards: 3% cash back on all purchases for the first year, 2.5% back on everything after that.
Sign-up bonus: Earn 3% cash back in the first year.
APR: The ongoing APR is 12.49% - 14.99% Variable.
How it compares with the Apple Card: On the one hand, the Alliant Cashback Visa® Signature Credit Card offers an unbeatable rewards rate for cards in its class, topping not only the Apple Card, but also most other flat-rate rewards cards on the market. However, you must join Alliant’s credit union to get it, and you’ll also need to spend enough each year — around $4,000 in Year Two and beyond — to make the annual fee worth it.
» MORE: See NerdWallet’s review of the Alliant Cashback Visa® Signature Credit Card
Capital One® Venture® Rewards Credit Card
Annual fee: $0 for the first year, then $95.
Rewards: 2 miles back on every purchase.
Sign-up bonus: Enjoy a one-time bonus of 50,000 miles once you spend $3,000 on purchases within 3 months from account opening, equal to $500 in travel.
APR: The ongoing APR is 17.49% - 24.74% Variable APR.
How it compares with the Apple Card: On the plus side, the Capital One® Venture® Rewards Credit Card earns a high flat rate back on every purchase — no Apple Pay use needed — not to mention a large sign-up bonus. On the minus side, you’ll have to pay to carry the card, and if you don’t travel much, a cash-back card like the Apple Card will be a more flexible option.
» MORE: See NerdWallet’s review of the Capital One® Venture® Rewards Credit Card
Chase Freedom®
Annual fee: $0.
Rewards: 5% cash back on up to $1,500 in combined quarterly spending on bonus categories that rotate every three months (activation required).
Sign-up bonus: Earn a $150 Bonus after you spend $500 on purchases in your first 3 months from account opening.
APR: 0% on Purchases and Balance Transfers for 15 months, and then the ongoing APR of 16.74% - 25.49% Variable APR.
How it compares with the Apple Card: If you don’t mind keeping track of rotating bonus categories, the Chase Freedom® can potentially be more lucrative than the Apple Card, and — again — it doesn’t require you to use Apple Pay to earn bonus rates. But a card like this requires a bit more maintenance than a typical flat-rate cash-back card, and unlike the Apple Card, you’ll face quarterly spending caps.
» MORE: See NerdWallet’s review of the Chase Freedom®
Barclaycard Financing Visa®
Annual fee: $0.
Rewards: None.
Sign-up bonus: None.
How it compares with the Apple Card: Formerly known as the Barclaycard Visa with Apple Rewards before the Apple Card was introduced, the Barclaycard Financing Visa® no longer earns rewards. But it does still feature deferred interest offers on Apple purchases for new cardholders, which could help you pay off a large Apple-related expense over time. Other than that, the Barclaycard Financing Visa® doesn’t offer much else. The Apple Card doesn’t come with any introductory financing offers, but it does earn flexible cash back, to be used whenever and however you like — including toward Apple products if that’s your thing.
» MORE: See NerdWallet’s review of the Barclaycard Financing Visa®
PayPal Cashback Mastercard®
Annual fee: $0
Rewards: 2% cash back on all purchases.
How it compares with the Apple Card: The PayPal Cashback Mastercard® earns 2% back on everything, whether you use Apple Pay, PayPal or good old-fashioned swiping for the purchase. You must redeem your rewards into a PayPal account, but that’s free to set up and you can transfer your earnings at no additional cost from PayPal directly into your bank account. As with the Apple Card, there’s no sign-up bonus, nor is there an intro APR period.
» MORE: See NerdWallet’s review of the PayPal Cashback Mastercard®
Other potential alternatives
Fidelity® Rewards Visa Signature® Credit Card
Annual fee: $0.
Rewards: 2% cash back on all purchases.
How it compares with the Apple Card: The Fidelity® Rewards Visa Signature® Credit Card earns 2% cash back on everything you buy, including non-Apple Pay purchases. There are several redemption options — but if you want the highest value for your rewards, you must deposit them into an eligible Fidelity account, such as a brokerage account, retirement account, 529 college savings plan or HSA.
U.S. Bank Altitude Reserve Visa Infinite Card
Annual fee: $400.
Rewards:
3 points per dollar spent on eligible travel purchases.
3 points per dollar spent on mobile wallet purchases.
1 point per dollar spent on all other purchases.
How it compares with the Apple Card: Given the premium annual fee you’ll pay to hold the U.S. Bank Altitude Reserve Visa Infinite Card, this isn’t an apples-to-oranges comparison. But you’ll get an annual travel credit of $325 — which significantly reduces the effective annual fee — not to mention a large sign-up bonus. And you’ll outearn the Apple Card specifically in the category of mobile wallet purchases. Points are worth 50% more when redeemed for travel through U.S. Bank, meaning your effective rewards rate on mobile purchases can be as high as 4.5%.

Story 97
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
For serious foodies, the benefits of the American Express® Gold Card are tailor-made for your wallet.
If you can take full advantage of everything this card offers, you’ll easily be able to offset the $250 annual fee.
The main course: elevated rewards for dining in, dining out and grocery shopping. But the card also serves up healthy side portions of airline benefits and other perks.
Here are the benefits of the American Express® Gold Card:
Points: Spending rewards
1. Bonus rewards on dining, supermarkets and certain travel
The American Express® Gold Card earns:
4 Membership Rewards points when you dine at restaurants worldwide. This includes takeout.
4 points at U.S. supermarkets, on up to $25,000 per year in purchases. After that, 1X back.
3 points on flights booked directly with airlines or on amextravel.com.
1 point on all other spending.
Terms apply.
2. A sizable welcome offer
American Express describes it this way: “Earn 35,000 Membership Rewards® points after you spend $4,000 on eligible purchases with your new Card within the first 3 months. Terms Apply.”
3. Flexible reward redemptions
The Membership Rewards points you earn with the American Express® Gold Card can be redeemed several ways, including for statement credits, gift cards or on Amazon.com. But transferring points to AmEx’s multiple airline and hotel partners will almost always net you the most value per point. AmEx features more such travel partners than any other major U.S. credit card loyalty program. Here’s the list of Membership Rewards partners and transfer rates.
Travel and entertainment perks
4. $120 Dining credit
Earn up to a total of $10 in statement credits monthly when you pay with the American Express® Gold Card at Grubhub, Seamless, The Cheesecake Factory, Ruth’s Chris Steak House, Boxed, and participating Shake Shack locations.
5. $100 airline fee credit
Select one qualifying airline and then receive up to $100 per calendar year in statement credits when incidental fees like baggage costs or on-board meals are charged by the airline to your American Express® Gold Card.
6. $100 resort credit
Book a room through American Express Travel that’s part of the Hotel Collection, stay two consecutive nights and get a $100 hotel credit to spend on qualifying dining, spa, and resort activities.
7. Presale and preferred event tickets
For select events, cardholders will have access to presale and/or preferred seating tickets purchased with their American Express® Gold Card.
8. no foreign transaction fees
Some credit cards add an additional 3% to 5% for using your card outside the U.S., but the American Express® Gold Card does not.
Terms apply.
» MORE: NerdWallet’s best no foreign transaction fee credit cards
Protection and insurance benefits
Travel
9. premium roadside assistance
As a cardholder, you’ll get the following services at no additional cost up to four times per calendar year if you’re present with the eligible vehicle: towing up to 10 miles, winching, jump-starts, flat-tire change when you provide a workable spare, lockout service when key is in vehicle and delivery of up to two gallons of fuel. This benefit applies to the 50 United States, the District of Columbia, Canada, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Terms apply.
10. rental car insurance
When you use your American Express® Gold Card to reserve and pay for your car rental, and decline the collision damage waiver at the rental car counter, you can be covered if the car is damaged or stolen. This coverage is secondary, meaning it kicks in after your personal auto insurance. Learn more about credit card rental car coverage. Terms apply.
11. baggage insurance plan
You can be covered for lost, damaged or stolen baggage when you purchase your entire ticket on your card. Coverage can be provided for up to $1,250 for carry-on baggage and up to $500 for checked baggage. Terms apply.
12. return protection
If you try to return an eligible item within 90 days from the date of purchase and the merchant won’t take it back, American Express may refund the full purchase price, up to $300 per item, up to a maximum of $1,000 per account per calendar year based on the date of purchase. Terms apply.
13. Complimentary two-day shipping
If you enroll in AmEx’s ShopRunner service and use your card to pay with a participating merchant, you’ll get complimentary two-day shipping and free returns. Terms apply.
More about the card

Story 98
The Egyptian government wants to reduce the use of cash by employers and public bodies (Image courtesy: Emi Moriya/flickr).
Egypt is this month implementing a law requiring that most payments to government, and most salaries and fees out paid by public and private bodies, be made electronically. The move is intended to eliminate the use of cash for such transactions in a push to improve efficiency, promote the shift to digital finance, bring greater transparency to transactions, and block opportunities for corruption.
The North African country’s parliament voted for the E-Payments Act in March. The law does not affect payments below 500 Egyptian pounds (US$29), for which cash will still be allowed.
Government institutions and private companies will now be obliged to use electronic payment to pay employees, contractors and service providers, according to English-language site Ahram Online.
Tackling corruption
In a supporting initiative, a national e-payment card entitled Meeza (‘merit’ in Arabic) is being promoted by the Central Bank of Egypt. The Ministry of Finance announced in September 2018 that Meeza cards would be able to handle all government payments. Meeza cards can be recharged through banks or ATMs, Ahram has reported.
Meanwhile, Egypt’s Ministry of Finance has installed 7,000 point-of-sale (POS) terminals at locations including governmental offices, universities and registration offices, according to website Egyptian Streets.
In respect of the E-Payments Act Bosna Fahmy, Professor of Economics at the University of Cairo and member of the Egyptian parliament’s economics committee, told Al-Monitor: “The E-Payments Act will help the government fight corruption among employees who could sometimes ask for bribes from people to provide quicker services or to help them with tax evasion. The act achieves that by preventing taxpayers from directly dealing with any employee. Instead, they make their payments through the e-payments system.”
The inclusion challenge
Representative of parliament’s economic committee Amru al-Jawhari told Al-Monitor that “the e-payment system will improve financial inclusion as it will push each citizen or company, no matter how small it is, to set up a bank account through which it would perform its electronic transactions and dues. This would increase banks’ revenues, and by doing so it will increase banks’ abilities to support new investments across sectors and grant loans to small- and medium-sized businesses.”
Concerns have been raised about compliance from the unbanked and people unable to use the internet in a country whose total population is estimated at just under 100 million. Egypt’s Central Bank has estimated that just 32% of citizens have bank accounts, according to the Financial Times.
But Mohamed Badraoui, member of the Egyptian parliament’s economic committee, reportedly told a press conference on the 9 March that people living in regions with security situations, such as the Sinai Peninsula, and isolated rural areas that have no internet coverage would be excluded.
Although the law applies initially to any payment exceeding 500 Egyptian pounds, the government is working on applying the law on all payments by 2022, according to reports.

Story 99


This crawler or robot has been disallowed from visting our site.
If you feel this has been in error, please contact our webmaster
Disallowed Crawler User Agents:

Story 100
In another example the financial services industry converging fiat and digital currency, Visa today announced a debit card that will allow users to buy things using fiat money converted from cryptocurrency stored in online wallets.
The new Coinbase Card it is directly tied to the a person's cryptocurrency balance in digital wallets managed by the eponymous digital currency exchange.
Coinbase enables the trading of Bitcoin, Ethereum, Ripple's XRP and Litecoin, all of which will also be spendable through the new debit card.
Coinbase
Visa, one of the world's largest payment processors, said the Coinbase Card will allows users to "spend crypto as effortlessly as the money in their bank" and make cash withdrawals from any ATM. The cryptocurrency will initially be converted into British pounds, Euros or U.S. dollars.
"Customers can use their card in millions of locations around the world, making payments through contactless, Chip and PIN," Coinbase UK CEO Zeeshan Feroze wrote in a blog post on Medium. "When customers use their Coinbase Card, we instantly convert crypto to fiat currency."
An Coinbase Card mobile app will allow consumers to see spending summaries, transaction receipts, and get instant notifications.
Visa brings with it not only its enormous merchant base but world-class security, which includes two-step verification and the ability for users to instantly freeze their card if it's lost or stolen.
"This is big news. I think a lot of companies have failed to try to do with [Visa and Coinbase are] trying to do, so it's not clear it's going to succeed," said Gartner vice president of research Avivah Litan. "I think it's fascinating Visa signed up for this. It's really good news because they have the scalability to make it succeed with merchant reach, their network, their fraud analytics."
Two aspects of cryptocurrency that traditionally make it more expensive and slower to use than fiat currency or credit cards is the miner fees (money paid to Coinbase to incentivize bitcoin and other miners to confirm transactions), and the confirmation time to clear a purchase.
Coinbase
Blockchain, the electronic ledger technology on which cryptocurrency relies, requires each transaction be verified through a consensus of those using it before it is finalized. The current bitcoin transaction fee is about $2.06.
"It could take an hour to for a merchant to know if the transaction's successful," Litan said.
To artificially speed up the transaction, the payment processor (Visa) will likely give instant approval and take on the liability if something goes wrong with the transaction.
While Litan does not believe there's a real market in the U.S. for retail purchases through bitcoin or other cryptocurrencies, she does think the Coinbase Card could see adoption in "other economies," such as some African nations, China, Russia or Venezuela, where inflation is extremely high, consumers don't have bank accounts or where they're attempting hide their money from the government.
Coinbasse
"I wouldn't discount the need for digital cash. If you look at inflationary countries like Venezuela, it's like 100,000% a year. A dollar today is like a penny tomorrow. Bitcoin is really their only alternative," Litan said. "And, maybe Visa is getting into this for micropayments."
Whether successful or not, the Coinbase Card represents the genesis of bitcoin.
Satoshi Nakamoto, a pseudonym for a person or group of people who created bitcoin, established the cryptocurrency as a method of electronic payment - not as a currency to be traded on exchanges for its value.
"Commerce on the Internet has come to rely almost exclusively on financial institutions serving as trusted third parties to process electronic payments," Nakamoto wrote in the paper describing bitcoin. "What is needed is an electronic payment system based on cryptographic proof instead of trust, allowing any two willing parties to transact directly with each other without the need for a trusted third party."
Earlier this year, J.P. Morgan Chase announced plans to launch its own digital token backed by fiat currency. Trials for the new cryptocoin are expected to begin in the next few months.
In the crypto industry, an instrument like JPM Coin is known as a "stablecoin" because it has an intrinsic value, unlike Bitcoin or Ethereum's ETH coins, whose value is based on supply and demand of virtual money. Once tied to a fiat currency, though, intrinsic value is created.
Facebook is also reportedly looking into developing its own cryptocurrency for payments, a move that has the potential to make the social network billions of dollars while also helping to eliminate fake news and bots.
Facebook has reportedly already spoken with cryptocurrency exchanges about selling its crypto coin to consumers; others believe the social media firm would not tie payments to a strict "cryptocurrency," opting instead to use a stable coin backed by U.S. dollars and other fiat currencies.
"All these things together may mean people sign up for wallets. This is going to make people more interested in cryptocurrency," Litan said. "If you see more people accepting it... it will drive adoption. It could fail, but my prediction is it will drive adoption.

Story 101
The exterior of a Sweetgreen in New York City. An American fast-food chain selling salads and grain bowls, Sweetgreens do not accept cash unless city or state regulations mandate that they do. Rebecca Bellan/CityLab
Some New Yorkers believe cash-free businesses violate civil rights and want to join cities like Philadelphia, San Francisco, and Washington in banning them.
In February, New York City Councilmember Ritchie Torres introduced legislation that would prohibit retail establishments from refusing to accept payments in cash. The council hasn’t made a decision on the bill yet, but Torres is confident that it will pass by mid-year. If it does, cashless businesses could face fines of up to $500 for every violation. The legislation protects consumer choice of payment, but the conversation surrounding the bill echoes that of many nationwide challenges to the movement toward a cashless economy: A cashless business discriminates against low-income people, and often they are people of color and undocumented immigrants.
In New York City, the majority of the nearly 12 percent of unbanked and 25 percent underbanked residents are people of color. Close to 17 percent of black New Yorkers and 14 percent of Latinx New Yorkers are unbanked, compared to just 3 percent of white New Yorkers. This policy brings a bigger question to life in New York: Considering the fact that the majority of New Yorkers without bank accounts are people of color, is closing off services to the unbanked racial discrimination? Recently, cities across the country have been issuing legislation to stymie the growing number of cashless businesses, and some locales have decades-old laws preventing cashless retail. Philadelphia just signed off on a law at the end of February, which goes into effect July 1, that would require shops to take cash, with fines up to $2,000. Also in February, both houses of New Jersey’s state legislature passed a similar bill and are only awaiting the governor’s signature. San Francisco has recently proposed a similar ordinance, and Washington D.C. and Chicago have also introduced legislation that would make it illegal to discriminate against cash as a form of payment. A Massachusetts law dating to 1978 says that retailers cannot “discriminate against a cash buyer by requiring the use of credit,” and Pennsylvania’s 1984 Cash Consumer Protection Act made it illegal for businesses to refuse services to people without credit cards. Considering that the majority of New Yorkers without bank accounts are people of color, is closing off services to the unbanked racial discrimination? The lawmakers behind these bills across the country are concerned that the cashless trend discriminates against low-income residents and people of color, as communities of color have higher percentages of unbanked: In California, 20.4 percent of black households and 14.6 percent of Latinx households are unbanked, and Philadelphia’s rates are similar to New York’s. The federal Civil Rights Act mandates that all persons shall be entitled to the full and equal enjoyment of the goods, services, facilities, and privileges, advantages, and accommodations of any place of public accommodation without discrimination or segregation on the ground of race, color, religion, or national origin.
A business can refuse service as long as their policies aren’t purposely discriminating against a person’s race, religion, sex, or national origin, which owners of cashless institutions would argue their policies aren’t. A number of cities posit their laws as preventing discrimination against low-income people, but low-income people aren’t a protected group. A sign on the door of a Dig Inn dining and take-out establishment in New York City. (Rebecca Bellan/CityLab) A capitalist economy breeds wealth discrimination: Many of the cashless institutions in NYC are not moderately priced. Theoretically anyone can buy a $12 salad at Sweetgreen, one of the cashless pioneers, yet can they really? But the resulting exclusion of New Yorkers of color and the undocumented, based on their lack of a bank account, still counts as discrimination, according to Marie Napoli, a lawyer and civil rights advocate. Cities are changing fast. Keep up with the CityLab Daily newsletter. The best way to follow issues you care about. Subscribe Loading... However, Napoli said the ban on cashless likely wouldn’t stand up in Supreme Court should one of the cash-free businesses choose to bring the issue to higher courts. “The clash between businesses’ right to refuse service, and other compelling interests have resulted in allowing these forms of discrimination to continue,” Napoli told CityLab. Cash-free businesses generally cite increased efficiency, saving time and money by cutting out the need for armored cars to transport cash, and safety of their employees against the threat of robbery as reasons for adopting cashless policies. “It saddens me that a decision made for the best interest of my employees could be misconstrued as classist or discriminatory,” said Michelle Gauthier, founder of quick-food restaurant Mulberry & Vine with five locations in New York, at the New York City Council hearing on February 14. Gauthier said her original reasoning behind going cashless was to protect employees and remove the burden of dealing with cash on a daily basis. She said she’s never turned away a customer for an inability to pay. “Many of my employees are the same people I’m supposedly discriminating against, yet they wholeheartedly agree with my decision to go cashless.” “In the end, I think the need for equity outweighs the efficiency gains of a cashless business model. Human rights takes precedence over efficiency gains.” At the same hearing, Leo Kremer, co-owner of Dos Toros Taqueria, testified that his business decided to go cashless for a host of reasons, including past robberies and his customers’ tendency to pay with plastic. Cash transactions, Kremer said, made up less than 10 percent of overall transactions. He said Dos Toros pays their employees $15 an hour, and provides benefits and room for growth. This has been easier to do, Kremer says, with the increased efficiency and self-sustainability resulting from going cashless. “For a business, running an efficient operation is the difference between staying open and shutting down.” Yet Torres, whose Bronx city council district includes some of the New York’s poorest neighborhoods, said to CityLab that, “In the end, I think the need for equity outweighs the efficiency gains of a cashless business model. Human rights takes precedence over efficiency gains.”
“Cashless institutions encourage a FinTech Jim Crow by restricting the places where people of color can shop, eat, and receive basic services,” said Edgard Laborde, deputy political director of the Retail Wholesale Department Store Union (RWDSU), during his testimony. “By refusing to serve communities of color, cashless establishments carve out niches in gentrified neighborhoods through cash exclusion in an already unaffordable city.” Poor and low-income New Yorkers face numerous barriers in accessing banking. The poorest neighborhoods of New York’s five boroughs have the fewest bank branches in the city. Andy Collado, assistant director of services at The Financial Clinic in Sunset Park Brooklyn, an organization that helps the working poor navigate financial systems, said that there is only one bank branch operating in his neighborhood. And while technically the ID NYC card that can be issued to undocumented New Yorkers enables them to open a bank account, Collado said that most of his undocumented clients—about a third of the total clientele—are unaware of this information, and less than 30 percent of banks and credit unions in the city accept ID NYC as valid identification. “Should we accept, as opponents of this bill do, that there are just some places where undocumented New Yorkers can’t shop or buy food?” said Collado. Despite the fact that the undocumented don’t have the same federal protections against discrimination as citizens do, Collado told CityLab that he thinks they should have the same rights, as our neighbors and fellow residents, when it comes to the operating of their lives. “We are a sanctuary city,” he said in a phone interview. “We want to create the safest environment and one of freedom for whoever comes into this state.”
Some might say that the cashless naysayers sound a bit apocalyptic. After all, not every business has gone cashless. There are other places to buy a salad or a cup of coffee, and at least one representative of a group that helps undocumented New Yorkers navigate financial hurdles said they haven’t noticed complaints, but as it becomes more widespread that could change. “I certainly don’t think [this bill] is the right long-term solution. The future does not lie in this direction. The future lies in giving people free debit cards and financial inclusion.” How close are we to a cashless NYC really? To speculate on such a question, one could look to countries that are on the fast track to becoming cashless. In Sweden, bills and coins make up only 1 percent of the economy . Trends in the U.S. show a preference among Americans for plastic. A report from the Federal Reserve found that in 2017, debit and credit card payments made up 48 percent of transactions, with cash making up 30 percent. However, households that made under $25,000 annually used cash for more than half of their transactions. “We are already where Sweden was five to seven years ago, and given another five to seven years, we will be where Sweden is now,” said Kenneth Rogoff, a Harvard economics professor and author of The Curse of Cash: How Large Denomination Bills Aid Crime and Tax Evasion Constrain Monetary Policy. “It seems to me there’s a paradigm shift to a cashless business model,” said Torres in a phone interview. “A company like Amazon could surely spread the model more widely, and Amazon is intent on opening more Amazon Go stores in major cities like New York. It might seem like it’s at the margins at the moment, but the trend could spread a lot faster than people might think.”
Yet, when it has served their interests, Amazon has figured out a way to sell even its online products to the unbanked as it does in Kenya, where it is pioneering a program to allow people without debit, charge, or credit cards to pay for its products at Western Union so that it can access the vast unbanked market there.

Story 102
Recently we published news on the survey that indicated that about a third of UK businesses are considering relocation due to Brexit. Many Authorised Payment Service Institutions and Authorised E-money Institutions based in the the UK also acquired licenses in the EU Member States and established subsidiaries or at least made applications. There are 17 days left before Brexit, while the extension could be granted. If you have not applied for authorization outside the UK or you want to get authorisation in the UK, you should be aware about the possible consequences of no-deal Brexit for your business.
No freedom of establishment and no freedom to provide services

It is a known fact that in the case of no-deal Brexit, Payment and E-money Institutions authorised in the UK will lose EU Passport rights. Hence, generally, they will not be able to provide services and establish branches in the EU Member States. It is a huge problem for all service providers operating at the EU market that consists of 500 million consumers and 22 million business. Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) explains that companies willing to operate after the UK withdraws from the EU will need to take steps to ensure continuation of operations.
There are no mitigation measures on the EU level

The UK regulators, recognising the need to provide for continuity and a smooth transition, will introduce a Temporary Permissions Regime (TPR) for EEA financial services firms, including EEA Payment Service and E-money Institutions operating in the UK under the EU financial services passports immediately before exit day. Generally, it will allow inbound firms to continue operating in the UK within the scope of their current permissions, e.g. fulfil existing contracts with UK customers and enter into new business, for a period of up to 3 years after exit day, while seeking full UK authorisation.

While the regime introduced by the UK imposes certain limitations and obligations, from the side of the EU there is no reciprocal arrangement for UK-based Payment Service Providers at all. Taking into consideration the negotiations between the UK and the EU and general attitude of the EU law to third-country financial services providers, it seems very likely that there might never be EU rules favourable for the UK retail financial service providers. The problem is that there is no equivalence regime for retail banking services that include payment services and e-money issuance. Even if there is an exception for the UK, the EU already expressed intention to be able to withdraw equivalence recognition unilaterally that does not completely satisfy the UK.
Payment Service and E-money Institutions will face a dilemma

If no clarifications are provided, service providers will need to choose between the lesser of two evils. From the one side, Payment Service and E-money Institutions have a duty to protect financial and payment systems and access for clients. On the other side, it may be prohibited to provide services to clients abroad, as some local authorisation may be required post-Brexit. For example, in France, it is considered that regulated payment services are provided “in” their territory and authorisation is needed as long as the customers are French residents, while in Germany whether or not a cross border Payment Service Provider (PSP) is considered to be conducting business “in” German territory, it may depend on what type of local customers the PSP deals with (corporate or retail).
Most unilateral Brexit measures of the EU Member States do not address Payment Service and E-money Institutions

While Italian and French central banks were sending letters to different PSPs requesting their post-Brexit plan, the German Federal Government had published a draft law that aims to preserve market access for UK companies offering banking business or financial services in Germany under the European passport regime for a transitional period in case of a no-deal Brexit. Hence, UK-based Payment and E-money Institutions will be able to continue their operations for a transitional period that can be revoked by BaFin, the German financial regulator, at any point in time.

The big problem is that other Member States did not follow the German approach towards Payment and E-money Institutions. In Italy the situation is unclear, as it would like to provide access to financial service providers after Brexit, but has completely specified which financial service providers, Sweden, Finland, Austria, France, and even Ireland ignore Payment Service Providers and are more focused on investment and other services, such as legal services (Austria). While also focusing on the investment services sector, the Netherlands is prepared to adopt measures that will make possible to change legislation promptly by non-legislative acts (this may be also used to address problems of Payment Service and E-money Institutions). It seems like other Member States maintain a "wait and see" approach.
Access to payment infrastructure

After no-deal Brexit, unless there are some arrangement, UK PSPs will immediately lose direct access to EU central payments infrastructure, such as TARGET2 and the Single Euro Payments Area (SEPA), including STEP2, meaning customers will face increased costs and slower processing for Euro transactions. This will have impact on all PSPs, which use UK banks for euro correspondent services, including non-bank PSPs, such as PIs and EMIs, which will have to open accounts with EU-based PSPs.

Technically, UK can be part of the SEPA, as there are non-EU countries that are part of the SEPA that fulfil the eligibility criteria of the European Payments Council (EPC), such as Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, Monaco, San Marino, Switzerland, and Andorra. While UK is maximising its prospect of the maintaining access to the SEPA, it not clear whether the access will be granted, and when. In any case, UK banks will have to make new Euro-clearing arrangements with the EU to get access to the infrastructure as soon as possible, which would involve rerouting transactions, indirect memberships via EU branches, Nostro setups, reviewing charging models, etc.
Other consequences

There are much more outcomes of no-deal Brexit that may affect Payment Service and E-money Institutions. Below are the most relevant one:
1. The UK and UK-based firms will be disconnected from EU databases, IT systems and other platforms for communication and information exchange.
2. A prolonged uncertainty about Brexit may cause significant fluctuations in the sterling exchange rate.
3. Data protection regime will be affected. In the UK, data flows from the UK to European Economic Area countries will be permitted, and only organisations that have data flows from the EEA to the UK will be affected. However, in case of no-deal, there may be no automatic equivalence granted by the EU Commission. After the UK finally leaves the EU, the Commission will go through an assessment process. Right now, nobody knows what will happen during such assessment and whether equivalence regime will be granted.
4. After Brexit, the movement of people, including high-skilled workforce, between the UK and the EU, will be subject to new immigration rules for UK and EU citizens. In 2018, it was hard to find sufficiently qualified staff for a Payment Service and E-money Institutions to get authorisation. After Brexit, the situation may become even worse. However, high-skilled immigrants from no-EU countries may mitigate the situation.

Story 103
While other countries are moving to cashless transactions, coins and notes remain king in Japan. Visitors to the country often remark on how much cash is used for everyday transactions – the spread of convenience store ATMs that accept international cards has ended the era when tourists struggled to access their money, but many are still taken aback by the sheer ubiquity of cash as a payment system. Japan is often compared unfavourably to China in this regard, with the widespread adoption of smartphone-based payment systems like WePay and Alipay being held up as a contrast between Japan’s technological stagnation and China’s rapid progress.
There’s no question that China is embracing these systems much faster than Japan – indeed, every major country in the world is ahead of Japan in the move to cashless payments. Japan’s love of cash can be seen clearly in national statistics – the cash in circulation in Japan amounts to over 20% of the nation’s GDP, which is significantly higher than the U.S. (8.3%), China (9.5%) or the Eurozone (10.7%). Some Asian nations approach this figure (Hong Kong, for example, has 17.3% of its GDP in circulation as cash) but none can quite match Japan’s obsession with real, tangible money.
The love of cash goes beyond simply paying for small transactions with coins instead of a smartphone. What visitors to Japan generally don’t see is that cash is often used even for very large purchases and transactions, something almost unimaginable in many other countries. The last time I moved into a new apartment, I carried over a million yen (c.$9000) in cash to the estate agent’s office to pay fees, deposits and advance rent, which made me feel rather like a Breaking Bad character but seemed perfectly ordinary to the office staff who handled it. It’s not uncommon to see someone making a big-ticket purchase in an electronics or furniture store produce a wad of ¥10,000 notes from their wallet rather than a card.
Japan has no shortage of cashless technology – but growth in usage has slowed to a crawl
Despite the slow uptake of cashless transactions being held up as an example of technological stagnation, Japan actually has no shortage of the technology required to go cashless. Bank of Japan figures show that as of the start of 2018, there were some 327 million cards with an e-money function in use in Japan, along with a further 33 million mobile phones equipped for e-money functionality. That’s three e-money cards or devices for every man, woman and child in the country – and around 2.3 million payment terminals to support those devices have been installed, a figure which has risen steadily in recent years.
Indeed, if you want to use a cashless payment system in Japan there are plenty of options – from credit and debit cards, which are now widely accepted in all but the smallest of businesses, through to various e-money systems (often built into debit cards, store point cards or transit cards) which can be used for contactless payments in shops or at vending machines. The options are there – but growth in their usage has slowed dramatically. In 2017, ¥5.4 billion e-money transactions were made totalling ¥5.2 trillion in value – but that’s only 1.1% more value (4.5% more transactions) than passed through the system in 2016. Growth in earlier years was more impressive (the value of e-money transactions grew by 15.7% in 2015 and 10.8% in 2016), suggesting that e-money is hitting a ceiling in its adoption in Japan.
One cause for that slowdown may be the confusion created by a chaotic competitive landscape in which there is no clear winner among many different companies and technologies. 2018’s addition to this landscape was QR code systems which ape the experience of China’s WePay, allowing users to make payments simply by scanning a code on their smartphone screen – but a variety of card-based and contactless systems also remain popular and the coming years promise the launch of even more new systems, some sporting buzzwords like “blockchain” in their grand promises. For consumers, this is confusing; for business owners it is infuriating, with each new system requiring additional hardware at cash registers and additional training for staff. Stores and restaurants in Japan are now festooned with a huge assortment of stickers and signs showing which cashless systems are accepted; in the absence of clear winners in the space, cash is the only payment system which consumers can feel confident in using absolutely everywhere, so it becomes the path of least resistance for many.
The ultimate “winner” in Japan’s cashless race may not be a traditional bank or financial institution
This competition is likely to become even more intense before the market rationalizes. Companies with ambitions in this space include not only banks and financial institutions but also technology firms (along with international players like Apple and Google, both LINE and Yahoo! Japan have cashless payment systems on the market already), retail firms (AEON, Rakuten and 7-11 all have cashless systems) and some unexpected entrants like JR East. The ultimate winners in this space may not be the financial or technology giants you would expect; in recent years 7-11 has been running rings around traditional Japanese banks with its consumer banking offering, while JR East has come to operate one of the most popular cashless products in Japan (or at least in the Kanto region) by turning its ubiquitous Suica transit cards into widely accepted e-money. It wouldn’t be surprising to see one of those firms, or a technology player like LINE or Yahoo!, outpace the efforts of the established banks to become the eventual market leader.
A further driver of increased competition in the coming years is the Japanese government itself, which has hinted that it may be willing to incentivise cashless payments with a rebate on the consumption tax. What would make the government so keen on promoting cashless payments that it would forego some of its consumption tax revenues – revenues that successive governments have invested enormous political capital in increasing? While the possibility of Japan falling behind regional rivals in a key area of financial technology is certainly something the government is concerned about, a more pragmatic reason is cost. The creation, management and handling of physical currency incurs major costs for both the government and the economy at large. Physical currency takes time to handle in every transaction, needs to be stored and transported securely and is easily damaged, destroyed or lost; how many of the roughly 38 billion 38 billion ¥1 coins officially in circulation are actually being used, and how many have dropped between the nation’s tatami mats or rolled under cupboards? Estimates place the total cost of physical currency to the economy as high as ¥1 trillion per year, making the transition away from notes and coins into low-hanging fruit for efforts to make Japan’s economy more productive.
Cashless systems’ greatest challenge may actually be how well Japan’s cash system works
Even with the government’s backing and significant consumption tax rebates, however, moving Japan away from cash is going to be a slow process. Some commentators suggest that Japan has a specific emotional attachment to its physical currency, but that’s far from unique to Japan – anyone who lived in a European country during the debates over the introduction of the Euro can tell you how emotive the question of banknotes and coins became, yet this posed no barrier to the later adoption of cashless systems. A much more significant issue is that many of the benefits of cashless systems are simply less relevant to Japanese consumers. A very low risk of crime makes holding significant amounts of cash safe – it’s far more common for scammers to target the bank accounts of elderly or vulnerable people than for muggers to target their purses – while laughably low interest rates on bank accounts mean there’s no financial downside to keeping money on your person, or in your home, rather than depositing it with a financial institution. Low rates of forgery are also a factor; in some countries the rapid adoption of cashless technology has owed much to high rates of forgery that made banknotes untrustworthy.
Perhaps, then, the greatest hurdle that cashless technologies need to overcome in Japan is just how well its cash works – and rather than accusing the nation of a kind of collective Luddism over the glacial pace of this transition, we should instead ask what the actual value proposition of cashless systems to consumers is right now. Cash is a safe, secure and universally accepted system, albeit one with some minor inconveniences; the e-money offerings clamouring to replace it are a confusing mess of new, unproven systems that are not accepted everywhere and whose futures remain uncertain. Until the e-money operators, and perhaps the government, can come up with more convincing reasons for people to use these systems, the sight of large wads of banknotes or of coins being counted out at tills are likely to remain commonplace.
Related

Story 104
Many bank customers in Germany will soon have to say goodbye to an old habit.
When they do online banking from their home computers, they will no longer be able to complete their transfers by entering a six-digit sequence of digits they have received - often by post - on a paper list.
Such lists with numbered transaction numbers (TANs) will be abolished as part of a major EU-wide banking makeover. Banks will not be allowed to offer this so-called iTAN procedure for transfers starting on September 14th.
As of September 14th, such paper tan lists - in which one number at a time can be used once - will become obsolete. Photo: DPA
READ ALSO: Everything that changes in September 2019 in Germany
Why will the paper lists be abolished?
The change is part of the so-called European Payment Services Directive (with a Star Wars-esque sounding acronym of PSD2). Through it, Brussels aims to make payment transactions in the EU more convenient and secure for consumers.
Among other things, the directive stipulates that the transaction numbers required for online banking must be “generated dynamically” in future, which is not possible through a sequence of numbers that has already been printed on paper.
So what does this mean for bank customers?
For online banking and shopping on the Internet, the legal obligation of "strong customer authentication" will apply in future.
This means that every customer must prove his or identity in two of the following ways: "knowledge" (a secret number or PIN), "possession" (for example by smartphone or the original payment card) or "being" (biometric features such as a fingerprint).
In order to release a bank transfer online, for example, you first need a PIN, and can then have a TAN sent to your mobile phone by SMS.
What else will change for customers?
The "PSD2" also breaks the banks' monopoly on access to account data. In future, financial institutions will also have to allow third-party providers such as financial start-ups (fintechs) to access their customers' data.
For example, there are companies that compare overnight money rates from different banks and offer money transfers there. Others help consumers save by automatically putting small amounts aside.
German banks are not exactly dancing with joy about the new regulation. Anyone who knows how much money customers have in their account and what they spend it on can easily offer them other services - such as construction financing, loans or insurance.
What about payments by credit card?
Privacy-sensitive Germans can take a sigh of relief here. In future, consumers will also have to identify with two factors when making card payments on the Internet.
The requirements for using credit cards are particularly strict, because the number and check digit of these cards can be tracked relatively easily - for example, when they are used in a restaurant. Therefore, just having possession of the card is not enough.
READ ALSO: Germany orders online bank N26 to take new steps against money laundering
According to the new rules, consumers need two additional security factors for credit card payments when shopping online: a password and a TAN, for example.
Because the system switch is a problem for retailers, the financial supervisory authority Bafin is temporarily allowing the previous (and simpler) security regulations to apply.
How do you get the TAN for approving online payments in the future?
Bank customers need a specially created TAN for each order. The customer can, for example, have this TAN sent to him or her by SMS to a mobile phone number previously deposited with the bank ("mobileTAN"/"mTAN"). A special TAN generator can also be used.
In combination with the bank card, this small device generates a TAN for online banking ("chipTAN procedure"). Some institutes offer a "PhotoTAN" procedure: A barcode appears in the customer's online banking system and is photographed with a mobile phone. A TAN is then generated and the booking is processed after the customer approves it.
How is the current system insecure?
Criminals continue trying to persuade bank customers to reveal PINs and TANs, for example by setting up fake websites or luring consumers onto the wrong webpage by email or SMS. If the printed iTAN lists sent by post fall into the wrong hands, criminals can plunder the account.
"If you handle the TAN list carefully and secure your computer according to current standards, the TAN list offers sufficient protection. However, if your TAN list falls into the hands of third parties, no security can be guaranteed," writes Postbank.
The new system aims to keep criminals away from your money. Photo: DPA
OK, but there’s got to be a way criminals can intercept the new procedure, right?
So-called dynamic authentication procedures have the advantage that a TAN - unlike the printed iTAN list - is created anew each time. These numbers are then linked to the respective order and are valid for a limited period of time.
However, there are also concerns.
"Although the 'mTan' procedure is practical and user-friendly, it also carries some risks," warns Germany’s Federal Office for Information Security. "Under certain circumstances, criminals can intercept or redirect the SMS messages sent for authentication. There is a risk that the TAN contained in the SMS will be misused."
Vocabulary
To transfer - überweisen
Generated dynamically - dynamisch generiert
Secret number - (die) Geheimnummer
Tracked - ausgespäht
Check digit - (die) Prüfziffer
We're aiming to help our readers improve their German by translating vocabulary from some of our news stories. Did you find this article useful? Do you have any suggestions? Let us know.

Story 105
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
United Airlines offers three co-branded credit cards with annual fees ranging from $0 to $450. The more you pay, the more you get in terms of perks, but all three cards earn rewards you can redeem for travel on United.
The three cards:
United miles vs. TravelBank cash
United’s credit cards are different from other airlines’ in that they offer two different kinds of rewards currencies. The $0-annual-fee United℠ TravelBank Card earns rewards in the form of TravelBank cash, while the other two cards earn miles in United’s frequent flyer program, MileagePlus:
TravelBank cash can be redeemed for United purchases on a simple dollar-for-dollar basis — $100 in TravelBank cash is worth $100 when booking travel with United.
can be redeemed for United purchases on a simple dollar-for-dollar basis — $100 in TravelBank cash is worth $100 when booking travel with United. MileagePlus miles can be redeemed for free flights or seat upgrades. The per-mile value depends on how you redeem your rewards, but NerdWallet values United miles at an average of 1.3 cents apiece when redeemed for domestic travel, more for international travel.
» MORE: NerdWallet’s best airline credit cards
Sign-up bonuses
Each card offers new cardholders the chance to snag a bonus by meeting a spending requirement early on:
United℠ TravelBank Card: $150 in United TravelBank cash after you spend $1,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening.
United℠ Explorer Card: 40,000 bonus miles after you spend $2,000 on purchases in the first 3 months your account is open.
United Club℠ Card: Earn 50,000 bonus miles after you spend $3,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening.
Spending rewards
Each United credit card gives you extra rewards on spending with the airline itself:
United℠ TravelBank Card
2% back in TravelBank cash on tickets purchased from United.
1.5% back in TravelBank cash on all other purchases.
United℠ Explorer Card
2 MileagePlus miles per $1 spent on eligible United purchases.
2 MileagePlus miles per $1 spent at restaurants
2 MileagePlus miles per $1 spent on hotel purchases directly from the hotel.
1 MileagePlus mile per $1 spent on all other purchases.
United Club℠ Card
2 MileagePlus miles per $1 spent on eligible United purchases.
1.5 miles per $1 spent on all other purchases.
» MORE: MileagePlus program review
Baggage, boarding and lounge perks
The United℠ TravelBank Card does not offer free checked bags, early boarding or access to the airline’s United Club airport lounges, but the cards with annual fees do.
United℠ Explorer Card
First checked bag free for the primary cardholder and a companion traveling on the same reservation. Potential savings: Up to $120 per round trip.
for the primary cardholder and a companion traveling on the same reservation. Potential savings: Up to $120 per round trip. Priority boarding.
Two free lounge passes each year. Day passes cost $59 apiece, so this benefit is worth $118 a year.
United Club℠ Card
Two free checked bags apiece for the primary cardholder and a companion traveling on the same reservation. Potential savings: Up to $280 per round trip.
apiece for the primary cardholder and a companion traveling on the same reservation. Potential savings: Up to $280 per round trip. Priority boarding.
Unlimited lounge access. A stand-alone lounge membership costs $550 a year.
Travel perks
United’s credit cards also come with an array of protections and benefits that can be handy when traveling.
no foreign transaction fees
United Airlines credit cards are a great travel companion abroad since they don’t add a foreign exchange surcharge on your spending.
discount on CLEAR membership
Thanks to a partnership with CLEAR, United credit card holders can get a discount on a CLEAR membership, which can help expedite the check-in process at more than 60 airports, arenas, stadiums and Hertz rental car locations nationwide. United consumer credit card holders receive a discounted membership rate of $109. The regular annual membership retails for $179.
Travel protections
Trip cancellation and trip interruption insurance. If your trip is canceled or cut short by covered situations like sickness or injury, you can get reimbursed.
If your trip is canceled or cut short by covered situations like sickness or injury, you can get reimbursed. Auto rental collision damage waiver. Decline the rental company’s collision insurance and charge the entire rental cost to your United card and receive primary coverage for theft and collision damage for most cars in the U.S. and abroad. Coverage in the U.S. on the United℠ TravelBank Card is secondary to your personal insurance.
More about these cards
Information related to the United MileagePlus® Club Card and the United℠ TravelBank Card has been collected by NerdWallet and has not been reviewed or provided by the issuer of these cards.

Story 106
You've saved up for months and now you're heading overseas on the trip of a lifetime.
When you get there you'll obviously need to access the local currency, whether it be euro, rupiah or baht.
But what's the best value way to take and access your hard-earned overseas? Should you get a travel money card? Convert your currency before you take off? Or just stick with using your regular credit or debit card? And what are the pros and cons of each option?
ABC Life has researched some of your options — cash, pre-paid, debit, credit and travel credit card offerings as well as wiring money services and old-school travellers' cheques — and read the fine print, so that you don't have to.
The most sensible thing to do is to have a variety of ways to access money in case of emergencies, but when it comes to everyday spending we've got you covered.
ABC Life in your inbox Get our newsletter for the best of ABC Life each week Email address Subscribe
Cash
Carrying some easily exchangeable cash can be great in the event of an emergency. ( Unsplash )
Buying foreign cash involves going to a money dealer, like a local bank, bureau de change or post office and using Australian dollars to buy a foreign currency.
The dealer will charge a fee or commission for providing the service, which might mean charging you a worse rate than the wholesale currency market rate.
Pros
It's useful to have a small amount of cash on hand for when you arrive and before you can get to an ATM
It's useful to have a small amount of cash on hand for when you arrive and before you can get to an ATM It's often cheaper to buy at home than in expensive bureaus at the airport
It's often cheaper to buy at home than in expensive bureaus at the airport In some countries purchases can only be made using cash
In some countries purchases can only be made using cash Great for emergencies
Cons
You don't want to be carrying too much cash — it's a safety risk
You don't want to be carrying too much cash — it's a safety risk If it's stolen, it's untraceable, so no way to get it back
If it's stolen, it's untraceable, so no way to get it back If it runs out, you don't have a line of credit available for emergencies
Tip:
While you can't haggle for a better exchange rate, you can shop around.
Pre-paid travel money cards
Travel money cards are basically a pre-loaded debit card you can use overseas.
Banks, the post office and even major airlines offer them (for a fee). You choose the amount of each foreign currency you want loaded onto the card and you can then use the card at ATMs to get cash out and to pay for things in shops.
Pros
It's pre-loaded so you can limit your spending
It's pre-loaded so you can limit your spending It locks in the exchange rate on the day you load it (which could also be a con if rates improve)
It locks in the exchange rate on the day you load it (which could also be a con if rates improve) You can pre-load a number of currencies on the one card
You can pre-load a number of currencies on the one card You can top it up using your mobile phone while you're away
You can top it up using your mobile phone while you're away It's safer than cash, with a pin code and spare card for emergencies
It's safer than cash, with a pin code and spare card for emergencies Some provide insurance for purchases
Cons
You need to have saved all the money upfront
You need to have saved all the money upfront The exchange rate offered might be worse than you would get using your regular debit card
The exchange rate offered might be worse than you would get using your regular debit card If you use it for big-ticket items, like accommodation, a "hold" will be put on your card (called a pre-authorisation payment) and you may not be able to access your cash
If you use it for big-ticket items, like accommodation, a "hold" will be put on your card (called a pre-authorisation payment) and you may not be able to access your cash Be careful when you get home, as some providers charge a monthly inactivity fee
Be careful when you get home, as some providers charge a monthly inactivity fee Some cards have limited currencies available
Some cards have limited currencies available Be wary of making purchases in a currency not loaded on to your card, you could be charged the rate plus a hefty margin on the transaction
Tip:
Look for the best exchange rate offered with the lowest fees. Try to choose an option that allows overseas ATM withdrawals for free.
Debit cards
It's a good idea to have a little bit of local currency in your wallet to tide you over until you can get to an ATM.
Your regular debit card can be used overseas to withdraw cash at ATMs or point of sale. Like when you're at home, it uses the money you have in your account.
Pros
You don't have to apply for or organise anything: just take along your regular debit card
You don't have to apply for or organise anything: just take along your regular debit card Use your own money, so no need to borrow
Use your own money, so no need to borrow Will give you on-the-day exchange rates
Cons
Can be expensive to withdraw amounts from overseas ATMs (you will probably be charged a withdrawal fee, currency conversion fee and foreign transaction fee)
Can be expensive to withdraw amounts from overseas ATMs (you will probably be charged a withdrawal fee, currency conversion fee and foreign transaction fee) Not all stores accept debit cards
Not all stores accept debit cards It's better value to withdraw large amounts infrequently and this becomes a safety risk
Tip:
Try to find an ATM network that has a partnership with your bank so you won't have to pay a withdrawal fee (you will probably still be charged a foreign transaction fee from your local bank).
Credit cards
Be wary of conversion fees when using your credit card outside Australia. ( Pexels: Pixabay )
As with your debit card, you can also use your credit card overseas.
Pros
It's convenient — no need to open a new account
It's convenient — no need to open a new account Good for emergencies — you can access large amounts quickly
Good for emergencies — you can access large amounts quickly Often required for hotel check-in or other services
Often required for hotel check-in or other services Some credit cards include travel insurance
Some credit cards include travel insurance Depending on your card, you may collect reward points
Depending on your card, you may collect reward points Banks cover unauthorised payments
Cons
If you're not a careful spender, you can get left with a big credit card bill to pay back on your return
If you're not a careful spender, you can get left with a big credit card bill to pay back on your return Can be a risk for scams like skimming
Can be a risk for scams like skimming Often conversion fees are a percentage of your spend, so add up quickly
Often conversion fees are a percentage of your spend, so add up quickly Be wary of using cash advances (when you use our credit card to withdraw cash). These involve expensive fees
Tip:
Let your bank know before you travel, as they might put a hold on it if they see what they think is fraudulent transactions.
Avoid using dynamic currency conversion (when an overseas sale is offered in Australian dollars). It usually offers an uncompetitive exchange rate.
Travel credit cards
A travel credit card is like a regular credit card, but targets frequent travellers by offering no foreign transaction fees.
Pros
Provides many of the benefits of a regular credit card
Provides many of the benefits of a regular credit card Charge no foreign transaction fees
Charge no foreign transaction fees Some provide airport lounge access or travel credits
Some provide airport lounge access or travel credits Some include travel insurance
Cons
Some have expensive annual fees
Some have expensive annual fees They often have high interest rates
They often have high interest rates Like regular credit cards, most charge cash advance fees
Tip:
Consider how often you travel and whether the card will suit your needs at home too.
Travellers' cheques
Be sure to check in advance what is the best way to access money at your chosen destination. ( Unsplash )
Travellers' cheques are physical cheques that are bought in Australia, with a fixed amount of money written on it. They can then be exchanged overseas for cash.
These were used widely between the 1950s and 1990s. They still exist but are no longer widely accepted.
Pros
Bought with savings
Bought with savings Can be replaced if lost or stolen
Can be replaced if lost or stolen Less risky than cash
Less risky than cash Can be useful in some developing countries
Cons
No longer widely accepted — even at banks
No longer widely accepted — even at banks Expensive
Tip:
Double check that travellers' cheques are still in use where you're going.
Wiring money
Wiring money can refer to a money transfer service or a bank wire transfer. It's essentially about sending money electronically from Australia to an overseas financial services firm, where the traveller can access it as cash.
It's often used by migrant workers to send money to family back home.
Pros
Can send large amounts
Can send large amounts Could be useful if travelling to developing countries
Could be useful if travelling to developing countries Travellers can pick up the cash from a variety of local banks or outlets
Travellers can pick up the cash from a variety of local banks or outlets Good for emergencies
Good for emergencies Useful if staying overseas for a while and need to pay for education or housing costs
Cons
Fees can be very high
Fees can be very high Can take several days
Can take several days Usually poor exchange rates
Usually poor exchange rates Time-consuming
Tip:
Unnecessary for most holiday-makers and best to avoid the high fees.
Questions to ask yourself:
Where am I travelling and what currency do I need?
Where am I travelling and what currency do I need? What form of money is widely accepted where I am going? Cash? Cards?
What form of money is widely accepted where I am going? Cash? Cards? Look around at the exchange rates offered by financial institutions. Who has the best deal?
Look around at the exchange rates offered by financial institutions. Who has the best deal? How often do I travel? And how long is my trip? How much will I need to budget for?
How often do I travel? And how long is my trip? How much will I need to budget for? Will I overspend if I rely on a credit card?
Will I overspend if I rely on a credit card? Have I told my bank I'm travelling overseas?
Have I told my bank I'm travelling overseas? How will I carry cash? In a money pouch or just in my wallet?
How will I carry cash? In a money pouch or just in my wallet? What fees am I being charged at the ATM, the point of sale or for currency conversion?
What fees am I being charged at the ATM, the point of sale or for currency conversion? Which option offers the lowest international transaction fee?
All of the information in this article is available on the websites of organisations offering these products, so if you're interested in pursuing a specific option, we recommend reading through it yourself.
Ultimately, the best way for you to take money overseas depends on your answers to the above questions but for most situations, a combination of converted cash and a (low fee) card of some type will leave you well prepared.
This article contains general information only. It should not be relied on as advice in relation to your particular circumstances and issues, for which you should obtain specific, independent professional advice.

Story 107
Many large retailers and tech companies have backed the idea of a Fed-built system to keep prices lower, given that legally the central bank needs only to recoup its costs, not earn money. | Andrew Harnik/AP Photo finance & tax Big banks prepare to battle the Fed on faster payments
Big banks are preparing to go to war against the Federal Reserve, which is poised to announce that it will develop a new instant payments system to compete with the lenders’ own nascent version.
Banks say such a move would delay the goal of real-time payments that can reach everyone, a system that would revolutionize financial services by allowing people to receive money in their accounts within seconds after it's sent to them. That process is already in place in countries like Mexico and South Africa.
Story Continued Below
Under the traditional system that handles card payments and direct deposits, transactions are settled en masse three times a day and only during business hours, a costly reality for the millions of Americans living paycheck to paycheck.
While everyone shares the goal of speeding up payments, large banks have invested more than $1 billion in launching a system under the Clearing House Payments Co. They say the Fed doesn’t need to build its own version, which would likely cut into both their profits and customer base. The fight is heating up on Capitol Hill and is set to intensify after the Fed announces its decision.
“In 2015, the Federal Reserve called on the private sector to build a real-time payments system,” said Greg Baer, president and CEO of the Bank Policy Institute, which represents large banks. “The Clearing House, and only The Clearing House, responded by building the most advanced payments system in the world.”
Morning Money Political intelligence on Washington and Wall Street — weekday mornings, in your inbox. Email Sign Up By signing up you agree to receive email newsletters or alerts from POLITICO. You can unsubscribe at any time. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
Now, he said, "the Federal Reserve may pull a bait and switch and build its own system — certainly delaying and perhaps completely undermining the goal of a ubiquitous system where any U.S. consumer or business can pay any other."
Smaller institutions, in contrast, have pushed hard for the Fed to be a provider of real-time payments. The Clearing House and the Fed are the two operators of the existing system that settles in batches, and community banks say the Fed has already proven it can provide payments services for all financial institutions — upward of 11,000 banks and credit unions — while the Clearing House hasn’t.
“It’s not the best time and not the best service to conduct this experiment,” said Cary Whaley, first vice president of payments and technology policy for the Independent Community Bankers of America.
Whaley said that while small lenders are not opposed to the private sector system, “community banks are a little wary when they’re receiving services with competitors.”
Many large retailers and tech companies have also backed the idea of a Fed-built system to keep prices lower, given that legally the central bank needs only to recoup its costs, not earn money.
“Allowing any one for-profit operator to achieve a monopoly over a payment system would almost certainly result in loss of efficiency and ultimately an inferior product that increases social costs,” Walmart said in a comment letter to the central bank.
Still, the Fed has faced criticism for years for not acting faster to facilitate real-time payments. The central bank launched a task force in 2015 to develop a plan to meet the goal of faster payments by 2020, but Fed Chairman Jerome Powell said earlier this month that deadline would not be met.
Big and small banks began making their competing cases to lawmakers after the Fed requested comment last October on whether it should build its own system. If the Fed decides to go ahead, its next step would likely include another request for public input on more detailed questions, but not a “rule” because the central bank is not acting as a regulator.
The issue is increasingly partisan, with free-market Republicans balking at a government-run payment system and some Democrats arguing that the Fed is better positioned to ensure lower-income Americans receive the benefits.
“I don’t see the need for it,” Sen. Pat Toomey (R-Pa.) told POLITICO. “The private system has committed and would be obligated to be available to all regulated financial institutions.”
“I’m not in favor of the government going into the car business … [or any kind] of other businesses where the private sector provides services,” he added.
Notably, the DOJ issued a business review letter in 2017 blessing the companies' proposed plan, saying it might be “procompetitive.”
But Sen. Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.) said a real-time payment system shouldn’t be “in the hands of a private monopoly.” “It’s important, No. 1, that we have real-time payments, and I think it’s a public trust,” he said in an interview. “It’s a mistake to allow that system to be under the control of the big banks.”
Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), in an economic plan released by her campaign on July 18, pledged to appoint Fed board members who would implement real-time payments. “Big banks want to force families to use their private systems,” Warren said.
The Clearing House says all financial institutions will be able to join its system and receive the same benefits with the same fees, though it has kept its options open for changing its pricing structure if the Fed jumps in.
The banks also highlight questions about whether two different systems could be interoperable — with a single transaction starting on the Fed’s system and ending on the Clearing House’s system, and vice versa — given the speed required.
But even before that, the Fed’s system will likely take a few years to build. Proponents of a Fed version say it could take a similar amount of time for the private-sector system to have the capability to reach all institutions in the country. The Clearing House disputes that.
“I’m not worried about the competition from the Fed,” said Steve Ledford, senior vice president of products and strategy at the payments company, suggesting the central bank might even have trouble competing “coming in as late as they are.”
Instead, he said, he’s worried the Fed is causing a delay in real-time payments adoption. As for Congress: “The more people realize what’s involved, and that the Clearing House is already out there doing this, the more support we get.”
Smaller institutions say it’s not just uncertainty about the Fed’s plans that’s preventing them from signing onto the private system for now, but also the need for customer-driven reasons to make the necessary technological investment a priority.
“It’s going to require specific use cases as institutions choose or don’t choose to adopt real-time payments,” said Carrie Hunt, general counsel at the National Association of Federally-Insured Credit Unions, which wants the Fed to operate its own system.
ICBA’s Whaley agreed. “A community bank has a number of products and services they’re trying to implement, so if there’s not a compelling use case for that they may let that slide and refresh their mobile banking platform,” he said.

Story 108
× Error
An unknonw error has occurred. Please try again later.

Story 109
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
When most of the line items on your credit card statement involve paying for food, it’s time to get a card that rewards you deliciously. The TD Cash Credit Card is a diner’s dream, offering extra cash back whether you go out to eat or cook at home.
With a $0 annual fee, this card rivals the Capital One® SavorOne® Cash Rewards Credit Card , another $0-annual-fee option that earns additional cash back for dining, entertainment and grocery store purchases. One place where the TD Cash Credit Card outshines the Capital One® SavorOne® Cash Rewards Credit Card is with its higher sign-up bonus: Earn $200 Cash Back when you spend $500 within 90 days after account opening.
However, there are geographic limitations that could lead you to seek other options. Here are five things to know about the TD Cash Credit Card.
» MORE: NerdWallet’s best credit cards for restaurants
1. You must live in certain states to apply
The West Coast is not the best coast when it comes to the TD Cash Credit Card. To be eligible to apply for the card, you must be a resident of one of the following places:
Connecticut
Delaware
Florida
Maine
Maryland
Massachusetts
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New York
North Carolina
Pennsylvania
Rhode Island
South Carolina
Virginia
Vermont
Washington, D.C.
The exception would be if you happen to have another account with TD Bank. If that’s the case, you can apply over the phone. But fear not — there are still plenty of credit cards to choose from that reward you for dining out and grocery store spending.
2. The extra cash-back categories are foodie-friendly
Earn 3% cash back when you dine out and 2% cash back at grocery stores. All other purchases earn 1% cash back. How much can that net you?
Let’s say you spend $500 a month at restaurants and $500 a month at grocery stores. Including the sign-up bonus, you’ll earn $500 in cash back for the year (and that doesn’t take into account any other spending that will earn 1% cash back).
» MORE: How to choose a dining-rewards credit card
3. Redeem for more than cash back
As much as the TD Cash Credit Card focuses on cash back (it’s in the card’s name, after all), you actually have a variety of choices when redeeming points. In addition to getting cash back in the form of a statement credit or direct deposit into your bank account, you can also redeem points for travel, gift cards and merchandise.
Points are worth 1 cent apiece when you redeem them for cash back, and at least 1 cent apiece when you redeem for travel or gift cards. Point values also vary when you redeem for merchandise. If you opt for cash back, you must redeem a minimum of 2,500 points.
4. There’s a decent intro APR offer on balance transfers
The card offers an intro 0% Introductory APR on Balance Transfers for the first 12 billing cycles after Account Opening, and then the ongoing APR of 14.74%, 19.74% or 24.74%, Variable. The 3% balance transfer fee is on the lower end of typical balance transfer fees, which generally range from 3-5%.
This makes the TD Cash Credit Card a solid choice for anyone needing some time to pay down a credit card balance.
» MORE: NerdWallet’s best balance transfer cards
5. It makes a good travel companion
If you need a credit card that can handle international travel, look for two things: worldwide acceptance at overseas merchants and no foreign transaction fees. Between its 0% foreign transaction fee and the fact that it’s a Visa card, the TD Cash Credit Card passes both tests.

Story 110
× Error
An unknonw error has occurred. Please try again later.

Story 111
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
4.5 NerdWallet rating
Where SoFi Money shines: 1.80% APY with no minimum balance.
No monthly fees, no overdraft fees.
Unlimited ATM fee reimbursements and no ATM fees from SoFi.
Highly rated mobile apps with a spending tracker. Where SoFi Money falls short: No branches or CDs.
No cash deposits accepted.
No chat support and no 24/7 phone support.
Where SoFi Money shines: 1.80% APY with no minimum balance.
No monthly fees, no overdraft fees.
Unlimited ATM fee reimbursements and no ATM fees from SoFi.
Highly rated mobile apps with a spending tracker. Where SoFi Money falls short: No branches or CDs.
No cash deposits accepted.
No chat support and no 24/7 phone support.
The bottom line
Learn More at SoFi
SoFi Money is an online cash management account offered by SoFi, a nonbank financial service provider best known for its student loan refinance loans. As is typical of cash accounts, customers’ funds are swept into partner banks, where they benefit from FDIC insurance. SoFi’s account has a high interest rate and no monthly or overdraft fees. There’s no free ATM network, but SoFi reimburses many third-party ATM fees and doesn’t charge its own.
Best if: You’re looking for a free online cash account that has a rate competitive with those on high-yield savings accounts, with spending tools and ATM reimbursements.
» What is a cash management account? Check out NerdWallet’s guide to this banking product.
Read on for details on SoFi Money’s account and customer experience.
Checking and savings features
SoFi Money provides a hybrid of checking and savings features with no monthly or other regular fees and no opening minimum balance (subject to change).
Upsides
High interest rate. You can earn an impressive 1.80% annual percentage yield on all balances (variable and subject to change).
Free ATM access. SoFi reimburses any third-party fees you’re charged from ATMs bearing the Visa, Plus, or NYCE network logo. SoFi also doesn’t charge ATM fees (subject to change) or foreign transaction fees, although there is a foreign exchange fee of 1% charged by Visa that isn’t waived.
Free physical checks. If you still need the occasional check for rent or other payments, SoFi makes checks available for free. Most online banks don’t offer them.
Federal insurance up to $250,000 — or more. Since SoFi isn’t a bank, it sweeps customers’ funds to its partner banks, where their money will be federally insured. Each account is insured up to $250,000, so if you have more than that amount, your funds will be spread across multiple banks to maximize your Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. protection.
Multiple ways to fund your account. Customers can deposit checks via mobile, set up direct deposit or transfer funds from an outside account.
No overdraft fees. SoFi simply cancels any transaction when you don’t have enough funds to cover it.
Downsides
No overdraft line of credit. SoFi doesn’t offer this option, which can be helpful if you occasionally need to go negative to make important payments and are willing to pay the bank back with interest.
Customer experience
Upsides
Solid web experience. SoFi’s website has detailed FAQs and makes it easy to see account fees and interest rates. Mobile apps have above-average ratings.
Useful spending tracker. Both website and mobile apps feature a spending tracker called Relay, which lets you link accounts you have at SoFi and other financial institutions and see a high-level picture of your finances.
Downsides
No branches. SoFi is an online-only financial company, so cash deposits aren’t possible, nor is face-to-face customer service.
Some limits to support channels. Live chat online isn’t currently available, and phone service with a human is available Monday through Thursday, 4 a.m. to 9 p.m. PT, and Friday through Sunday, 4 a.m. to 5 p.m. PT.
Learn More at SoFi
» Ready to take the next step? SoFi Money works as an all-in-one place for your money with a high rate, no monthly account fees and other benefits. If you want to keep your savings separate from checking, though, consider comparing the best savings accounts.

Story 112
Uber driver uses GPS navigation. Jaden Urbi | CNBC
Cybercriminals are turning to new technologies to launder their ill-gotten gains, including recruiting fake Uber drivers, shady Airbnb hosts and crypto conversion specialists via the underground dark web, experts say. Criminals are also ramping up older methods of money laundering, including buying gift cards and reselling them for a fraction of their price on the web, and relying on bank insiders to filter their funds through legitimate accounts and credit lines. Ziv Mador, who leads cybersecurity firm Trustwave's SpiderLabs research team, said money laundering is essential to allowing cybercrime to proliferate. In fact, if you've ever had money stolen in a cyber scheme or from a hacked credit or debit card, this may be where it ended up. "Cybercrime headlines tend to focus on new variants of malware or gross negligence resulting in large data breaches. It's a proverbial game of cat and mouse, with white hats fortifying defenses and black hats adjusting to bypass," he said. "However, missing from these stories and just as important for grasping how cybercriminals operate is what takes place post-breach or when funds are acquired illegally."
Fake Uber drivers and the 'acupuncture' scam
Techniques used by cybercriminals often differ from those used for laundering other types of dirty money. That's because techniques and methods for cybercrime are quickly shared and traded via dark web marketplaces, Mador explained. Cybercriminals are already operating fully on these marketplaces, and so it's a natural transition, he said. For at least the past two years, cybercriminals have used increasingly creative methods centered on "gig economy" apps like Uber and Airbnb, according to Mador. The schemes work to filter dirty money through several automated systems, eventually making their way back to the criminal clean. In one common scam, criminals recruit Uber drivers to pretend to take them on a ride. The criminal never shows up, but uses illicit money from a stolen credit card to pay for the trip. The driver then wires a portion of the payment for the trip back to the criminal. Ads seeking help laundering assets by this method can be seen on the dark web, a network of websites outside the established internet only accessible through special applications, Mador said.
A dark web ad, provided by security researchers at Trustwave's SpiderLabs, seeks "fake" Uber drivers to help launder illicit cybercrime proceeds. Trustwave
Uber first learned about the money laundering because it was so prevalent in the Chinese market, according to a spokesperson, and has taken several steps to fight this type of fraud. Uber ramped up its fraud-detection techniques in 2016, around the time the company pulled out of China. It has fallen to "historical lows" since then, the spokesperson said, but acknowledged it remains a problem. To fight it, the company frequently works with U.S. law enforcement, including one case involving a fake-passenger scheme that led to 13 arrests in New York in 2017. One common technique fraudsters use is known on underground forums as "acupuncture," the spokesperson said, because it involves a criminal overseas — typically in China or India — colluding with a U.S.-based driver by dropping location "pins" in the application along the driver's regular route. The driver collects the earnings, usually from a stolen credit card, then wires a portion of it back to the overseas criminals, who are known as "nurses" in this scheme. "One reason it's enticing to the real driver is they think 'at least I'm getting paid for driving a route that I'm normally driving anyway.' What they don't realize is it's not just defrauding Uber or our platform, it's wire fraud, it's serious legal liability for the driver," the spokesperson said. Criminals use a similar scheme with Airbnb hosts, Mador explained. Hosts answer ads, generally posted on the dark web. But instead of hosting an actual guest, with all the work and hassle that might involve, they take payment from a fake guest who never has any intention of showing up. Once the money is processed through Airbnb's system, the host refunds a portion of the nightly bill to the cybercriminal. In one ad provided by Trustwave, posted on the dark web in May 2018 in Russian, a cybercriminal says he or she is seeking "managers of Airbnb hosts -- I'm looking for people who have real hosts from this company," for a money laundering operation.
In a statement, Airbnb said, "Airbnb takes its responsibility as a participant in the financial ecosystem seriously and has developed sophisticated models, systems and processes to detect and prevent all forms of misuse and illegal activity. In addition to our own controls, Airbnb also works with other participants in the financial system including financial institutions, regulatory agencies and law enforcement to spot new trends in potential misuse and illegal activity and share information to combat illicit activity." Cyber criminals also continue using more "traditional" laundering methods, especially in the form of "bank drops" and gift card purchases. Commodities like iPhones are also popular -- criminals will buy them in bulk with dirty money and sell them at a steep discount, pocketing the clean money. According to the FBI, "Criminals can direct federal or state tax authorities to issue fraudulent tax refunds on prepaid debit cards," according to the Bureau, making it a popular method of executing tax refund scams. Virtual currency payment processors are also popular, as a way to funnel proceeds from cyber schemes like ransomware -- which often result in funds paid in cryptocurrency -- through several transactional layers in order to mask the origins of the cash.
Cleaning bitcoin with 'mixers' and other techniques
Other professional criminals on dark web chat rooms offer a variety of methods to clean dirty bitcoin. One of them involves using "mixers," which "divide currency among multiple accounts, transfer bitcoin through several other accounts, and eventually send them to one, external and clean account," Mador said. The mixing service provider collects a fee for this service, making it a lucrative illicit business of its own.
Ziv Mador, Trustwave research leader

Story 113
New Jersey just stopped the move toward cashless commerce in the Garden State dead in its tracks.
Gov. Phil Murphy on Monday signed a bill into law requiring most stores and restaurants in the state to accept cash at their brick-and-mortar locations, making New Jersey only the second state to bar businesses from refusing to accept legal tender.
Businesses like cashless payments for the ease of transaction, but experts say cashless businesses disenfranchise consumers who can’t access bank or credit cards.
“Many people don’t have access to consumer credit and any effort by retail establishments to ban the use of cash is discriminatory towards those people,” state Assemblyman Paul Moriarty, D-Gloucester, a main sponsor of the measure, said in a statement.
In fact, a national FDIC survey found 6.5 percent of all U.S. households did not have an account at a banking institution in 2017. The percentages are much higher for black households (16.9 percent) and Latino households (14 percent).
The ban applies to in-person sales only. Merchants can still require electronic payments for web, mail or phone orders. Additionally, car rental companies, parking garages and some airport retail shops are excluded. It takes effect immediately.
The New Jersey Business and Industry Association criticized the new law, saying it would “stifle innovation."
“Today’s signing removes a business owners’ right to freely determine how they would like to receive payment for their products and services. The preference for retailers to run a cashless business is often based on efficiencies and, in some cases, as a safety measure,” said Michael Wallace, NJBIA’s vice president of government Affairs.
Those who violate the statute would face a $2,500 fine for a first offense, $5,000 for a second offense, any subsequent offense would be unlawful practice under the state Consumer Fraud Act.
The state Senate passed the bill 39-0, and the Assembly passed it 72-2.
New Jersey now joins Massachusetts as the only states to have such a ban. That state enacted its law in 1978.
NJ Advance Media staff writer Brent Johnson contributed to this report.
Samantha Marcus may be reached at smarcus@njadvancemedia.com. Follow her on Twitter @samanthamarcus. Find NJ.com Politics on Facebook.

Story 114
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
If you misplace your credit card, you can probably relieve some angst immediately: Many major credit card issuers now let you lock or freeze your card for free, so it can’t be used by a thief.
But even when your card isn’t compromised, you can use its card-lock feature strategically for other reasons.
Here’s what to know.
» MORE: How to prevent credit card fraud
What is card lock?
Credit card companies call the feature different names, often using the terms “lock” or “freeze.” To initiate an immediate lock or to cancel a lock, use your card issuer’s mobile app or log in to your online account to activate an on-off switch. Many debit card accounts also feature a lock.
The idea is that if you misplace a card, you can lock it, or essentially turn it off. That would prevent a thief from making fraudulent charges with a stolen card number. If you find the card, you can unlock it, or turn it back on — all without a call to your card issuer.
Nerd Tip: Credit locks and credit freezes offered by credit bureaus are entirely different. They are broader, restricting access to your credit files. That makes it harder for a thief to open new credit accounts in your name. They do not restrict spending on your credit card.
Why lock a card?
You’re usually not liable for fraudulent credit card charges anyway, but locking a card might reduce hassle later in reporting fraudulent charges. And if you misplaced a card and are likely to find it, locking it is less trouble than canceling a card and being issued a new card number, which could affect autopay billing accounts.
Beyond helping with misplaced cards, card lock gives a measure of control to consumers, who are often innocent bystanders in an era of rampant data breaches.
» MORE: First time dealing with credit card fraud? Here’s what to know
Which transactions are locked?
When you lock a card, new charges and cash advances will be denied. However, recurring autopayments, such as subscriptions and monthly bills charged to the card, will continue to go through. Typically, so will bank fees, returns, credits, interest and rewards. Transactions that occurred before locking the card are unaffected.
Check with your issuer or its website to determine whether you have card lock and exactly how yours works, because locks work differently depending on the card issuer. For example, if the card is associated with a smartphone mobile payment app, such as Apple Pay, that may continue to work on a locked account. And cards differ on whether they allow balance transfers to go through when a card is locked.
Generally, a lock affects all cards with the same credit card number, which might affect authorized users of the card.
Some card locks or freezes remain until you unlock or thaw them. Other locks expire. For example, an American Express freeze expires in seven days.
Which issuers offer credit card locks?
Many issuers have added this feature in recent years. Here is a sampling of issuers and what they call the feature:
American Express freeze
Bank of America lock/unlock
Barclays SecurHold™
Capital One Card Lock
Chase lock/unlock
Citi Quick Lock
Discover Freeze it®
Wells Fargo Control Tower
Using card lock strategically
Besides locking a lost card, here are other ways you might use the feature:
Immediate response to a compromised card: If your card is part of a data breach or you’re already seeing fraudulent charges on your account, you can immediately shut off the card and then call the issuer. Those few minutes might prevent some fraudulent charges.
Nerd Tip: Locking your credit card is not a substitute for calling to cancel your card if it has, in fact, been permanently lost, stolen or fraudulently used.
Control impulse spending: Unrelated to security, you could lock all your credit cards and unlock them each time you make a purchase. That short delay fiddling with your phone might provide a cooling-off period during which you decide against an impulse purchase.
“Autopay and Everyday” strategy: If you designate a card for use with autopay only, you might as well lock it because recurring charges will still go through. Further, if you use only one card regularly, you could lock all others as a precaution.
Unused or seldom-used cards: You might be keeping open some credit cards because you’ve had them a long time, and that long history will help your credit scores. Lock unused cards as an extra measure of security.
Cutting off an authorized user: If yours is the type of card that turns off all credit cards associated with the account — Wells Fargo cards are an example — it could be a good way to control spending of an authorized user. For example, maybe you issued authorized user status to a child to help build their credit but don’t want them to actually charge anything to the card. And Barclays SecurHold™ allows you to set transaction limits for authorized users and block certain purchase categories.

Story 115
Getty
Ready to file your federal income tax return? If you owe taxes, don't forget to pay what you owe by Tax Day. If you pay your taxes in full by April 15, 2019, you'll avoid additional penalties and interest. Here are several options for paying your tax bill this year:
1. Pay by cash. It used to be the case that you couldn't pay your federal income tax bill in cash. Now, however, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) offers a way for you to pay your taxes using PayNearMe. You can find a list of locations near you here.
To make a payment, you'll need to visit the Official Payments page and follow the instructions. The IRS will then send you a code that you can take to a participating retailer where the clerk will scan the code so that you can make your payment. The whole process generally takes five to seven business days - which means your payment won't be timely for 2019 - but if cash is your only option, it's better to pay late than not at all. There is a fee ($3.99) to use the PayNearMe system, and the largest payment you can make is $1,000.
For more on paying with cash, click here.
2. Pay by check or money order. You can pay by check or money order even if you e-file. To pay what you owe, make your check or money order payable to "United States Treasury" for the full amount due. Write "2018 Form 1040" on the memo line together with your Social Security Number (if you are filing a joint return, write the SSN shown first on your tax return on the memo line). Make sure that your name, address, daytime phone number are on the check; that info may already be printed on your check so no need to duplicate it. Include payment together with a form 1040-V, Payment Voucher (downloads as a pdf) and mail the payment together with your form 1040-V to the address that corresponds to the state where you live:
IRS/KPE
While I know that writing a check to pay your taxes can be painful, be smart: Don't write a check that you don't have the funds to cover. You're not fooling anybody, and there is a penalty for writing a bad check to the IRS ($25 or 2% of the check, whichever is more). It's not worth it.
And remember that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) no longer accepts checks over $100 million (you're welcome)
3. Direct Pay. You can pay your taxes directly from your checking or savings account. To make a payment, click on over to the Direct Pay page. You'll choose the tax form (1), the reason for payment (2) and the tax year (3):
IRS/KPE
You'll need to verify your identity by providing information about your filing status from your last return as well as your name, SSN, birth date and address. Enter the payment amount, payment date and your bank account information. Click through to the end and you're done. The IRS doesn't keep your bank account information after payments are made and there is no fee for using the system.
You can schedule a payment or pay the same day, but IRS Direct Pay won't accept more than two payments within a 24-hour period. And if you owe bunches, note that each payment must be less than $10 million.
4. Pay by wire. Consider a same-day wire from your bank or financial institution. Contact your bank or financial institution - not the IRS - for details, including fees and deadlines. To make a payment, download and complete the Same Day Payment Worksheet to take with you to make the wire.
For information on making international wire transfers, check out this prior post.
5. Pay by Electronic Funds Withdrawal. Electronic Funds Withdrawal (EFW) is an option that you can use to pay by direct debit from your bank account. The IRS doesn’t charge a fee to use EFW but your financial institution might (check first to avoid a last-minute panic). You'll need to know your bank routing and account numbers (more on those here). For more information about EFW, click here.
6. Pay by Debit or Credit Card. You can pay what you owe by debit or credit card. Most of the approved IRS payment processors accept Visa, MasterCard, Discover, and American Express. You can find a list of payment processors here.
Generally, there's no limit on the amount you can pay, but you are restricted to paying by credit card two times in one year for the same individual tax bill. High-balance payments of more than $100,000 may require coordination with your credit card or debit card provider.
Third-party credit and debit card providers may charge a fee, which may vary by provider, card type, and payment amount. Applicable fees for debit cards range from $2.00 to $3.95 while fees for credit cards range from 1.87% to 1.99% (minimum fees apply). The convenience fee paid to your provider will be listed as "Tax Payment Convenience Fee" or something similar, while the tax payment will show "United States Treasury Tax Payment."
For more info about paying with a debit or credit card, check out the IRS website.
Keep in mind that different rules (and fees) apply for integrated IRS e-file and e-pay service providers. Find out more here.
7. Pay using PayPal, Samsung Pay or Android Pay. You can pay your federal income tax bill using these features but only one payment processor currently offers these options:
PayUSAtax.com (WorldPay US, Inc.)
844.729.8298 Payment
855.508.0159 Live Operator
844.825.8729 Service
8. Use the Electronic Federal Tax Payment System (EFTPS) to pay by phone or online. To make a payment using EFTPS by phone, call 1.800.555.3453. People who are deaf, hard of hearing, or have a speech disability and who have access to TTY/TDD equipment can call 1.800.733.4829. To make a payment using EFTPS online, log in and follow the prompts. You can schedule your payment by 8 p.m. EST at least one calendar day in advance of the due date. It's worth noting that your tax payment is due even if the website is not available, so plan ahead.
You must be enrolled to use EFTPS. To enroll, click here and follow the steps. After your information is validated with the IRS, you'll receive a personal identification number (PIN) in the mail in five to seven business days. Between the IRS and the U.S. Postal Service, you're going to need to be patient.
Also, as scammers ramp up their efforts to steal your personal and financial information, keep in mind that EFTPS will never contact you via e-mail. If you receive an e-mail that claims to be from the EFTPS tax payment service or from a sender you do not recognize that claims to have information about a payment scheduled through this service, forward the e-mail to phishing@irs.gov or call the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration at 1.800.366.4484.
A few more payment tips:
Plan ahead. If you pay by mail, your payment is generally treated as paid as of the date of the postmark. For other payment options, your payment is considered received when accepted, not initialized. Be sure to schedule electronic payments in advance to avoid late fees and penalties. And remember that accidents happen, so leave some extra time, just in case.
If you pay by mail, your payment is generally treated as paid as of the date of the postmark. For other payment options, your payment is considered received when accepted, not initialized. Be sure to schedule electronic payments in advance to avoid late fees and penalties. And remember that accidents happen, so leave some extra time, just in case. These options apply if you’re filing your tax return and if you’re filing for an extension. Remember, an extension extends the time to file, not the time to pay. You’ll want to make a payment with your extension request if you will owe tax. For more on extensions, click here.
Remember, an extension extends the time to file, not the time to pay. You’ll want to make a payment with your extension request if you will owe tax. For more on extensions, click here. Paying late? Pay anyway. Notwithstanding the above, it's better to pay late than not at all. If you're going to be late, don't let it stop you.
Notwithstanding the above, it's better to pay late than not at all. If you're going to be late, don't let it stop you. Be smart. No matter how you choose to pay, do not send cash through the mail.
No matter how you choose to pay, do not send cash through the mail. Pay attention to your clicks. If you’re not sure that you’re using a legitimate payment method, you can always click back to the IRS website. Only use the methods approved by the IRS. Remember that you cannot pay your taxes with iTunes or other gift cards (more here).
If you’re not sure that you’re using a legitimate payment method, you can always click back to the IRS website. Only use the methods approved by the IRS. Remember that you cannot pay your taxes with iTunes or other gift cards (more here). Use the right currency . Even if you’re paying tax on foreign income, you must pay in U.S. dollars.
. Even if you’re paying tax on foreign income, you must pay in U.S. dollars. And here's your money-saving tip of the day: You do not have to send payment if the amount you owe is under $1.
This information, of course, assumes that you have the money to pay your tax bill. If you can't pay your tax bill in full, consider an installment agreement or check out these options.

Story 116
Sweden's Cashless Experiment: Is It Too Much Too Fast?
Enlarge this image toggle caption Maddy Savage for NPR Maddy Savage for NPR
Cash is still king around the world, but there are pockets of places, especially in Europe, moving away from cash. And no one is dropping cash as fast as Sweden.
In 2018, only 13 percent of Swedes reported using cash for a recent purchase, according to a nationwide survey, down from around 40 percent in 2010. In the capital, Stockholm, most people can't even remember the last time they had coins jingling in their pockets.
By contrast, around 70 percent of Americans still use cash on a weekly basis, according to a recent study by the Pew Research Center.
In Sweden, however, especially in bigger cities, going cashless is becoming the norm. Purchases usually happen as digital transactions — by card, online or with Sweden's most popular mobile payment app, Swish.
"It's good for both the guests and for us," says Christopher Loob, general manager of Urban Deli, a restaurant and ecological food company in Stockholm that stopped accepting cash a year ago. "It's saved us a lot of time in that we don't have to count cash anymore. There's hardly been any reaction. Almost everybody has the alternative payment method — a credit card."
The trend has spurred Ikea to test making its store in Gavle (about 100 miles north of Stockholm) completely cash free. And Ahlens, the country's largest department store chain, is also experimenting with the concept in some locations. Buses and trains no longer take bills or change. Nationwide rail company SJ has even started allowing customers to store digital tickets on microchips in their hands.
But all this change has also spurred a debate in the Nordic nation over the consequences of how quickly Sweden is going cashless, especially for the most vulnerable groups in society. Many retirees, people with disabilities and newly arrived refugees struggle with digital transactions.
"If you go to a bar or if you go to some shops, they say to you that the only way to pay is to pay with cards or this Swish system," explains 75-year-old Christina Tallberg, who is president of the Swedish National Pensioners' Organisation.
She says that even going to public toilets can pose a problem. These often cost 10 kronor (around a dollar) in Sweden, but the toilets rarely accept cash these days.
"This is both a personal problem, but it's also a problem for the civic society," Tallberg says. "As long as it's legal to pay with notes and coins, it must be up to the individual to choose how you will do your payments."
Another concern is that the majority of local bank branches have stopped letting people take out cash or even bring cash into the bank. Even Sweden's central bank — the Riksbank — which largely supports the transformation of the country's payment system, has also argued that going completely cashless can be risky.
"We would like to see the banks continuing supplying their customers with cash services," says Bjorn Segendorf, an adviser in the Riksbank's payments department. "It gives the freedom of choice for consumers. It's also [because] still there are people who are dependent on cash."
He says that many of those working in the financial sector have been "taken by surprise" by the speed at which Sweden seems to be phasing out cash.
"Most countries are pushing digital technology, and if you are successful, this will have consequences for cash," Segendorf says. "You have to realize this early, and I think we were too late with that."
A digital frontier
A big reason that Sweden has moved more quickly than other places toward becoming a cashless society is that the country is also considered a pioneer in digital technologies.
Strong broadband coverage, even in remote areas, and a small, tech-savvy population of just 10 million have contributed to the cashless trend picking up more quickly in Sweden than elsewhere. Meanwhile, businesses have been keen to get rid of coins and notes since a string of high-profile robberies in the early 2000s that got unions campaigning for cash-free workplaces.
Also, a lot of Swedes just have a deeper trust in both institutions and new technologies. That has delayed public debates about digital security, compared with other nations, where populations are warier of state or company surveillance, according to Claire Ingram Bogusz, a researcher at the Stockholm School of Economics, who studies digital payment systems.
"Ordinary Swedes are not concerned at all. The convenience of having your bank account, your money at your fingertips and increasingly on your smart watch vastly outweighs any concerns that they have about security or about being tracked," she says.
However, Ingram Bogusz points out that the recent Cambridge Analytica scandal, in which a personality profile test scooped up Facebook users' data for political research, has made more people aware of how their data could be used. Also, advocacy groups are becoming increasingly vocal about the potential downsides of a cashless society.
"There is a very, very large number of people who ... don't think that the state should be trusted as blindly as many do," Ingram Bogusz says.
A parliamentary committee is studying the impact of Sweden's falling cash use. And lawmakers are exploring how well the country could handle digital payments in the event of a hacking or power failure. Last year, the government issued a leaflet to all Swedish households advising them to put some cash aside in case of a national crisis or even war.
Meanwhile, Sweden's central bank is testing out a new state-issued digital currency, the e-krona, which it hopes could be less vulnerable to attacks — by being independent from global payment systems like Visa and Mastercard.
Despite the popularity of digital payment systems, studies suggest that the majority of Swedes believe that bills and coins should continue to exist, even if they rarely use them.
One survey by the Swedish polling firm Sifo last year suggested that seven out of 10 Swedes still want the option to be able to use cash as well as cards and apps.
"I like the idea of having cash myself but also having money in a bank ... and using both ways of payment," remarks Annabelle Nowak Braberg, 19, who was studying with friends back at Urban Deli.
"Last week, I had lost my card and I had to order a new one, so I had to take out some cash," Nowak Braberg says.
Sweden may be at the forefront of the cashless trend, but it seems the country is still not quite ready for a completely cashless future.

Story 117
Revolut has a banking licence in Lithuania, an emoney licence in the UK, operates in Ireland on a freedom of services basis and intends to be a member of the putative European Deposit Insurance Scheme (EDIS), which would protect depositors up to €100,000.
But what does this all mean to your average user of Revolut and other digital banks? And how does the regulatory structure serve Irish depositors when it comes to ebanks?
Since arriving in Ireland three years ago, Revolut has exploded in popularity. Nifty tools, such as allowing you to ramp up your savings every time you buy a flat white, or enabling you to split a bill with ease with your phone when out with friends, or not charging you a fortune when you take out money during a weekend in Belfast, means the fintech start-up has quickly built up a significant base here.
A spokesman for Revolut tells us that it now has almost 300,000 customers in Ireland, a phenomenal take-up from a standing start in 2016. To put this in context, there are about 4.3 million debit cards in use in Ireland, which indicates that the UK-based start-up now has a 7 per cent share of the debit card market.
While the financial crisis has imprinted the importance of deposit protection schemes on our brains when looking for a bank for our money, the protections offered to consumers with emoney institutions like Revolut, Facebook and Google, are a lot less clear.
Regulation
It’s a legitimate concern – one that has exercised many users of the digital money service if you consider the questions and answers section on Revolut’s site, where customers have posted questions on everything from deposit guarantee schemes to the order of creditors in the event of insolvency.
Revolut says it takes the safety and security of customers money “incredibly seriously” and has outlined the protections in place for consumers.
So what safeguards are in place?
Last December, Revolut received a licence from the European Central Bank to operate as a specialised bank in Lithuania. This means that deposits with Revolut – in Lithuania – are protected by the local deposit protection scheme (DPS), of up to €100,000 each.
If Revolut opted to passport this licence to Ireland, then its customers here would benefit from the DPS. But it doesn’t appear to have any plans to do so.
Next up is the company’s claim that customers will be able to benefit from the EDIS “in the future”.
But as it also points out on its website, “this scheme is not currently in place”. The EDIS is still very much a pipe dream and there is no firm timeline on when this will actually come to fruition.
If Irish customers cannot rely on a DPS to cover their money, what protections can they fall back on?
Revolut is authorised in the UK by the FCA under the Electronic Money Regulations 2011, and according to the Central Bank of Ireland, is passporting its services into Ireland on a freedom of services basis.
In line with these regulations, Irish customers’ money must be kept in a segregated account in a tier-one institution (Lloyds in the case of Revolut) and Revolut has no access to this money. If it becomes insolvent, customers would be able to claim this money back from the bank.
According to the FCA, depositors will get their funds back in priority to all other creditors. So Irish customers can take comfort from this.
“Unless all the emoney or payment services clients are paid back in full no other creditors will receive any of the safeguarded funds,” a spokesman for the regulator told me.
Exceptions
But be warned: there are some exceptions. If, for some reason, an emoney company didn’t safeguard 100 per cent of its clients’ funds, and there was a shortfall in the event of insolvency – then the FCA says depositors would have to get in line and lodge an “unsecured claim against the general assets of the failed firm”.
This could also arise in the event that the costs of distribution of these safeguarded funds exceeding the funds available.
Brexit will impact Revolut’s ability to passport into the Irish market and it remains to be seen whether the company uses its emoney licence in Lithuania as a springboard into the market here, or seeks a licence in Ireland.
Also be aware that if you’ve been putting your money into litecoin or bitcoin with Revolut, these transactions won’t be safeguarded under the emoney regulations.
What would happen if the bank holding these segregated accounts goes bust?
The UK’s Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) covers deposits of up to £85,000 (€99,000), and as a regulated emoney institution, customers of Revolut may be entitled to this compensation too, a spokesman for the FSCS says. There is a caveat – the FSCS says it cannot say for definite if this is the case or not, and would only be able to do so in the event of an actual default.
Digital banks have transformed financial services but consumers need to be aware of the potential pitfalls should they fail.

Story 118
Introduction
Recognising the new risks arising from technology, which is transforming payments, as well as from the merging of services that were previously regulated separately, the Payment Services Act (PSA) was passed into law on 14 January 2019. With the aim of providing for the licensing and regulation of payment service providers, the oversight of payment systems and connected matters under one consolidated act, the PSA seeks to combine the previous Payment Systems (Oversight) Act 2006 and the Money-Changing and Remittance Businesses Act 1979 into a forward looking and flexible framework. At the same time, the PSA aims to create an innovative environment for Financial Technology (FinTech) in Singapore.
In summary, the PSA comprises of two (2) parallel regulatory frameworks – (a) a designation regime which allows the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) to designate significant payment systems which are widely used in Singapore or where operations have an impact on other payment systems in Singapore, to maintain financial stability of the payment services market, as well as ensure efficiency and competition in the financial system to the extent a payment system becomes widely used and dominant and can potentially shut off competition and new innovative players, and (b) a licensing regime which allows the MAS to regulate a wide range of payment services in a way that matches the scope and scale of such services provided by each service provider.
The focus of this article will be on the licensing regime, and will be broken up into three parts:

Part I. General Provisions will examine the provisions in respect of the licensing regime for payment service providers;

Part II. Licences will cover the legal obligations that payment service providers need to comply with; and

Part III. FinTech Activities will broadly analyse how certain blockchain or financial technology (FinTech) activity is affected by the PSA.
Part I. General provisions
Under the PSA, any entity that engages in the provision of payment services will need a licence in order to provide those services. What constitutes “payment services” under PSA can be broken down into seven broad categories:
account issuance; domestic money transfers; cross border money transfers; merchant acquisition; e-money issuance; digital payment token; and money-changing.
While these services and their definitions are broad in nature, there have been specific exceptions, which are provided for under the PSA.

The seven broad categories of payment services will be licensed under three classes of licences, namely the money-changing licence, the standard payment institution licence and the major payment institution licence. The MAS has anticipated that a service provider may provide more than one payment service as part of their business. However, each class of licence is intended to be broad enough to deal with the different combinations of payment services that a service provider may offer, thereby allowing each service provider to hold only one of the three classes of licences. Regulation for each licence holder is scaled in proportion to the risk, which the service provider poses to the public. Please refer to Part II of this article for details on the services covered under each class of licence.
To combat the risk of payment services being used for any illicit activities, any licence holder will need to comply with the various anti-money laundering and countering the financing of terrorism (AML/CFT) regulations and may in certain situations, need to set up cybersecurity procedures to reduce technological and cyber risks. The main aim of ensuring compliance with these regulations is to protect the everyday consumer against the loss of funds or merchant insolvency.
Part II. Licences
The payment services covered under each class of licence are broadly:
the standard payment institution licence is required where the licensee carries on one of the payment services (save for money-changing service) or two or more of the payment services (including money-changing service); the major payment institution licence is required where: the licensee carries on one or more of the payment services (save for money-changing service or e-money account issuance service) and the average of the total value of all payment transactions by the licensee in one (1) month exceeds S$3 million (or equivalent in foreign currency) for any one of the payment services or S$6 million (or equivalent in foreign currency) for 2 or more of those aforementioned payment services;
the licensee carries on the business of providing e-money account issuance service and the average over a calendar year of total value in one day of all e-money stored in any payment account exceeds S$5 million (or equivalent in foreign currency); or
the licensee carries on the business of providing e-money issuance service and the average over a calendar year of the total value in one day of all specified e-money issued by the licensee exceeds S$5 million (or equivalent in foreign currency); and the money-changing licence is required where a licensee carries on a business of providing a money-changing service unless the licensee has a standard payment institution licence or major payment institution licence that allows such licensee to carry on money-changing services.
In respect of blockchain and FinTech activities, this Article will be focusing primarily on the standard and major payment institution licences.
(A) Standard Payment Institution licence
For a service provider which wishes to engage in any payment services, it will need to apply to the MAS for a standard payment institution licence. It should be noted that standard payment institutions are subject to specific thresholds. They may only accept, process or execute an average of S$3 million for any one of the above mentioned payment services per calendar year or S$6 million per calendar year for 2 or more of the above mentioned payment services. If the thresholds have been exceeded, then the service provider must apply for a major payment institution licence. Standard payment institutions subject to the abovementioned various thresholds will need to comply with the various legal obligations as licence holders.
MAS hopes that with lighter regulation on standard payment institutions, the licensing regime may continue to encourage innovation and enterprise. This can encourage smaller e-money and digital payment token issuers with lower than S$5 million in average daily float, an opportunity to enter into the market without having to be concerned about being heavily regulated as compared with major payment institutions.
Additional shareholding restrictions on licensee
Any individual or entity anywhere in the world is prohibited from becoming a 20% controller of a licensee without first applying for an obtaining the approval of MAS. This is a significant impact and consequence of the legislation because it gives MAS the ability to scrutinise the entities and individuals behind such payment service providers. Furthermore, this restriction is not limited to potential 20% controllers of the company, but also existing 20% controllers. Should MAS raise an objection, that person must then cease to be a 20% controller of the licensee. Indeed, any issue or offer of shares against the direction or restrictions imposed by MAS will be void.
Control of officers of licensees
Appointment of CEOs or partners by a licensee requires the prior approval of the MAS.
Inspections, investigations and emergency powers
The MAS may inspect under conditions of secrecy, the books of the licensee or exempt payment service provider and investigate such licensees or exempt payment service providers to determine whether they are conducting their business in a way that can be detrimental to the interests of their customers, or where there is a suspected offence under the PSA.
In the event that the licensee is unable to meet its obligations, where it appears necessary to the MAS, the MAS may exercise its powers over the licensee, which includes assuming control over and management of the business of the licensee.
Assistance to foreign regulatory authorities
Furthermore, the MAS may even provide to regulatory authorities outside Singapore materials from such digital token payment service providers materials to enable them to carry out an investigation or enforcement when requested to do so.
(B) Major Payment Institution Licence
Should a service provider exceed the specified thresholds under the PSA, the service provider will need to apply for a major payment institution licence. Major payment institution licensees are subject to more regulation under the PSA as their scale of operations will pose greater risk to the public.
Besides the general statutory obligations mentioned above, which standard payment institutional licensees are subject to, major payment institutional licensees are also required to maintain with the MAS a prescribed amount for due performance of its obligations to every payment service user who is a customer of the licensee, in the event of insolvency. As prescribed by the PSA, a major payment institution has to put the following safeguards in place: 1) an undertaking or guarantee by any bank in Singapore or prescribed financial institution to be fully liable to the customer for such monies; 2) a deposit in a trust account; or 3) any other safeguards as may be prescribed by MAS.
Interoperability
As mentioned, with the influx of payment services in Singapore, the MAS is concerned that payment solutions in Singapore will become fragmented and confusing to the average consumer. As such, the MAS has been encouraging the payment services industry to ensure that the various payment services are interoperable and has introduced a standardised and unified QR code called SGQR. As a last resort under the PSA, MAS has the power to ensure interoperability between payment service providers. Such power to ensure interoperability is only applicable towards major payment institutions, exempt payment service providers or a person exempted under section 100 of the PSA. However, this does not apply to digital token providers and cryptocurrency exchanges because they do not issue payment accounts or operate payment systems within the definition under sections 25 and 26 of the PSA.
Given MAS’ stance on interoperability, businesses which are seeking to start up and expand their own payment services business should be mindful while conceptualising or designing their proprietary payment services system or framework, including the software architecture.
Part III. FinTech Activities
With such a broad and expansive scope, how does the PSA affect FinTech activities in Singapore? In the next section of this article, we will be exploring the following three FinTech activities: (A) Digital token exchanges and providers; (B) Platforms with stored values; and (C) Fundraising activities through digital tokens.
(A) Digital Token Exchanges & Providers
Introduction
While there appears to be differing but actually overlapping definitions of what a “digital token”, “cryptographic token” or “cryptocurrency” is, for the purposes of this article, when referring to a “digital token”, we will be referring to the broad category of digitally recorded instruments, whether or not stored on a blockchain, decentralised or encrypted using cryptography. These have taken on many different and increasingly complex characteristics since becoming popular in 2017 and 2018 when offerings of digital tokens became widely popular and were used as an alternative source of fundraising. These range from:
pseudo-currencies (commonly known as cryptocurrencies); utility tokens (tokens which allow access to services or products which have been developed or were promised to be developed); and securities tokens (tokens which had features resembling securities, debts or sophisticated financial instruments or products).
Under the PSA, the characteristics or function of the digital token is what determines which relevant licence is to be obtained. Businesses seeking to introduce the use of digital tokens into their existing businesses, whether as a medium of exchange unique to its platform or ecosystem (whether or not pegged to fiat currency), or as a store of fiat currency, will have to grapple with the issue of whether the introduced token and the system on which the tokens circulate, are subject to licensing and regulatory requirements.
Under the PSA, the characteristics or function of the digital token is what determines which relevant licence is to be obtained. Businesses seeking to introduce the use of digital tokens into their existing businesses, whether as a medium of exchange unique to its platform or ecosystem (whether or not pegged to fiat currency), or as a store of fiat currency, will have to grapple with the issue of whether the introduced token and the system on which the tokens circulate, are subject to licensing and regulatory requirements.
Exchanges
Digital token exchanges are websites where one can purchase, sell or exchange digital tokens for other digital tokens or traditional fiat currency such as US dollars. From a business perspective, these websites are broadly categorised into three types:
Centralised marketplaces, which allow interaction between buyers and sellers thereby facilitating transactions, with concluded transaction prices reflected. Such websites charge transaction fees; Facilitation of peer to peer transactions, where buyers and sellers are free to set their own prices (sometimes known as decentralised exchanges or “DEXes”); and Acting as direct counterparties, buying and selling as a principal with other buyers and sellers.
Similarly, in relation to systems or platforms where digital tokens circulate, these websites will be considered as providing digital payment token services, and will therefore be subject to licensing and regulatory requirements. In addition, to the extent that the tokens fall within the categories of derivatives contracts, securities or units in collective investment schemes, the website can be considered an “organised market” under the Securities and Futures Act (Cap. 289) of Singapore and unless exempted, be subject to licensing and regulatory requirements as an approved exchange or a recognised market operator.
Digital Payment Tokens
Under the PSA, the provision of any service dealing in digital payment tokens or facilitating the exchange of digital payment tokens falls within the ambit of providing a “digital payment token service”. Therefore, so long as the service provider provides the service of purchasing or selling such digital payment tokens in the exchange, or the service of establishing or operating a digital payment token exchange for the purposes of an offer or invitation to buy or sell any type of digital payment tokens, the service provider will be considered to be providing such a “digital payment token service”, and will require a licence to operate. A provider of digital payment token services, as well as digital token exchanges (depending on the tokens traded on the exchange) may therefore require a licence entitling it to carry on such business of providing a “digital payment token service”. This is the case even if the provision of such a payment service is “related or incidental to” the primary business, unless an entity is licensed, exempted or regulated under the Financial Advisers Act, Insurance Act, Securities and Futures Act or Trust Companies Act. Even then, the exemption applies only to such extent where the payment services are wholly incidental to or necessary for those entities to carry out the regulated activity under the prescribed legislation.
Service providers, which only provide or exchange “Limited Purpose Digital Payment Tokens” and “Central Bank Digital Payment Tokens” are exempted from the requirement of applying for a licence.
The “Limited Purpose Digital Payment Token” exclusion refers to payment services, which involve non-monetary consumer loyalty or reward points or in-game assets or similar digital representations of value, which cannot be returned to the issuer or sold, transferred or exchanged for money. On the other hand, the “Central Bank Digital Payment Token” exception is one where a central bank or financial institution provides services for dealing in or facilitating the exchange of central bank digital payment tokens. In the former, Parliament has considered such activities to not pose sufficient risk to warrant regulation under the licensing regime. In respect of the latter, the rationale was that such institutions would have already been sufficiently regulated.
(B) Platforms with stored values
Platforms with stored values include popular service providers such as Grab Pay, Google Pay, Apple Pay and includes EZ-link and NETS cards. Cards such as EZ-link and Nets were previously regulated under the Payment Services (Oversight) Act, which has now been subsumed into the PSA. The definition of “e-money” in the PSA includes electronically stored monetary value that has been paid in advance to enable the making of payment transactions through the use of a payment account. This means that operators of these platforms are now considered as operating an e-money issuance service and will therefore be required to obtain a licence under the PSA. Further, if the e-money stored in e-wallets, accounts or cards are used to purchase goods or services, the service provider will be conducting an account issuance service (through the creation of the e-wallets to hold the stored value) and a merchant acquisition service (usage of the stored value within the e-wallets to purchase goods or services). Operators of stored value platforms may thus have to apply for a single licence that encompasses the aforementioned three services.
It should be noted that e-money issuance service providers are subject to further regulations in addition to those under their licence obligations. Therefore, platforms with stored values are not permitted to on-lend the monies received from customers as payment for e-money, or to use these monies or any interest earned on these monies to finance, wholly or to any material extent, any business carried on by it. This prohibition was introduced to distinguish between e-money issuers and deposit-taking institutions.
Further, e-money issuers have an additional specified threshold under the PSA. Should the average daily value of all specified e-money issued by the licensee exceed S$5 million within a calendar year, the e-money issuer will need to apply for a major payment institution licence. Specified e-money is defined under the PSA to be any e-money that has been issued: (a) to any person whom the issuer of the e-money has determined, according to such criteria as MAS may specify by notice in writing, to be a resident in Singapore; or (b) in Singapore to a person whom the issuer of the e-money has not determined, according to such criteria as MAS may specify by notice in writing, to be a resident outside of Singapore.
However, a notable exception is that any service provider providing “Limited purpose e-money” is not considered by the PSA as providing a payment service. The definition of “limited purpose e-money” seems to confine the use of any e-monies to Singapore and tries to limit the use of such e-monies to a single merchant, issuer or public authority. This exception will include electronic gift cards, club reward cards and anything with value stored within them.
(C) Fundraising activities through digital tokens
The most popular way to fundraise through digital tokens is via the issuance of Initial Coin Offerings (ICOs). ICOs have become an alternative source of fundraising for companies around the world in recent years. In summary, ICOs are usually held prior to the launch of a project to fund the project’s development. Early backers of the project will purchase tokens during the ICO, which may grant certain perks to the token holder. These tokens usually entail access to the particular platform, service or product being developed, but can also include privileges such as voting powers in relation to the project, or the opportunity to earn returns. To the extent that these tokens fall within the definitions of securities, securities-based derivatives contracts or capital markets products under the Securities and Futures Act (Cap 289) of Singapore, these will be subject to the requirements under such act, including the requirement for a prospectus to be registered with the MAS.
The initial sale price of the tokens are determined by the token issuer, usually with reference to market demand. After the initial distribution from the ICO, the tokens are typically listed and traded on a cryptocurrency exchange, after which the price of the tokens are determined by market forces of supply and demand. Once the tokens are listed on a cryptocurrency exchange, token holders have the option of cashing out to any fiat-backed currency or converting the tokens into other forms of cryptocurrency. Some digital token exchanges have also undertaken initial distribution of such tokens in what are known as initial exchange offerings or “IEOs”.
Due to the flexible nature of such tokens, it will be impossible to cover and regulate every iteration of tokens that can be structured or devised. Based on the definition of “digital payment token” as well as “e-money” found in the PSA, many tokens in the market today can be viewed as either e-money or digital payment tokens, and any service provider who issues tokens falling within such categories through an ICO can be deemed as providing a digital payment token service or e-money issuance by the PSA, except tokens which have a limited purpose, as explained above under (A) Digital token exchanges & providers.
Since the requirement of a licence is dependent on the token being issued by an issuer, it is pertinent in the structuring of the tokens in any such ICO, to make a distinction in the types of tokens which can be issued by a company.
Summary Table
Activity Services under the PSA Licence required Licence requirements Digital token exchanges and providers Digital payment token and account issuance services Below the specified thresholds under section 6 of the PSA: standard payment institution licence Above the specified thresholds under section 6 of the PSA: major payment institution licence Standard payment institution: a. Disclosure requirements
b. AML/CFT requirements
c. Technology risk management requirements (only for designated payment systems)
d. Duty to apply for variation of licence before thresholds are breached
e. Approval for appointment of CEO or partners
f. Approval for change in control of shareholding

Major payment institution: a. Same as the above
b. Requirements on safeguarding e-money float or funds Platforms with stored value E-money issuance, account issuance and merchant acquisition services Fundraising activities through digital tokens Digital payment token and account issuance services
Conclusion
The PSA is expected to take effect in the later part of 2019, together with subsidiary legislation, which can provide substantive licence application forms, processes and procedures. Prospective businesses seeking to start or venture into a FinTech business in Singapore are strongly encouraged to seek professional advice from qualified legal practitioners to ensure that their proposed activities are in compliance with all applicable regulations in Singapore.
Dentons Rodyk acknowledges and thanks Practice Trainees Ian Xu and Ulanda Oon for their contributions to this article.

Story 119
Make informed decisions with the FT
Keep abreast of significant corporate, financial and political developments around the world. Stay informed and spot emerging risks and opportunities with independent global reporting, expert commentary and analysis you can trust.

Story 120
Apple is launching a radically different credit card, and soon. It's called simply Apple Card and will have its home in the Wallet app on iPhones. With Apple Card, you'll be able to buy things using the contactless payment feature in an iPhone or Apple Watch.
For those places which don't have contactless payment, well, Apple Card will come in a physical form as well. And what a form: the card is made of titanium and looks, as the late Steve Jobs would have said, “insanely great”.
Apple
Update: This post has now been updated to add in the new details about Canada.
Apple Card was announced to the world in Cupertino on March 25 this year, in an event which also revealed Apple TV+, the games service, Apple Arcade and the subscription service for newspapers and magazines, Apple News+.
It promises to be a ground-breaking service in many respects, with no fees (not even the late fees we all dread), deep integration with the iPhone and even a calculator which works out in real-time exactly how much interest you will pay if you only settle part of your outstanding balance. It will also offer cash back on purchases, 2% on Apple Pay purchases or as much as 3% when you’re buying something actually from Apple. If you’re buying from a store that doesn’t accept Apple Card, you’ll get a lower cashback amount.
It is due to arrive soon in the U.S. Here’s everything we know about the rollout and what happens to the rest of the world.
David Phelan
When is it out in the U.S?
Apple being Apple, details have so far been scant. The only thing we’ve been told so far is that it will launch in the States this summer. Well, we’re certainly in that season now, so maybe it won’t be long.
It needs the right iOS software to be able to work and it looks like the current beta version of iOS 12, version 12.4, will be what’s needed. That beta has now reached version 7, so it’s possible that it will leave beta status in a matter of days and that, surely, is when the Card will be available, right?
I may be wrong, but I believe that it won’t be quite as soon as some have said, that is, I don't believe Apple Card will launch this week. It may not be next week either, though it’s very likely that by early August it will be available, I’d say.
Apple
How important is it?
Apple needs to make sure the launch goes without a hitch, as does Goldman Sachs, the bank with which it’s developing Apple Card. Now, CNBC has reported, the bank’s Chief Financial Officer Stephen Scherr has talked of the cost of setting up projects including Apple Card and the risk attached.
“There’s no denying the consumer business — whether Apple Card or Marcus — is a risk business. We’ll continue to look at it on a risk-adjusted return basis.”
How about countries beyond the U.S?
Apple has been pretty tight-lipped about when and where the Card will appear next. When Apple Pay went beyond American shores, its first port of call was the U.K. It was a good choice, not least because Britain has a widespread contactless card payment infrastructure. So, delivering Apple Card to British consumers may be high on Apple’s list.
As if to confirm this, Patently Apple has spotted that Apple has made trademark filings for “Apple Pay” and “Apple Cash” in both Europe and Hong Kong.
For the time being at least, the U.K. remains a member of the European Union, so filing in Europe works for all 28 nations in the bloc. Hong Kong, also a leader in contactless payment acceptance, is a smart place to go next, too.
Now, Canadian newspaper The Star has reported that Apple has applied for an Apple Card trademark in Canada, too. It looks like Apple made the application this week and the typical time for approval can be up to 10 months, which means a late Spring launch in Canada.
As with the other applications, Apple applied for the Apple Cash trademark, too, the system where Apple customers can send money to each other using the Messages app. It’s currently only available in the U.S., though iPhone users in the U.K. and Canada have reported seeing Apple Pay Cash appear in the Wallet app on iPhone and Apple Watch for some time, even though it’s not working.
And when?
No date has been set but there seems to be considerable energy behind moving fast, well, as fast as financial institutions can manage. I’m guessing that we may see it in territories beyond the States before the end of 2019 and then Canada in 2020.
I’m updating this article as more evidence becomes available, so please check back.
__________
Follow me on Instagram, davidphelantech and Twitter, @davidphelan2009
More on Forbes
Apple Unveils 20 Of 59 New Emoji For World Emoji Day, Including One You’re Going To Use Non-Stop
Move Over, AirPods 2: AirPods 3 Launching Soon With Neat Upgrades, Analysts Predict
Samsung Galaxy Watch Active 2 May Sport Apple Watch 4's Coolest Features
Forget AirPods 2: Sony's Latest In-Ears Boast Cool Extra Features
Bose Headphones 700: Gorgeous Noise-Cancelers Make A Dazzling First Impression

Story 121
Maryland resident Barbara Tunstall relies on a cannabidiol (CBD) flower in a vape she said helps her chronic pain and a topical CBD cream she finds relieves spasms. Along with coconut oil-based pills she used to get from her prescribing doctor, Tunstall credits her quality of life to CBD products. However, among the hoops Tunstall had to jump through in Maryland to get a medical cannabis license is one unexpected hurdle — Tunstall’s only payment option is cash.
Like most medical cannabis dispensaries around Maryland, Tunstall’s go-to location Curio Wellness only won’t take credit cards for payment. According to a statement provided to The Mighty by a Curio Wellness representative, “we accept debit cards as well [as] cash. At this time we are unable to accept credit cards because credit card processors will not allow cannabis (THC) transactions.”
Tunstall expressed frustration at the additional obstacles and expense she must wade through to find relief for chronic conditions that a mixed but growing body of research suggests may benefit from cannabis products.
“Since the prices vary I’m never sure how much to withdraw in cash for what I need,” Tunstall told The Mighty. “I’m dealing with chronic pain, it’s another barrier placed on getting effective treatment. I could try something [over the counter]. Less effective and end up wasting more time and effort. Exhausting.”
You’ve likely seen cannabis and CBD products everywhere, from the internet to the shelves of popular retailers. What you probably didn’t know, however, is many cannabis companies are drowning in a sea of grey-area federal, state and local laws that mean many can’t easily accept your payment. It’s not just Tunstall or Maryland.
“I tried to buy CBD product just this week from a website and they wouldn’t take my Mastercard debit card so I had to use my husband’s visa instead,” Mighty community member Mindy said. “It was strange and frustrating!”
Mastercard, Visa, American Express, PayPal, Square, Stripe and Shopify all refuse to process payments for CBD companies, which means when you show up to a dispensary or try to place an order online, be prepared to need an alternate method of payment.
What’s the Deal With Paying for CBD?
Most of the major companies that accept payment, including credit cards Mastercard and Visa, and sites that cater to online sales like PayPal or Shopify, won’t directly accept payment for cannabis products. These companies are generally referred to as payment processors or merchant services. They act as a go-between for a company’s bank and your bank account during retail transactions.
Without a payment processor or service like PayPal to collect customers’ money, a business must try to find a high-risk merchant service account that charges the company extra fees to process payments, turn to cryptocurrency-backed options or simply accept cash and e-checks, which is inconvenient for customers and, in the case of cash, impractical for online-only CBD companies.
Mastercard and Visa all refuse to accept transactions for marijuana dispensaries, even where they are legal, and it may not be long before they also demand businesses stop selling hemp and CBD for fear of being held liable.
More at https://t.co/iiPJWJwBzP#cbd #hemp #hempinUS pic.twitter.com/PYefpVtWz2 — Salve Love (@Infuzzed) July 8, 2019
Steven Wood launched a hemp-based CBD product store, Assuage, in February for CBD products like tinctures, topicals, vapes, pet treats, raw oils and concentrates. When Wood launched, he was only able to accept e-checks, and it took months to get approval for that. Wood recently found a service to accept all credit card types. Struggling to find a payment processor made it difficult for Wood to get his company off the ground.
“If I can’t accept payment, there is no business!” Wood told The Mighty. “If [customers] can’t complete their purchase, they just leave.”
According to Olivia Alexander, the CEO of CBD company Kush Queen, which creates cannabinoid-infused wellness and beauty products, customers don’t usually realize there’s an issue — or all the restrictions that lead to cash-only CBD businesses.
“Most of the customers have no idea,” Alexander told The Mighty. “They cannot believe it because they see CBD everywhere. They see our products in Urban Outfitters and don’t understand how we can’t accept their cards. All they want is access to their products and most are completely in the dark about the CBD industries banking problems.”
Why Payment Services Won’t Accept Money From CBD
In 2018, CBD products raked in $2 billion and the market is estimated to grow to $16 billion in retail sales by 2025, according to a report by Cowen & Co. So why wouldn’t merchant service providers want to take a hit of such a growing and lucrative market? According to Hoban Law Group financial services group chair and senior attorney Steve Schain, the issue with payment processors and CBD really boils down to a complicated series of laws and guidelines.
Here’s how it works. CBD and THC are two of nearly 120 cannabinoids, active chemicals contained in cannabis plants that many have found to be helpful for a variety of health conditions and other uses. From a legal standpoint, hemp is derived from cannabis plants with less than 0.3% tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the type of cannabinoid that gets you “high.” Anything made from cannabis plants with more than 0.3% THC is completely illegal at the federal level.
Thanks to the passage of the U.S. Farm Bill in 2018, hemp products are now legal in the U.S., but it’s not so straight forward because according to Schain, regulators have no idea what to do with CBD. What we refer to as “CBD products” can be completely hemp-based (and therefore legal) or a blend of CBD and THC that exceeds the THC percentage allowed and is therefore only legal medically or recreationally on a state-by-state basis.
Schain described what he called “a fantastically overburdened amount of regulation” that leads to CBD payment processing issues. In short, this includes the Controlled Substance Act, Bank Secrecy Act, an internal memorandum from the Treasury Department’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) followed by a trio of memos called the Cole Memorandum. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) also prohibits adding cannabis to food or making health and wellness claims.
At the state and local levels, there are additional regulations. For example, the dispensary Curio Wellness in Maryland said, per state law, it must register with the Maryland medical cannabis commission. Products must be tested through approved labs and the company can only sell products derived from the cannabis plant — but not hemp-based products. The resulting confusion and fear of liability mean banks and payment processors can’t figure out the risk of working with CBD companies. So in most cases, they just don’t.
“What happens is a terrible, terrible, terrible confusion between the different federal bodies that regulate both what we’ll call cannabis and industrial hemp and banking,” Schain told The Mighty. “Banks … care about two things. Number one, profits. Number two, risk they can manage. It’s not that they’re unwilling to take the risk, they don’t fucking understand it.”
Why This Matters if You Have an Illness or Disability
The impact on CBD companies is clear, but the inability to use credit cards is also a big deal for those purchasing products. Credit card companies and payment processors’ reluctance to provide solutions for their customers with health conditions and disabilities is a major health issue. There’s a human cost when payment processors won’t work with CBD companies.
Though more research is needed, many people with other issues say CBD helps their anxiety, insomnia, stress, seizures and epilepsy. Chronic illnesses and other conditions that lead to chronic pain, like fibromyalgia, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS) and cancer, are tricky to treat. You may not respond well to the traditional prescription drug options or you may face restrictions on opioids. At the end of this road, for many, is CBD.
CBD isn’t cheap. An extra-strength CBD tincture sold by Assuage costs $54.98 per bottle. Another full-spectrum CBD tincture from Kush Queen sells for $35.99. A CBD tincture from Curio Wellness, which includes a 10:1 ratio of CBD to THC is $80 per bottle. Depending on how much you need to feel better, the costs can quickly add up.
Mighty contributor Darcey Robinson, who lives with EDS, said she spends about $595 per month on CBD she said helps for pain relief. A patient trying to find relief and comfort from terminal cancer-related pain may need much higher doses of CBD, and the costs can easily increase to over $1,000 per month. CBD, even when it’s recommended or prescribed for medical purposes, is not covered by health insurance.
At the same time, if you live with a chronic illness or disability, you’re more likely to struggle financially. A 2016 report showed 20.9% of people with disabilities lived in poverty compared to 13.1% of those without disabilities. This may be due, in part, to the fact more than 68% percent of people with disabilities are unemployed, and employer-sponsored health insurance covers half of U.S. adults under age 65, In 2014, those with one or two chronic illnesses spent twice as much out-of-pocket on their health compared to the general population.
The burden of health management through an alternative like CBD — as it waits for research and regulation — is placed squarely on the shoulders of those with conditions. People with health conditions and disabilities are already more likely to earn less money and have sky-high medical bills. Paying for CBD upfront with cash may be really difficult — the ability to use a credit card can reduce some of this burden.
What Payment Processors Say About CBD
A growing number of big companies like Walgreens, CVS, Rite Aid, Urban Outfitters, DSW and Neiman Marcus can sell CBD products — and accept major payment methods. Schain said retailers with brick-and-mortar stores are more creditworthy, and therefore less risk to banks.
These larger stores are pushing smaller and online CBD companies out of the market, which also hurts people who find CBD has health benefits. If you have an illness or disability, heading to a store might not be accessible. If you want a larger variety of CBD products or a blend of CBD and THC for more pain relief, you likely won’t find that on the shelves of a big-box retailer.
Until the laws and guidelines governing CBD and cannabis-related industries are clarified, however, most payment processors don’t plan on budging. PayPal, Visa, American Express and Stripe did not respond to multiple requests for comment. A spokesperson for Mastercard told The Mighty in an emailed statement:
Our rules require our customers to conduct lawful activity where they are licensed to use our brands. States are currently developing a regulatory framework for the purchase of hemp-based and CBD products, incorporating input from both the USDA and the FDA. Given the complexity and lack of clarity at this time, we cannot support these transactions on our network. As this topic evolves, we will share any new developments regarding the use of our products.
Credit card company Discover had a different perspective. A spokesperson told The Mighty via email, “Our stance on CBD products is that if merchants offer products that are legal, then there is no issue with acceptance through the Discover Network.”
Of the 636 million open credit card accounts in the U.S., however, only 59 million were covered by Discover in 2014, according to WalletHub. More than 260 million customers had Visa cards and 174 million Mastercard.
What’s Next for CBD Payment?
It may not look great now for access to CBD products, but Schain believes change is coming. “Once the Food and Drug Administration, Department of Agriculture, and frankly, U.S. Customs, come up with a clear set of criteria, I think it’s going to provide guides to financial institutions that allow them to build programs,” Schain said.
Merchant services company Square, for example, is already testing the waters to onboard CBD clients. “Square is currently conducting an invite-only beta for some CBD products,” a Square spokesperson told The Mighty via email.
PayPal started lobbying for the passage of the Secure And Fair Enforcement (SAFE) Banking Act, which was introduced with bipartisan support in Congress earlier this year. The bill would help create a path forward for banks and merchant services to work with cannabis-related businesses. As of June, the bill was placed on the calendar for a full vote in the U.S. House of Representatives, but no date has been scheduled.
Additional options are needed to provide affordable access to CBD for those with chronic illnesses, mental health issues and disabilities. Otherwise, payment processors are adding to an already overburdened group of people who rely on CBD for a better quality of life, as outlined again and again in hundreds of comments in an FDA public forum on cannabis.
“I have suffered migraines from the age of 9 and started medications around about 6th grade. I’ve been prescribed almost every medication possible in an effort to ease the pain. In 2014, I was diagnosed with a brain tumor, meningioma,” reads an anonymous comment on the U.S. government’s regulations feedback page, adding:

Story 122
In our steady march toward an all-digital world, an ever-growing array of tangible forms of communication and culture—from printed books and newspapers to handwritten letters (imagine!) to DVDs—are being relegated to history’s dustbin. And now we’re on the cusp of arguably the biggest transition yet: ditching cold, hard cash for a future in which all money is digital.
Actually, it might seem we’re already a good ways along. Just look at our exploding use of credit and debit cards: In 1990 debit cards in the U.S. were used for 300 million purchases; today the total exceeds 40 billion. Swipe technologies like Apple Pay are taking off, as are person-to-person apps such as Venmo and Zelle. Other technologies, involving things like microchip implants, finger­print scans, and facial recognition, are even eliminating the need for phones and smartwatches. In some places using cash is beginning to feel as outmoded as mailing a check to pay your electric bill.
Lee Chiun
Printed money didn’t come into widespread use until the 17th century, when it was adopted by Europeans, who could exchange their notes for actual gold. In 1933, when the connection between the U.S. dollar and gold was effectively severed, cash truly became just a paper construct. If the paper is no longer needed, logic would suggest, why not just get rid of it?
And yet, as we start to get a sense of what a society without cash might actually look like, that imagined utopia of commerce—where everything is clean, quick, efficient—is running into some resistance. Many of us are stubbornly clinging to our paper money habits. Maybe, just maybe, we’ll miss cash more than we realize.
“Money’s destiny is to become digital,” declared the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development back in 2002. And, indeed, in many developed countries today, cash is clearly in decline. In South Korea just 20 percent of consumer transactions involve cash or checks. In Canada the figure is 29 percent. In Singapore and the Netherlands it’s around 40 percent. In the U.S. it’s roughly half. A December 2017 report from the Bank of International Settlements found that the number of cashless transactions around the globe has “at least doubled over the last 10 years across all countries.”

Nowhere is the cashless movement further along than in Sweden. After a decade during which the country’s financial sector made a concerted effort to get people to adopt electronic payment methods—by doing things like keeping no cash on hand at most bank branches and refusing to accept cash deposits—only 15 percent of financial transactions are now done with physical money.
Lee Chiun
Many stores, along with buses and the Stockholm metro, no longer take cash. Most person-to-person payments are made via a mobile app called Swish, which lets you send money instantaneously from one bank account to another with a phone number. Even street vendors have adopted Swish, and contrary to what you might assume, there isn’t a large generational divide; at least half of Swedes over 60 use Swish. It’s so popular, in fact, that the verb “to swish” has entered the nation’s lexicon.
While the drive to eliminate cash is fueled partly by capitalism’s impulse to wring waste out of the system, it is also propelled by consumers’ desire to make their lives easier. In Sweden more than 4,000 people have had microchips implanted under their skin, which makes it possible for them to pay with the wave of a hand; it also brings us closer to a Minority Report future in which we’re greeted with personalized ads and buying options as we walk down the street.
That may sound extreme, but it’s really just a logical extension of the contactless technologies most of us will be using soon, if we aren’t already. Apple Pay and Samsung Pay now let you settle up via your smartphone, and last year Samsung rolled out the first trial of its Contactless Companion Platform, which is a chip that can be inserted into an array of objects—watches, key fobs, bracelets—turning them into payment devices.
Amazon is testing a digital payment system that would enable customers to make purchases without ever taking out a wallet or device. An app checks you in as soon as you enter a store, and any items you leave with are recorded by 3-D scanners at the door and automatically billed to your credit card. No clerks, no checkout counters, no lines.
The London supermarket Costcutter, meanwhile, introduced a system in 2017 that allows customers to pay with a fingertip scan. And Mastercard has announced that by April card users will be able to make payments using fingertip and facial recognition technology that employs scanners similar to the ones found on recent iPhones.

Financial institutions have a very big stake in this future, obviously, as individuals must be linked to a bank account or credit card (or, at the very least, possess a prepaid debit card) to go cashless. In an effort to get a leg up, last summer Visa launched Cashless Challenge, which awarded small businesses $10,000 to upgrade their point-of-sale systems to be totally cashless. Companies that applied had to explain what the move would mean for them and their customers.
Whether a cashless consumer experience is your idea of heaven or a dystopian nightmare, a case against paper money is easy to make. For starters, cash is dirty. A 2017 study found that dollar bills from New York banks were covered with hundreds of species of microorganisms, including ones that cause acne. Also, cash can be lost and accidentally destroyed. And, of course, it can be stolen.
Physical currency requires a vast infrastructure to produce, distribute, and protect it. The U.S. spent almost $900 million in 2018 printing new bills. For banks, transporting money from their vaults to ATMs and branches, sending and storing paper checks, and employing tellers to handle deposits and withdrawals is even more expensive. A recent Morgan Stanley study, for instance, found that Bank of America spends $5 billion a year processing checks and cash. There is also the inefficiency of the cash transaction itself. All that careful counting and pawing through the register for change is slow.

One study by research firm IHL Group found that if you factor in the time it takes to make change, count bills and coins at the end of the day, and take the money to the bank, cash trans­actions cost retailers between 5 and 15 percent of sales. By contrast, digital transactions requiring a simple card swipe or wave of a smart device are typically fast and efficient. And they make it easier, in principle, for people to track their spending, since there’s a digital record.
Governments benefit too. For one thing, digital transactions are harder to hide and thus easier to collect taxes on. Plus, eliminating cash can make it more difficult for certain types of illicit businesses to operate. The U.S., for instance, has driven some offshore betting companies out of business by cutting off their ability to process credit card payments. Though criminals can now turn to cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin, those are also easier to track than cash, since every cryptocurrency transaction is recorded digitally.
Lee Chiun
Given that going cashless would seem to be a win-win for most of us, how much longer do we have to wait until the revolution is complete? Maybe longer than you’d think. Interestingly, while people are using cash less frequently, the actual amount of cash in circulation has increased. There are more physical dollars (and most other paper currencies) in the world today than ever before. According to the Federal Reserve, 65 percent of Americans regularly carry cash, perhaps because, as one recent consumer survey found, not having money in our wallets makes most of us anxious. Especially for small trans­actions, cash remains many people’s payment method of choice.

Why is that? Partly it’s about psychological and cultural factors, including our attachment to what’s familiar and not wanting to have our options limited. We might speak of cold, hard cash, but studies have shown that we actually have an emotional attachment to physical money. Participants in a well-known 2011 study cited feeling “a sadness that once you have handed it over, it’s gone.” Another study found that people who did nothing more than touch money before putting their hands into a pot of hot water were able to endure pain better and longer than people who had handled blank paper instead.
The visceral sense of security we associate with physical money stands in stark contrast to the increased exposure and eroded privacy that would inevitably accompany a cashless economy, in which, theoretically, every transaction is recorded. While that may be good for tracking your own spending habits, it also makes it easy for companies—and potentially governments—to track them too. Historically, consumers have been willing to give up a certain amount of privacy for convenience, but that bargain has soured in recent years as our every move on the internet is tracked, analyzed, and sometimes resold for profit. In that light, cash—and the anonymity it provides—can be appealing.
There are also technological impediments to the cashless takeover. Particularly in the U.S., businesses have been slow to adopt cashless systems (which is why companies like Visa are paying them to do it). Some are understandably anxious about vulnerability to hacking and cyberattacks, power grid failures, and outages in banking networks—like the one that hit Visa’s payment systems in Europe last June.
The company’s network suffered widespread disruptions for close to 10 hours, which rendered vast numbers of businesses unable to process transactions and provoked a run on ATMs, sending shockwaves through the continent’s economy. Another reminder of the limitations of going cashless was Puerto Rico’s experience after Hurricane Maria knocked out more than 80 percent of the island’s power lines for months, which prevented many residents from accessing their money and made electronic trans­actions impossible.
Lee Chiun
The fact is a lot of economic activity around the globe is still conducted using cash, and not only in less developed regions. Wealthy Americans may not use cash to buy much (according to a McKinsey study, once you get into the upper middle class, cash accounts for just 2 percent of all point-of-sale transactions), but many of the workers the wealthy employ—nannies, gardeners, housekeepers—are paid in cash. Such off-the-books transactions would be impossible in a fully cashless economy. Ditto tips for hotel housekeepers, doormen, valets, baristas, and the like. Workers in the tourism industry, for instance, would likely see their incomes decline in a cashless world. And those who don’t have checking or savings accounts—close to 7 percent of Americans (mostly non-white)—would be at risk of being shut out of the system completely.
Another aspect of going cashless is the impact it would have on our spending habits. Precisely because cash gives us a feeling of security, handing it over is painful in a way that swiping a card or waving a phone is not. What economists call “the price of paying” is simply higher with cash. As one consumer put it, “I really see the cash going out of my pocket when I spend.”
Thus, when we use cash we tend to value those purchases more. In one experiment, subjects had to buy a mug. Some used cash, others a debit card. Then the researchers offered to buy the mugs back. The people who had paid cash demanded, on average, almost twice as much for their mugs—­suggesting that they valued them more highly. The essential idea here is that when we use cash, we are connected to—and are arguably more in control of—our spending.
Lee Chiun
When we use cards or other electronic forms of payment, we suffer from what is sometimes called the decoupling effect: We’re less connected to the money we’re spending, which makes it easier to spend freely. Studies have found that the presence of the American Express logo on a shopping catalog makes people buy more. One famous experiment conducted by the economist Drazen Prelec involved a silent auction for tickets to sold-out NBA games. Half the bidders were told they could pay only with cash (or a check), and half could pay only with a credit card.
On average the credit card buyers bid more than twice as much as the cash buyers. Not surprisingly, there appears to be a correlation between a country’s electronic transactions and its level of household debt, with Canada, South Korea, the Netherlands, and, yes, Sweden ranking high in both categories.
The willingness to be more profligate when using digital money isn’t only about buying on credit. People shopping with gift cards also spend more than their cash-­paying counterparts. (Even more weirdly, people using a photocopier card make more copies than people who pay for their copies with cash.) When McDonald’s began experimenting with touchscreen order kiosks, it saw a pickup in sales in stores that had them; in one outlet the average touchscreen order was 30 percent higher than those placed at the counter.
Although it’s impossible to say when total cashlessness will come to pass, we can surmise that when it does we’ll spend more freely and take on more debt. Our kids will grow up without ceramic piggy banks, gifts from the Tooth Fairy, and birthday cards from Grandma with a few bills slipped in. But they will adapt. A cashless society will not be a utopia—it will involve complicated trade-offs.
Privacy and control will be sacrificed for convenience and ease. We will have a more efficient economy, but in some ways a more regulated one, with fewer ways to bend the rules. And we’ll undoubtedly have a more distant, impersonal relationship to money. Our feeling that cash is more intimate, more real, than electronic money is an illusion. It’s just a very hard one to shake.
This story appears in the February 2019 issue of Town & Country. SUBSCRIBE

Story 123
Blüm marijuana dispensary certainly doesn't look like a food truck.
There are no chicken wings or tacos in sight, just displays of bagged gum drops, jarred marijuana leaves and oils and balms.
If you use your credit card at the Midtown dispensary, though, your statement will show that you just made a purchase at the "Midgrun Eats LLC food truck."
Why? Canna-business experts say it's a back door tactic to skirt federal banking regulations and make more money.
"It's not even back door, it's more like an upper window," said Jeremy Skaff, vice president of sales at Journey Business Solutions, a Colorado-based merchant services company. He consults marijuana-related businesses nationwide on how to handle finances.
The "food truck" front might be the key to the business's rare ability to take credit cards.
Although Blüm representatives declined to comment, calls to all six Blüm marijuana dispensaries in Nevada and California confirmed that the entire fleet of dispensaries takes credit cards, an anomaly in the traditionally cash-only marijuana industry.
While ATMs and debit cards have become commonplace at dispensaries because they can process under a third party system, taking credit cards is more nuanced. It could be an unusual, risky strategy to increase profits.
More: Sisolak signs marijuana transparency bill, posts pot retailers' names and records online
'No one carries cash anymore'
Visits and calls to all other dispensaries in Washoe County indicated that no other dispensaries in the county take credit cards.
"I’m not a statistician, so I don't know that customers will spend more if they have a credit card, but a business that takes credit cards, it’s more convenient for customers," Skaff said. "The more options that you give people to pay, the more business you’re going to get. No one carries cash anymore."
Will Adler, a cannabis advocate and principa Silver State Government Relations, is certain that other dispensaries have tried the tactic, but it appears that Blüm is the only one in Washoe County that has succeeded in using the tactic continuously.
“"The convenience of being the only guy that takes credit cards, that's a big advantage."” - Will Adler, cannabis advocate
"People love using credit cards, you get points! It’s a competitive edge. The convenience of being the only guy that takes credit cards, that's a big advantage," said Adler.
Business experts say the dispensary, owned by California-based cannabis titan Terra Tech, could face banking fines, if not federal inquiry.
The state's new U.S. Attorney, Nicholas Trutanich, told reporters in June that, "Marijuana remains illegal under federal law, and my job is to enforce federal law."
When asked last week whether the office was looking into Blüm dispensary, the U.S. Attorney's Office in Nevada could neither "confirm or deny an investigation," said Trisha Young, spokeswoman for the office.
'A terrible situation'
Marijuana remains illegal at a federal level, classified the same as heroin, so banks — which are federally regulated and insured — typically refuse to deal directly with marijuana-related businesses. Because credit cards are backed by banks, that also precludes marijuana businesses from taking credit cards.
Candace Carlyon, a top banking attorney in Las Vegas, said marijuana-related businesses' inability to bank has created a "terrible situation."
"When you have a business, you need to bank," Carlyon said.
Marijuana entrepreneurs who have been in the industry long enough have had at least one personal bank account shut down, she said, which often causes them to disguise their money in one way or another.
But, she also said there's a fine line between doing what you have to do to secure your money and doing something that could jeopardize your business. Misrepresenting the nature of the business to a merchant services vendor could fall into the latter category.
Story continues below images
Buy Photo Opening day of legal recreational marijuana sales at Blum marijuana dispensary in Reno on July 1, 2017. (Photo: JASON BEAN/RGJ, RENO GAZETTE-JOURNAL-USA TODAY N)
"There is certainly a concern when you’re dealing with proceeds from what is a federal felony. The sale is a federal felony, and you’re disguising the source of the funds. When you’re disguising the source of the funds, that’s a separate felony," she said.
While it's not uncommon for discretion to be used in businesses of sexual nature, for instance, those businesses are not federally illegal.
"Someone might go to a strip club, but it might show up (on a transaction) as a flower shop. But those are both legal businesses," Carlyon said.
Whether fronting a pot shop as a food truck during a credit card transaction is illegal, she's not entirely sure, but it's definitely going to raise eyebrows, she said.
"The problem with that is that it lays them open for money laundering," she said.
One form of money laundering under the Money Laundering Control Act is knowing that a transaction has been represented to "conceal or disguise the nature, the location, the source, the ownership, or the control of the proceeds of specified unlawful activity."
The good news, however, is that customers themselves are at little risk if they have purchased at a dispensary that takes credit cards.
Additionally, under the state's Department of Taxation regulations for the industry, there are no detailed restrictions preventing dispensaries from accepting credit cards.
More: Reno marijuana dispensary at center of fraud scheme, lawsuit says
Doing things 'under the table'
Blüm isn't the first dispensary to try a credit card-friendly model.
Skaff said he's seen it before in Colorado, but as a consultant he never recommended it.
Buy Photo Opening day of legal recreational marijuana sales at Blum marijuana dispensary in Reno on July 1, 2017. (Photo: JASON BEAN/RGJ, RENO GAZETTE-JOURNAL-USA TODAY N)
Since Colorado legalized recreational marijuana sales back in 2014, Skaff's company has been finding financial solutions for cannabis companies, both banking solutions and payment services solutions.
"When you're high risk, you can't find just one good solution and be done. You have to find multiple because those solutions won't last forever," Skaff said.
Although the U.S. Department of Treasury recently reported the number of banking institutions working with marijuana-related businesses is on the rise, Skaff's job is to find banks or credit unions that will take their money.
The number of financial institutions actively banking marijuana-related businesses in the United States reached 633 institutions at the end of the first quarter of the year, versus a little more than 400 at the start of 2018, according to the Marijuana Business Daily's analysis of Treasury data. The numbers could be misleading, however, because the data is based on reports of suspicion rather than certainty.
Because credit unions are not federally insured, they're the most likely to welcome wads of weed money, but the wait can be three months or more since the credit unions will only deal with so many marijuana-related businesses at once, Skaff said. In the meantime, businesses have to figure it out for themselves.
"People have cut corners because they've had to," Skaff said.
Buy Photo Staff work behind the counter selling medical marijuana to patients at Blum, a medical marijuana dispensary in Oakland, Calif. (Photo: Liz Margerum/RGJ)
Skaff also helps marijuana-related businesses find ways to handle less cash day to day.
While he won't help marijuana-related businesses use credit card services, there are three low-risk ways to get around the traditional, cash-only model at a dispensary: debit cards, ATMs and gift cards, Skaff said. None of them require the backing of a bank.
"The fourth way is to do things under the table," Skaff said.
The Blüm dispensary already made headlines recently after settling a lawsuit with former owner Heidi Loeb Hegerich. The former dispensary partner alleged company partners were committing fraud and elder abuse.
Loeb Hegerich was promised $6.3 million after the settlement was reached in late spring with the current owners of the dispensary... er, food truck.
Jenny Kane covers arts and culture in Northern Nevada, as well as the dynamic relationship between the state and the growing Burning Man community. She also covers the state's burgeoning cannabis industry (Check out her podcast, the Potcast, on iTunes.) Support her work in Reno by subscribing to RGJ.com right here.
Read or Share this story: https://www.rgj.com/story/news/marijuana/2019/07/15/blum-dispensary-food-truck-why-you-can-use-credit-card/1414130001/

Story 124
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
Say it isn’t so, Citibank! The issuer is the latest to announce that it’s eliminating a variety of credit card benefits. Perks being discontinued across its lineup of Citi credit cards include Citi Price Rewind, as well as trip cancellation and interruption protection. Depending on what Citi card you have, you could be losing a lot more, too.
The changes — which go into effect Sept. 22, 2019, and apply to cash-back cards and travel cards alike — are “due to sustained low usage” and are happening “so that we can continue providing key benefits our customers use and value most at no additional cost,” according to a Citi statement.
» MORE: Why credit card ‘side perks’ are disappearing
What’s going away?
Citi cardholders who log into their accounts may see a pop-up detailing the exact benefits being removed from their cards, which will vary depending on the Citi card. You can also call the number on the back of your card, but Citi confirmed that all cards will lose the following:
Citi Price Rewind (a form of price protection).
Trip cancellation and interruption protection.
Other departing perks, depending on the Citi card, include:
Worldwide car rental coverage.
Worldwide travel accident insurance.
Baggage delay and lost baggage protection.
Travel and emergency assistance.
Roadside assistance dispatch.
Trip delay protection.
Medical evacuation.
Damage and theft purchase protection.
Missed ticket protection.
90-day return protection.
Extended warranty.
Again, contact Citi to find out how your card may be affected.
All mentions of these benefits have already been scrubbed from Citi’s website, including its Card Benefits page. Some perks will remain available on select cards, including Citi Identity Theft Solutions, Citi Entertainment perks and free access to FICO® Credit Scores.
Nerd Tip: Citi confirms that the Costco Anywhere Visa® Card by Citi will be losing trip cancellation and interruption protection as well as Citi Price Rewind, but that it will continue to offer worldwide car rental insurance, worldwide travel accident insurance, roadside assistance dispatch, travel and emergency assistance, damage and theft protection, extended warranty, FICO Credit Score, Citi Identity Theft Solutions, and Citi Entertainment.
What this means for you
All Citi cardholders will experience a significant loss of value with this move, but the severity of the blow depends on which Citi cards you have and how often — or whether — you use these side benefits.
Citi Price Rewind, in particular, has long been a defining feature for the issuer, especially as cards have begun to eliminate price protection as a standard perk. With Citi Price Rewind, if you find an item online at a lower price within 60 days of your purchase made with an eligible Citi card, you may receive the difference, up to $200 per item, $1,000 per year. (Citi had already pared back this benefit in summer 2018 from a maximum of $500 per item, $2,500 per year.)
Unlike other price protection policies, Citi Price Rewind takes a lot of the work out of the process, tracking online prices for you, as long as you’ve registered the purchase.
If you have a credit card with this benefit, you will still have coverage for purchases made prior to Sept. 22, 2019.
» MORE: Price protection: Which credit cards will refund a price drop?
As for the loss of other purchase and travel protections, you may miss some more than others. In particular, the loss of car rental coverage may sting, especially since — unlike with a benefit such as price protection — there’s typically no tracking or paperwork involved to receive the coverage. You merely have to pay for the rental with the eligible credit card and then decline the rental car company’s collision coverage.
Perks like rental car coverage, extended warranty and other protections are standard on many competing travel credit cards, so if these side benefits are important to you, it’s worth researching your options.
» MORE: NerdWallet’s guide to your credit card’s extended warranty policy

Story 125
Access Denied - Sucuri Website Firewall
If you are the site owner (or you manage this site), please whitelist your IP or if you think this block is an error please open a support ticket and make sure to include the block details (displayed in the box below), so we can assist you in troubleshooting the issue.
Block details:

Story 126
Stablecoins, Central Bank Digital Currencies, and Cross-Border Payments: A New Look at the International Monetary System
Just a year ago, the talk was all about cryptoassets: Bitcoins and its multiple evolutions. We have moved on, since then. Now, we must reckon with eMoney, a new form of digital currency with the potential to be much more disruptive.
Today, I will define eMoney, then discuss its implications in a closed-economy setting. I will suggest that its adoption may be extremely rapid — but that it may raise significant risks. Policies to counter these risks — as in a sleight-of-hand magic trick, you will see — yield a synthetic version of central bank digital currency (CBDC) with various advantages relative to the full-service version just discussed, and studied in a recent IMF publication.
Then, I will consider the open-economy extension of these ideas. While eMoney brings key advantages to cross-border payments, it may pose risks to the stability of the international payments system. It could also encourage dollarization.
As policymakers, we must turn our attention to the international monetary system, toward new solutions — including technological ones — and enhance global cooperation by upholding the role of the IMF as the caretaker of this fragile system, though one with great opportunity.
What is eMoney?
eMoney is a means of payment and a store of value fully backed by fiat currency. It is the digital equivalent of a pre-paid card. eMoney, in my definition, can be issued as tokens or accounts, settled in a centralized or decentralized fashion. eMoney thus also includes a version of “stablecoins” that is fully backed or collateralized by fiat currency — what some call “digital fiat currency.” eMoney can be traded through an app on your cellphone, between individuals and businesses alike with ease and immediate effect.
Think of WeChat Pay and AliPay in China, M-Pesa in Kenya, Bitt.com in the Caribbean, and USD-coin by Coinbase and Circle. Other major tech companies are also rumored to introduce their own form of eMoney very soon. eMoney, in its various forms, covers more than 25 currencies to date, and that number is growing rapidly. Adoption rates are impressive. In Kenya, for instance, 90 percent of the population over 14 years of age uses M-Pesa. In China, transactions in eMoney reached $18.7 trillion — more than all transactions handled worldwide by Visa and MasterCard combined. Furthermore, many operators now offer debit cards that can be used with stablecoins, turning them into an efficient means of payments for most merchants.
Advantages of eMoney
Why is adoption of eMoney so rapid and widespread? First, because its value is stable relative to fiat currency. The exchange rate is 1 to 1 (or very nearly), not 6,000 to 1 one day and 3,000 to 1 the next, as for some crypto-coins. In fact, eMoney works exactly like a strict currency board, with each unit of eMoney — token or account entry — fully backed by fiat currency. You pre-fund your eMoney holdings, and your funds are stored in a trust account.
But why use eMoney and not fiat currency, since the first is merely a digital representation of the second?
First, for convenience. eMoney is better integrated into our digital lives, and often issued by companies that fundamentally understand user-centered design and integration with social media.
Second, for transaction costs. Transfers in eMoney are near-costless and immediate, and are thus often more attractive than card payments or bank-to-bank transfers.
Third, for trust. In some countries where eMoney is taking off, users trust telecom and social media companies more than banks.
Fourth and finally, for network effects. Social media and other digital-economy giants contemplating the introduction of eMoney have enormous installed bases through which new payment services can rapidly spread, driven by strong network effects.
Risks to eMoney
eMoney is probably coming to a phone near you. And with it, a world of convenient, costless, and immediate payments at the touch of your fingers. . . . Sounds rosy, but there are problems related to customer protection, safety of the payments system, and ultimately financial stability.
The first risk is to the value of eMoney. If it is issued over and above the funds held in the trust account, there could be a run on eMoney, and a significant loss of wealth. We know how destabilizing large devaluations following failed currency boards are.
The second risk is to the security of the trust account. Despite the allusion to “trust,” funds could be invested in risky or illiquid assets or encumbered as collateral. Redemption of eMoney into fiat currency may not always be possible.
The third risk is to the interoperability of eMoney and thus to market contestability. We noted earlier the strong network effects in payments. If eMoney issued by different providers is not interoperable, only the largest providers will survive. The fat cats will eat the nimble and potentially more innovative mice. Even regulation mandating common technological standards will not resolve the issue. It was easier to get cell phones from different providers to talk to each other. In the case of eMoney, interoperability requires a common settlement platform — a way to seamlessly, cheaply, and securely transfer funds between trust accounts. You will not be able to redeem the eMoney I send you for fiat currency unless a corresponding amount of fiat currency is transferred from my provider’s trust account to yours.
Tackling risks to eMoney—a potential role for central banks?
While eMoney inexorably grows — potentially booms — in front of our eyes, major risks also rise. How do we tackle them?
One way is for central banks to get involved. Other approaches are also possible; less impactful, though perhaps safer. We will face difficult choices ahead as policymakers. But we will have to make them.
Central banks could offer eMoney providers access to their reserve accounts, under strict conditions, of course. Through effective supervision, central banks could check that eMoney issuance is fully backed; there goes risk number one. Moreover, eMoney holdings would become extra safe and liquid for customers, especially if reserve accounts were protected from other creditors of eMoney providers in case of bankruptcy. That would take care of risk number two, minus the hassle of claiming one’s funds. Finally, central banks would ensure interoperability between eMoney issued by different providers by offering a common settlement platform between trust accounts; down with risk number three.
Mind you, other risks would be introduced. Most notably, the risk of a potential and partial disintermediation of commercial banks if some depositors preferred holding eMoney. But let us leave that for discussion.
Synthetic CBDC
I would instead like to draw your attention, dear colleagues, to the fact that while we were focused on alleviating risks — on protecting consumers and financial stability, all laudable goals — we inadvertently created CBDC! A new version, that is, which we call “synthetic CBDC.”
Yes, if eMoney providers can keep client funds as central bank reserves, and if these are protected from other creditors, then, by proxy, eMoney users can hold, and transact in, a central bank liability. Isn’t that the very definition of CBDC?
Synthetic CBDC has notable advantages relative to the full-fledged version from the previous presentation, in which the central bank creates tokens or offers accounts to the public. Synthetic CDBC outsources several steps to the private sector: technology choices, customer management, customer screening and monitoring including for “Know Your Customer” and AML/CFT (Anti-Money Laundering and Combating the Financing of Terrorism) purposes, regulatory compliance, and data management — all sources of substantial costs and risks. The central bank merely remains responsible for settlement between trust accounts, and for regulation and close supervision including eMoney issuance. If done appropriately, it would never need to lend to eMoney providers, as their liabilities would be fully covered by reserves.
A synthetic CBDC is essentially a public-private partnership that encourages competition between eMoney providers and preserves comparative advantages. The private sector concentrates on innovation, interface design, and client management. And the public sector remains focused on underpinning trust.
Open-economy complications
Check-mark? Have we finished work and can now stroll along the inviting Mythenquai just outside? Not so fast. Things get a little more complicated as we consider cross-border payments.
Clearly, eMoney could bring enormous benefits to cross-border payments, which currently tend to be slow, opaque, and expensive. The token version of eMoney could also facilitate cash payments in cross-border financial trades once assets migrate to the blockchain (allowing seamless “delivery versus payment”). But these gains must be weighed against risks. An example may help.
The case of a person in Zurich, transferring Swiss franc eMoney to a friend in, say, Italy, is simple. Marlis clicks a button, and Francesco gets the funds.
But suppose Francesco wants to receive euro-based eMoney. To simplify matters, suppose both use the same platform — a fictitious “Pay-n-Chat.” Then Pay-n-Chat Switzerland would draw down Marlis’ Swiss franc account, and credit Pay-n-Chat Italy, which would issue euro-based eMoney to Francesco.
The only problem is that Francesco’s eMoney is now backed by Swiss franc reserves held at the Swiss National Bank. Clearly, this is purely fictitious: I am not insinuating the SNB would actually do this.
As in the popular game of whack-a-mole, the risks we had formerly buried now rise again.
Is Francesco’s eMoney fully backed? Yes, Pay-n-Chat could continuously hedge its foreign exchange risk. But it has now become a lot harder to be transparent about it. And transparency is key for trust. And trust is key for adoption.
Redemption risk has also re-emerged. What happens when Francesco wants to redeem his eMoney in euros? Pay-n-Chat Italy may be able to draw down reserves it holds with the ECB — again, a fictitious example. Or Pay-n-Chat Switzerland could sell Swiss francs for euros and send those to Pay-n-Chat Italy. Cumbersome, expensive, potentially slow. Exactly the costs these companies are trying to avoid.
So, what might Pay-n-Chat do? Focus on just the main currency pairs for which there are large and relatively balanced capital flows to maximize the matching of eMoney with local currency reserves. But this could imply a fragmentation of the international payment system; much like paving highways while neglecting country roads — those leading to many smaller countries around this world.
Another risk that resurfaces is to market contestability. In our example, Pay-n-Chat Italy extended credit to Pay-n-Chat Switzerland; a mere accounting trick to balance the company’s books. But had the transfer involved two separate entities, it would have induced credit risk. Clearly, then, transfers will be cheaper if they remain within the same company. Size will matter. Just like in the correspondent banking world, this favors a concentrated market structure.
Not only have we stepped back into several of the risks we had formerly identified — and thought we had solved — but entirely new risks also arise, even supposing we could fix those above.
Dollarization risk
One is the risk of facilitating dollarization. In most cases, the Fund is concerned about dollarization as countries lose monetary policy control, and as financial systems become more exposed to exchange rate shocks, while the central bank is constrained in providing liquidity. Dollarization is found to restrain financial development and long-run growth.[1]
Dollarization faces headwinds in most countries. Transaction costs of purchasing foreign currency are typically high, storage is cumbersome and risky if banks do not offer foreign currency accounts, and transactions are limited; many countries do not offer clearing and settlement services in foreign currency.
The availability of foreign currency-based eMoney could lower some of the barriers to dollarization. The headwinds could become tailwinds. eMoney could make storage of foreign currency easier, safer, and cheaper. And, importantly, it could greatly facilitate transactions in foreign currency. In addition, it could drastically lower costs of remittances, which would increase foreign currency inflows.
Would eMoney available across borders spell the end of weak currencies? It would certainly put a lot more pressure on countries with weak institutions and policy frameworks. From a world of grey tones, where those muddling through persist, we might face greater contrast; one either makes it or is taken over by foreign eMoney.
A role for the IMF
Let’s take stock. Uncertainty as to the course of technology and its impact on the financial sector; risks to the international payment system, of fragmentation and instability; risks of dollarization; dangers of weak institutions and policy frameworks. . . . Each calls the IMF into action.
The best defense against loss of monetary autonomy, of excessive dollarization instigated by foreign eMoney, is good policy. IMF surveillance can help. And requests for technical assistance in this area are already on the rise, in number and urgency. We must be ready to answer these calls.
Clearly the IMF can also help with its analytical capacity, to identify disruption, fathom future scenarios, and evaluate how policy choices can favor the more attractive ones.
And the IMF’s convening power may be needed more than ever, to bolster the international payments system. But this time, also with new technologies.
For instance, the risks and drawbacks to cross-border payments, which we discussed earlier, could be surmounted by greater coordination between countries. What if central banks, which may help eMoney providers develop on domestic markets, also favored their expansion into cross-border payments? What if they settled transactions by exchanging reserves among each other? Of course, only after further analysis of the benefits and risks — including credit risk — of such bold operations.
Could an international institution — such as the IMF — facilitate these operations by running a common platform, mutualizing credit risks, or at least establishing guidance and regulation? Or could new eMoney be created, with 1-to-1 backing by a basket of fiat currencies, to settle transactions between central banks? Some have called this the eSDR or dSDR.
Clearly, this is still hypothetical. But given the speed at which we’re traveling, we must at least map out the terrain that lies ahead before picking a path.
Wherever we go, the M for “monetary” in IMF is bound to get a new polish as we focus on the new monetary challenges to the international monetary system. The years to come will be especially exciting for the global financial architecture!
Thank you very much.
Written in collaboration with Tommaso Mancini-Griffoli. For their helpful comments, I thank: Itai Agur, Christopher Erceg, Federico Grinberg, Dong He, John Kiff, Soledad Martinez Peria, Aditya Narain, Ratna Sahay, and Ghiath Shabsigh.
# # #
[1] See for instance Sebastian Edwards and I. Igal Magendzo (2001), "Dollarization, Inflation and Growth," NBER Working Papers 8671, National Bureau of Economic Research, Inc.

Story 127
Flamingo Images/Shutterstock
Cash management accounts are like a two-for-one special for your extra cash: They combine some of the best features of savings accounts and checking accounts. While lesser known, these bank account alternatives can pay higher rates while also letting you easily access your money.
Some traditional brokerage firms offer cash management accounts; however, their cash accounts typically pay far less interest than newer options. Betterment, Wealthfront, Aspiration and SoFi are among the newer crop of fintech firms offering cash management accounts that pay 20 times or more than the national average of 0.1 percent APY on savings accounts.
So, if you’re on the hunt for an account that lets you spend and save for your short-term goals, consider cash management accounts. Just be sure to understand the trade-offs.
What is a cash management account?
A cash management account is an alternative to a checking or savings account. These accounts can pay competitive rates while also letting you make as many withdrawals or transfers as you wish, providing for greater convenience. The latter trait distinguishes them from savings accounts and money market accounts, which limit such transactions to six per statement cycle. Cash management accounts can come with checks, debit cards, ATM access, and online bill pay. Some cash management accounts, like the one offered by Fidelity, also allow you to move money into other investment accounts, such as a retirement account.
Each cash management account is different, but they typically sweep your cash into one or more accounts at program banks where your money is eligible for FDIC insurance. Your account provider will disclose who its bank partner or bank partners are, and they can change. If the firm deposits your money across multiple banks, you can have more insurance coverage than the standard $250,000 offered per bank and credit union. Wealthfront, for example, provides FDIC insurance up to $1 million.
Here are some of the pros and cons of putting money into cash management accounts.
Pros and cons of cash management accounts
Pros Competitive interest rates
May offer a highly rated mobile app
Easy access to your money Cons Can find higher interest rates elsewhere
Typically no branch access
May not have all the features needed to replace your checking account
Consider these reasons you might open a cash management account.
Competitive returns
One of the biggest draws is better returns. Cash management accounts can be a good way to earn a higher rate on your extra cash — something most Americans currently aren’t doing. Only 14 percent of Americans report having savings accounts paying more than 2 percent APY, according to a recent Bankrate survey. But the best online savings accounts and cash management accounts pay 2 percent APY or higher.
For example, Betterment offers up to 2.44 percent APY on its Everyday Savings account. Wealthfront pays 2.32 percent APY on its cash account.
Easy access to your money
Unlike a savings or money market account, a cash management account doesn’t restrict the number of times you can move money in and out of the account. After all, they’re also designed to let you spend. So, cash management accounts can offer a debit card and checks. They can also offer online bill pay and mobile deposit capture. Some accounts, such as Betterment Everyday Savings, will require you to connect a bank account in order to move money in and out.
Great digital experience
You can sign up for an account in minutes online as long as the company can prove you are who you say you are. Expect your app to be one of the best in finance, too. The competition for your cash is fierce, and online-only firms are competing to make the digital experience easy and useful.
Some cash management accounts will provide financial planning tools, too. Wealthfront, for example, gives customers free access to its robo-planning software. SoFi gives customers free access to perks like career coaching and financial planning.
The cons of a cash management account
Consider these reasons you might pass on a cash management account.
Higher yields elsewhere
Make sure to consider money market accounts and savings accounts from banks and credit unions when you shop around for a place to park your extra cash. You can find higher yields on traditional bank products. For example, Vio Bank currently offers 2.52 percent APY on its savings account and requires a minimum deposit of only $100.
For longer-term goals, consider opening a certificate of deposit, or CD.
No in-person support
While you will have access to free ATMs or will get reimbursed for ATM fees, don’t expect to have access to a branch with a cash management account that pays a competitive rate. The best rates are usually offered by digital-only companies.
Won’t have everything you need
If you’re trying to replace your checking account, a cash management account may leave you wanting more. Not all of these accounts offer a debit card or checks. Not all of them offer mobile deposit capture or the ability to use a payments app like Venmo either.
Other important factors to consider
Savers seeking the highest yields should consider cash management accounts. Keep these factors top of mind as you search for the best option.
FDIC insurance: Pay attention to how your money is protected. Read the firm’s disclosures to find out what bank or banks the company is sweeping your money into. Make sure you don’t exceed putting more than $250,000 at any one bank; FDIC insurance wouldn’t cover you for more than the $250,000 maximum if the institution went belly up.
When using a cash management account, also pay attention to one more risk. Your funds aren’t insured until the money is parked at its program banks – a process that could take a couple of days. Potentially, the Securities Investor Protection Corp. could insure your money at the brokerage firm, but not necessarily. Read the fine print to understand the insurance details.
APY: Pay attention to the yield you’ll earn on your money. Some cash management accounts offer competitive rates; others offer you peanuts. These days, you should expect to earn at least 2 percent APY.
Fees: It’s easy to find no-fee accounts with low minimums. Make sure you’re parking money in an account that won’t charge you. You want to earn as much interest as you can, not diminish your return via pesky fees.
Mobile app: Some firms offer better apps than others. Read the brand’s app reviews in the App Store and Google Play to get a sense of the app’s reputation and how the company responds to complaints.
Features: Focus on the features you need and want. Not all cash management accounts offer debit cards or let you use mobile payment options like Venmo or Zelle with the account. If those features matter to you, make sure you are signing up for an account that offers them.
Learn more:

Story 128
USA TODAY
Taking out a loan or building up a balance on your credit card could soon cost you slightly less.
The Fed is expected to lower its key short-term interest rate by a quarter percentage point Wednesday at the close of a two-day meeting – its first cut in more than a decade -– pushing down rates on credit cards and other loans. While the economy has been solid, Fed officials aim to head off a potential recession amid a slowing global economy and the U.S. trade war with China. Trump suggested in a tweet Monday that a quarter-point cut wouldn't be enough.
The goal of a cut is to make borrowing less costly for consumers and businesses, encouraging spending and bolstering the economy.
The Fed believes the case for lower rates has strengthened recently. While trade tensions have eased, the outcome of talks with China remains uncertain, and if they break down, the increased tariffs that follow could damage the economy. Plus, the Fed is concerned about a slowdown in global growth and it views inflation as tame, which eases any worries that it would flare up once borrowing becomes cheaper.
But while rate cuts are like steroids for stock markets, don’t expect a big windfall, because the central bank already has boosted rates sharply the past 3½ years, including four hikes last year, experts say.
“For consumers, all that will do is unwind a fraction of the nine rate hikes enacted since 2015,” says Greg McBride, chief financial analyst at Bankrate.com. “All it does is take you back to where you were 12 months ago."
“To households on a tight budget, this is of limited help,” McBride says.
Holden Lewis, a home finance expert at NerdWallet, says any cut would still be money in consumers’ pockets.
Those with variable-rate loans, such as credit cards and home equity lines, “should expect to see smaller monthly payments,” he says. “For those who may be looking to borrow money to fund home renovations, this could be a time to do so cheaply.”
Winging it:Get free wings Monday at Buffalo Wild Wings, Wingstop and more
No agent, no problem:Thinking about going without a real estate broker?
Credit cards
Credit card rates are generally tied to the prime rate, which in turn is affected by the Fed's benchmark rate. While the rate will eventually drop by a quarter percentage point, it might not happen as quickly as rates increased because card issuers often have language in their card agreements that allows them to use the highest prime rate in effect during the preceding 60-day period, McBride says.
A quarter-point cut on a $5,000 credit card balance would lower the minimum payment by just $1 a month, a fraction of the $9 in increases already enacted.
Home equity lines
Most home equity lines of credit, or HELOCs, also track the prime rate. The rate decrease should show up within 30 to 60 days. But it would reverse just one of the Fed's nine previous rate hikes since late 2015, so your rate is still likely to be two percentage points higher than it had been a few years ago.
A quarter-point reduction on a $30,000 home equity line of credit would shave the monthly payment by $6.25, McBride says. Two such cuts would trim the bill by $12.50. By contrast, the nine rate increases since late 2015 have lifted the same payment by $56.
Adjustable-rate mortgages
Unlike credit cards and HELOCs, rates on adjustable-rate mortgages are modified annually. So the impact of the Fed's rate cut, and any more on the horizon, may hit at once at your next scheduled loan adjustment – much as they did when rates were rising.
Fixed-rate mortgages
The Fed’s key short-term rate affects 30-year mortgages – the most common purchase home loan – and other long-term rates only indirectly. Those rates more closely track inflation expectations and the long-term economic outlook, and have already fallen substantially in recent months as concerns about the economy and low inflation have grown.
Student loans
Many private student loans come with variable interest rates that follow the prime rate. When the loan rate adjusts depends on what's written in your loan terms. For instance, your monthly payment will decrease for those on a regular payback schedule. But if you're on an income-repayment plan, your monthly payment won't change, but a lower portion will go toward interest rather than principal.
Federal student loans have a fixed interest rate set by Congress and are not affected by the Fed's move.
Bank savings rates
Bank customers who finally have started to benefit from higher savings rates could see some of those gains curtailed going forward. Rates on one-year and longer-term certificates of deposits already have edged down this year in anticipation of lower Fed rates, says Ken Tumin, founder of DepositAccounts.com.
Banks move quickly on such longer-term accounts because they don’t want to get stuck paying higher returns for extended periods when rates are falling, McBride says.
Meanwhile, online banks, which have been paying much higher rates on money market and savings accounts, likely would lower their rates within a month or two of any Fed rate cut as their profit margins narrow. A study Tumin conducted during Fed rate decreases in 2007 found banks initially lower savings rates by about half the size of the Fed’s cut and then catch up to match the central bank’s move within several months.

Story 129
Brits literally have less cash in their pockets these days, and it has nothing to do with Brexit: Debit cards usurped notes and coins in 2017, and the decline in ATM cash withdrawals is also accelerating. That’s why The Big Issue magazine is testing a program to equip vendors with contactless card readers. It could become a model for offering basic banking to people without a fixed address.
Selling The Big Issue is a way for homeless and other vulnerable people to pull themselves out of poverty. They buy the magazine with their own money for £1.25 ($1.60) per issue and then sell it on the street for £2.50. Since starting out in 1991, the magazine says more than 92,000 vendors have participated, earning £115 million.
While Britain is far from going fully cashless, around 70% of payments are now digital (and growing). Paul Logan, 59, a vendor for The Big Issue, said his magazine sales are unpredictable—one day he might not sell any, and then 10 or more the next. He’s part of the pilot with iZettle, a payment fintech owned by PayPal, that has equipped 20 sellers across the UK with card readers.
Logan says his regulars are used to paying cash, but the card reader gives him a better chance to win new customers. “You may miss out on an opportunity to have a new regular customer” if you only accept cash, he said.
Is cash still worth the trouble?
As once cash-dependent businesses like The Big Issue look to adapt, it raises questions about whether cash has outlived its usefulness. It plays a role in tax evasion and illicit finance. For shops and restaurants, paper notes and coins make them a target for robbery. Digital payments avoid this and also speed up the check-out process, so that businesses can serve more customers.
But cash remains an economic necessity for an estimated 25 million people in the UK, most notably the 1.3 million who don’t have bank accounts. When people are cut off from formal financial services it’s harder build up savings, and simple things like sending or receiving money, and paying bills, become more expensive.
Financial exclusion is among the factors that make it especially difficult for a homeless person to scrape together the money to afford formal accommodations. More than 300,000 people in the UK are affected by homelessness, according to Oxford-based Greater Change. The organization’s digital platform is designed to give homeless people a way to accept cashless donations and ensure the money is used for things like moving into formal housing. The ranks of homeless sleeping rough has risen sharply in recent years.
The Big Issue plans to offer card readers to more venders this year, but it won’t be easy, according to Russell Blackman, the publisher’s managing director. Logan and the other vendors in the iZettle pilot were chosen because they have bank accounts—something out of reach for many homeless people. To provide services, banks typically have to follow anti-money laundering (AML) requirements that include proof of address and identification.
The Big Issue is talking to banking groups to develop accounts for people who don’t have a fixed address. Blackman says he’s confident they’ll be able to distribute more card readers this year and connect homeless people with basic banking services, which could be available even to those who don’t sell the magazine. “Gaining a bank account is such a key crucial step for them to move forward into mainstream society,” Blackman said. “It’s a really important part of what we’re doing now.”
How to pay in Sweden
And then there’s Sweden, which could go almost completely cashless by 2023. The Swish payment app has caught on like an Abba tune, as stores put up signs to notify customers that notes and coins are no longer accepted.
Yet there are around 1 million people in the country (population: 10 million) who still aren’t ready for digital payments, according to Christina Tallberg, national president of the Swedish National Pensioners Organization. Around 600,000 of them are elderly, while others include people with disabilities and refugees.
PENSIONÄRERNAS RIKSORGANISATION Christina Tallberg
That’s a problem when, increasingly, even essential services in Sweden require digital money. Tallberg points out that going to the public toilet in Sweden can require a digital payment, while parking a car at times involves a smartphone app. Many banks in Sweden are also unwilling to process physical notes and coins.
For Tallberg, 75, the way to make sure people aren’t left behind is through education and by making sure cash doesn’t disappear too quickly. Her organization runs study circles where pensioners teach each other to use iPhones and computers.
Requiring banks and businesses to continue accepting cash could also provide a safety net so that people aren’t left behind. This is something other countries have tried. The People’s Bank of China has cracked down on merchants who refuse to accept cash, fearing a backlash from groups that haven’t caught up with the country’s cashless revolution.
“We are not against digitalization,” Tallberg said, “but we think that when you talk about cash, it’s going a little bit too fast.”
The future of finance on Quartz
Contactless payments are set to finally become widespread in the US. JPMorgan is driving the shift by rolling out contactless technology on its payment cards, and Visa has said there will be 100 million contactless cards in the US by the end of the year.
This week, Quartz membership covered the future of Goldman Sachs. Part of the reason its stock trades below book value is the unknown consequences of its involvement in the 1MDB scandal. Another not-so-fun fact: CEO David Solomon has worked for three other banks in his career—Drexel Burnham Lambert, Salomon Brothers, and Bear Stearns—none of which still exist.
Ethereum Classic was attacked. Some crypto exchanges halted transactions, while others required longer confirmation times to avoid being gamed during the so-called 51% attack against the token’s network.
Investor morale in developed markets has plunged, according to a monthly survey by German research company Sentix. Investors may be in a bad mood after markets tanked last year, or it could be widespread signs of government dysfunction and political unrest.
The future of finance elsewhere
Google is now an authorized payment institution in Ireland, and it also has an e-money license from the Bank of Lithuania. The licenses could allow the tech giant to offer a wider range of financial services. London-based TransferWise, meanwhile, is applying for a license in Brussels as a Brexit hedge.
In the battle of neobanks, N26 now has a higher valuation (paywall) than Revolut. The German upstart raised $300 million in the biggest European fintech investment on record (paywall), and its $2.7 billion valuation makes it the second-most valuable banking startup globally, behind Brazil’s Nubank.
Bank accounts can help the rural poor. A study in Kenya found that free banking services made recipients less dependent on wealthier family members abroad.
Plaid, whose technology links bank accounts to startups like Venmo and Acorns, spent around $200 million to acquire Quovo. The acquisition target is similar to Plaid but has focused on brokerage and investment data.
The European Banking Authority is calling for pan-EU crypto regulation (paywall), saying the current system could be exploited. And the Bank for International Settlements says central banks are unlikely to issue a bitcoin-like digital token anytime soon (pdf).
Previously, in Future of Finance Friday
Jan. 4: How’s that prediction for the utter disruption of the finance industry going?
Dec. 21: Big tech companies prefer the Federal Reserve over blockchain
Dec. 14: Amazon could learn from the Chinese tech giants

Story 130
If youâre a little confused deciding on whether a prepaid, debit or credit travel money card is right for your next break abroad, you're definitely not alone. There are many factors to consider when making a trip overseas so you donât get stung with hidden exchange and withdrawal fees.
Our number-crunchers at Mozo have looked at the nitty gritty and come out with the standouts for the 2019 Mozo Expertsâ Choice Travel Money Awards to help make it easier for you to decide which travel credit, debit and prepaid cards are best for you.
So, before you pack your bags and renew that passport, weigh out the pros and cons and check out some of our winning faves below.


3 TOP TRAVEL MONEY CARDS

Story 131
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
What is a home equity line of credit?
A home equity line of credit, or HELOC, is a second mortgage that gives you access to cash based on the value of your home. You can draw from a home equity line of credit and repay all or some of it monthly, somewhat like a credit card.
With a HELOC, you borrow against your equity, which is the home’s value minus the amount you owe on the primary mortgage. This means:
You could lose the home to foreclosure if you don’t make the payments because you use the home as collateral.
You have to have plenty of equity to get a HELOC. Typically, a HELOC lets you borrow up to 85% of the home’s value minus the amount you owe on the loans.
The best reason to get a home equity line of credit is for something like a major repair or remodeling project that increases the value of your home. A reason not to get a HELOC is the risk of losing your home if you can’t pay back what you borrow.
MORE: Our take on the best HELOC lenders
Do I qualify for a home equity line of credit?
To get a home equity line of credit, you’ll typically need a debt-to-income ratio in the lower 40s or less, a credit score of 620 or higher and home value that’s at least 15% more than you owe.
Find out how much your home is really worth NerdWallet will monitor your home value and home equity so you don't have to. Address Apt (Optional) See home value
How a HELOC works
Much like a credit card that allows you to borrow against your spending limit as often as needed, a HELOC gives you the flexibility to borrow against your home equity, repay and repeat.
Say you have a $500,000 home with a balance of $300,000 on your first mortgage and your lender is allowing you to access up to 85% of your home’s equity. You can establish a HELOC with up to a $125,000 limit:
$500,000 x 85% = $425,000.
$425,000 – $300,000 = $125,000, your maximum line of credit limit.
Most HELOCs have variable interest rates. This means that as baseline interest rates go up or down, the interest rate on your HELOC will adjust, too.
To set your rate, the lender will start with an index rate, like the prime rate or Libor (a benchmark rate used by many banks), then add a markup depending on your credit profile. Variable rates leave you vulnerable to rising interest rates, so be sure to take this into account.
How do you pay back a home equity line of credit?
A HELOC has two phases. First is the draw period, followed by the repayment period.
A HELOC has two phases. First is the draw period, followed by the repayment period.
During the draw period, you can borrow from the credit line by checkbook or card. The minimum payments often are interest-only, but you can pay principal if you wish. The length of the draw period varies; it’s often 10 years.
During the repayment period, you no longer borrow against the credit line. Instead, you pay it back in monthly installments that include principal and interest. With the addition of principal, the monthly payments can rise sharply compared with the draw period. The length of the repayment period varies; it’s often 20 years.
Home equity loan or line of credit?
While a HELOC behaves like a revolving line of credit, letting you tap your home’s value in just the amount you need as you need it, a home equity loan provides a lump-sum withdrawal that’s paid back in installments.
Home equity loans are usually issued with a fixed interest rate. This can save you future payment shocks if interest rates are rising. Work with your lender to decide which option is best for your financing needs.
» MORE: Home equity loan vs. line of credit: pros and cons
Reasons to get a home equity line of credit
A HELOC is often used for home repairs and renovations. A bonus: The interest on your HELOC may be tax-deductible if you use the money to buy, build or substantially improve your home, according to the IRS.
Some use home equity lines of credit to pay for education. Financial advisors generally don’t recommend using a HELOC to pay for vacations and cars because those expenditures don’t build wealth, and may put you at risk of losing the home if you default on the loan.
Reasons to avoid a home equity line of credit
A HELOC introduces the risk of foreclosure if you can’t pay the loan. Consider tapping an emergency fund or taking out a personal loan instead.
Regardless of your goal, avoid a HELOC if:
Your income is unstable. If it’s possible that your income will change for the worse, a HELOC may be a bad idea. If you can’t keep up with your monthly payments, a lender might force you out of your home.
Those upfront costs may not be worth it if you need only a small line of credit.
You can’t afford the upfront costs. A HELOC may require an application fee, title search, appraisal, attorney’s fees and points. These charges can set you back hundreds of dollars.
You aren’t looking to borrow much money. Those upfront costs may not be worth it if you need only a small line of credit. In that case, you may be better off with a low-interest credit card, perhaps with an introductory interest-free period.
You can’t afford an interest rate increase. HELOCs have adjustable rates. The loan paperwork will disclose the lifetime cap, which is the highest-possible rate. Could you afford that? If not, think twice about getting the loan.
You’re using it for basic needs. If you need extra money for day-to-day purchases, and you’re having trouble just making ends meet, a HELOC isn’t worth the risk. Get your finances in shape before taking on additional debts.
Getting the best HELOC rate
This one’s on you: The more you research, the bigger your reward. As you look for the best deal on a home equity line of credit interest rate, get quotes from various lenders.
Get a quote and compare its rates with at least two other lenders.
First, make sure your credit score is in good shape. Then, check your primary bank or mortgage provider; it might offer discounts to existing customers. Get a quote and compare its rates with at least two other lenders. As you shop around, take note of introductory offers, initial rates that will expire at the end of a given term.
Look into the caps on your interest rate, both the lifetime cap, and a periodic cap if it applies. Caps are the maximum limits on interest rate increases. The annual percentage rate on your HELOC is most likely variable; it fluctuates with the market. Make sure you know the maximum rate you could pay — and that you can afford the payments based on it.
» MORE: 9 tips for getting the best HELOC rate
Steps for getting a home equity line of credit
Since a HELOC is a second mortgage, the process of getting one is similar to that of getting a mortgage to buy or refinance a home. You’ll provide some of the same documentation and demonstrate that you’re creditworthy. Here are the steps you’ll follow:
Determine whether you have sufficient equity, using a HELOC calculator. Once you determine that you have enough equity, shop HELOC lenders. Gather your documentation before you apply so the process will go smoothly. See this checklist of documents needed for a mortgage preapproval. Once you have pulled together your documentation and selected a lender, apply for the HELOC. You’ll receive disclosures. Read them carefully and ask the lender questions. Make sure the HELOC will fit your needs. For example, does it require you to borrow thousands of dollars upfront (often called an initial draw)? Do you have to open a separate bank account to get the best rate on the HELOC? The underwriting process can take hours to weeks, and may involve getting an appraisal. The final step is the loan closing when you sign paperwork and the line of credit becomes available.
How a HELOC affects your credit score
Although a HELOC acts a lot like a credit card, giving you ongoing access to your home’s equity, there’s one big difference when it comes to your credit score: Some bureaus treat HELOCs of a certain size like installment loans rather than revolving lines of credit.
This means borrowing 100% of your HELOC limit may not have the same negative effect as maxing out your credit card. Like any line of credit, a new HELOC on your report will likely reduce your credit score temporarily.
» MORE: Get your free credit score report

Story 132
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
If you have a big purchase coming up, getting a new credit card can be a savvy money strategy. But people might have very different goals for matching a new card to a big expenditure. Typically, they are:
A huge sign-up bonus. If you have to spend money on a big purchase anyway, you may as well charge it to a rewards credit card and earn a pile of cash or points from a sign-up bonus , which typically requires spending several thousand dollars in a few months.
0% interest. Others might prefer a 0% interest promotional period to stretch out the amount of time they have to make payments for free. The best 0% intro APR cards offer no interest on purchases for more than a year.
Each of these scenarios is available primarily to new cardholders. They usually don’t apply to your existing credit cards.
Whether your big expense stems from a wedding, new furnace, major car repair or something else, below are some credit card suggestions based on what you care about in a new card. Even if you don’t take a specific card recommendation, the categories can be a useful road map for the types of cards to look for.
These strategies work best for people with credit scores that are high enough to get the credit card limit they need for the big purchase.
0% interest promotion
Long intro APR period, no rewards
If you care most about avoiding interest charges on a new purchase for as long as you can and aren’t looking for a rewards credit card to use every day:
U.S. Bank Visa® Platinum Card
Introductory APR: 0% on Purchases and Balance Transfers for 18 billing cycles, and then the ongoing APR of 14.24% - 25.24% Variable APR
Get a long 0% intro APR period on purchases (and balance transfers). The card offers no rewards for spending and requires excellent credit. The annual fee is $0.
Other good choices:
Nerd Tip: A side benefit of using a credit card for large purchases is that you have a number of consumer protections, including the ability to dispute charges . And many cards offer extended warranties, lengthening a manufacturer warranty.
Intro APR period, cash-back rewards
If you can accept fewer months of 0% interest on purchases and prefer your rewards in cash, you have a number of choices that offer rewards and a sign-up bonus. This is an example with flat-rate cash rewards.
Capital One® Quicksilver® Cash Rewards Credit Card
Learn More Introductory APR: 0% on Purchases and Balance Transfers for 15 months, and then the ongoing APR of 15.74% - 25.74% Variable APR
Earn an unlimited 1.5% cash back on every purchase. The annual fee is $0.
Other good choices:
Intro APR period, travel rewards
Travel credit cards aren’t known for their 0% terms, but if you don’t need a super-long interest-free period, you can get a high-quality travel card with a sign-up bonus.
Discover it® Miles
Learn More Introductory APR: 0% on Purchases for 14 months and 10.99% on Balance Transfers for 14 months, and then the ongoing APR of 13.74% - 24.74% Variable APR
Earn an unlimited 1.5 miles for every dollar spent on all purchases, and redeem miles as a statement credit toward travel purchases. The annual fee is $0.
Other good choices:
Nerd Tip: As always with credit cards, you want to avoid interest charges for carrying a balance outside a promotional 0% period. And if you use a huge portion of your credit limit, it could ding your credit scores until you pay down the balance.
» MORE: Credit cards with long 0% intro APR periods
Sign-up bonus
The strategy here is for when you already have the money to pay in full but you want to earn a pile of cash back or points from a new rewards credit card. You do that in two ways: hitting the required minimum spending to get the sign-up bonus and racking up rewards for spending money on the card. The largest sign-up bonuses come on cards with an annual fee.
Sign-up bonus, cash back
Capital One® Savor® Cash Rewards Credit Card
Learn More Sign-up bonus: Earn a one-time $300 cash bonus after you spend $3000 on purchases within the first 3 months from account opening
Earn unlimited 4% cash back on dining and entertainment, 2% at grocery stores and 1% on all other purchases. Annual fee: $0 for the first year, then $95.
Other good choice with annual fee of $0:
Sign-up bonus, travel rewards
Chase Sapphire Preferred® Card
Learn More Sign-up bonus: Earn 60,000 bonus points after you spend $4,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening. That's $750 toward travel when you redeem through Chase Ultimate Rewards®
Double points on travel and dining at restaurants worldwide and 1 point per dollar spent on all other purchases. Annual fee: $95.
Nerd Tip: Some rewards credit cards offer additional perks or rewards for hitting specific spending tiers — like spending $25,000 in a year. If you have one of those cards, using it could be another way to strategically benefit from a big purchase without applying for a new card.
Sign-up bonus, premium travel rewards
Chase Sapphire Reserve®
Learn More Sign-up bonus: Earn 50K bonus points after you spend $4,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening. That's $750 toward travel when you redeem through Chase Ultimate Rewards®
Earn triple points on travel and on dining at restaurants; 1 point per $1 spent on all other purchases. Annual fee: $450.
Other good choice:
Other options
If you already made a big purchase on a credit card but can’t pay it off right away, you could transfer a balance to a 0% card. See NerdWallet’s picks for best balance transfer credit cards. Just note the balance transfer fee, often 3% to 5%.
Looking for a small-business credit card for making a large purchase? See our roundup of best credit cards for small business, and look for similar 0% periods and sign-up bonuses to the cards above.

Story 133
It goes without saying that finding the right credit card could save you hundreds, if not thousands, of dollars a year. Whether you’re looking for lower fees, higher net reward points or simply valuable perks like travel medical insurance or rental car savings, every dollar counts. If you use your credit card wisely, pay off your balance monthly and find the right rewards program for you, you’re sure to come out ahead. There’s a slew of credit card options out there, so making a choice can be perplexing. To help you find a keeper or two, MoneySense has done a lot of the heavy lifting for you.
To come up with Canada’s Best Credit Cards 2019, we tapped our credit card tool, which is powered by our partner Ratehub.ca‡. The methodology took into consideration numerous factors, including welcome bonuses, great cash-back value, rental car discounts, flexible travel with no restrictions, high cash-back value, superb insurance packages, and more. Ratehub.ca provides us with results based on their algorithms and the team at MoneySense uses that information and also makes additional considerations when determining the final rankings.
Remember, this is only a starting point. Try our tool and then do some of your own credit card research. Some of the highlights from our package include:
The best credit cards in Canada 2019
Best travel rewards cards for everyday spending
The Scotiabank Gold American Express has been a long-time favourite for Canadians, and a round of changes as of August 1, 2019, have only improved the offering, especially for travellers.
The first thing you’ll notice is they’ve bumped up their earn rate on Scotia Rewards to a very healthy 5 points per dollar on groceries, dining and entertainment. Gas gets 3 points per dollar, as do spends in two new categories: public transit and eligible streaming services. All other purchases earn you 1 point per dollar spent. And the 30,000-point welcome bonus gives you a robust head start on saving for your next big trip.
Scotia Rewards points are very flexible. You can book your travel through the Scotia Rewards Travel portal, or you can book any type of travel on a different site and then simply apply your points to get a statement credit. In both cases, it takes 100 points to claim $1 in travel, so the value of your points is the same regardless of where you make your reservations.
In other very big news for travellers, this card no longer charges a foreign transaction fee—it’s one of the very few Canadian cards to offer this perk. Consider it a 2.5% bonus (the amount previously charged) on all foreign currency transactions, including online purchases.
The included travel insurance covers you for 25 days per trip and comprises every major type of travel insurance, so you can go on vacation knowing that you’re protected. On the downside, the trip cancellation insurance coverage has been reduced from $2,500 to $1,500 in protection, and seniors are only covered for 3 days rather the 10 days offered previously.
One additional benefit that comes with the card that’s often overlooked is price protection. If there’s a price drop on one of your purchases within 60 days of your purchase, Scotiabank will credit you the difference.
Annual fee: $120
Welcome bonus: 30,000 points (25,000 when you charge $1,000 to your card in the first 3 months and an additional 5,000 when you spend $10,000 in the first year)
Earn rate: 5 points per dollar spent on groceries, dining and entertainment; 3 points per dollar on gas, public transit and eligible streaming services; and 1 point for per dollar spent on all other purchases
Additional benefits: Members save 35% off Priority Pass membership (no free lounge passes), travel insurance
Click here for more details about the Scotiabank Gold American Express*
With a high earn rate, generous welcome bonus and points that are easy to use, the American Express Cobalt card is our pick for one of the best travel credit cards for everyday spending. What makes this card unique is its subscription type model with both the monthly fee and welcome bonus. Think of it as a way of testing out the card before you fully commit.
The points you earn can be used towards the American Express Fixed Points Travel Program which allows you to book any flight, on any airline with no blackout dates. If you prefer to use your rewards for accommodations, you can transfer your points to one of the American Express Hotel partners.
Annual fee: $120 ($10 monthly)
Welcome bonus: 2,500 per month, for 12 months when you spend a minimum of $500 to your card each month, to a maximum of 30,000 points total
Earn rate: 5 points per $1 spent on eats and drinks, 2 points per $1 spent on travel, 1 point per $1 spent on all other purchases
Additional benefits: American Express Invites, travel insurance
Click here for more details about the American Express Cobalt*
Best Visa travel card
Some people want to earn points when they travel as well as throughout the year, so that when they do take a trip, they can save on their flights or hotels. If this sounds like you, then the TD First Class Travel Visa Infinite Card is a good choice, since you can rack up the points and then easily make a redemption through Expedia for TD.
The earn rate is simple to understand. You get 3 TD Rewards points per $1 spent; when you make online purchases through Expedia for TD you earn 9 points per $1 spent, and 6 points per $1 spent for phone purchases through Expedia for TD. That means you’re earning a 1.5%, 4.5% and 3% return respectively in travel points. Expedia For TD is just like the regular Expedia platform so you’ll have no problem finding ways to redeem your points.
With the annual fee of $120 being rebated for the first year and a welcome bonus of up to 90,000 points—which has a travel value of up to $450—this could be the best travel credit card offer available right now.
Annual fee: $120—rebated for the first year
Welcome bonus: 20,000 TD Rewards points when you make your first purchase on the card; plus an additional 2 times the points on card purchases made in the first 3 months, up to a maximum of 60,000 points; and an additional 10,000 points for adding another cardholder to your account by December 1
Earn rate: 9 points per dollar spent on travel online with Expedia for TD; 6 points per dollar spent on travel via phone order with Expedia for TD; 3 points per dollar spent on all other purchases
Click here for more details about the TD First Class Travel Visa Infinite Card.*
Best cash back card (with a fee)
The Scotia Momentum Visa Infinite card is one of the most popular cash back options.
With this card, you’ll get 4% cash back on groceries and recurring bill payments you put on your card; 2% on gas and public transit spends; and 1% on all other purchases. Together, these make up some of the highest earn rates in the country.
Annual fee: $120 (first year free)
Earn rate: 4% cash back on groceries and recurring bills; 2% on gas and public transit; 1% on everything else
Additional benefits: Travel insurance, Concierge service, Visa Infinite Dining and Music Series
Click here for more details about the Scotia Momentum Visa Infinite*

Best cash back card (no fee)

If you’re looking for a no fee, cash back card, then the Tangerine Money-Back card needs to be on your radar since you can earn up to 2% cash back on three categories of your choice. You’re given two categories that earn you 2% right away, but if you set your cash back to deposit directly into your Tangerine account, then you get to choose a third category. All other purchases earn you 0.5% in cash back so make sure you choose your categories based on how much you spend.
There aren’t really any additional benefits with this card, but that’s okay as Tangerine is trying to provide you with a simple credit card solution that encourages you to save the cash back you earn on your spending.
Annual fee: None
Earn rate: 2% cash back on up to 3 categories of your choice, 0.5% on all other purchases
Welcome offer: Get 4% cash back on your 3 categories for the first 3 months
Additional benefits: Purchase Assurance, Extended warranty
Click here for more details about the Tangerine Money-Back Card*

Best travel rewards card (no fee)

The MBNA Rewards Platinum Plus Mastercard doesn’t give you a huge sign-up bonus, but the 10,000 points are easy to earn since all you need to do is make any purchase within 90 days of getting your card to earn 5,000 points and then enrol into e-statements to get another 5,000 points.
MBNA points are flexible since you can redeem them for a variety of things such as travel, a statement credit, and more, but you get the most bang for your buck on travel redemptions where it’ll cost you 100 points to claim $1 in travel. For reference, it takes 200 points to claim $1 in cash back.
Annual fee: None
Welcome bonus: 5,000 bonus points if you enroll in e-statements and another 5,000 points after your first purchase
Earn rate: 2 points for every dollar spent on gas, groceries, and restaurants, 1 point per dollar spent on all other purchases
Additional benefits: Purchase Assurance, Extended warranty
Click here for more details about the MBNA Rewards Platinum Plus Mastercard*
Best student credit card
The academic year tends to be front-loaded with expenses: text books, lab supplies and, if you’re living off-residence, housewares and the cost of setting up utilities. This is where a rewards card comes in handy, especially with a juicy welcome bonus of 5% cash back on purchases on your first three statements. After the bonus period, you’ll still earn 1% cash back on everything else.
Annual fee: $0
Welcome bonus: 5% cash back on your first three statements (purchases totalling up to $2,000)
Earn rate: 1% cash back on all purchases
Additional benefits: Extended insurance on purchases made with the card; up to 25% off rentals at eligible Alamo and National Car rental agencies
Click here for more details about the BMO CashBack Mastercard*
Best low-interest credit card (for carrying a balance)
American Express Essential Credit Card
People looking to reduce the amount of interest they pay should consider a low-interest credit card such as the American Express Essential Credit card. You won’t earn anything for your spending, but the interest rate is just 12.99% which is significantly lower than the average of 19.99% that most other credit cards charge.
If you’re currently carrying a balance on a credit with a higher interest rate, then you should take advantage of the optional balance transfer at the time of application. Balances transferred will only be charged 1.99% for the first six months so you can focus on reducing your debt.
Annual fee: None
Welcome bonus: Optional balance transfer interest rate of 1.99% for the first six months
Earn rate: N/A
Additional benefits: Amex invites
Best balance transfer credit card (for consolidating debt)
The MBNA True Line Mastercard is another balance transfer credit card but it has a few unique features. With the balance transfer option, your promotional interest rate is 0% for the first ten months. There is a balance transfer fee of 3% with a minimum of $7.50, but you get 90 days from the time of your account opening to complete your balance transfer.
Once your promotional period ends, your interest rate goes up to 12.99% which is still lower than most credit cards, but you should try to pay off your balance when your rate is 0% so you can avoid any additional interest charges.
Annual fee: None
Welcome bonus: Optional balance transfer interest rate of 0% for the first ten months (1% transfer fee, $7.50 minimum).
Earn rate: N/A
Additional benefits: None
NOTE: APR and balance transfer offer is different for residents of Quebec
Click here for more details about the True Line Mastercard*
Canada’s Best Credit Cards — Rewards Overview


In-Depth: THE BEST CREDIT CARDS BY CATEGORY
How do credit cards work?
It’s important to understand exactly what credit cards do, so you can use them with maximum advantage without falling into financial trouble. There are lots of benefits. For instance, they offer you a line of credit that can be used when you make a purchase, for balance transfers and/or cash advances. So they are like short-term loans with a balance that must be paid back every month. As you pay down your balance, the credit available to you the following month goes up.
A credit card’s strongest advantage is convenience. Simply pay for your purchase with your credit card and you will be billed for the outstanding balance the following month—no cash in your wallet required. Other benefits include the ability to accrue rewards and points—such as cash back or travel points—based on a percentage of your purchases each month, usually between 1% to 4%, depending on which credit card you own. You can then redeem those points for gift cards, travel, products or other items offered through the credit card company’s online rewards catalogue.
Credit cards can also help you build credit. Always pay on time and your credit score will be high (650+) allowing you in future to borrow for a mortgage or a car loan in future at a reasonable interest rate from your local financial institution.
Of course, credit cards need to be used responsibly and work best when you are a disciplined spender. Have only one or two cards in your wallet and make sure they match your spending habits. And of course, make sure you can pay off the balance in full (or at the very least make the minimum payment) every month so you don’t have to pay hefty interest on your unpaid balance. This can result in costly fees as well as points knocked off your credit score—a real no-no. But with a bit of diligent oversight and self-control, credit cards become helpful and convenient financial tools that can make everyday purchases simple and easy.
How to decide: What is the best credit card for me?
When deciding on which credit is the best for you, you need to look at your priorities. If you normally carry a balance or you want to reduce your debt, then a low interest or balance transfer card should be the only things you consider.
For those who always pay off their full balance every month, then they need to decide whether a travel or cash back card makes more sense for them. Travel cards can offer lucrative rewards, but if you don’t like to travel, there’s no point in getting a travel credit card. If this sounds like you, then a cash back card may be the way to go.
Now that you’ve got your category of card selected, take a look at the earn rate, additional, benefits, and what type of points you earn for each card. If you happen to spend a lot on gas and groceries, then look for a card that has a high earn rate for those categories.
The annual fee should also be a consideration in your decision making, but if you think you’re getting good value out of your additional benefits, then the annual fee shouldn’t be a big deal.
Credit card points versus cash back: What to consider before deciding
In the end, most decisions will come down to a cash back or travel rewards credit card? As mentioned, travel rewards can be lucrative, but cash back is simple since you don’t need to worry about any potential travel restrictions. Think about the following for each type of card.
Cash back cards: The first thing you want to look at is the earn rate. Take a look at your spending habits and pick a card that will earn you the most rewards. For example, if you spend a lot on gas, then pick a card that earns you more cash back at gas stations. High earn rates are great, but keep in mind that many of the top cards have a high income requirement to be approved. Cash back is simple to understand, but some credit cards will only give you what you’ve earned after you reach a minimum amount or once per calendar year. Find out how you’ll get paid and make sure you’re okay with it before you apply. If you’re considering a card with an annual fee, make sure the extra cash back you earn is worth more than the fee. If it’s not, stick to a no fee card.
Rewards credit cards: Generally speaking, cards that earn you points are usually best used for travel redemptions. These cards will likely give you other ways to cash out your points, but the majority of the time, you get the most value for your points when redeeming for travel. Similar to cash back cards, you want to pick a card that gives you the most points on the categories you spend the most money. You also want to figure out what type of travel you prefer. you could get an airline branded credit card or a hotel one. There are also credit cards that allow you to redeem for any type of travel. Regardless of what you go with, you need to know how the reward programs work so you can maximize your points.
More on our methodology
For the Best Credit Cards 2019 ranking we ran the numbers for each of the cards in the seven categories based on $2,000 in monthly spending ($1,000 monthly for the student cards) as well as interest rates and offers. We also made some assumptions on spending—grocery spend of $500, gas of $200, restaurants of $200 and bill payments of $125, travel of $175, entertainment of $225, pharmacy purchases of $75 and other purchases of $500. (These were adjusted lower for student cards).
The end game was a magic number—that is, the annual net reward in dollar terms to identify the top cards in each category, plus an honorary mention. As highlighted above, our methodology also took into consideration other factors, including the value of a credit card’s welcome bonuses, insurance benefits and flexibility.
‡MoneySense.ca and Ratehub.ca are both owned by parent company Ratehub Inc. We may be partnered with some financial institutions, but this does not influence the “Canada’s Best Credit Card” rankings. You can read more about this in our Editorial Code of Conduct.

Story 134
The global payments industry is undergoing unprecedented transformation, driven by rising technology adoption and changing consumer expectations.
The global payments industry is undergoing unprecedented transformation, driven by rising technology adoption and changing consumer expectations.
A complex global ecosystem, it seamlessly processes an immense volume of business, consumer, point of sale and e-commerce transactions across cash, card, contactless, online and mobile methods. All transactions must be accurately and securely processed and recorded on an increasingly instant basis, all in line with complex financial regulations.
As Paytech: Reinventing Transactions, a new eBook commissioned by Enterprise Ireland, demonstrates, traditional enterprises are being increasingly disrupted, as technology-enabled businesses carve out a completely different payments ecosystem. The result is a proliferation of new opportunities, as banks, long the cornerstone of the payments sector, are both challenged by - and embracing - new paytech options.
The opportunity is gathering pace, with the 2018 World Payments Report predicting a continuous increase in the volume of global non-cash transactions at a rate of 12.7pc between 2016 and 2021.
Irish society is a relatively speedy adopter of cashless payments and a recent government report ranked Ireland 10th of 27 EU member states for the combined use of card payments, credit transfers, and direct debits. Irish businesses compare well too, in terms of offering and using electronic payments. Thanks to a strong cluster of multinational and Irish-owned companies, Ireland has emerged as a centre of innovation in the transformative paytech space.
Leaders in payments, such as First Data, Elavon, Mastercard, Paypal and Citi, have substantial R&D and payment processing operations in Ireland. Irish companies have developed particular strengths in card payments, cross-border payments, account-to-account payments, secure payment authentication, blockchain, and open banking.
For example, dynamic currency conversion (DCC), originated in Kerry in the late Nineties.
Early adopters Fexco, Monex and Continuum have become global leaders in the sector, while continuing to develop innovative new paytech projects around the world.
Fire Financial Services is the first Irish-based payments firm to be authorised as a Payment Initiation Service Provider under PSD2 rules, which are forcing banks to open up their technology platforms to third parties.
Worldnet Payments helps companies who accept card payments globally to ensure their merchant card terminals are compliant and up to date with chip and pin and contactless payments.
Sysnet Global Solutions has a suite of cybersecurity and compliance solutions that help merchants and card acquiring organisations to monitor exposure and reduce the risk of payment card details being stolen.
Sentenial's next generation cloud payments platform securely processes over €42 billion a year as an outsourced provider to many of the world's leading banks. Its Nuapay solution is helping to reinvent what's possible from a modern banking and payment solution.
Transfermate, part of the Taxback Group, uses its global network of local bank accounts to facilitate international payments and allows businesses worldwide to send and receive International payments as though they were domestic, offering a much cheaper and faster alternative to traditional banks.
Prepaid Financial Services (PFS) employs over 160 people and is one of the fastest-growing paytech institutions in Europe.
PiPiT, a Galway-based startup, has devised a secure online payment platform that helps customers spend cash digitally. It enables migrants to use cash to send money and pay bills internationally, securely and at low cost.
AID:Tech enables entitlements such as aid, welfare and donations to be digitised, delivered and tracked using blockchain technology, including the distribution of international aid to refugee camps.
These are just some of the Irish companies that have developed interesting paytech products, which are operating across the world.
Technology giants like Facebook and Google may enter the payment market in the coming years and Ireland's paytech sector is already developing close links to these companies.
Payments are one of the most disrupted sub-segments within the financial services industry. For anyone looking to navigate the world's newly-disrupted payments ecosystem, there is no better guide than one of Ireland's paytech innovators.
Brendan McCormack is a senior fintech development adviser at Enterprise Ireland.
Sunday Indo Business

Story 135
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
The Chase Sapphire Reserve® is so loaded with benefits that its annual fee might be considered a bargain even at $450.
Chase Sapphire Reserve® benefits fall into three general categories: rewards points you earn by putting spending on the card, perks you receive for carrying the card and “peace-of-mind” protections you get for being a cardholder.
Here’s what you get with this card.
Points: Spending rewards
Rewards on the Chase Sapphire Reserve® come as Chase Ultimate Rewards® points, which offer a great deal of flexibility and a potentially high redemption value per point. (Learn more about Chase Ultimate Rewards® points.)
1. A big sign-up bonus
The issuer describes it this way: “Earn 50K bonus points after you spend $4,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening. That's $750 toward travel when you redeem through Chase Ultimate Rewards® .”
2. Bonus rewards on travel and dining
You earn 3 Chase Ultimate Rewards® points per dollar spent on travel and dining worldwide, and 1 point per dollar on all other purchases.
3. 50% more value when redeeming for travel
Ultimate Rewards® points are usually worth 1 cent apiece. But Chase Sapphire Reserve® cardholders who redeem them for travel booked through Chase can get 1.5 cents per point. That gives you an effective rewards rate of 4.5% on travel and dining and 1.5% on other purchases.
4. Point transfers to airlines and hotels
You can transfer your points to about a dozen airline and hotel loyalty programs at a 1:1 ratio. Depending on the program and how you use the transferred points, you could squeeze out even more value than the 1.5 cents per point you get for booking through Chase. Transfer partners:
Airlines: United, Southwest, JetBlue, Aer Lingus, Air France/KLM, British Airways, Iberia, Singapore Airlines, Virgin Atlantic.
United, Southwest, JetBlue, Aer Lingus, Air France/KLM, British Airways, Iberia, Singapore Airlines, Virgin Atlantic. Hotels: Marriott, IHG, Hyatt.
Perks: Goodies for carrying the card
5. $300 a year in travel credit
If there’s a single, signature Chase Sapphire Reserve® benefit, this is probably it. The card automatically reimburses you for $300 in travel expenses charged to the card each year. (However, purchases reimbursed with the credit do not earn 3X points.) The automatic credit effectively cuts the annual cost of carrying the card to $150. Learn more about travel credits.
6. TSA Precheck/Global Entry credit
Every four years, you’re eligible for a credit of up to $100 as reimbursement for the application fee for TSA Precheck or Global Entry, when you charge the fee to your card. TSA Precheck gets you access to expedited airport security lines; Global Entry gives you the same access, plus quicker customs screening when entering the country. Learn more about TSA Precheck and Global Entry.
7. No foreign transaction fees
Many credit cards slap a surcharge on all purchases made outside the U.S. — typically 3% of the purchase amount. Good travel cards like the Chase Sapphire Reserve® do not impose this fee. See NerdWallet’s best no foreign transaction fee credit cards.
8. Priority Pass Select lounge access
Chase Sapphire Reserve® benefits include the ability to enroll in Priority Pass Select at no cost. Membership gives you access to more than 1,000 lounges in over 500 cities worldwide. Note that Priority Pass Select lounges do not include those operated by the big U.S. carriers American, Delta and United. Learn how to maximize Priority Pass Select.
9. Luxury hotel benefits
Cardholders staying at one of the high-end properties in Chase’s Luxury Hotel & Resort Collection can enjoy an array of perks: daily breakfast for two, free Wi-Fi, room upgrades when available, early check-in and late checkout, and a “special benefit unique to each property,” such as a spa package, restaurant credit or gift card.
10. Cardholder hotline
Don’t mess around with general-purpose customer service phone trees. Chase Sapphire Reserve® customers get 24/7 access to a dedicated customer support line.
Protections: Peace-of-mind benefits
Chase Sapphire Reserve® benefits include protections that kick in when you shop with your card and when you book travel with your card. Keep in mind that with some of these benefits, certain conditions and exclusions will apply. (For example, don’t expect to be able to buy a Ferrari with your card, total it and then get reimbursed under the purchase protection benefit.)
Shopping protections
11. Purchase protection
When you buy something with your card, it’s covered against theft or damage for up to 120 days, for up to $10,000 per item and $50,000 per year. Learn more about price protection.
12. Return protection
If you want to return something you’ve bought but the store won’t take back, you might be able to get reimbursed through Chase. The coverage is good for 90 days after purchase, up to $500 per item and $1,000 per year. Learn more about return protection.
13. Extended warranty
This benefit adds an extra year onto manufacturers’ warranties of three years or less. Learn more about extended warranty protections.
Travel protections
14. Rental car coverage
Pay for an auto rental with your card and decline the rental agency’s insurance coverage, and you’re covered for up to $75,000 against collision or theft. Coverage is primary — meaning you don’t have to involve your own insurance at all — and available both in the U.S. and abroad. Learn more about credit card rental car coverage.
15. Trip cancellation or interruption insurance
Get reimbursed for up to $10,000 per person and $20,000 per trip if you have to cancel or cut short your trip because of sickness, weather and other covered situations. Reimbursement applies only to prepaid, nonrefundable travel expenses.
16. Trip Delay Reimbursement
If your airline, train, bus or other ticketed travel experiences a delay that lasts more than six hours or requires an overnight stay, you’re covered for unreimbursed expenses up to $500 per ticket.
17. Lost Luggage Reimbursement
This provides up to $3,000 of coverage per passenger if your checked or carry-on luggage is damaged or lost by the airline. Applies to the cardholder and immediate family members.
18. Medical emergencies during travel
If you or an immediate family member get sick or injured while traveling and need an emergency evacuation, you can be covered for up to $100,000 for medical services and transportation.
More about the card

Story 136
JAKARTA -- The two leading contenders in Indonesia's digital payments sector have shown their willingness to spend without thought for the bottom line, but now the battle for dominance has entered a new phase as Go-Pay and Ovo offer credit-like services aimed at recouping their investments.
The greater potential for achieving a profit matters more to Go-Pay, the payment arm of local ride-hailing startup Go-Jek, as its parent considers an initial public offering.
But this shift also matters for the growth of consumer finance in Southeast Asia's biggest economy, where much of the population uses neither bank accounts nor credit cards.
Go-Pay and rival Ovo, which is backed by Indonesian conglomerate Lippo Group, have each launched a consumer credit service that lets users pay for their purchases on the platform all at once at the end of the month.
These "pay later" services can carry a fee -- a de facto interest charge -- allowing Go-Pay and Ovo to earn bigger returns than from payment transaction fees.
Go-Pay typically charges a monthly fee of 25,000 rupiah ($2) with a credit limit of 500,000 rupiah. Ovo has made its service free for now, but looks to introduce fees soon, said Makoto Honda, head of Tokyo Century in Indonesia. Tokyo Century is an investor in Ovo.
"This is an expected shift as the purely payment-system model has low, or even negative, profitability," said Johan Sulaeman, associate professor of finance at NUS Business School in Singapore. Pay-later services "can provide additional benefits to the platform in the form of high implicit interest rates -- service and late fees -- and credit scoring using users' activities in the platform."
An industry insider who requested anonymity said the returns from pay-later services will not be enough to make the payment platforms profitable, at least in the near term.
But for Go-Pay and Ovo, which have burned cash by offering numerous discounts and incentives, revenue from the services "could help to recoup their investments faster, while offering upside in the future," said Mulya Chandra, equity analyst at Morgan Stanley Sekuritas Indonesia.
Online trip booking service Traveloka -- which, like Go-Jek, is one of Indonesia's "unicorn" startups valued at over $1 billion -- ventured into pay-later services ahead of the competition last June. Go-Pay followed in September, initially limiting the feature to food delivery before extending it to other parts of Go-Jek's network. By July, it will make delayed payment available for purchases at physical stores that accept Go-Pay.
Ovo introduced the feature in January for purchases at its partner e-commerce company Tokopedia and extended the option to offline merchants in May. Plans call for expanding it to other verticals like Singapore-based Grab, Go-Jek's ride-hailing rival and an investor in Ovo.
Both U.S. ride-hailers Uber Technologies and Lyft suffered lackluster IPOs after their documents showed significant operating losses. Observers say that if Go-Jek goes public, it will need to show a clear path to positive cash flow and profitability.
Go-Jek founder Nadiem Makarim has targeted the company's payment arm as the bearer of that burden. In a recent interview with the Nikkei Asian Review, he said ride-hailing represents "less than a quarter" of Go-Jek's overall gross merchandise value, and that "food [delivery] is bigger and payment is even much bigger." Even with ride-hailing at break-even, "we can hit profitability" when the company goes public, he said.
Go-Pay and Ovo also hope the pay-later services help transform them into full-fledged financial platforms. More than half of Indonesians older than 15 remain unbanked and unable to build a credit history, preventing them from obtaining loans via regular financial institutions.
Both payment platforms already possess vast data on their users accumulated from daily transactions in ride-hailing, e-commerce, utility payments and more. They hope additional data from the pay-later services allows for more efficient and accurate credit scoring, eventually letting them provide their banked and unbanked users with financial products on the platform through partner banks. This also represents a more profitable business than the platforms' mainstay payment transactions.
Pay later "is the beginning" for the company to "provide a wide array of financial products" to users, a segment it has left untouched, Go-Pay CEO Aldi Haryopratomo told the Nikkei Asian Review.
The next stage in the evolution of financial technology will allow users "who are unbanked and never had access to these financial services ... [to] grow their credit history and move up the economic ladder," Haryopratomo said, adding that granular data eventually will help "deconstruct the financial products."
Ovo has similar plans, according to Tokyo Century's Honda.
"We already offer mutual funds to some users [through a partnership with mutual fund marketplace Bareksa]," he said. "Our plan is to expand the product offering, be it financing, lending, asset management. We don't know if payment [transactions] will ultimately make money, but financing can contribute to our revenues."
A challenge for both may come in the form of regulation, Sulaeman said.
"While social credit scoring within the platform can facilitate access to offer higher-value financial services and other auxiliary services, it may have privacy and welfare implications that attract the attention of financial and economic regulators," the associate professor said.
In China, where social credit scoring took off in the form of Ant Financial Services Group's Zhima Credit and Tencent Holdings' Tencent Credit, the country's central bank last year stopped allowing independent companies to provide credit ratings, and required all credit ratings to be given by a new public body called Baihang, according to the Financial Times.
The consumer credit data Go-Pay and Ovo possess is something Jakarta will want to have as it pushes for more financial inclusion. China's case is an extreme example, but Indonesia's government has its own digital payment platform LinkAja through state-owned banks, and may yet provide a regulatory boost to help it follow in the footsteps of Go-Pay and Ovo.

Story 137
Telstra has been identified as the source of an outage that knocked out payments and ATM services for Australia Post, Bendigo Bank, ING Australia, Bank Australia and Cuscal on Tuesday.
The incident, iTnews has learned, kicked off due to a process error that unintentionally cut the connection between Cuscal and eftpos leaving thousands of customers unable make transactions via CHQ or Savings accounts until mid-evening.
It is understood the glitch happened when a live service was mistaken for one that was being retired, with the live service pulled instead of the dead one.
Telstra on Tuesday was making assurances that the incident was isolated and not a network wide issue.
Telstra's network issues recently caused Cabcharge to tell its investors it lost $5 million in forgone fares after an outage.
Cuscal finally calls it
For customers trying to figure out what was going on, confirmation how far the incident extended didn't come until well into the afternoon.
“We are currently experiencing a telecommunications issue causing the loss of connectivity to the eftpos hub and ATM links for selected services," Cuscal's chief client officer Bianca Bates told iTnews in a statement.
"The impact is that some of our clients’ cardholders are not currently able to make an eftpos transaction. These cardholders can continue to transact using credit and contactless functionality," Bates said.
There is also a disruption to Australia Post services and some ATM services, Bates continued, adding that Cuscal is "working with our network provider to resolve this issue as priority.”
Later in the evening, Australia Post had its own take.
"Due to an issue impacting a number of organisations - including Australia Post – we are experiencing outages to some EFTPOS transactions, bill payments and banking services at our Post Offices. We're working with the supplier to resolve the issue as quickly as possible, and apologise for the inconvenience," Post said.
But the confirmations only came after several affected institutions issued outage notices to customers on social media that their card services are down.
we did advise there is a card outage, which means cards are currently not working whether it be EFTPOS or ATM's. ^Hayley — ING Australia (@ING_Aust) June 18, 2019
The disruption also appears to be hitting Cheque and Savings account, with Bank Australia saying customers trying to get cash from ANZ, CBA, Westpac and Australia Post ATMs also impacted.
We have been advised that customers attempting to withdraw cash from ANZ, CBA, Westpac or Australia Post outlets may be experiencing issues. Other banks' ATMs are not affected. We will keep you updated. — Bank Australia (@bankaust) June 18, 2019
The latest glitch comes as the Reserve Bank of Australia continues its push for better transparency on payment system outages and their impact on merchants and consumers.
In particular the RBA is demanding a standardised set of outage definitions by which it can hold banks and payment systems providers to account.
In November 2018 RBA Governor, Philip Lowe, issued a strong warning that if Australia’s big banks and credit card schemes did not address ongoing technology outages and upgrade lethargy, the central bank would intervene through regulation.
“We all need to do better here. As we rely less on cash, outages affecting retail transactions can have a significant impact on businesses and individuals. So continued effort needs to be made by all participants in the payments system to reduce operational problems. If this does not happen, then it is possible that the Payments System Board could consider setting some standards.”

Story 138
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
The no-annual-fee Ducks Unlimited Rewards Platinum Edition® Visa® Card is a rare bird indeed, offering an exceptionally high rewards rate of 5% cash back on both gas and sporting goods store purchases.
That rich rewards rate rightfully earns it a spot as one of NerdWallet’s best credit cards for gas
But on all other spending, the card’s earnings are light as a feather and easily bested by many other flat-rate cash-back cards.
Here are five things to know about the Ducks Unlimited Rewards Platinum Edition® Visa® Card.
» MORE: How to choose a gas credit card
1. It truly is an exceptional gas credit card …
The Ducks Unlimited Rewards Platinum Edition® Visa® Card is issued by First Bankcard, a division of First National Bank of Omaha. It boasts something that few other cards on the market can: a big, honking cash-back rate on gas with no strings attached — no reward limits, spending caps, fees or membership requirements. It earns:
Unlimited 5% cash back on gas purchases. (This includes businesses whose merchant category codes are either “service stations” or “automated fuel dispensers,” per the card’s terms.)
Unlimited 5% back on sporting goods store purchases.
Unlimited 1% back on everything else.
To be sure, 5% back on gas isn’t unheard of. The Sam's Club Mastercard, for example, offers that rate — but only up to $6,000 spent on gas per year. After that, you’ll drop down to 1% back on gas. And while the card’s annual fee is technically $0, you must join Sam’s Club to get it. Membership there costs at least $45 a year.
The PenFed Platinum Rewards Visa Signature® Card earns 5 points per dollar spent on gas at the pump — but only “at the pump,” meaning purchases made inside an accompanying service station may not count. Plus, you can’t redeem points for cash back, and many of the card’s other redemption options offer value below the industry standard of 1 cent per point. And, again, there’s a membership requirement: You’ll have to join PenFed’s credit union to get the card.
For a pure, high rewards rate on gas with no hurdles or hoops, the Ducks Unlimited Rewards Platinum Edition® Visa® Card is best in class. And that’s to say nothing of its generous rate at sporting goods stores. Stock up on whatever you need to pursue your outdoor passions, or just get a few pairs of yoga pants and watch nature shows on your couch. Either way, you’ll earn that same rich rewards rate of 5%.
2. … But there are some drawbacks
First, when it comes to redemption, let’s talk about cold hard cash back. If that’s what you seek, you can take your earnings either as a statement credit, a deposit into any checking or savings account, or via a mailed check — but it must be in set denominations of $25, $50, $100, $250 or $1,000.
So if you’ve got $99 worth of rewards stored up, you’re only going to get your hands on $75 of it (a $50 spot and a $25 bill) at redemption time.
Points can also be redeemed for merchandise, gift cards, travel or other goods and services. But unlike a lot of other cash-back options, this card offers no sign-up bonus, nor will you get any kind of intro APR rate on purchases or balance transfers.
More importantly, while the Ducks Unlimited Rewards Platinum Edition® Visa® Card may be a world-class gas card, it’s worth considering whether that’s enough to meet your needs. The truth is, most families simply don’t spend all that much a year on gas alone, in comparison with the rest of their budget. If your household were to spend the average $2,000 annually on gas, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, you would get $100 back via the card.
Some hunters, business owners or long-haul truckers might spend well beyond that. But for many households, the best “gas” card will be one that also offers generous rewards on more than just fuel and sporting goods. If groceries, restaurants, travel or entertainment represent bigger chunks of your budget, you can do a lot better with a different card.
» MORE: NerdWallet’s best credit cards for families
3. Ducks Unlimited is a wetlands and waterfowl conservation society …
Of course, it may not be just about the rewards for you.
With every purchase you make using the Ducks Unlimited Rewards Platinum Edition® Visa® Card, a portion will be donated to Ducks Unlimited’s efforts to preserve and maintain wetlands and other native habitats for ducks, geese and other wildlife dependent on that ecosystem.
The organization says its conservation and management efforts have provided over 14 million acres of habitat for waterfowl, and that the number of ducks recorded in those areas has increased as a result of their work.
As their credit card motto says: “You buy, ducks fly.”
4. … It’s also about duck hunting
Ducks Unlimited was originally founded by sportsmen and waterfowl hunters who recognized that habitat conservation would help promote a healthy population of native birds. The organization is clear in its mission statement that it supports waterfowl hunting only when it’s done in an “ethical and sustainable manner.”
That said, the group’s website has an entire section devoted to hunting — migration alerts, hunting tips, duck calling, decoy strategies, shooting tips, waterfowl gear, dog training — and notes that 90% of its members are hunters. Hunters, of course, would have a vested interest in the organization’s aim of promoting and restoring healthy wetlands so ducks and other native species can flourish, and then become fair game.
5. You don’t have to support hunting to benefit from the card
If you love getting your friends together and piling into your 4×4 to spend the weekend huddled in a duck blind, there may never be another card as tailored to your needs as the Ducks Unlimited Rewards Platinum Edition® Visa® Card. For anyone whose interests lie elsewhere, look past the card’s marketing and try to ignore the suggestion that you use the card when you’re “buying gear for your hunting trip or filling up your truck.”
There are plenty of ways to maximize this card’s high rewards rate beyond a hunting trip. For example, sports-minded households can save big on licensed team gear and equipment for the whole family. Or splurge on a treadmill for the house, then drive all over the state entering road races. Get a kayak, a rack for your car and those shoes that make a “squish” sound when they’re wet.
If you think outside the box, you could find a ton of uses for the Ducks Unlimited Rewards Platinum Edition® Visa® Card that fit your lifestyle.

Story 139
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
Green Dot might be best known for its prepaid debit cards, but the company also offers secured credit cards, which are aimed at consumers who have poor to average credit scores or a limited credit history.
So if you’ve been struggling to get approved for a credit card because of less-than-stellar credit, a Green Dot credit card might be an option.
Here are five things to know about three Green Dot credit cards:
1. The cards require a refundable security deposit
A secured card functions like a regular credit card — you can use it to make purchases and then pay off the balance, or a portion of it, each month — but you must first put down a refundable security deposit.
Generally, your credit limit will be equal to that deposit. For all of these cards, the deposit can vary between $200 and $5,000.
» MORE: NerdWallet’s best secured credit cards
2. You’ll also owe fees
The Green Dot primor® Visa® Classic Secured Credit Card carries a $39 annual fee.
The Green Dot Visa® Secured Credit Card has a $39 annual fee.
The Green Dot primor® Visa® Gold Secured Credit Card features a $49 annual fee.
While there are no processing or application fees, you’ll face other charges. First, you’ll owe an annual fee, regardless of which card you choose:
(The Green Dot primor® Visa® Gold Secured Credit Card has a lower potential ongoing APR. More on that later.)
The cards also charge a foreign transaction fee of 3%, meaning none of them is ideal for use internationally.
Consumers with thin or no credit might want to instead consider alternative credit cards that don’t charge such fees, such as the Petal Visa® Credit Card. It’s an unsecured card, meaning it doesn’t require a security deposit, and it offers rewards. Its annual fee is $0.
» MORE: Can’t get a credit card? Try these alternative options
3. The Green Dot Visa® Secured Credit Card doesn’t offer next-level benefits
Despite having the word “platinum” appear prominently on the card, the Green Dot Visa® Secured Credit Card doesn’t offer extra perks befitting its fancier appearance. In fact, compared with the other two options, its interest rate is significantly higher. The ongoing APR is 19.99%.
The Green Dot primor® Visa® Classic Secured Credit Card, for example, charges the same annual fee but offers a lower interest rate. The ongoing APR is 13.99%.
The Green Dot primor® Visa® Gold Secured Credit Card charges the highest annual fee but features the lowest interest rate of the three. The ongoing APR is 9.99%. An APR in the single digits is unusual among cards aimed at people with poor credit. That’s a reason it’s featured on our roundup of best secured cards. Depending on how large of a credit card balance you need to carry, the slightly larger annual fee may be worth it.
There is no penalty APR on these cards (although paying late can still hurt your credit scores, and you can be charged a late fee).
4. You won’t earn any rewards
While that’s not unusual among secured cards aimed at people with poor credit, it can also be frustrating for consumers eager to use credit cards to earn cash back or rewards points.
When you’re just starting out with credit cards, rewards aren’t the most important thing — but you can still find some secured and alternative options that earn them. The Discover it® Secured, for instance, earns 2% cash back at gas stations and restaurants on up to $1,000 in combined purchases every quarter, automatically (1% cash back on all other purchases). You’ll have to put down a $200 minimum deposit, but unlike these Green Dot cards, the annual fee is $0. Plus, Discover will automatically match all the cash back you’ve earned at the end of your first year.
5. They can function as steppingstones to better cards
Unlike a prepaid debit card, where purchases are subtracted from the cash put down upfront, credit cards allow you to build up your credit as you pay off your purchases each month.
Just as with regular credit cards, Green Dot reports credit card behavior to credit bureaus, allowing cardholders to build their credit histories and credit scores.
Eventually, with responsible credit behavior, you may be able to qualify for cards with better features, such as rewards, no annual fee, 0% intro APR offers and other perks.

Story 140
Withdrawing a cumulative Rs 10 lakh a year can attract 3-5 per cent tax if a proposal going around in the Finance Ministry takes shape in the Budget to track high value cash deals and make digital payments mandatory.
In its push towards a digital economy, the central government is thinking of introducing a tax of 3-5 per cent on cash withdrawal of Rs 10 lakh in a year, a move to discourage cash usage in the economy and resultant black money.
Paying Rs 30,000-50,000 for Rs 10 lakh annual withdrawal will be seen as a loss, the government thinks and feels this will discourage large cash transactions.
Official sources said discussions have been held internally on the fallout of such a move and the tax figure is still being discussed though it won't be less than 5 per cent, said sources adding 3-5 per cent is an appropriate figure.
As a step towards this, earlier this week, the Reserve Bank of India waived the fee currently imposed on banks for using its NEFT/RTGS payment servers. The central government also said it was setting up a panel to review charges imposed by banks on ATM withdrawals. RBI said it was doing so to boost digital transactions.
Another source was quoted as saying, "Why should someone withdraw over Rs 10 lakh for cash transactions when digital payments are being encouraged?".
It may be noted that just last week, RBI scrapped NEFT and RTGS transfer charges and the central bank is also reviewing the charges on cards as well.
The proposal is at a discussion level but has found favour for being a step towards a digital economy and tracking transactions. Sources said this is a global practice. Even in Pakistan a withdrawal of more than Rs 50,000 attracts such a tax.
During 2005-2008, the UPA government imposed tax on withdrawals of more than Rs 50,000 from current accounts for detection of unaccounted money in the absence of alternative methods.
This tax was applicable only on cash and not on payment by cheques. During 2015, when the Greek economy was on the verge of bankruptcy, millions of panicked citizens completely cleared their accounts by pulling more than 28 billion euros out of banks and pushing the total cash revenue held in the country's financial institutions to a 10-year low.
A high-level committee on digital payments in 2017, headed by Chandrababu Naidu, the then Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh, had suggested a tax to discourage cash transactions, a cap on the maximum allowable limit for large-size cash transactions and a complete abolition of charges on card payments to incentivise digital transactions.
The committee had submitted the report to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It had suggested "considering levy of banking cash transaction tax (BCTT) on transactions of Rs 50,000 and above." To combat this Greek banks proposed taxing cash withdrawals and requiring use of debit and credit cards for all transactions in order to prevent tax evasion.
A surcharge for all cashpoint withdrawals was introduced approximately amounting to 1 euro for every 1,000-euro transaction.
It was expected that it would not impact day-to-day withdrawals and will deter citizens from clearing out their bank accounts.
The Finance Act 2017 prescribed imposing a penalty equal to the transacted amount on those who violated the rule restricting cash transactions.
It provides that no one can deal in cash in excess of Rs 2 lakh in a single day, in respect of a single transaction or transactions relating to one event or occasion barring a banking company, post office savings bank and cooperative bank.
To curb large cash transactions and discourage black economy, then Finance Minister Arun Jaitley had in the 2017-18 budget proposed to ban transactions of over Rs 3 lakh a day. This limit was lowered to Rs 2 lakh through an amendment to the Finance Bill 2017 that was later passed by Parliament.
In another related measure, the Finance Act said any capital expenditure in cash exceeding Rs 10,000 shall not be eligible for claiming depreciation allowance or investment-linked deduction. Similarly, the limit for revenue expenditure in cash has been cut to Rs 10,000 from Rs 20,000.

Story 141
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
If refilling your fridge and topping off your gas tank feel like tossing money into a bottomless pit, consider a card that pays you back. The SunTrust Cash Rewards Credit Card has a high cash-back rate on groceries and gas, a $0 annual fee and a sizable loyalty bonus if you bank with SunTrust.
There are some caps on the bonus cash-back rates, and the card isn’t available to everyone, but eligible applicants with high food and fuel bills could have a lot to gain.
Here are five things to know about the SunTrust Cash Rewards Credit Card.
» MORE: 5 things to know about the SunTrust Travel Rewards Credit Card
1. There are application restrictions if you don’t have a SunTrust account
If you don’t have a bank account with SunTrust, you must be a resident of one of these areas to be eligible to apply for the SunTrust Cash Rewards Credit Card:
Alabama.
Arkansas.
Florida.
Georgia.
Maryland.
Mississippi.
North Carolina.
South Carolina.
Tennessee.
Virginia.
Washington, D.C.
West Virginia.
However, U.S. residents who already have a SunTrust account and live in any state except Vermont are eligible. Qualification is still subject to credit approval and other factors.
2. There’s a bonus of sorts, but it works differently
The SunTrust Cash Rewards Credit Card offers a bonus for new cardmembers, but it isn’t the “spend a certain amount in 90 days and get a large statement credit” kind of incentive. Instead, you can earn 5% cash back on up to $6,000 spent at gas stations and grocery stores in the first 12 months you have the card. If you spend $500 a month on these categories, that’s a bonus of $300.
You’ll earn unlimited 2% cash back on gas and grocery purchases beyond the $6,000 limit, even after the first year. All other purchases earn 1% cash back.
3. You have lots of redemption options
The SunTrust Cash Rewards Credit Card isn’t just for cash back, though that might be the way to get the most value out of this card. Here are your choices for redeeming:
A statement credit or direct deposit. (You must redeem a minimum of $5.)
Gift cards or merchandise.
Travel and experiences. You can use cash-back rewards to pay the full price, or use them to offset some of the cost and pay for the rest. This makes it easy to redeem for travel even if you don’t have enough cash back accumulated to cover the full cost.
4. SunTrust account holders can get additional rewards
Here’s where redeeming for cash back gets you more: If you already have an eligible bank account with SunTrust, you can get extra cash back if you opt to redeem it directly into that account. The baseline bonus, which applies to any type of SunTrust checking, savings or money market account, is an extra 10% cash back, meaning if you redeem $100 worth of cash back, you’ll get $110.
The size of the loyalty bonus grows if you have a SunTrust Advantage Checking, Signature Checking or Exclusive Checking account and maintain a high minimum balance between your bank and investment accounts with SunTrust. For balances between $25,000 and $100,000, you’ll earn a 25% cash-back bonus — that’s $125 back if you redeem $100. If you have a balance exceeding $100,000, you’ll get a bonus of 50% extra cash back, which would be $150 back if you redeemed $100.
5. The terms for carrying or transferring a balance are generous
You get more than a year to pay off a credit card balance, which is helpful if you plan to use this card for a major purchase. The card offers a 0% Introductory APR for the first 15 months on purchases and balance transfers, and then the ongoing APR of 13.24% - 23.24% Variable. The balance transfer fee is the greater of 3% or $10.
However, there are balance transfer cards providing an even longer 0% intro APR period that may be worth exploring.

Story 142
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
Keeping your money in a bank account — as opposed to under your mattress — provides the protection of federal insurance and the benefit of earning interest, but you don’t need to visit a branch bank teller to get your bills and checks where they need to go. If you deposit cash into an ATM, you can skip the hassle of working around bank business hours.
Here’s our easy guide to using an ATM to get your money into your bank account.
» Skip ahead to see some of our favorite checking accounts for ATM access
How to deposit cash in an ATM, step by step
Confirm whether you can deposit money into a particular ATM. While many bank ATMs allow withdrawals from noncustomers (often for a fee), you’ll typically need to use your own bank’s ATM system to make deposits.
If you have checks to deposit, prep them by signing the back. You don’t want to hold up the line at the ATM by digging for a pen to endorse your check. If checks are the only thing you’re depositing, see if your bank offers free mobile check deposit, which lets you use your smartphone to deposit checks from the comfort of your own home.
» MORE: Best banks to avoid ATM fees
Insert your debit or ATM card into the card reader and enter your PIN. This security step acts like a password for accessing your funds.
Tell the ATM which account you want to deposit into. If you have multiple checking and/or savings accounts, the ATM will ask where you would like your cash to go.
If the ATM doesn’t require an envelope, stack your bills and/or checks together and insert them. Most modern ATMs from major banks have scanning technology that can differentiate between bills and checks and can detect the total amount of money you’re depositing. Many major banks allow you to insert dozens of bills and checks at a time; there’s no need to feed them in individually or fill out a deposit slip. The ATM will tell you to insert the stack of bills and checks you want to deposit into the appropriate slot.
If the ATM does use envelopes, put your bills and/or checks inside and insert the envelope. You’ll be hard-pressed to find an ATM that uses envelopes for deposits these days, but if you do, you’ll have to put the bills and/or checks inside, seal the envelope, write the total on the envelope and manually enter the amount you’re depositing into the ATM. It may take a couple of business days for your funds to become available since the bank must confirm the deposit amount.
Verify your deposit at the machine. The last step before you finish up at the ATM is to make sure it registered the correct deposit amount into the right account. The ATM will display a message asking if the total amount you deposited is accurate; you must OK it before the funds are processed into your account.
Wait for your deposit to clear. Instantaneous access to your cash is becoming the norm, but if your bank has a waiting period, keep an eye on your accounts over the next few days to make sure the full deposit lands.
NerdWallet’s favorite checking accounts for ATM access
Here’s a look at Axos Rewards Checking, Radius Hybrid Checking and Charles Schwab High Yield Investor Checking.
Learn More at Axos Bank™, Member, FDIC
4.0 NerdWallet rating
Read Review
4.0 NerdWallet rating
Read Review
4.0 NerdWallet rating
Monthly fee

$0




ATM fee reimbursement

Unlimited in U.S.



Cash deposits to ATMs

No; $4.95 fee to deposit cash with affiliated retailers

Monthly fee

$0



ATM fee reimbursement

Unlimited worldwide



Cash deposits to ATMs

Yes, at NYCE and MoneyPass ATMs

Monthly fee

$0



ATM fee reimbursement

Unlimited worldwide



Cash deposits to ATMs

No


See more banks with free checking accounts
Depositing money with an online bank
If you want to deposit cash in an online-only bank account — which is becoming more popular, thanks to their high rates — you may have some extra hoops to jump through. Many online banks participate in shared ATM networks like Allpoint, which allow customers to deposit cash without surcharges. Other options may be to deposit cash in a traditional bank account, if you have one, then electronically transfer it into your online-only bank account; or buy a money order and deposit it with your online bank mobile app.
» MORE: This is what the ATM of the future will look like

Story 143
Facebook has finally revealed plans for a cryptocurrency called Libra, one of the worst-kept secrets in the history of virtual money.
After six months of news leaks, the massive social network and 27 other partners are touting the Libra digital coin and Facebook’s corresponding digital wallet, Calibra, as a way to make sending payments around the world as easy as it is to send a photo. The new currency—linked to a basket of major currencies, like the US dollar and perhaps the euro—could make it cheaper and easier to transmit money across borders, as well as to pay for things on the internet. The partners say they plan to launch the Libra ecosystem in the first half of next year.
If successful—a big, humongous if—Libra could bring millions of people into the digital financial system, allowing them to leapfrog costly banking infrastructure and avoid smaller, volatile currencies. It could also make Facebook’s platform of 2.7 billion users (including WhatsApp, Instagram, and Messenger) more powerful than ever, creating a new, widespread digital money that challenges scores of financial institutions.
Or it could sputter out, like so many overhyped projects that came before it. Consortiums with powerful partners can be unwieldy. Consumers might avoid it because of a lack of trust in a globe-spanning effort led by a Silicon Valley titan. Ambitions to bring bitcoin into the world of Wall Street have mostly fizzled.
But Facebook and its family of apps, which have more monthly active users than the populations of China and the US combined, occupy a unique place in human history. The Menlo Park-based company and its partners can learn from the shortcomings of other crypto projects. Thanks to the combined might of Facebook and its Instagram and WhatsApp units, it can roll out a new payments network to consumers and merchants on a scale that no government or company has ever been able to match.
It could also allow Facebook to hit the reset button on an important global shift that it has mostly missed out on. While super apps like China’s WeChat have successfully bundled chat services with payments, tech giants like Facebook and Google have struggled to convince Western consumers to transact via their message systems. Integrated messaging-payment systems could bring with them new ways to keep users engaged, as well as produce potential new revenue streams.
Now that Facebook and its partners—including the likes of Visa, Spotify, and Women’s World Banking—have drawn back the curtain, we’ve discovered a bit more about what could be one of the most ambitious currency experiments in history. Here’s what we know (and don’t know) so far.
What’s the big idea?
Led by Facebook, a group of organizations is creating the Libra Association, a non-profit based in Geneva, Switzerland. The association will oversee the Libra, a global cryptocurrency backed by traditional currencies and government bonds.
Here’s the goal, as described by the Libra Association’s white paper:

“A stable currency built on a secure and stable open-source blockchain, backed by a reserve of real assets, and governed by an independent association.”
The Libra Association says it hopes “to create more access to better, cheaper, and open financial services—no matter who you are, where you live, what you do, or how much you have.”
“We see a huge opportunity for financial inclusion,” said Pete Lewis, an executive at Mercy Corp, one of Facebook’s NGO partners and a prospective founding member. Of the 1.7 billion people who don’t have bank accounts, one billion have a phone which could probably support this system.
Which organizations plan to be part of the association?
The association plans to have 28 members at its outset to develop its charter, but the intention is to increase membership to 100 or so organizations. Curiously, none of the initial members are banks, and Facebook is the only social network to join so far. Organizations that become founding members will contribute $10 million, and in return will receive interest on the reserves used to back the Libra.
Libra Association
What’s in it for Facebook?
A lot, potentially. Founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg has publicly discussed (pdf) his ambitions for payments and commerce to become a bigger part of the social network. Consumer habits are hard to change, but Libra could (in a wildly optimistic scenario) reset the playing field, tilting payments away from today’s large financial services companies and giving big tech another chance to weave them into their message systems.
If Libra catches on, Facebook’s users could interact with its suite of apps more often, making them more valuable to advertisers—though Facebook claims it will not use Libra payment data for targeted advertising. The company and its partners could eventually pull in revenue from interest gained on underlying reserves and (perhaps) transactions fees users pay on the Libra network.
Should Libra become popular in the developing world, it could also help Facebook grow its user base even further. Facebook could potentially serve as a means of verifying identity in places where government ID isn’t commonplace. Although the social network sometimes feels necessary as a communications platform, it could become essential as a payments portal around the world.
Is this really a Facebook coin?
Sort of, for now. Facebook appears to be Libra’s principal architect, but the company is keen to point out that the Libra Association “will be responsible for facilitating the development of the Libra Blockchain and managing the Libra Reserve,” according to a statement. Eventually, the Libra Association says it would like its management to be fully decentralized, meaning that individual validators—the nodes that confirm and secure transactions—could freely join or leave the blockchain network.
Facebook says its team had a key role in fostering the Libra Association and the Libra blockchain, and will remain a principal developer for the rest of this year. After the network launches in 2020, Facebook will have the same governance privileges as other founding members.
Do you have to be on Facebook to use Libra?
No. The Libra Association says anyone can use the currency. Third parties—from nonprofits, to startups, to Google, to Indian fintech PayTM—will be able to build their own apps, wallets, and marketplaces around Libra. That’s the beauty of an open-source payments network.
If you want to, though, you can use Facebook’s digital wallet, Calibra, a regulated subsidiary. In the US, Calibra is registered as a money service business, and will be overseen by the US Treasury.
Is Libra really a “cryptocurrency”?
Probably not, but it depends how you define “cryptocurrency.”
If you define a cryptocurrency by how you sign transactions—or approve payments—then the Libra is a cryptocurrency. It uses a consensus algorithm called HotStuff, developed by VMWare. But if you define a cryptocurrency based on how the network is managed, then it’s probably not. Bitcoin purists, for example, are unlikely to consider the Libra a full-fledged “crypto.”
From a network management perspective, the Libra is somewhat decentralized to start. In the beginning, the Libra blockchain will be a “permissioned network,” meaning that only founding members, who hold Libra Investment Tokens (distinct from Libra itself), will be able to process and secure transactions. However, if the network eventually becomes “permissionless” as planned, meaning that anybody is able to process transactions, then the Libra would be one step closer to the crypto ideal, from a technological standpoint.
A permissionless network would prevent any company or collection of companies from holding a concentration of power or cutting off access to any others, but the obstacles to a permissionless architecture are steep. It’s hard to achieve scale and speed. Typically, the more nodes you add to a network, the slower it becomes, a clear problem for a cryptocurrency with global aspirations. These factors—and security concerns—have hampered many cryptocurrencies from becoming practical alternatives to government-backed currencies. If you consider how the Libra might aim to integrate with the Internet of Things one day, a fully permissionless network seems, well, extremely ambitious.
What about the reserves?
Even if technological management of the Libra is eventually decentralized, potential users still must consider how the underlying reserves are managed. The reserves are why the Libra is worth anything and a key difference between bitcoin and the Libra. Nobody has to exchange traditional currencies for bitcoin—its value is socially contrived, independent of any formal organization—but the Libra is redeemable. Those underlying, “real” assets (and who controls them) matter. We don’t know which financial institutions will custody Libra reserves, but the cryptocurrency is only as safe as those entities.
The basket of currencies hasn’t been disclosed either. Libra says the funds will be placed in bank deposits and high quality government securities.
Will Libra be just like a bank account? What about the Calibra wallet?
No. Even though there are underlying assets, the Libra isn’t backed by government deposit insurance, for example. However the ambition is to bundle it with the type of safeguards people typically expect from a checking or bank account, like fraud refunds, live support, and systems for lost passwords.
Do you have to manage your own crypto wallet?
Not unless you want to. Calibra, the digital wallet, appears to mimic the newer digital payment and banking apps like Venmo. The idea is that you don’t need to know anything about blockchain (or any backend infrastructure) to use it.
What else do we know about Calibra?
It’s a regulated subsidiary of Facebook, and says it will not share any data or information with Facebook unless required by law or for limited technical reasons. It will be available on Messenger, WhatsApp, and as a standalone app.
Calibra
The display automatically shows balances and payments in domestic currency exchange rates. Users will not earn any interest on balances (and any interest generated by the assets backing Libra coins will accrue to the operators of the system). Calibra says it will follow global guidelines for avoiding money laundering or terrorism financing. The Facebook subsidiary also says it hopes to eventually offer all sorts of other services like paying bills and public transit (which sounds a lot like WeChat or Alipay.)

For users with a bank account, the process is similar to linking any other financial account. People without an account can sign up for Calibra using a basic smart phone, and then fund the account with cash or withdraw physical money from it via an authorized distributor. From the sound of things, this could be something like a Western Union outlet or a similar company.
Will Libra be available in places that don’t allow cryptocurrencies?
The Calibra wallet, as a regulated entity, won’t be available in these locations. However it’s hard to see how Libra would be kept out of these jurisdictions if people decide to break local laws.
Will Libra be available in India?
The first reports about Libra suggested that it would be used for remittances in India. However, the Indian government has been staunchly opposed to cryptocurrencies, even proposing a 10-year jail sentence for people who handle them.
It’s not immediately apparent whether the Libra will be considered a “crypto,” especially in view of its underlying reserves. Considering that the Libra could reduce transaction fees for Indians sending money to their families, it’s possible that the population may pressure the government to allow use of the digital units.
That said, the Indian government has held firm against WhatsApp Pay, refusing to approve the platform’s launch due to data compliance problems. Last month, WhatsApp told the Indian Supreme Court it would only launch the payments feature—which remains in beta—after reaching full compliance with the country’s central bank.
How long has this been going on?
News has been trickling out since at least December, but speculation has been mounting since David Marcus, previously head of Messenger and president of PayPal, was reassigned to lead Facebook’s blockchain research in May 2018. The trickle turned to a torrent as the announcement date got closer, with links springing up all over the internet.
What does this mean for Visa and Mastercard?
In the opinion of Harshita Rawat, a Bernstein analyst, not much for the next five years or so, if ever. The existing card payment systems in the US and Europe, for example, aren’t broken. Rawat pointed out in a recent report that much of the cost of card payment fees goes towards rewards (points, for instance) and fraud protection. Libra and Calibra might have to offer similar benefits and protections in order to be a suitable alternative.
In emerging markets, or places with undeveloped consumer payment systems and unstable currencies, Libra may be more popular. These are the markets that the Libra Association says it plans to primarily target.
What does it mean for cryptocurrencies like bitcoin?
Depending on what currency pairs become available on exchanges, cryptocurrencies that facilitate privacy protections may become increasingly important. Indirectly, Libra may cause a resurgence of bitcoin buyers as Facebook’s implicit endorsement of crypto may drive interest, but there’s little to materially link the two.
Bitcoin and the Libra are fundamentally different because of the Libra’s reserves and the Libra Association. Arguably, there’s a place in the world for both of them, but at its core, bitcoin remains a speculative asset.
What does this mean for Chinese payment systems like WeChat Pay and Alipay?
Facebook doesn’t operate in China, and no Chinese entities are part of the Libra Association so far. China also employs capital controls and has had tight grip on cryptocurrency usage and trading.
At the same time, digital wallets like Alipay and WeChat Pay are proliferating, bringing many Chinese nationals into the financial system and the digital economy. Libra isn’t an obvious fit for China.
Is financial inclusion really a problem?
Money tends to cost more when you have less of it, as banking and transaction fees weigh most heavily on the poor. This is a real problem that some of the world’s biggest financial institutions—from the World Bank to the Bank for International Settlements—are focused on solving. Some $530 billion was transmitted last year, and on average it cost $14 to send $200 across borders. (It can easily cost double that.) Approximately 1.7 billion people around the world remain without bank accounts.
Why is it called Libra?
The name was inspired by the Roman unit of weight measure, which was eventually used to mint coins, according to a spokeswoman. Libra the astrological symbol is the balance of justice, and phonetically it sounds like libre, which is French for free or freedom. The name is a combination of money, justice, and freedom.

Story 144
The Financial Supervisory Authority of Iceland (FME) has approved Reykjavik-based Monerium as its first electronic money institution.
The designation, announced Friday, means that Monerium has regulatory approval to provide fiat payment services on a blockchain and use it throughout the European Economic Area. Electronic money is a well-established regulatory framework in Europe that’s been in use for years, Sveinn Valfells, CEO and co-founder of Monerium, explained to CoinDesk in a phone call.
It’s the first time, however, electronic money has been approved for use over a blockchain.
Monerium sees the fact that it’s working under an established framework as a competitive advantage, Valfells said, adding:
“For practical purposes, fiat will be the currency most people and institutions will want to use in the near- and medium-term. And if you are touching fiat in any way, you just have to comply with the relevant regulations.”
Monerium cofounder Jon H. Egilsson will discuss the news at a digital currency conference in Stockholm on Saturday. Egilsson was formerly chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Icelandic Central Bank.
Electronic money is fiat held and transferred digitally. The ConsenSys-backed Monerium will initially operate using the ethereum blockchain – though it is prepared to operate across public and private distributed ledgers, allowing expenditures and transfers to be made without an intermediary.
In a copy of his prepared remarks shared with CoinDesk in advance, Egilsson wrote:
“Monerium e-money encompasses the benefits of programmable money on blockchain, in addition to being the closest form of central bank money there is – based on a proven EU regulatory framework.”
The legal concept of an electronic money institution (EMI) dates back to the financial crisis, established in a 2009 act by the European Union. The rule is primarily used now for prepaid debit cards, Valfells explained.
Valfells argues that many companies making similar products, such as fiat-backed stablecoins, designed technology first and looked for regulators to approve it. Monerium instead decided to base its technology on an existing set of rules. Valfells said:
“We believe law is also protocol.”
How it works
Banks make money by turning deposits from customers into loans to borrowers. EMIs are more conservative with deposits.
From Egilsson’s remarks:
“Unlike bank deposits, an electronic institution (EMI) must safeguard clients funds separately from any other financial activities, such as lending. Instead, customer funds are invested in a segregated portfolio of high-quality liquid instruments along with regulatory minimum reserves. The structure is similar to a high-grade money market fund.”
The idea is that the EMI-model provides consumers with more protection. Fiat put into an EMI must always be redeemable without conditions.
By putting e-money on the blockchain, it also enables cross-border payments without a financial intermediary. The company plans to start with Icelandic krona (ISK). Once live, Monerium’s version of ISK will be usable throughout the EU and should shortly be usable in many other parts of the world with similar regulatory regimes. More currencies will follow.
As a regulated form of payment, it follows the typical know-your-customer, anti-money-laundering procedures familiar throughout the developed world.
The world of fiat-backed global currencies is getting somewhat crowded. The CENTRE Consortium created by Circle and Coinbase is designed to allow member institutions to issue their own fiat-backed stablecoins. Earlier this week, the initiative opened itself to new members. Facebook’s “GlobalCoin” is also reported to be backed by a basket of fiat currencies.
Monerium is still in closed beta. For its earliest partners, an e-money ISK will be available in a matter of days, Valfells said. Valfells estimated that as early as Q4 2019, the e-money ISK should become available to a wider audience.
Team photo courtesy of Monerium. Pictured, left to right: Arni Gudjonsson (engineer), Gisli Kristjansson (co-founder and CTO), Sveinn Valfells (co-founder and CEO), Hjortur Hjartarson (co-founder and COO), Jon Gunnar Olafsson (counsel) and Jon Helgi Egilsson (co-founder and chairman)

Story 145
Getty
OBSERVATIONS FROM THE FINTECH SNARK TANK
It's a Digital World, My Foot
Have you ever thought about why we receive a paycheck every month (or maybe twice a month)?
The answer is simple: Because, back in the day, it wasn't economical for employers to print and send a check out everyday.
An employer like Walmart, with 2.2 million employees, would spend roughly $800k per day--or $290 million per year--just to mail out paychecks if they were cut every day.
But thanks to technology, we have direct deposit so employers don't have to cut and mail checks to a large percentage of their workforce.
Then why don't we get our money every day, right after we put in a hard day of work?
You Can Get Your Paycheck Early
Speaking of Walmart, the retailer has partnerships with two fintech startups--Even Responsible Finance and PayActiv--that enable its US workers get part of their salary paid before payday.
Employees can get up to eight drawdowns (called Instapays) on their salary ahead of scheduled payouts. The first eight drawdowns are free to the employees, and then in subsequent use, fees are levied across a personal finance app available through Even. The app links Walmart’s payroll system to the individual’s prepaid cards or bank accounts.
In essence, PayActiv enables employees to get a payday loan--but from the employer, and for a fixed fee (not a usurious interest rate), which the employer can waive (as Walmart does).
A Forbes article titled Early Access To Wages, A Prized Benefit, Costs Employers Little Or Nothing mentions similar services from startups like:
ZayZoon. This Canadian firm, which lists Tim Hortons and Subway as customers, just raised $15 million from a consortium of institutional and private capital providers, including Prairie Merchant Corporation and Bluesky Equities Ltd.
This Canadian firm, which lists Tim Hortons and Subway as customers, just raised $15 million from a consortium of institutional and private capital providers, including Prairie Merchant Corporation and Bluesky Equities Ltd. Branch. According to TechCrunch, Branch started off as a scheduling and shift management tool for large retailers, restaurants and other firms with hourly workers before branching off into wage-tracking and access (pun intended).
Intended Benefits and Unintended Consequences
There's huge potential here for these firms to not just disrupt payday lending, but the paycheck process itself. While that promises big benefits to employees and to employers (higher employee retention and attendance), there are potential downsides for:
Employers. For small businesses with unpredictable cash flow, the unpredictable nature of employees' pay advances could impact their ability to pay their own suppliers and bills.
For small businesses with unpredictable cash flow, the unpredictable nature of employees' pay advances could impact their ability to pay their own suppliers and bills. Financial institutions. As accrued salaries are siphoned off from the paycheck itself, that could mean less deposits going into banks and credit unions thru the payroll process--an example of deposit displacement.
Fixing the Root Cause: The Billing Process
The same logic regarding why we get paid monthly is the same for why we have monthly bills: It’s not economical for billers like utilities to send us a bill every day. Not that they wouldn’t want to.
The monthly bill concept is rooted in the mindset that a biller needs to send a “bill”—a paper document, or an electronic document that looks like a paper document—to inform customers of what they owe.
Billers don’t send bills annually because they don’t want to provide a service for a whole year without collecting the payment for those services. Completely understandable. Some do, of course, but the ones that do typically provide a fixed amount of services over the course of the year. And they generally collect their money up front.
The monthly bill concept dates back to a time when most people's monthly income was stable and predictable. That stability and predictability has changed—but the monthly bill concept hasn't.
Pundits love to talk about how personalization is going to distinguish winners from losers in financial services, but why can't the amount, timing, and frequency of our bills be personalized?
Continuous Billing
There’s no reason why billers can’t provide continuous information about what a customer owes, in real time, online or through mobile apps.
Every day I use electricity in my house. The utility knows how much I use at any point in time. Providing me with that information, and what the resulting cost is, isn’t rocket science. Many utilities already provide mobile apps that give customers the ability to monitor (and just as importantly, to model) their usage.
If utilities want their money more frequently than every month, all they need to do is provide discounts or incentives to consumers to pay what they owe more frequently (note that I didn’t say “pay their bill”).
If I use $10 of electricity today, the utility could give me a 10% discount if I pay daily, 5% if I pay weekly, and no discount for paying monthly.
All I have to do is push the button to make the payment. Done.
Or maybe the utility will agree that I can pay them when the amount owed hits $100. That $100 might take a week to get to, four weeks to get to, or three months to get to. Billers don’t like to wait too long to get their money, but it’s a lot more important to get their payment from a customer whose monthly usage runs to $10k than one whose total runs to $10.
The point here is that fixing the paycheck timing problem can be addressed not just by early wage access but by changes in the billing process.
Shouldn't be that difficult. After all, we are living in the Digital Age, right?

Story 146
COPYING AND DISTRIBUTING ARE PROHIBITED WITHOUT PERMISSION OF THE PUBLISHER: SContreras@Euromoney.com
Nigerian telecommunications companies are in line to benefit from a change in banking regulations that will allow them to collect deposits, carry out payments and remittances, issue debit and pre-paid cards, provide financial advisory services and invest in government and central bank securities.
Under the new scheme, they will be able to apply for a licence to become a payment service bank (PSB), creating new financial institutions in Nigeria.
Bharti Airtel Nigeria and MTN Nigeria are two of the main telecommunications companies in Nigeria to apply for such a licence – though the latter has been involved in a number of high-profile disputes with the central bank
Previously, any mobile money activity could only be carried out by banks or in conjunction with a bank.


Ayokanmi Aderibigbe, Templars
Nigeria has lagged behind its African peers in terms of financial inclusion , and the government is finally taking the necessary action to close this gap,” says Ayokanmi Aderibigbe, finance associate at Templars, a Nigerian law firm headquartered in Lagos.


Discussion around whether or not telcos should be allowed to offer banking services has been ongoing in Nigeria, particularly after the mobile money revolution spearheaded in Kenya by M-Pesa, a mobile phone-based money transfer, financing and microfinancing service established in 2007.
Years of lobbying by the Nigerian banking sector has, however, prevented local telcos from offering banking services until now.
The National Communications Commission and the Central Bank of Nigeria finally signed a memorandum of understanding in 2017, while guidelines for the licencing and regulation of PSBs were approved in October 2018.
“So far, the [telco-led mobile money] model is yet to be implemented, although we have heard that a lot of the Nigerian telcos are interested in applying for the PSB licence,” says Aderibigbe.
Competition
Meanwhile, mobile phone penetration is high at 84%, according to a report published by Nigerian online retailer, Jumia.
Uptake and awareness of mobile money and agency banking services remain low at 1% and 16% of the population respectively, according to the financial sector development organisation, Enhancing Financial Innovation & Access (Efina). The Central Bank of Nigeria aims to raise the financial inclusion rate to 80% by 2020.
In other African countries such as Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda, Senegal and Ghana, mobile money has grown to include broader products such as credit, cross-border transactions and insurance.
In Kenya, 93% of the population has access to mobile money payments and nearly half of the country’s GDP is processed via M-Pesa.


Funmi Akinluyi, Silk Invest
“Banks don’t have the reach or the coverage the telecoms have,” says Funmi Akinluyi, head of frontier and Africa investments at Silk Invest. “MTN alone has 64 million subscribers and 60.4% mobile phone penetration in Nigeria. This is definitely a game changer and will assist the central bank in reaching its financial inclusion targets.”


But the change won’t necessarily mean that banks will lose out on business, says Olabisi Ayodeji, analyst at Exotix Capital. This is something that the banking sector is concerned about.
“Interestingly, the regulations guiding the establishment of the payment service banks force the telcos and other PSBs to meet the same minimum documentation and data requirements for new customers as the banks,” says Ayodeji.
“The telcos’ current customer database does not meet this criteria, meaning that they do not necessarily currently have an edge in terms of number of existing customers.
“According to some banks that I have spoken to, this levels the playing field for all the participants, and is likely a product of their lobbying,” she adds.
Positive outcomes
While they might take some time to implement, it is hoped that the new rules will be a win-win for banks and telcos alike.
“Due to the new regulation, banks and telcos will be able to offer services previously unavailable to both the banked and unbanked,” says Akinluyi at Silk Invest. “Inclusive banking will result in a positive long-term outcome for all while forcing innovation.”
Unfortunately, however, PSBs will probably not result in cheaper financing for the Nigerian population in the short term. Interest rates remain one of the biggest barriers to accessing credit in Nigeria and PSBs are not currently permitted to grant loans.
“They will, however, provide Nigerians with easier, quicker and safer means to deposit, withdraw and transfer money” says Aderibigbe at Templars.
In Nigeria, where interest rates on personal and business loans are between 20% and 30%, fintechs such as Paylater, Branch, Kiakia and Aella Credit have streamlined the credit application process. As a result, interest rates via these new fintechs can be as low as 5% and offered in real time without collateral. Customers are identified instead through bank verification numbers, employment details and even mobile phone contracts.
“Entrepreneurs, students and even people wanting to buy or build a house are more likely to turn to an app than to a bank,” says a Nigerian banker based in Lagos. “Banks will need to innovate.”



Story 147
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
In 2019, $28 might be enough to cover a fancy steak dinner, a haircut, a pile of lottery tickets — or, if you’re not careful, a first-time late fee on your credit card bill.
Starting Jan. 1, 2019, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau will nudge up the permissible maximums for credit card late fees by $1, potentially making these already steep fees even harder to stomach. Under the new limits, late fees will be capped at:
$28 for the first time you’re late. Previously, these were capped at $27.
$39 for subsequent violations. Previously, these were capped at $38.
These new thresholds, which the CFPB adjusts annually according to a consumer price index, might not inspire issuers to increase their late fees instantly. But they could herald slightly higher penalty charges in the coming months.
Consider what happened when these caps on subsequent late fees increased from $37 to $38 in 2016: Five major credit card issuers eventually increased late fee caps to match that threshold. As issuers make other tweaks and updates to their portfolios in 2019, the same thing could happen. But with some smart strategies, you can make sure you don’t ever have to pay these fees.
Late fees, explained
If paying a late fee on your credit card bill feels punishing, that’s by design. In part, issuers use these penalties to discourage cardholders from falling behind on their obligations. And they can be applied swiftly, too: Even if you’re just a day past due — surprise! — one might pop up on your account and ruin your day.
The Credit Card Act of 2009, which generally limits late fees, comes with a provision that allows the CFPB to annually adjust caps on permissible late fees in step with a consumer price index. If the consumer price index doesn’t change enough to move the fees up or down by a full dollar, the fees remain the same. But if the index rises or falls enough, it triggers an increase or decrease. This year, it was the former.
These limits on late fees exist, in part, to protect consumers from more onerous late fees. But they also make it a little easier for issuers to comply with the law.
“The federal law says that the [late] fees have to be reasonable and proportional,” says Nessa Feddis, senior vice president for consumer protection and payments at the American Bankers Association. She notes that by law, banks also have the option to determine what’s reasonable and proportional using their own costs and losses. But in practice, they tend to follow the government-established limits because it’s a simpler way to stay in compliance.
As of this writing, none of the major issuers has announced increases to their late fees for 2019. But historically, major issuers have inched up their late fees in line with these caps. To see whether your late fees might be rising, watch for notices from your credit card issuer. Issuers are generally required by law to give you at least 45 days’ notice before making such changes.
To be sure, late fees aren’t the only consequence of paying credit card bills late. In some cases, your issuer might also apply a higher penalty APR — typically about 30% — to new purchases on your account. And if you’re more than 30 days past due, your missed payment could also be reported to the credit bureaus, causing your scores to tumble.
How to prepare
Your credit card late fees might not have changed yet, but they might increase in the coming months. Now’s a good time to do what you can to avoid ever paying these penalties.
Set up autopay. Even with all the calendar reminders in the world, it’s still possible to forget credit card payments. Avoid this fate by setting up your credit card account on autopay, if you feel confident you can do so without overdrawing the bank account it’s linked to.
Find a more forgiving credit card, such as the Citi Simplicity® Card - No Late Fees Ever. Alternatively, consider the Discover it® Cash Back, which waives the late fee on your first late payment. Policies like these might bail you out of a bad situation, especially if you’re worried about forgetting a payment.
Call your issuer if you slip up. Often, issuers waive late fees for customers who typically pay on time. If it’s out of character for you to miss a payment, give your issuer a call and see whether they’ll give you a pass. Then, do what you can to avoid making the same misstep in the future, such as setting up alerts on your account to remind you of future due dates.
This article was written by NerdWallet and was originally published by Forbes.

Story 148
UnPAY and Tencent Research Institute have jointly published a whitepaper (in Chinese) on Indonesia’s payment market.
This whitepaper focuses on hotspots and key issues of the payment system in Indonesia and is the second of its “Venturing Out” series. It aims to help Chinese payment companies expanding overseas gain a deeper understanding of the world’s fourth most populous country. The first whitepaper which was published in October last year, honed in on Singapore’s payment infrastructure.
Even as a developing country, Indonesia is already the largest economy in ASEAN with a Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of USD1.016 trillion in 2017. Its GDP growth rate is expected to reach 5.3% in 2020. Cash is still highly utilised while traditional bank account penetration rate is at a low rate of 34%. With a huge untapped market, it is no surprise that Indonesia remains as a highly attractive market in the digital payment and finance sector.
To operate in Indonesia, payment companies must have a comprehensive license access system, a regulation required by the Central Bank, Bank Indonesia, and Otoritas Jasa Keuangan (OJK), the two financial and payment transaction services authorities. Payment services are categorised into front-end and back-end.
The front-end body includes institutions that have direct contact with customers such as acquirers, payment gateway operators and electronic wallets. Conversely, back-end entities do not have direct contact with customers and these include card organisations, clearing houses and final settlement agencies. Applicants can only choose to operate in one category but they can apply for multiple licenses in one category.
There are three main pillars of Indonesia’s payment infrastructure: card payment, peer to peer (PTP) and electronic money. Card payment facilities are limited to credit card, ATM card and debit card. PTP regulations oversee the purview of transfer/ payment gateway services and e-wallet service providers. It is worth noting that payment service providers (PSPs) are prohibited from using virtual currencies for PTP payments.
Under the electronic money quota management, unregistered users can store a maximum of 2 million rupiah while a registered user can have a wallet limit of 10 million rupiah. Electronic trading limit is 20 million rupiah per month. As of 21 December 2018, a total of 34 institutions in Indonesia had obtained e-money business licenses. Bigger players in the market include GoPay, T Cash, PayPro and OVO.
To ensure a more cohesive and consistent payment structure, the Central Bank, Bank Indonesia has established a National Payment Gateway (GPN) to integrate the fragmented payment solutions. The GPN is a unified and interconnected clearing network that will unite all payment channels in Indonesia, including ATMs, POS, payment gateways and e-payment methods like credit and debit cards. In the pipeline, the Central Bank, Bank Indonesia will be developing a universal QR code payment standard for an interoperability and secure payments infrastructure.

Story 149
Two years ago, Amylene Dingle lived with her husband and 7-year-old daughter in Payatas, an impoverished Manila neighborhood with the largest open dump site in the Philippines. Her husband worked on the security staff in a government building, earning 4,000 pesos a week, the equivalent of $80. She had always wanted to start a business, but she was unemployed, had no money saved, no credit history and couldn’t get a credit card or a bank loan.
Dingle’s fortunes took a dramatic turn after she responded to a Facebook ad for Tala, a Santa Monica-based startup that makes small loans through a smartphone app. After granting Tala access to her phone, through which the app cleverly parses mobile data to assess a borrower’s risk, she got a 30-day, $20 loan. She paid 15% interest and used the money to buy cold cuts, hamburgers and hot dogs. She marked them up 40% and sold them door-to-door, earning $4 in profit after paying back the interest and a small processing fee.
Loan Ranger: Tala founder Shivani Siroya at her startup’s Santa Monica headquarters. She uses cellphone data to establish creditworthiness for people rejected by banks in the developing world. Robert Gallagher for Forbes
Today Tala lends Dingle, 42, $250 a month for her now thriving food business. Her $70 in weekly profits have nearly doubled her family’s income and funded their move to a two-bedroom home in the quiet, clean Batasan Hills district. Tala is thriving, too. Founded in 2011 by Shivani Siroya, a 37-year-old former Wall Street analyst who had worked at the United Nations, it has raised more than $200 million from top U.S. investors, including billionaire Steve Case’s Revolution Growth fund. With estimated 2019 revenue of more than $100 million, Tala is valued at close to $800 million.
Companies like Tala are at the forefront of the race to deliver rudimentary financial services to the 1.7 billion people on the planet who lack even a bank account. Providing them with the basics of credit, savings and insurance is one of the great challenges and opportunities of the century. With access to the financial system, people can buy a car or a home. They don’t have to resort to loan sharks if they face a medical emergency. They are happier. They live longer. They are more productive, and their increased productivity will help lift their nations out of poverty. Serving the unbanked will generate some of tomorrow’s largest fortunes. It is both capitalism’s moral imperative and the route to one of the most significant untapped markets.
While the unbanked pay for everything in cash, an even larger swath of people, the more than 4 billion “underbanked,” may have accounts but struggle to make ends meet, racking up steep fees when checks bounce and resorting to high-interest alternatives like payday loans. Traditional banks alone could boost annual revenue by at least $380 billion if they turned all the unbanked into customers, according to a 2015 Accenture report.
The multiplier effects are staggering. The GDP of emerging-market countries would surge $3.7 trillion by 2025, or 6%, if they adopted a single innovation—switching from cash to digital money stored on cellphones, McKinsey estimated in 2016. Diego Zuluaga, an analyst at the Cato Institute’s Center for Monetary & Financial Alternatives, has studied the likely effects of full financial inclusion: “If we were to give the unbanked and underbanked in the developing world the same kind of access to credit and investments that we have in rich countries, you could easily create an additional $100 trillion in financial assets over the next 50 years.”
Tala founder Siroya was raised by her Indian immigrant parents, both professionals, in Brooklyn’s gentrified Park Slope neighborhood and attended the United Nations International School in Manhattan. She earned degrees from Wesleyan and Columbia and worked as an investment banking analyst at Credit Suisse and UBS. Starting in 2006, her job was to assess the impact of microcredit in sub-Saharan and West Africa for the UN. She trailed women as they applied for bank loans of a few hundred dollars and was struck by how many were rejected. “The bankers would actually tell me things like, ‘We’ll never serve this segment,’ ” she says.
Where banks saw risk, she saw opportunity. For the UN, she interviewed 3,500 people about how they earned, spent, borrowed and saved. Those insights led her to launch Tala: A loan applicant can prove her creditworthiness through the daily and weekly routines logged on her phone. An applicant is deemed more reliable if she does things like regularly phone her mother and pay her utility bills on time. “We use her digital trail,” says Siroya.
Tala is scaling up quickly. It already has 4 million customers in five countries who have borrowed more than $1 billion. The company is profitable in Kenya and the Philippines and growing fast in Tanzania, Mexico and India.
Rafael Villalobos Jr.’s parents live in a simple home with a metal roof in the city of Tepalcatepec in southwestern Mexico, where half the population subsists below the poverty line. His father, 71, works as a farm laborer, and his mother is retired. They have no credit or insurance. The $500 their son sends them each month, saved from his salary as a community-college administrator in Moses Lake, Washington, “literally puts food in their mouths,” he says.
To transfer money to Mexico, he used to wait in line at a MoneyGram kiosk inside a convenience store and pay a $10 fee plus an exchange-rate markup. In 2015, he discovered Remitly, a Seattle startup that allows him to make low-cost transfers on his phone in -seconds.
Immigrants from the developing world send a total of $530 billion in remittances back home each year. Those funds make up a significant share of the economy in places like Haiti, where remittances account for more than a quarter of the GDP. If all the people who send remittances through traditional carriers, which charge an average 7% per transaction, were to switch to Remitly with its average charge of 1.3%, they would collectively save $30 billion a year. And that doesn’t account for the driving and waiting time saved.
Remitly cofounder and CEO Matt Oppenheimer, 37, was inspired to start his remittance service while working for Barclays Bank of Kenya, where he ran mobile and internet banking for a year starting in 2010. Originally from Boise, Idaho, he earned a psychology degree from Dartmouth and a Harvard M.B.A. before joining Barclays in London. When he was transferred to Kenya, he observed firsthand how remittances could make the difference between a home with indoor plumbing and one without. “I saw that $200, $250, $300 in Kenya goes a really, really long way,” he says.
Oppenheimer quit Barclays in 2011 and together with cofounder Shivaas Gulati, 31, an Indian immigrant with a master’s in IT from Carnegie Mellon, pitched his idea to the Techstars incubator program in Seattle, where they met Josh Hug, 41, their third cofounder. Hug had sold his first startup to Amazon, and his connections led them to Bezos Expeditions, which manages Jeff Bezos’ personal assets. The fund became one of Remitly’s earliest backers. To date, Remitly has raised $312 million and is valued at close to $1 billion.
Oppenheimer and his team can keep fees low in part because they use machine learning and other technology to bar terrorists, fraudsters and money launderers from transferring funds. The algorithms pose fewer questions to customers who send small sums than they do to those who send large amounts.
Remitly transfers $6 billion a year, serving senders in 16 countries, including the U.S., Australia and the U.K., and recipients in 45 nations. In the first half of 2019 it added 15 receiving countries, including Rwanda and Indonesia. The company is not yet profitable, but last year estimated revenue came to $80 million. Oppenheimer sees a huge growth opportunity. Fewer than 1% of the world’s 250 million immigrants are Remitly customers.
In 2012, Dorcas Murunga lived in Gachie, a crime-ridden neighborhood on the outskirts of Nairobi. She earned $80 a month babysitting and cleaning houses, and her husband made $120 installing elevators. He covered most of their expenses while she struggled to save money. Whenever she had cash, she says, she spent impulsively on clothes, junk food and alcohol. She managed to put aside the $5 minimum balance required to open a savings account at Equity Bank of Kenya, but she had a hard time coming up with the $3 monthly fee. To make a deposit, she took a bus an hour each way and waited in line for an hour at the bank. She closed the account after just one year.
Like most Kenyans, Murunga was already using M-Pesa, a service created by Safaricom to send money via text message. In 2012, Safaricom, a subsidiary of British telecom giant Vodafone, introduced M-Shwari, a savings account and loan service it integrated into M-Pesa. Two years later, it started offering an account that locked up a customer’s funds for a fixed period at a fixed interest rate.
Determined to improve her finances, Murunga committed to saving $1 a day through her locked account. When she got the urge to buy vodka or a pair of shoes, she says, she’d make deposits through her phone instead. She cut her spending by two thirds, to $10 a week. By 2016, she was saving $300 a year. She had started a business making handbags, and the savings helped pay for design courses. She has invested in real estate with her husband and says she spends more than $200 a year helping friends and family.
The spark for M-Pesa (pesa means money in Swahili), the first mobile money provider in Africa, came in 2003 from Nick Hughes, a Vodafone executive who managed a five-person team tasked with creating wireless products with a social impact. Hughes’ idea: set up a digital money-transfer system that would operate through personal cellphones.
Since M-Pesa launched in 2007, it has exploded in size and popularity. Kenyan taxi drivers complain when riders try to pay in cash. Ninety-six percent of Kenyan households now transact through M-Pesa. Before M-Pesa, only 27% of Kenya’s then 38 million people had bank accounts. Kenya’s population has since risen to 51 million, and 83% have checking or savings accounts. The service has spread to eight countries, including Egypt and India. Sending less than 50 cents is free. M-Pesa charges 1% to 2% for larger amounts. Through its various subsidiaries, M-Pesa generates some $840 million in annual fees for Vodafone.
The adoption of M-Pesa has had a tremendous impact on Nairobi’s startup scene. Durable-goods providers have introduced pay-as-you-go plans that bring in millions of new customers. For example, three-year-old Deevabits, based in Nairobi, sells $80 home solar systems in remote villages with no access to electricity. All its customers use M-Pesa to make an initial deposit. They pay the remainder through M-Pesa in 50-cent daily increments over eight months. “The presence of M-Pesa has transformed how business is done in Kenya,” says Deevabits founder and CEO David Wanjau, 32. “We couldn’t operate without M-Pesa.”
Dixie Moore used to strain to make paychecks last to the end of the month. A 25-year-old single mother with two small children, she earns $12.25 an hour as an assistant manager at a Bojangles’ fast-food restaurant in Canton, Georgia. In 2011, she was paying $30 a month for a Wells Fargo checking account, but when a bounced check and multiple overdraft fees left her with a $1,200 negative balance, she lost the account. She regularly paid up to $6 to get her paychecks cashed. “I was stuck between a rock and a hard place,” she says. Then a friend told her about MoneyCard, a Walmart-branded product offered by Pasadena, California–based Green Dot, the largest provider of prepaid debit cards in the U.S. Now her employer deposits her paychecks directly onto the card, and she uses it to pay for everything from groceries to dentist appointments. “It has really been a blessing,” she says.
Green Dot offers a financial lifeline to people like Moore. Until she started using the card two years ago, hers was among the 7% of American households—representing some 14 million adults—that get by entirely on cash. Founded in 1999 by a former DJ named Steve Streit, the company initially focused on teenagers who wanted to shop online. But seeing a larger opportunity, in 2001 Green Dot shifted its focus to adults who were using the card because they had bad credit or couldn’t afford commercial bank fees.
One advantage of cash cards: When users spend all the money on their card, it’s like running out of paper cash. They avoid overdraft fees that can run as high as $35 for a single infraction. The cards also make it possible for users to buy online.
Streit, 57, says that nearly 40% of Green Dot’s 5 million customers were previously unbanked.
In 2007, he struck a deal with Walmart that was a boon for the chain’s then 130 million customers: a cash card with a monthly fee of just $3 (today it’s $5). That’s down from the nearly $8 monthly fee paid by users who bought their cards at stores like CVS. The surge in Walmart card sales helped make up for the shortfall from the lower monthly charge.
In 2010, Streit took the company public. Though Green Dot generated revenue of $1 billion last year, its stock slid 40% this past August as it lowered its revenue expectations, citing the increase in well-funded competitors entering the market. But bad news for Green Dot is good news for America’s unbanked. Smartphone-based cash offerings from venture-backed startups like Chime, a six-year-old digital bank based in San Francisco, and digital-payment company Square’s Cash App are signing on millions of customers.
Harvard Business School professor Michael Chu, a former partner at KKR who cofounded Mexico City-based Compartamos, Latin America’s largest microfinance lender, says the opportunity to serve the underbanked in the U.S. is “huge.” But paradoxically, the richest nation on earth poses some of the greatest barriers to financial-inclusion innovators. A patchwork of state laws intended to protect borrowers from predatory lenders and federal laws that guard against money laundering requires startups to navigate through a maze of red tape.
Another problem: The technology that transfers funds between U.S. financial institutions is old, slow and expensive. While M-Pesa zips mobile money across Kenya in seconds at virtually no charge, an electronic fund transfer from Miami to New York can take two days and cost as much as $40.
But in the grand scheme these are minor obstacles. The Fed has promised to build a new and improved U.S. transfer system by 2024. Entrepreneurs will lobby—or innovate—their way around the bureaucratic barriers. After all, there are billions of dollars to be made—and countless lives to improve.
Additional reporting by Anna Corradi.
Get Forbes' daily top headlines straight to your inbox for news on the world's most important entrepreneurs and superstars, expert career advice, and success secrets.

Story 150
Facebook Inc. is recruiting dozens of financial firms and online merchants to help launch a cryptocurrency-based payments system on the back of its gigantic social network.
The effort, should it succeed, threatens to upend the traditional, lucrative plumbing of e-commerce and would likely be the most mainstream application yet of cryptocurrency. It comes as the social-media giant is under intense pressure from regulators, users and shareholders to address privacy shortcomings.
...

Story 151
When opening an account with a bank or building society, you will be asked to provide evidence of your identity and confirmation of your address. However, if you’ve been living abroad and are planning to move or return to the UK, this can pose a problem.
Having no credit history in the UK and no proof of address can hinder efforts to set up a new current account, which is often necessary to enable your employer to pay your wages.
Although most banks and building societies expect you to have a UK address before you can open a bank account, there are some specialist products that have been designed for foreign nationals, which could be an alternative if you do not meet the standard account criteria.
For those who have lived in the UK all their lives, having proof of residence can still be a problem if, for example, you’ve been renting a property with a partner and all the bills are in their name, if you've rented a room in a shared house and don't pay any bills, or if you are not on the electoral roll.

Story 152
DOCTORS, INSURANCE CARDS, MEDS
Has your child ever made a doctor’s appointment? Fix that. Outsource form management as well. My teenager was twice as fast as me on the tablets that many doctors use for intake these days anyway, so good riddance to all that paperwork.
Your children can stay on your health insurance plan until the age of 26, thanks to the Affordable Care Act. If you plan on having them pitch in for deductibles, it’s probably time to sit down and explain how your family coverage works. At the very least, they need to know what a co-pay is.
According to the scores of parents who responded to my query on Grown and Flown, a website and Facebook group for parents of teenagers and young adults, filling a prescription for the first time is filled with interesting obstacles, especially on refills for regular but essential medicines. So introduce your child to the various insurance cards and account numbers he or she needs, and do a walk-through with your local druggist or whatever mail-order pharmacy your insurance company forces you to use.
THE W-4 TAX FORM
Most employers that issue formal paychecks will require your teenager to fill out the Internal Revenue Service’s W-4 form. So review it to explain what it is and what kind of taxes, if any, your teenager might pay.
Do you get confused when you have to fill out your own every so often? There’s no shame in that, and the I.R.S. has a calculator that can help. And if it looks like too much money, or too little, is showing up in the first check after the withholding of taxes that you specified, you can revise the form.
ROTH INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNT
If compound interest isn’t officially the eighth wonder of the world, then it ought to be. The sooner teenagers start saving, the more they could benefit from its magic as it unfolds over a half-century or more.

Story 153
Access Denied - Sucuri Website Firewall
If you are the site owner (or you manage this site), please whitelist your IP or if you think this block is an error please open a support ticket and make sure to include the block details (displayed in the box below), so we can assist you in troubleshooting the issue.
Block details:

Story 154
In a Nutshell: Transferring money to foreign bank accounts has always been a time-consuming process that’s filled with unfair conversion rates and expensive transaction fees. InstaReM aims to make this process easier and less expensive for individuals, enterprises, and financial service firms by providing faster transfers and a transparent, what-you-see-is-what-you-pay fee structure. InstaReM’s service currently spans more than 55 countries and will soon include the option of Visa-branded debit cards for easy transactions.
The global marketplace is filled with individuals and businesses that need to send money to foreign countries for various reasons. Whether it’s sending funds to family back home, paying for goods or services, or funding a foreign operation, billions of dollars change hands and cross borders every day.
More than $148 billion in remittances were sent in 2017 out of the U.S. alone. Around the globe, more than $625 billion was sent by migrants to family members in their home countries. Those numbers are thought to be significantly greater for businesses that move large sums of money around daily.
In most cases, the person sending the money is charged exorbitant fees, sometimes exceeding 10% of the transferred sum. For migrant workers who are sending money back home to support loved ones, those fees can impact their families’ finances in many ways.
Those people, and the thousands of others who transfer money every day, were the inspiration behind InstaReM’s money transfer services. Thanks to InstaReM’s 8,000+ global banking partnerships, consumers in more than 55 countries currently use InstaReM, with bank transfers possible to over 3.21 billion banked people across the globe.
And, on top of its already popular money transfer service for individuals, InstaReM’s Chief Product Officer, Rajesh Venkatesh, said the company’s fastest-growing service is its specialty products for large enterprises and financial institutions.
“We started as a consumer-facing site,” said Venkatesh. “But some of the companies in the space approached us about all of the services we can offer, especially through our network in Asia.”
InstaReM is headquartered in Singapore and maintains offices in eight other countries. The company currently enables transfers to and from many countries throughout Asia, Europe, Oceania, and the U.S.
Transfers Range Between Real-Time and Two Days
Part of the draw that makes the service so popular is the company’s ability to provide midmarket rates that are sourced directly from Reuters and exclude margins. InstaReM currently charges in the range of 0.3% to 0.5% for money transfers from Hong Kong, Australia, and Singapore.
The sender can clearly see all fees before approving the transaction and knows exactly how much money the recipient will receive.
Most InstaReM money transfers reach the recipient within two business days, but many banks in Singapore and Australia now enable same-day transfers from foreign banks with some offering real-time payment capabilities.
“For most of the 55 markets that we work in, we can do same-day transfers,” Venkatesh said. “In a growing number of markets, currently around 20, we can do real-time payments. This greatly helps senders who need to send money quickly for various reasons.”
Venkatesh said that transfers that originate from within the U.S. typically require the one- to two-day window to complete, though some finalize much faster.
Currently, transfers must be sent to and from a bank account, but Venkatesh said that InstaReM plans to offer solutions for unbanked consumers who may not have easy access to a financial institution.
InstaReM also provides its users with a loyalty program that rewards every transaction with InstaPoints, which are redeemable on future transactions. The program is currently open to individual users and does not apply to business transactions.
“We also pay for behavior,” Venkatesh said. “Signing up or referring a new customer will also get you InstaPoints.”
Specialized Services for Large Enterprise and Financial Service Clients
InstaReM offers a more robust service for larger enterprises and financial institutions in addition to its consumer-facing money transfer service that is becoming increasingly popular among its clients.
“We have a very different product for these clients,” he said. “It allows the customer to send instructions to an API and convert currency first and specify how much the recipient should get.”
Singular payments can also include multiple beneficiaries and currencies — with specific instructions to ensure each recipient receives the correct amount. These transfers complete in similar time frames as individual transfers, with many recipients receiving same-day funding.
This is especially useful when a business needs to pay overseas employees and suppliers.
And, with a network of more than 8,000 banks currently accepting InstaReM transfers globally, its business clients can easily take advantage of the company’s payment services with low foreign exchange rates, no hidden fees, and easy, fast reconciliations.
“This is our fastest-growing segment and one that we’re able to differentiate ourselves from other players because we make it easy for people to move money and convert into currencies that are controlled.”
Fully Licensed with Approved Visa Issuance in Three Markets
Many popular money transfer services don’t own their own operations licenses, but instead, work in conjunction with partnered businesses that have licensure in the field. Although the process of obtaining a license can be costly — in both time and money — InstaReM began its journey with a mission of holding as many licenses as possible without the need for partnerships.
“InstaReM owns lots of the licenses in the markets that it operates in directly,” Venkatesh said. “Our license portfolio is very complex to maintain since we have to meet multiple rules and regulations to keep our licenses in different countries and regions.”
That responsibility to its customers and business practices helped InstaReM join Visa’s Fintech Fast-Track program in the Asia Pacific region. In the steady state, InstaReM’s Visa partnership will enable it to issue Visa cards. Under the Visa Fintech Fast-Track program, InstaReM’s partners can ride on its payments and remittances ecosystem. The company will roll out this service in the second half of 2019.
“We’re working on creating a product that will leverage the Visa approval and make things easier for customers to issue Visa payment cards,” Venkatesh said.
The Visa cards hold many possibilities, including payment cards to employees, travel cards for remote workers, and department-to-department payment cards for international businesses.
“We will also allow enterprises and institutions to use InstaReM as a platform for issuing cards to their customers and employees,” he said. “We plan to make it faster and less expensive for them to deal with issuance, and dramatically reduce the time it takes for an enterprise to go live with a card. These companies will be able to issue payment cards to their suppliers and customers in just four to eight weeks of them being in the program. They can issue payment cards on the InstaReM license and don’t have to wait the months that it currently takes.”
Bold Plans to Expand Services to the Underbanked
While individual and business customers already appreciate InstaReM’s fast and affordable money transfer services, Venkatesh said the company hopes that, by the end of the year, it will have the ability to support money transfers for consumers who do not have a bank account.
InstaReM already supports some forms of transfer that don’t require bank access, making it very popular among underbanked populations.
“In the Philippines, we support cash pickup,” Venkatesh said. That’s important because many people in the Philippines, even if they have a bank account, don’t have easy access to a bank or ATM.”
The company hopes it can ultimately help migrant workers and other individuals, who are stakeholders in the multibillion-dollar remittance payment industry, send money home to family members and loved ones without having to pay egregious fees or wait endlessly for the remittances to reach their destinations.
And with each payment earning loyalty rewards in InstaPoints that can be used to lower the cost of future transfers, the ability to send money to foreign countries has possibly never been cheaper, faster, and easier to execute.

Story 155
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
» This offer is no longer available
In October 2019, Chase ended the 3% promotional cash-back rate on the Chase Freedom Unlimited®, so this page is out of date. See our details page for the Chase Freedom Unlimited® to see the current offer.
Chase has revised the rewards structure for its popular flat-rate cash-back card, the Chase Freedom Unlimited®. New cardholders will get a higher cash-back rate in the first year — 3% on up to $20,000 in purchases — but the $150 sign-up bonus is being eliminated.
The new offer has been available in Chase bank branches since mid-March. Now it is online as well and will be the standard offer on the card going forward.
The changes in a nutshell:
Previous offer
(before April 5, 2019) New offer
(starting April 5, 2019) Rewards rate • 1.5% cash back on all purchases. • 3% cash back on up to $20,000 in purchases in the first year.
• 1.5% cash back on all other purchases. Sign-up bonus $150 Bonus after you spend $500 on purchases in your first 3 months from account opening. Double Cash Back: Earn 3% cash back on all purchases in your first year up to $20,000 spent. After that earn unlimited 1.5% cash back on all purchases.
All other card details remain the same. The ongoing cash-back rate (after the 3% promotion in the first year) remains 1.5% on all purchases. The annual fee remains $0, and you get an introductory APR of 0% on Purchases and Balance Transfers for 15 months, and then the ongoing APR of 16.74% - 25.49% Variable APR.
Whether the new offer is an improvement over the old one depends on how much you spend on the card in the first year. In general, if you plan to spend more that $10,000 in the first year, the new offer is more lucrative overall. At that point, the extra cash back is enough to make up for the loss of the previous sign-up bonus. (You don’t get the nice all-at-once $150 windfall from the sign-up bonus, though.)
If you’ll be spending less than $10,000 in that first year, then the new terms are a step down from the previous offer. In that case, consider an alternative card that pays the same 1.5% base rate but also gives you a cash bonus. Options include:
Capital One® Quicksilver® Cash Rewards Credit Card. Sign-up bonus: One-time $150 cash bonus after you spend $500 on purchases within 3 months from account opening.
Sign-up bonus: One-time $150 cash bonus after you spend $500 on purchases within 3 months from account opening. Wells Fargo Cash Wise Visa® card. Bonus offer for new cardholders: Earn a $150 cash rewards bonus after spending $500 in the first 3 months.
If you spent $20,000 in the first year with the Chase Freedom Unlimited® to max out your 3% rewards, you’d come away with $600 in rewards under the new offer, compared with $450 for the old one.
One thing to keep in mind: Rewards on the Chase Freedom Unlimited® can be transferred to the Chase Sapphire Preferred® Card or the Chase Sapphire Reserve®, where they have 25% or 50% more value, respectively, when redeemed for travel. By using the Chase Freedom Unlimited® to earn 3% rewards and then transferring them to one of the Sapphire cards and using them for travel, you could boost your effective rewards rate on those purchases to 3.75% or 4.5%.

Story 156
Roman Tiraspolsky/Getty Images
JPMorgan Chase is rolling out a new no-overdraft fee checking account aimed at low-income consumers who have been locked out of the banking system and often must resort to expensive check-cashing and money-order services.
The account, called Chase Secure, provides access to the bank’s mobile app, 5,000 U.S. branches and 16,000 ATMs for $4.95 a month.
Amid pressure from regulators to offer better banking services for low-income customers, the account follows on Chase Liquid, the bank’s reloadable prepaid card that originally debuted in 2012 but was criticized for its dependence on Chase branches and ATMs. Chase Liquid customers can keep their current accounts, but new customers will not be able to open a Chase Liquid account moving forward, the bank said in a statement.
The accounts are available at Chase branches and online starting today.
Opportunity for customers with negative banking history
JPMorgan’s latest move follows Bank of America Corp. (Advantage SafeBalance Banking) and Citigroup Inc. (e-checking), who recently launched similar no-overdraft accounts with low rates.
“A bank account can open doors to economic opportunity and improve the financial lives of so many across the country,” said Thasunda Duckett, CEO of Chase Consumer Banking. “As a bank, we want to help more consumers get access to an account that can better help them manage their everyday needs while building their financial health.”
According to Chase’s statement, the new account aims to help consumers across the country who have previously been excluded from the commercial banking system because of cost or accessibility. Even consumers who have had a negative history with financial institutions in the past can generally open an account.
“Chase Secure Banking applicants are screened prior to opening,” a Chase spokesperson wrote in an email to Bankrate when asked if the bank used Chexsystems to screen applicants for these accounts. “However, consumers will qualify for Chase Secure Banking as long as Chase is able to verify their identity and there is no prior history of fraud based on the screening. This means that even customers who have had trouble getting or keeping a traditional checking account in the past can qualify.”
Account details: Service fee, debit cards and more
Chase Secure charges a service fee of $4.95 per month and offers debit cards, digital payments and free check deposit and cashing — a service that could potentially save customers who previously didn’t have a checking account upward of $200 per year.
Customers can make electronic payments, access the Chase Mobile App and ATMs for free and visit any Chase branch for help or advice. As with the basic accounts from Citibank and Bank of America, paper checks are not available through the account, but customers can make ACH transfers.
Read Bankrate’s Chase Bank review for more information on the institution’s services.
One of the banner traits of the Secure account is the bank’s stance on not allowing overdrafts. Considered to be a bane to the banking customer but a boon to the bank, revenue garnered from overdrafts has typically propelled bank bottom lines in the past.
Banks often charge around $35 each time a customer doesn’t have enough funds in their checking account to cover a transaction. These fees reportedly cost Americans more than $34 billion in 2017, and nearly 80 percent of overdraft charges (and non-sufficient funds fees) are paid by frequent overdrafters, who account for just 9 percent of the population.
Learn more:

Story 157
Imagine going to the bank loan officer and being told they’d pay you if you took out a loan with them.
That’s how “negative” interest rates work. It sounds silly. It’s counterintuitive. It’s going on in Europe right now.
But not in America.
Causing some confusion, the sudden talk of negative interest rates coincided with a rare event during our current inverted yield curve climate. It’s true an inverted yield curve often anticipates an economic downturn. There is, however, some debate whether today’s inverted yield curve is predicting a recession.
There’s one thing you can be sure of, though. An inverted yield curve is not the same as negative interest rates.
An inverted yield curve merely means shorter term maturity fixed income instruments are paying a higher interest rate than longer term maturity fixed income instruments. This usually, but not always, occurs because investors feel a slowing business cycle means their equities won’t experience the growth rates they’re targeting.
Negative interest rates represent a whole ‘nother kettle of fish. Comparing them to an inverted yield curve is like comparing apples and oranges. In fact, it’s possible to experience negative interest rates without having an inverted yield curve.
To describe the operational definition of negative interest rates, think of a typical fixed income transaction. “Ordinarily, when you buy a bond, the issuer pays you interest in exchange for the rights to use your money for a period of time,” says Ric Edelman, co-founder of Edelman Financial Engines. “But when rates fall below zero, you’re actually paying the issuer to hold your cash for you. Investors are willing to pay this fee only when they feel that any other choice is riskier.”
Picture going to buy a car. The dealer gives you two options to pay for the new vehicle: cash or credit. When rates are above zero, buying a car on credit will cost you more because you’ll have to pay interest on the loan. When interest rates are negative, it’ll be cheaper to buy the car on credit than with cash!
That’s not the only way to make money with negative interest rates. Astute investors can find uncommon opportunities in such situations.
The most obvious case is the same advantage all bond holders experience during periods of falling interest rates. “People who already own bonds will benefit,” says Edelman, “because currently existing bonds rise in value when interest rates decline.”
Should a negative interest rate scenario arise, borrowers have the advantage over lenders. Negative interest rates will clearly hurt industries, companies and institutions that rely on loaning money.
But maybe not all of them.
The “negative” part of negative interest rates may not hold among all bond classifications. It may be that traditional high-yield bond markets, the riskier portion of the fixed income spectrum, will remain in positive territory. These might therefore represent the lending market lenders will pursue.
Other lenders might choose to avoid the risk and continue to offer loans with negative interest rates. This presents a tremendous opportunity for individuals and organizations seeking capital to expand revenue generating operations. It’s more than free money. You’re actually getting paid to borrow money.
If you’re saving for retirement, you’ll want to invest in stocks that can transform that no-cost capital into more profits.
On the personal side, you may find it more lucrative to restructure all your loans into negative interest rate loans, then defer any repayment until the due date. Can you say “goodbye student loan crisis”?
In the meantime, your cashflow balloons (since you no longer have loan payments to make). Who knows, maybe you can now buy those things you’ve been putting off purchasing.
And if you’re increasing your purchasing, everyone is increasing their purchasing.
And if everyone is buying, where do you think their money is going?
Into the companies making those goods. These companies will likely see appreciation in their stock price and, should they pay them, a rise in their dividends.
And dividends will be the key factor for retirees. Those who have already retired and who have relied on fixed income investing to provide a steady flow of cash will quickly learn the meaning of “interest rate risk” when their bonds mature during a time of negative interest rates.
Interest rate risk alludes to the inability to reinvest your principal in a way that yields the same fixed return. Dividend paying stocks will, as a result, represent a more attractive alternative. This demand can then further push up the price of dividend paying stocks.
Now, despite all this good news, don’t go cheering for negative interest rates. First, they can lead to unpleasant and unexpected side effects. Second, things have to get pretty bad from an economic perspective to justify negative interest rates. And nobody wants to go there.
So, if you’re retired or saving for retirement, what should you be more worried about: negative interest rates or a trade war with China? “Neither,” says Edelman. “Retirees should be worried about being able to generate the income they need for the rest of their lives. Negative interest rates and the trade war are both short-term issues that will be soon resolved and thus quickly forgotten.”

Story 158
This year is going to see significant moves to real-time payments, said Craig Ramsey, head of real-time payments, at ACI Worldwide, because merchants and billers, like utilities and health insurers, will begin promoting real-time.
“Once we get the merchants and the big institutions recognizing the benefits of RTP then adoption will rapidly settle in. 2019 is about Request For Payment (RFP). That is going to be a big driver in of new services.”
In RFP, a biller can send an electronic request for payment and a customer can respond on a mobile phone or a laptop and make the payment as a credit push, he said.
The advantages for billers are clear — instead of sending paper bills , paying postage, and processing paper checks -- for at least some of their customers they can send invoice information electronically and receive payment tied to the invoice electronically for straight-through processing with no hands touching the transaction. ACI Worldwide provides the technology for banks to handle the processing on their end.
The national platform in the U.S. is provided by The Clearing House (TCH). It uses Mastercard’s Vocalink platform, which powers faster payments in the UK, Hong Kong and Singapore to provide the real-time payments infrastructure for the banks to connect externally to their customers. ACI processes about half the faster payments in the UK, Ramsey said.
Getty
Ramsey predicted that the electronic payments will be very popular once they start rolling out, presenting an opportunity for banks that are ready and a threat for those banks which are not.
“If competitors offer these services in a stack of services, once merchants recognize benefits of RTP, they will all want it very quickly. If banks aren’t supporting it, they will see a reduction in their business.”
Merchants can also use RTP to bypass credit cards and their interchange fees. Ramsey said that Delta Airlines last year figured it could save $600 million a year if it could be paid by RTP instead of credit cards.
“That’s the kind of impact merchants will want to get involved in rapidly."
ACI Worldwide recently announced it had agreed to acquire Speedpay, Western Union’s American bill pay business, for $750 million in an all-cash transaction. Western Union said the sale will let it focus more on its cross-border business. Together, the ACI and Speedpay bill pay solutions will serve more than 4,000 customers across the U.S., in segments such as consumer finance, insurance, healthcare, higher education, utilities, government and mortgage.
The Clearing House (TCH), owned by some of the country’s largest banks is building out a real-time payments (RTP) system, starting with banks that are set to receive payments, and some banks are beginning to work on RFP. A real-time network for consumer and P2P payments, Zelle, is already operating by a consortium of big banks while Venmo, an early P2P player owned by PayPal, is now also doing P2C. Although TCH says it can reach more than 50 percent of the bank accounts in the U.S. with RTP, that’s because the largest banks are signed up. Fewer than half its members are ready for real-time.
“TCH would be the first to admit they haven't seen the speed of adoption,” Ramsey said. “They have the banks connected but traffic isn't up to the volumes that everyone was expecting to see. That will be a focal point for 2019 as banks turn their attention to TCH RTP.”
Zelle is aimed at consumers and TCH RTP at the wholesale banking market, but just as consumer technology often improved faster than corporate technology and drove employees to demand better computers and phones at work, real-time consumer payments could drive expectations in business.
“Whilst banks are driving consumer payments to real-time, the expectations of the consumer suddenly starts in their work environment that everything should be real-time, and that’s when the demand for corporate real-time payments starts to drive adoption in corporate RTP. I expect to see that this year,” Ramsey said.
ACI works with, and often competes with, some of the core banking providers like FIS and Fiserv to connect connect Zelle and TCH to banks. IBM considers it a messaging issue and relies on its Financial Transaction Manager product, Ramsey said, and ACI can work alongside FTM to supplement clients’ RTP connectivity and functionality.
“Some banks will have a combined infrastructure for core banking and payments, but the majority of banks we work with separate core and payments. Many banks think the rate of change in payments is fast and they don’t want to expose their cores to so many changes.
Connectivity to TCH and Zelle is costly for banks, he added.
“ACI provides software on premise in their data center of choice, on private or or public cloud, or in the ACI private cloud for which is a platform service. This provides smaller with the banks ability to connect to Zelle and TCH, or in Europe to EBA and the new TIPS from the European Central Bank.”
Ramsey said there are still some concerns about security and identity for real-time payments which are meant to be final.
“Around the world there is a concern as to whether there are sufficient controls in place, some schemes of Know the Customer. Are you sure you are sending the payments to the right place or have bank details been stolen? That is where a database comes in, and Zelle has a very good one,” he said, so the operator can verify the parties on both sides of a transaction before completing it.
New Jersey has introduced legislation which will make it illegal to hold onto funds that have been incorrectly sent to you, Ramsey added.
“That is a very interesting development — it could become a state or federal offense in the future, while now in many jurisdiction if you misdirect a payment you rely on good will of the recipient to recover it.”

Story 159
Image Credit: Shutterstock
2019 is hailed as the year for online shopping in the UAE. As the e-commerce market gains momentum regionally and globally, customers today can get their hands on a vast range of consumer goods and services, all available via a tap, click or swipe.
The UAE is making rapid strides as the fastest growing e-commerce market in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA), according to a joint study by Dubai Economy and global payments technology company Visa, which ranks first in Forbes list of ‘World’s Best Regarded Companies’.
With the world becoming more connected and consumers’ trust on online shopping evolving, we believe that consumer spend via online retail platforms will see significant growth in the coming years. - Shahebaz Khan, Visa’s General Manager for the UAE
E-commerce transactions in the UAE are forecast to total $16 billion (Dh59 billion) in 2019 and grow 23 per cent annually between 2018 and 2022.
"By growing the e-commerce sector in the UAE, we are by extension helping to drive economic growth and extend the benefits of digital payments to residents and businesses in the country," says Shahebaz Khan, Visa’s General Manager for the UAE.
Here are the top 10 reasons why the country is a powerhouse for e-commerce in the region, according to Visa’s UAE eCommerce Landscape report:
1. High digital penetration
Mobile phone penetration in the UAE is now at a world-record high of 210.9 per cent, according to Visa's research Image Credit: Shutterstock
Growth in e-commerce comes as digital becomes the future in the UAE. Mobile phone penetration is now at a world-record high of 210.9 per cent, according to Visa's research. UAE residents also are among the top 10 globally when it comes to spending time on the internet and social media, averaging seven hours and 54 minutes daily. “With the world becoming more connected and consumers’ trust on online shopping evolving, we believe that consumer spend via online retail platforms will see significant growth in the coming years,” says Khan.
2. Digital natives
The UAE’s population comprises nearly 30 per cent of digital-native millennials and a growing Gen Z Image Credit: Shutterstock
The UAE’s population comprises nearly 30 per cent of digital-native millennials (born between 1981 and 1996) and a growing Gen Z (born between 1997 and 2012). These digital natives are always connected and seek on-demand, near-instant solutions. Their desire for fast and convenient shopping experiences is expected to accelerate the uptake of online shopping.
3. Rising use of mobile wallets
The use of mobile wallets in the UAE has increased with Google Pay, Samsung Pay and Apple Pay entering the fray along with local players Image Credit: Shutterstock
A deep penetration of smartphones is the baseline for mobile wallet adoption, and this has been a reality for years in UAE, says the Visa report. The use of mobile wallets in the UAE has increased with global giants such as Google Pay, Samsung Pay and Apple Pay entering the fray along with local players like Etisalat Wallet and Beam Wallet, as well as local banks. With a simple tap of their smartphone or smartwatch, residents can today pay at supermarkets, hotels, department stores, petrol stations, taxis, cinemas and many more outlets.
4. Government intent
Digital commerce and cashless payments were identified as top government priorities Image Credit: GN Archives
Proactive government policies have been crucial in building a digital culture in the UAE and eliminating many of the barriers to becoming a cashless society. Digital commerce and cashless payments were identified as top government priorities in UAE Vision 2021. The government has implemented a number of initiatives to support it, such as the wage protection system. Moreover, a digital, lean, connected “paperless, cashless government, driven by cutting-edge, disruptive technologies, defining the government of the future now,” is part of the Smart Dubai 2021 initiative.
5. Trust in digital payments
About 66 per cent of respondents in the UAE said they trust online shopping and 70 per cent trust online payments Image Credit: Shuttestock
As per a recent Visa-DED security survey that examined consumer perception of digital payments and online shopping, 66 per cent of respondents said they trust online shopping and 70 per cent trust online payments. "The possibilities for merchants, financial institutions and consumers are enormous, and it is vital, therefore, that we continue to build consumers’ trust and improve the infrastructure of online payments so that consumers can benefit from more seamless, rewarding and secure shopping experiences,” says Khan.
6. Average spend per transaction
The UAE shopper is among the top spenders online. In the wider Middle East, North Africa and South Asia (MENASA) region, the UAE represents the biggest annual spend per online shopper at $1,648, with growth projected through 2020 at 29.6 per cent. This is supported by Visa transaction data, which shows that the UAE continues to maintain a healthy lead in average transaction size compared to both emerging and mature e-commerce markets. The transaction size in the UAE averages $144 in 2018-19, compared to $79 in mature markets and $26 in emerging markets.
The UAE shopper is among the top spenders online, according to Visa research Image Credit: Shutterstock
7. Going cashless
At first glance, the UAE looks to be a long way off with 75 per cent of all transactions still made using cash, but the country has already laid down strong foundations to go digital. The UAE ranks foremost among regional economies most rapidly moving away from cash. Card payments continue to grow in the UAE, recorded at 70 per cent in 2018, compared to 68 per cent in 2017, according to Visa’s report. During the same period, cash-on-delivery dropped to 15 per cent in 2018 from 22 per cent in 2017.
8. Improved logistics
The UAE's low logistics costs and superb infrastructure make it an ideal place for e-commerce to thrive Image Credit: Shutterstock
Logistics can be a game-changer for any e-commerce business. Luckily, the UAE is a focal point for distribution, and its low logistics costs and superb infrastructure make it an ideal place for e-commerce to thrive. It enjoys an advantage as a major global trans-shipment hub with the port of Jebel Ali and Dubai International Airport (the sixth busiest cargo airport in the world) providing a high standard of logistics, according to the Visa report.
9. Increased security
Banks and payment providers such as Visa are working to enhance card security for online transactions Image Credit: Shutterstock
Striking a balance between frictionless customer experience and strong security is another important aspect. Banks and payment providers in the UAE such as Visa are working to enhance card security for online transactions, adding an additional layer of security to the process. Online retailers can partner with payment processors to adopt protocols such as Verified by Visa, which works by sending the shopper a one-time-password to ensure payments are made by the rightful owner of the Visa account.
10. Growing digital shopping opportunities
On the digital merchant side, we have seen growth both domestically and internationally, including a number of digital startups with world-class shopping experiences for in-app and mobile. At the same time, we have also seen traditional retailers across all sectors go digital and global brands have opened delivery services to the UAE, making it easier for consumers to order and receive goods seamlessly.

Story 160
Hundreds of thousands of federal employees missed their first paycheck on January 11 as the U.S government entered the fourth week of what has now become the longest shutdown in its history. All the while, the bills keep stacking up, from mortgage payments to credit card balances. Real estate site Zillow estimated that the 800,000 affected workers will owe $189 million in rent and another $249 million in mortgage payments this month.

As workers took to the streets to protest the shutdown, several banks, credit unions, and lenders have stepped up to offer financial support in the form of interest-free loans, extended payment dates, and waived fees. Most are doing so on a case-by-case basis, urging customers to contact them directly to discuss their options.
While the offers are welcome, be sure to get everything in writing so you don’t get stuck with an even bigger bill—or worse, a damaged credit score—later. “Even if your lender is willing to adjust your payment date, you may still be charged interest even though they say you don’t need to send in this month’s credit card payment. Keep up with your bills if at all possible,” says Ted Rossman, an industry analyst at CreditCards.com.
FREE has compiled a list of banks, credit unions, and lenders that are helping federal workers during the shutdown. We’ll be updating the list as we learn of more offers.
Ally Bank
An Ally Financial spokesperson told FREE that customers impacted by the shutdown should contact the bank directly to discuss their individual options. A message on its site directs customers to chat, call or email them to do so.
American Express
An Amex spokesperson told FREE it's assisting consumer, small business, and corporate card members who are affected by the shutdown by waiving late fees, return check fees, and future interest charges. Customers can call to discuss their options.
Bank of America
Spokesperson Lawrence Grayson told FREE that BofA will be helping those affected with fee refunds and waivers, repayment plans, and loan modification on a “case-by-case basis.” A message on the BofA site invites customers to call or schedule an appointment with a specialist for personalized assistance.
Bank of the West
The bank posted a message on its website asking those impacted by the shutdown to call for assistance.
Capital One Bank
“We are here to assist our customers who are experiencing financial difficulties as a result of the federal government shutdown,” a Capital One Bank spokesperson told FREE. “Assistance provided to our impacted customers could include temporarily waiving or refunding certain credit card fees, extending payment due dates on auto loans, and waiving or refunding overdraft, insufficient funds, and service fees on deposit accounts.”
Chase Bank
The bank will automatically waive the overdraft and monthly services fees for checking and savings accounts for those affected by the shutdown. “We’re also helping our mortgage, credit card and car loan customers, but they have to contact us because we generally don’t have the same level of up-to-date information as we do on checking customers,” a Chase spokesperson told FREE, via email. “We’re working on these one case at a time to do our best to protect customers from negative consequences for missing a payment, such as late fees or reporting a late payment to a credit bureau.”
Citi
Customers can get fee and interest adjustments. “With respect to mortgages, we may be able to offer short-term forbearance and repayment plans and/or loan modifications,” a Citi spokesperson told FREE, via email. The bank has also posted a message on their website advising customers affected to call for card, bank, and mortgage assistance.
Democracy Federal Credit Union
Members can get help with payment deferments as well as loan extensions for existing loan holders for up to 90 days. Current and potential customers can also apply for a short-term loan for up to six months. Contact the credit union for specific options and for free financial counseling services.
Discover
Credit card and bank customers are eligible for several forms of assistance, including skipping a payment and having late fees and interest charges reversed if they do. Discover is working with customers on a case-by-case basis, according to a spokesperson. Customers can chat with or call a representative for assistance.
First Command Financial Services
The financial company, which caters to military members and offers insurance, banking, and financial advisors, is issuing zero-interest payroll advances, offering loan assistance, penalty-free early withdrawal, and waiving cash advance fees to affected Coast Guard and federal employee clients, Scott Spiker, Chairman and CEO of First Command Financial Services, said in an email statement to FREE. Call or send a secure message for assistance.
Ford Motor Credit
A banner on the auto lender’s site encourages customers who have had a loss of income to call for payment deferral options.
General Motors Financial
GM has a message on its site asking government employees that are impacted to contact its Customer Experience team to discuss options regarding loan due dates.
Justice Federal Credit Union
This credit union is offering unsecured loans of up to $3,000 at 3.19 percent interest, loan deferment up to 30 days, and mortgage assistance to members who work at the Department of Justice or Department of Homeland Security. Members can visit a branch (open Saturdays) or call for information.
Navy Federal Credit Union
One of the more generous lenders, this credit union is providing interest-free loans of up to $6,000 to federal government workers and active duty members of the Coast Guard who are also members of the credit union. You can apply for the Government Shutdown Loan Program online. Others who are affected can call to discuss their options.
PNC Bank
“PNC is prepared to waive monthly service fees and take other appropriate actions for government employees who are experiencing financial difficulty due to the shutdown,” Marcey Zwiebel Director, Corporate Public Relations PNC Bank, told FREE. The bank is advising customers to contact them for case-by-case assistance.
Quicken Loans
“We are waiving late fees for all clients that may be in jeopardy of missing a payment due to the government shutdown, as well as providing a free 30-day rate lock extension for any clients currently in the mortgage process,” the mortgage lender told FREE in an email statement. Customers can call for assistance.
SkyOne Federal Credit Union
The credit union, which caters to air transportation employees, is offering a Crisis Co-Pilot Relief Program that promises $5,000 interest-free loans at 0% APR for first 90 days of the loan term, according to its website. Customers can apply directly online and have their loans processed within two to three days.
TD Bank
Existing customers who are federal employees, contractors, or receive federal benefits can enroll in their Payment Assistance Program, according to a statement on the bank’s website. The program will provide access to additional funds at no cost, late fee refunds on most TD Bank Visa credit cards, mortgage, home equity, auto or personal loan assistance, and flexibility on small business loans or lines of credit. These benefits will extend until those impacted start to receive their regular government pay.
The U.S. Employees Credit Union
This credit union is offering 60-day, interest-free loans for federal government employees whose direct deposit pay will be affected by the shutdown, regardless of their credit score. “Loan amounts will be calculated by rounding your last bi-weekly direct deposit down to the nearest $100.00 increment. For example, if your last government pay was $3,479.41, your loan amount will be $3,400.00,” according to a statement on the credit union’s site, where members can apply directly.
Transportation Federal Credit Union
Transportation FCU, which primarily serves federal, state, and local government employees, is providing relief for members who are not receiving paychecks due to the shutdown by offering a 4.50% APR Furlough Loan with a minimum payment of $25. The credit union will also provide two weeks of net pay for up to $3,000 and the first payment deferred up to 45 days. Members who are impacted are also able to skip up to two months of payments on consumer loans and can call or apply online.
Treasury Department Federal Credit Union
This credit union is providing 30-day loan extensions for existing members in good standing. It's also lending both existing and prospective members their net pays for up to two pay periods. Apply directly online, at a local branch, or by calling.
USAA Federal Savings Bank
“In direct support of members, USAA is offering a one-time, low interest loan to active Coast Guard, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Corps, Public Health Service Corps personnel whose pay is disrupted,” USAA told FREE in a email statement. The lender is also providing all eligible members affected by the shutdown with a 60-day payment deferral on consumer loans, 90-day payment deferral on credit cards, and special payment arrangements on auto and home insurance premiums. Members can call for more details.

U.S. Bank
“We’re offering a new low-rate, quick loan product for U.S. Bank customers who are federal employees impacted by the government shutdown,” a spokesperson told Free. Customers with any U.S. Bank product, including mortgage and auto loans or U.S. Bank credit cards can apply for the $100 to $6,000 loans. A message on the bank’s website invites those affected by the shutdown to call about assistance programs.
Wells Fargo
The bank will automatically reverse monthly service, overdraft or non-sufficient fund fees, and suppress late fees on credit cards for employees affected by a federal government agency and whose payroll check was direct deposited into the customer’s account in November 2018, a spokesperson told FREE. Customers can call for assistance. The bank says it is also helping customers who do not have direct deposit or are not receiving an automatic fee reversal on an individual basis.
Follow Funto Omojola on Twitter.
Updated: This story was updated on Tuesday, January 15 with additional offers of financial assistance from lenders.

Story 161
Christopher Mager, head of global innovation at BNY Mellon, believes blockchain could lead to an “unprecedented period of change and transformation” in global payment systems — and he isn’t alone.
Blockchain's primary feature is its efficiency. Because the core idea of a Decentralized Ledger Technology (DLT) is to forego centralized institutions (like banks), paying on a blockchain is as easy as clicking "send." No money transfer waiting periods or unnecessary third-party processing fees. Blockchain-based cryptocurrencies can be transferred (and recorded for auditing purposes) instantaneously across the world, increasing liquidity and efficiency in the markets.
Additionally, blockchain's smart contract system can halt payments when agreed terms are violated, while its use of cryptocurrencies can alleviate the regulatory red tape that often ensnares international payment processing. It can take days to clear traditional cross-border wire payments, which carry fees as high as 10%, noted one Credit Suisse study. American Express believes blockchain can solve this problem and "will support real-time domestic and cross-border payments at lower costs versus traditional services."
Blockchain Payment Processing Blockchain is a promising technology for payment processing. Blockchain has been able to give underbanked groups access to money, allows people to make cross-border payments and uses smart contracts to act as a means towards faster and safer payment processing.
These nine companies are using blockchain to revolutionize the way we pay and transfer money all over the globe.
Airfox
Airfox
Location: Boston, Massachusetts
How it’s using blockchain in payments: Airfox is a decentralized platform that lets those in underbanked parts of the world make payments, receive small loans and send money all over the globe. The Ethereum-based platform uses the company’s AirToken to help facilitate peer-to-peer payments for utility bills, goods and services.
Industry Impact: Airfox struck a deal with Brazilian retail giant Via Varejo to deploy its digital banking and payment platform in its stores. Airfox plans to release an app in 2019 to bring its digital payment platform to Via Varejo’s 50 million customers.
Circle
Circle
Location: Boston, Massachusetts
How it’s using blockchain in payments: Circle Pay blockchain allows for the safe transfer of money between different individuals, currencies and countries. The Circle Pay function is available in 29 countries and in U.S. dollars, Euros and British Pounds. Each money transfer or payment is encrypted on a blockchain to ensure a safe transaction.
Industry Impact: The Circle Pay app acts as a group messaging app with a payment feature integrated within. In-between sending your friends selfies or memes, you can also transfer money cross-border and cross-currency without any fees.
Zcash
Zcash
Location: Denver, Colorado
How it’s using blockchain in payments: Zcash is a cryptocurrency exchange platform using its own cryptocurrency (Zcash) to help people pay for goods and services. You can use the company’s crypto to buy a house, purchase electronics or even to donate to a nonprofit.
Industry Impact: Zcash already boasts a wide list of companies that accept the crypto. Companies accepting the digital currency as payment are in industries like apparel, web services, medical, restaurants/coffee shops and nonprofit.
Ripple
Ripple
Location: San Francisco, California
How it’s using blockchain in payments: Ripple’s blockchain lets users send money and make payments across the globe. The company’s RippleNet platform facilitates the quick transaction of payments and requires lower capital amounts for cross-border payments. The company boasts a network of more than 175 banks and commercial platforms that use RippleNet for cross-border payments.
Industry Impact: Payment provider TransferGo announced it was using Ripple’s RippleNet payment platform to launch a remittance corridor to India. With Ripple’s platform, TransferGo is hoping to speed up its Europe-to-India payment processing from 2 to 3 days to just a few seconds.
Veem
Veem
Location: San Francisco, California
How it’s using blockchain in payments: Veem is a blockchain-backed payment platform for small businesses to send and receive money in local currency. The company’s ledger technology secures, tracks and reconciles payments, so small businesses have a transparent history of all incoming and outgoing payments.
Industry Impact: Veem has seen its blockchain-based payment transactions double from a year earlier. They now account for more than 62% of the company’s total transactions.
Ivy
Ivy
Location: Beverly Hills, California
How it’s using blockchain in payments: Ivy is a blockchain-based technology for international crypto business payments that need verification. Businesses use the IVY token to facilitate the transfer of digital assets and access 74 identifiable know-your-customer (KYC) data points, which lets them receive transparent payments from carefully-vetted sources on the blockchain.
Industry Impact: Ivy recently announced a partnership with Goldfields Money, an Australian digital bank, to commercialize and spread the use of Ivy’s blockchain payment system to an international community.
Gluwa
Gluwa
Location: San Francisco, California
How it’s using blockchain in payments: Gluwa uses blockchain for their borderless financial platform. The company combines a payment function with a digital wallet to help users manage and easily transfer money to people all over the world.
Industry Impact: Gluwa users can trade the company’s Gluwacoin for fiat currency at a 1:1 fixed rate. The stablecoin acts as a bridge between the crypto and fiat worlds due to its compatibility with real-world currencies.
Stellar
Stellar
Location: San Francisco, California
How it’s using blockchain in payments: Stellar’s blockchain payment platform fights poverty by connecting people and low-cost financial institutions. The Stellar network features lower remittance costs, mobile banking, real-time settlements (in 2-5 seconds) and an automatic currency exchange.
Industry Impact: Consulting giant Deloitte uses Stellar to test out different payment methods for banking clients outside North America.
Abra
Abra
Location: Mountain View, California
How it’s using blockchain in payments: Abra’s peer-to-peer platform lets users transfer digital currencies to other users using blockchain. Abra users can fund their digital wallets with 50 different fiat currencies or more than 30 different cryptocurrencies, including Bitcoin, Litecoin, Zcash, Augur and Stellar.
Industry Impact: Residents in the Single Euro Payments Area (SEPA), as well as European Union nations, can now transfer euros or other national currencies into their digital wallets on Abra.

Story 162
Eligible deposits with UK institutions are protected by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme up to a maximum level of protection of £85,000 per person per institution. Our data experts work tirelessly to make sure the rates and information we show are up to date and correct. Moneyfacts.co.uk Limited is an independent credit broker not a lender. We will receive a payment from credit providers where customers link to them from Moneyfacts.co.uk. None of these arrangements affects our independence.
All overdrafts are subject to the applicant’s status. You may not be offered credit. All rates and fees are subject to change without notice. Please check all rates and terms before borrowing.
Quick links are where we have an arrangement with a provider so you can move directly from our site to theirs to view more information and apply for a product. We also use quick links where we have an arrangement with a preferred broker to move you directly to their site. Depending on the arrangement we may receive a modest commission either when you press a 'Go to Provider' or 'Speak to an Adviser' button, when you call an advertised number or when you complete an application.

Story 163
The piggy bank is virtually extinct.
That's not to say that teaching kids the value of a dollar and how to save money over time isn't as worthwhile as ever. Yet you can forget counting coins these days, as most payments are electronic and even kids are joining the noncash majority.
To that end, a growing number of card offerings, including Greenlight, gohenry and Current, are geared specifically toward children and teens. Each allows parents to load funds onto them and monitor their child's spending through an app, rather than using a prepaid card or linking a debit card directly to a checking account.
Greenlight's mission is to help raise financially savvy kids in a cashless world, said Tim Sheehan, the co-founder and chief executive. The company is backed by Amazon and several big banks, including Ally Financial and SunTrust.
The money on the card can be divided into two categories: funds that can be spent anywhere and money that can only be spent in specific spots, such as Chipotle, or types of establishments you've approved in advance, such as restaurants (hence the name "greenlight"). Parents can also receive an alert whenever the card is used, as well as the amount spent.
"I like the training wheels aspect," said Ted Rossman, an industry analyst at CreditCards.com. Plus, "kids growing up nowadays are transacting in a world of apps and plastic, it makes sense to give them that experience," he added.
Next up: Greenlight will be integrated with Amazon's Alexa, so parents can check the balance or send cash through a voice command. "A parent might say 'send 20 bucks to Jack for Chick-fil-A,'" Sheehan said.

Story 164
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
The TJX Rewards® Platinum Mastercard®, issued by Synchrony Bank, can be a worthy sidekick for the deal-savvy shopper who hunts bargains at T.J. Maxx and its affiliated stores.
Typically, general credit cards don’t earn bonus rewards on purchases at discount outlets, so for T.J. Maxx loyalists who are already getting a marked-down price, this $0-annual-fee card is extra valuable.
It can be used anywhere Mastercard is accepted, but if you don’t frequently shop under the TJX brand umbrella, you’ll rack up rewards slowly and may find redemption limiting.
Here are five things to know about the card:
Nerd Tip: There’s also a store-only version of this card. It offers some of the same perks, but can be used only at T.J. Maxx and its family of stores. This review focuses solely on the open-loop TJX Rewards® Platinum Mastercard®.
» MORE: Is the T.J. Maxx credit card right for you?
1. T.J. Maxx loyalists can rake in rewards …
The TJX Rewards® Platinum Mastercard® offers a high in-brand rewards rate whether you’re shopping off the rack or on the web:
5 points per $1 spent at stores in the TJX family (T.J. Maxx, Marshalls, HomeGoods, Sierra Trading Post and Homesense).
1 point per $1 on all other purchases.
Points are worth a penny each, but there’s only one redemption option: For every 1,000 points earned, you’ll get a $10 rewards certificate to spend on purchases in store or online at the above retailers. (Certificates can be issued in either $10 or $20 denominations.)
If you shop at T.J. Maxx at every opportunity, for all occasions — back to school, birthdays, holidays and such — you can score some serious points.
» MORE: NerdWallet’s best store credit cards
2. … But it’s not ideal for everyday purchases
Of course, you can’t buy everything at T.J. Maxx. Your everyday spending on things like groceries, gas and restaurant meals will earn a paltry 1 point per $1, and you’ll be locked in to using those rewards in only one place: within the T.J. Maxx family of brands.
If you’re looking for more flexible earning and redemption options, a cash-back credit card will work better for you.
The Citi® Double Cash Card – 18 month BT offer, for example, offers 2% cash back on all purchases: 1% when you buy and 1% when you pay your bill. That can add up much more quickly, and you can redeem your cash back as a qualifying bank account deposit, a statement credit or a check to use however you’d like. The annual fee is $0.
And, of course, you don’t necessarily have to settle for just one card. You could use the TJX Rewards® Platinum Mastercard® on TJX purchases and the Citi® Double Cash Card – 18 month BT offer everywhere else.
» MORE: Before you get a retail credit card, consider your options
3. There’s an upfront incentive, but it won’t fund a shopping spree
The TJX Rewards® Platinum Mastercard® shaves 10% off your first purchase online or in store. That can make a decent dent in a big purchase, but a general rewards credit card may offer more valuable introductory incentives.
The Capital One® Quicksilver® Cash Rewards Credit Card, for example, features a nice sign-up offer: One-time $150 cash bonus after you spend $500 on purchases within 3 months from account opening. The card earns unlimited 1.5% cash back on purchases.
» MORE: Credit cards for department store shoppers
4. You may get first dibs on merchandise …
The TJX Rewards® Platinum Mastercard® snags you invites to exclusive shopping events in store and online.
You can also sign up to receive “arrival alerts” via text message or email so that you’re the first to know about new merchandise at your local TJX-family stores.
5. … But you won’t want to carry a balance
There’s no introductory APR period with this card, so if you need to finance a new wardrobe for work or some furniture for a remodel, you should probably look elsewhere.
The ongoing APR is 29.24% Variable. Carrying a balance will chip away at any rewards you earn, so it’s best to pay your balance on time and in full every month.
If you need breathing room on interest for a large purchase, a general rewards card like the Capital One® Quicksilver® Cash Rewards Credit Card will again be a better choice. It offers an intro 0% on Purchases and Balance Transfers for 15 months, and then the ongoing APR of 15.74% - 25.74% Variable APR. The annual fee is $0.
» MORE: NerdWallet’s best rewards credit cards

Story 165
Best debt consolidation loans: Factors to compare
Annual percentage rates: The loan's APR represents its true annual cost, as it includes all fees and interest charges. Rates vary based on your credit scores, income and debt-to-income ratio. Use APRs to compare multiple loans. Choose a low rate with monthly payments that fit your budget.
Origination fees: Some lenders charge origination fees to cover the cost of processing your loan. The one-time fee typically ranges from 1% to 8% of the loan amount and is either deducted from your loan proceeds or added to the loan balance. Avoid loans that include this fee to keep costs down, unless the APR is lower than other no-fee loans.
Lender features: Some lenders offer consumer-friendly features like direct payment to creditors, which means the lender pays off your old debts once your loan closes, saving you that task.
Other features to shop for include free credit score monitoring and hardship programs that temporarily reduce or suspend monthly payments if you face a financial setback, such as a job loss.
» MORE: Best credit card consolidation loans
Get the most with a debt consolidation loan
Build your credit: Loan approval is based mainly on your credit score and ability to repay. Borrowers with excellent credit (720 to 850 FICO) have more loan options and may qualify for lower rates, so it can pay to build your credit before seeking a consolidation loan.
Add a co-signer: While co-signing carries some risks, it can help you qualify for a debt consolidation loan that you wouldn’t be able to on your own due to poor credit or low income.
Estimate your savings: Use a debt consolidation calculator to estimate your interest savings and new monthly payment, and to compare various loan options.
Shop around: Compare rates and terms at multiple lenders before applying for a debt consolidation loan. Most online lenders let you pre-qualify with a soft credit inquiry, which has no impact on your credit scores.
Plan ahead: Before your loan is funded, create a budget that allocates a percentage of your income toward debt repayment and track your repayment progress with a budgeting and saving app.
Curb spending: Avoid big expenditures on your credit cards as you pay off debt, but don’t close any of the cards. Canceling credit accounts can hurt your credit score.
» MORE: 4 keys to successful debt consolidation
How to pre-qualify for a personal loan
Pre-qualifying for an online loan can get you access to potential loan terms, including the loan’s interest rate. You can pre-qualify with multiple lenders on NerdWallet to compare offers and find the lowest rate.

Story 166
Eight Reasons to Use Cryptocurrency Payments in 2019
This article on cryptocurrency payments was written by Thomas Highwater, who is an avid fan of all things crypto-related. Mr. Highwater teaches high-school level robotics and programming.
***
While there is a growing number of fiat based-payment processors with a variety of practical tools and methods of payment, adding cryptocurrency payments into the mix provides consumers and merchants with unparalleled benefits. Some of these benefits include simplicity, lower overall cost, security, privacy and a greater level of control over one’s funds.
Reasons to Use Crypto Next Year
Also read: Wendy McElroy: Avoiding Fraud by Going Crypto-Anarchist
Cryptocurrencies are numerous and versatile and can be utilized as entirely private bank accounts and payment cards for almost any occasion. They offer a multitude of ways to earn a form of interest with little or no effort and help users protect sensitive data and holdings on the go 24/7.
1. Fees
There was a time, not that long ago, when cash was king and financial institutions gave generous incentives to people who chose to put their cold hard cash into institutional coffers. Today, bank accounts of all sorts, as well as debit and credit cards, have fees associated with them — money that goes down the drain and provides no benefit, never mind interest earned. There are debit and credit card fees, ATM fees, merchant fees, checking account fees, overdraft fees, paper fees, check fees, transfer fees, change fees, charge-back fees, foreign transaction fees, minimum balance fees, inactivity fees, false decline fees, et cetera, et cetera.
In comparison, popular cryptocurrency payment gateways like Bitpay and Coinpayments charge between 0.5 perecent and 1 percent per transaction. In most cases, a cryptocurrency account in the form of a digital wallet is entirely free and unless one chooses to invest in cryptocurrency hardware wallets or prepaid cards, other than the transaction fee, using cryptocurrency as money costs absolutely nothing.
2. Sensitive Data
Banks and credit institutions, as well as retailers and service providers, obtain and retain too much of their customers’ personal and financial information. Details including our name, address, employers, social security number, net worth, assets, investments, account balances, credit score, credit line, and transaction history, along with everything we do and buy, who we associate with, when, where, etc. comprise our personal, professional and financial data sets. With traditional financial institutions and traditional fiat currency, we can no longer preserve our privacy.
Cryptocurrency transactions provide an alternative by limiting the amount of transaction data to mere numbers also known as cryptocurrency wallet addresses and transaction IDs confirming that a wallet-to-wallet transaction took place. A cryptocurrency payment processor acting as a third party will typically require your name (and shipping address for the delivery of physical goods), but the rest of your information will remain private as long as you don’t connect your bank or credit card account and transact solely in BTC and altcoins.
3. International Use
Cryptocurrencies are a borderless means of exchange allowing for instant and cost-effective transactions across the world. There is no waiting, no international fees and no limitations as to who can or cannot send funds to whom or when and where those funds can be accessed. All that is needed is an internet-enabled device like a cellphone and someone without access to a banking institution is given an alternative solution with which they can pay bills, earn income, safe-keep their funds, make purchases and conduct business.
Using cryptocurrencies while traveling adds an extra layer of security and can be used as a remote source of emergency funds that can be accessed without an ID, a bank account, credit cards, a wire transfer or even a personal computer device.
4. Ecommerce
Accepting cryptocurrency online has never been easier. Shopify and Etsy merchants can select to accept BTC, BCH, and altcoins. Woocommerce and Easy Digital Downloads vendors can use WordPress plugins like Mycryptocheckout for the purpose. And then there’s Shapeshift which gives customers the choice to pay with dozens of cryptocurrencies. Shapeshift is integrated with cryptocurrency payment processors like Bitpay and Coingate, and cryptocurrency wallets like Coinomi and Keepkey.
Moreover, there is Purse.io, an online platform where users can buy items from Amazon with cryptocurrency and it is also integrated with Shapeshift, as are Magento and Openbazaar. Setting up cryptocurrency payments is super simple and quick and merchant transaction fees are 60-70 percent lower compared to fiat transaction fees.
5. No Charge Backs
Unfortunately, there are customers who make a purchase, receive the items they ordered and, perhaps, even use them only to cancel their payment. They can do this because fiat payments are not instant.
With cryptocurrencies, things are quite different. Once a transaction has occurred, there is no turning back. Funds ‘travel’ from one wallet to another, the transaction is recorded and it cannot be reversed. This is not to say that a customer cannot return an item and request a refund by communicating directly with the vendor. Of course they can. What they cannot do is place an order, pay for it, receive it and then get the sum they paid back on their account because of money back policies overseen by online payment processors and credit card companies.
Charge backs are meant to prevent fraud and yet they often accomplish the very opposite. In this instance, cryptocurrency works the same way as cash. After you’ve taken the item you paid for with cash, you can’t go back to the store with a damaged or used item, never mind empty-handed, and demand your money back.
6. Mobility
Mobile payments have become all the rage. Being able to use a smartphone in place of a credit card is awfully convenient.
From Paypal and Apple Pay to Mastercard’s Paypass and Visa’s Paywave with near-field communication (NFC) technology and modern POS terminals, getting the check has never been easier. And yet the same privacy and security issues arise as with the rest of traditional, fiat-based financial transactions, namely too much data in one place. All currently available mobile fiat payment processors store credit card information which include all of our financial information and more. Not to mention that all that data is online and on our mobile devices everywhere we go.
Cryptocurrencies are a safer digital cash option and are ideal for mobile payments by default due to their virtual, decentralized nature.
7. A Growing Market
Bitpay, one of the most successful crypto payment gateways, is processing $1 billion worth of transactions annually at a rate of a quarter million transactions per month. Coinpayments already serves millions of vendors in 200 countries and has just integrated with Bittorrent to give its 100 million users the option to pay with BTC and altcoins. Coingate serves 50,000 merchants and has processed hundreds of thousands of cryptocurrency payments, and Utrust just partnered with Payrexx and its 10,000 European merchants.
More integrations and partnerships between cryptocurrency payment processors and fiat payment processors are in the works and the market is expected to grow by 50 percent in the next two years. In particular, Foton announced plans to attract 100 million users by 2020 and offer competitive features including its own stablecoin, fiat pairs, atomic swaps, a loan and escrow service, and a payment card with loyalty rewards and cash back.
So there is no doubt: millions of merchants all over the world accept cryptocurrencies, as do tens of thousands of websites.
8. Commercial Use
It has been estimated that some 20 million people worldwide own cryptocurrency. Most others have heard of bitcoin and many plan on adding it to their portfolio.
Square, a credit card payment processor serving merchants, employers and mobile payment users, is gradually out-competing Paypal while also increasing its profits through BTC sales. The majority of Square’s merchant customers have expressed interest in accepting bitcoin core and a 2017 Cambridge Centre for Alternative Finance study confirmed that 40 percent of consumers would, indeed, like to be able to make purchases with BTC.
Countries with weaker than average fiat currencies tend to favor the use of cryptos. Turkey, Venezuela, Brazil, Australia and South Africa appear to have large numbers of cryptocurrency users. In fact, a whopping 80 percent of Australians would like to use cryptocurrencies for daily purchases. Merchants in Eastern Europe and small western European towns seem more open toward adding bitcoin as a method of payment. Even before the 2017 cryptocurrency bull market, more than 10 percent of Eastern Europeans reported using cryptocurrency in place of fiat for everyday purchases.
Crypto as Money
Nowadays, almost anything can be paid directly with cryptocurrencies: homes, condos, boats, cars, clothing, electronics, health and pet products, food, wine, accessories, plane tickets, vacations, tools, musical instruments, as well as dating services, professional services, internet services, and, of course crypto gear.
Without pointing out the obvious, let’s look at the most interesting things digital currencies can buy you:
Enjoy a Thai or Indian restaurant in Montreal or have Dutch pancakes in Aruba
Buy vintage furniture in Massachusetts or rent an office in Miami
See the Cerro Negro volcano in Nicaragua or charter a yacht in South Florida
Buy a Benz or a Beamer in California or a Rolex in Europe
The Market According to Experts
In January, a company called Bakkt, owned by the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE) which also owns the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), will launch bitcoin futures which will be settled in BTC, not cash. Its partners include Microsoft, Starbucks and Pantera Capital. There will be no leverage trading, meaning that actual bitcoin will have to be bought and owned for the duration of the contract. Given that these are institutional investors, BTC’s volume is expected to reach new heights. The CEO of ICE and NYSE chairman Jeff Sprecher stated that digital assets are here to stay and that they “have a future in regulated markets.”
It is evident that the cryptocurrency industry has grown by leaps and bounds in the past 10 years since Bitcoin was born. Fintech is transforming the financial industry and more and more people are getting onboard. Shopping in-store and online is going fully digital but raising cyber security fears, which can be drastically reduced with a broader acceptance of cryptocurrencies as a means of payment.
Do you think payments in crypto will continue to trend? Is this the route to mass adoption?
Images courtesy of Shutterstock
OP-ed disclaimer: This is an Op-ed article. The opinions expressed in this article are the author’s own. Bitcoin.com does not endorse nor support views, opinions or conclusions drawn in this post. Bitcoin.com is not responsible for or liable for any content, accuracy or quality within the Op-ed article. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the content. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any information in this Op-ed article.

Story 167
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
First you swiped, then you dipped. Now, if you’re a Chase cardholder, you can add tapping to your money moves.
The issuer is integrating tap-and-go contactless payment on all of its Visa credit and debit cards by the end of 2019, joining the ranks of other cards and payment providers that offer this functionality.
“Tapping to pay will help speed our customers through checkout with the ease and confidence of paying with Chase,” Abeer Bhatia, president of card marketing, pricing and innovation for Chase Card Services, said in a statement.
Using contactless payment can speed up the overall checkout process, since a quick tap of your card can be faster than swiping a magnetic stripe or dipping the card into a terminal reader. Both of those methods require a few seconds of delay before a card is approved. Chase notes contactless payments are also secure. As with a chip card, when you make a contactless transaction it will generate a one-time security code that protects your information.
What is contactless payment?
Any device equipped with technology such as near-field communications (NFC) can pass a signal to a similarly enabled terminal to make a secure payment. In addition to credit and debit cards, this technology is also used on key fobs, entry cards and mobile wallets on smartphones.
Chase already offers Chase Pay as a form of contactless payment via a mobile phone app. Other products offering tap-and-go payment include Apple Pay, Samsung Pay, Google Pay, select Mastercards and select Capital One cards. Several “wearables” and other connected devices allow contactless payments as well.
What does this mean for you?
Chase will begin rolling out updated cards to customers who have cards up for renewal or who just opened new accounts. Chase says Chase Freedom Unlimited® and Chase Slate® customers will be among the first to receive their new cards. The company expects that all of its Visa credit cards, including all co-branded cards, will have tap-to-pay functionality by the first half of 2019. Chase debit cards will come equipped with the tap-to-pay feature by the second half of 2019.
To find out when a specific contactless Chase card will be available, see the issuer’s FAQ page.
Cards equipped with contactless technology will still be usable at terminals that don’t accept this method of payment. The cards will still have a dippable chip and magnetic stripe on the back for merchants that haven’t yet upgraded their systems.
Information related to the Chase Slate® has been collected by NerdWallet and has not been reviewed or provided by the issuer of this card.

Story 168
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
Synchrony Bank has launched a no-annual-fee credit card for home-related shopping with some out-of-the-box attributes, giving you different perks depending on the amount of your purchase.
The Synchrony HOME Credit Card resembles traditional “closed-loop” store cards that can be used only at specific merchants, but it has a broader reach than most. Through a partnership with the Discover card network, the card advertises acceptance at more than a million locations and can be used to buy qualifying home-related purchases, which can include furniture, decor, appliances and flooring, plus spending at places like mattress stores, garden stores, and with contractors.
The card offers one of the following, depending on how much you spend at an eligible merchant:
Rewards of 2% cash back as a statement credit on purchases under $299 (offer good through Dec. 31, 2019); or
Six months of promotional financing on purchases of $299 or more. (Be aware that this is a deferred interest offer, not a 0% intro APR offer. More on that below.)
» MORE: NerdWallet’s best 0% intro APR cards
“Our research shows the consumer is looking for choice,” says Neeraj Mehta, chief executive officer, payment solutions, Synchrony. “With the HOME card, we feel that there’s nice flexibility to the card and it allows you to be specific.”
Qualifying purchases made at participating Synchrony HOME locations may receive an offer of longer promotional financing, ranging from 12 to 60 months depending on the retailer.
If you aren’t sure whether the place you want to shop will accept the card, the HOME locator feature can identify participating merchants, based on your address or ZIP code. When NerdWallet tried the locator, we were surprised to see some of the places that accepted the card included a gourmet grocery store, a tailor and a pest control service.
Is the Synchrony HOME Credit Card a good deal?
Rewards rate
Earning 2% back on certain home-related spending is decent, especially since that’s a relatively unique bonus category. But you can do better, even among more traditional store cards.
For instance, the Lowe’s Advantage Card — also issued by Synchrony — offers a 5% discount on every eligible Lowe’s purchase. And it goes a step further than the Synchrony HOME Credit Card: For Lowe’s purchases of $299 or more, you get to pick whether you want 5% off or a six-month promotional financing period.
If you don’t want to pledge full home-improvement loyalty to Lowe’s, plenty of general rewards cards can offer richer rewards no matter where you spend. The Bank of America® Cash Rewards credit card , for example, earns 3% back in a category of your choice among six (home improvement/furnishings is one of them) and 2% back at grocery stores and wholesale clubs for the first $2,500 of combined bonus category/grocery store/wholesale club spending per quarter. All other spending earns an unlimited 1% cash back.
Or if you don’t want to mess with bonus categories at all, the Citi® Double Cash Card – 18 month BT offer earns a high flat rate of 2% back on everything you purchase: 1% back when you buy and 1% back when you pay it off.
And unlike the Synchrony HOME Credit Card, these kinds of general rewards cards can be used anywhere. You’re not limited to a list of eligible retailers.
Promotional financing
If you’re looking to finance a large home-improvement purchase over time, the Synchrony HOME Credit Card can help, but be aware of the potential pitfalls of its deferred interest promotion. With this offer, the interest isn’t waived; it’s merely put aside. If you pay in full before the promotional period is up, you won’t owe any interest. But if you owe even $1 when that deferred period ends, you’ll have to pay up on the interest that was accruing on the entire balance from the date of purchase.
And with the Synchrony HOME Credit Card, that could be costly indeed. As of Feb. 12, 2019, the card was charging an ongoing APR of 29.99%. That’s a much higher interest rate than you’ll find on many general-purpose credit cards.
If you’re not sure you can fully pay off your bill in time, look for a card that offers a true 0% intro APR on purchases — meaning you won’t be charged interest retroactively. No interest accrues during the promotional period, and when that period ends, the interest is charged only from that date forward and only on the remaining balance.
The U.S. Bank Visa® Platinum Card is a NerdWallet favorite in this category. It comes with an intro 0% on Purchases and Balance Transfers for 18 billing cycles, and then the ongoing APR of 14.24% - 25.24% Variable APR.

Story 169
Chayanuphol Poona / EyeEm/Getty Images
When a family member dies, you may suspect that all their debts expire as well. However, this couldn’t be further from the truth. In fact, sometimes families inherit more than family heirlooms; they inherit their loved one’s credit card debt.
This isn’t always the case, however. When the resources are available, the estate pays credit card balances and other debts when someone passes away. This can work out rather well when someone has enough assets or savings to cover all their remaining debts when they die. But when a person dies with more debts than assets to pay them, creditors can be out of luck — and they often are.
Joint cardholders beware
The thing is, there are exceptions that could leave you on the hook for someone else’s credit card balance after that person’s death. The most common example is any situation where you’re a joint cardholder – or someone who co-signed on the credit card account. Parents sometimes do this for children who are just starting out, or adult children will co-sign with their elderly parents, perhaps to help keep track of expenses. In either case, you’re on the hook for remaining balances as a joint cardholder — whether you’re the one who made purchases with the card or not.
Unfortunately, not everyone knows which credit cards are on their own profiles.
“Sometimes, people can be on a credit card and not even know it,” says Pennsylvania attorney Linda A. Kerns. “Maybe when they filled out the credit card applications, (the joint cardholder) didn’t even tell them.” These accounts could show up years later, at the time of a death or divorce.
“I tell people to check their credit card reports regularly. Resolve it before a death or divorce or traumatic event,” says Kerns.
Keep in mind, however, that joint cardholders and authorized users are not the same things. If you’re only an authorized user on someone’s account, then you’re not liable when the cardholder dies.
Using a card after death could spell trouble
Continuing to use a credit card as an authorized user after the cardholder’s death could put you in big trouble. “That’s got criminal implications,” says Ayers. “If somebody wanted to make a case of that, is that any different than picking up a card on the street?”
The same goes for using the card as an authorized user, when you know the debt won’t be paid. Kern explains, “You’d be committing fraud if you knew a parent was near death and the estate didn’t have money and you used it, knowing it wouldn’t be paid off.”
When the estate loses, beneficiaries lose
Even if you are not held personally liable for the debt on a credit card, you’ll feel the effects of it if you’re a beneficiary of the estate. That’s because debts will be paid from the estate before beneficiaries receive any distributions. In other words, any debts left behind when a loved one passes away can easily gobble up any of their remaining assets, leaving beneficiaries with what is left (if anything at all).
Also, note that there is a specific time period for creditors to file a claim against the estate. When an estate is probated, creditors are also prioritized. Credit card debt is unsecured, unlike a mortgage which is secured by property, or a car that is secured by the vehicle. For that reason, it’s likely the credit card company will be at the back of the line when it comes to paying debts from the estate. And, like it or not, beneficiaries are often even further down the line than credit card companies.
Steps to take when a cardholder dies
When someone dies, the task of notifying financial institutions and closing credit card accounts can easily be forgotten or pushed aside. Unfortunately, plenty can go wrong if these important tasks are neglected.
For example, identity thieves may troll obituaries and online records looking for recently deceased persons they may be able to impersonate to create new accounts. Hackers may also look for ways to steal from existing accounts of the deceased, which you may not notice if you haven’t notified banks and card issuers of the death quite yet.
Here are six steps you should take when a cardholder dies that may prevent these issues and plenty of others:
Get organized
If you know before someone dies that you will be the personal representative or executor, you should start putting systems in place to make your job easier when the time comes. Start by organizing all the person’s financial accounts. If you’re a court-certified representative or surviving spouse, you can also request a copy of the deceased’s credit report, which lists all accounts in their name.
Prevent further credit card use
When someone dies, his or her credit cards are no longer valid. For that reason, you should never use them or let anyone else use them — even for legitimate expenses of the deceased, such as a funeral or their final expenses. Collect all credit cards from people who may have them, including any authorized user cards, and put them in a safe place or destroy them.
Get multiple copies of the death certificate
You will likely need to get several official copies of this document to send to credit card companies and life insurance companies and for other estate purposes. While the funeral director who handled the burial or cremation of your loved one can help you get copies of the death certificate, keep in mind that these official documents come with a per-copy cost, and that cost varies by state and even the county you live in.
Notify credit card companies of the death
All credit card accounts should be closed immediately after the primary cardholder dies, and you should act quickly to avoid interest and finance charges. For joint credit cards, you should notify the credit card company that a joint cardholder has died. Also find out if any recurring charges are set up on each credit card account. If there are recurring charges such as a phone bill or utility bill automatically charged to the account each month, you’ll need to cancel those right away.
When you contact each credit card company, do so by certified mail and save your receipt. Once each card issuer receives your letter, they’ll ask for an official copy of the death certificate if you didn’t send one in your initial letter.
Contact the three credit bureaus
In addition to all credit card companies the deceased had an account with, you’ll also need to contact all three credit reporting agencies — Experian, Equifax, and TransUnion.
Request that the credit report is immediately flagged as “Deceased. Do Not Issue Credit.” Flagging the credit report as “deceased” prevents criminals from opening up new credit cards or other accounts using the name and Social Security number of the deceased.
The phone numbers for the credit bureaus are:
Experian (888-397-3742)
Equifax (800-685-1111)
TransUnion (800-888-4213)
Distribute payments to creditors
While the deceased’s credit card balances should be paid from the estate, keep in mind that credit card companies are typically last on the list behind other debts such as mortgage loans. Depending on state law, you may also need to wait a specified period for bills to come in, and post a public notice of death in a newspaper before you start distributing money.
Don’t let individual creditors try to jump ahead in line and get paid first — especially if there is not enough money to go around.
Before you pay anything, you should also ask the credit card company to submit a proof of claim for the estate, according to John Caleb Tabler of Lau & Associates in Pennsylvania. You can include this request with your written notification to the credit card company, or you can submit it later.
Some debt collectors are very aggressive, and they may try to prey on the survivor’s emotions to try to get them to pay a debt that may not be owed. Make sure you never admit or agree to anything on the phone, and especially a payment plan.
If you need help determining the order of debts to be paid in your state or you need general legal advice while overseeing the final wishes of the deceased, you may want to seek out an estate attorney.

Story 170
The world’s first trillion dollar company and one of the most powerful financial institutions in the world are gearing up to roll out a new credit card: Apple and Goldman Sachs are reportedly getting ready to launch their joint credit card as early as the spring.
Apple and Goldman’s branded credit card is expected to come with a rewards program and some iPhone financial tracking features enabled through Apple Pay, according to the Wall Street Journal which reported the news. Both companies are relatively new to consumer fintech — Goldman launched a consumer lending business called Marcus in late 2016, the same year Apple’s began quietly building up Apple Pay. Neither is a huge player yet.
Apple’s main source of income, iPhone sales have also begun to stagnate, and Goldman — whose banking clients have traditionally been governments and corporations — has long been trying to diversify its lending services to a wider consumer base. It’s a match made in heaven: Tech-savvy iPhone owners are ideal lending candidates for Marcus’s consumer loans, and Goldman Sachs is reportedly spending some $200 million to set up the payments infrastructure.
“This is a mainstream play for prime consumers or about half or more of the American adult population,” Brian Karimzad, a founder of the personal finance site MagnifyMoney tells Inverse. “Goldman has been trying to get more mainstream folks on to a yet-to-be-created investment management platform, and the rewards here are a way to start building a relationship.”
This credit card could be another stream of income to offset Apple's lagging iPhone sales.
It’s also in line with Apple’s new subscription service strategy. A large portion of the company’s hardware isn’t pulling in the same money it used to, so it’s turning to subscription services to make up for it. The company is expected to launch an entertainment-streaming service, a premium news service, and potentially a gaming platform. An Apple-branded credit card could be another step in the plan, plus it’s offered similar products and services before.
Apple Pay takes a 0.15 percent transaction cut from the bank every time someone decides to pay with their iPhone. It also offers rewards through the Barclaycard Visa credit card, which Karimzad has called out as having some potentially predatory interest conditions. The new Goldman card seems a likely improvement, but Arielle O’Shea, a personal finance expert at NerdWallet, says the upcoming card could run into stiff competition in a crowded market, especially from the biggest bank in America.
“JPMorgan Chase has put a lot of work into luring millennial customers with its Sapphire Preferred and Sapphire Reserve travel cards,” she tells Inverse. “Given that millennials tend to most value experiences and travel, they may continue to be attracted to travel rewards cards despite Apple’s powerful brand.”
JPMorgan could be Apple and Goldman's biggest competitor in the field.
Could Apple and Goldman’s venture appeal to a large enough segment of consumers?
Apple Credit Card Perks
Unlike the Barclaycard, the new Apple credit card could offer 2 percent cash back on most purchases and possibly even more on Apple hardware and services, according to the WSJ. That’s more generous than the Barclay’s, which offers 3x points on Apple purchases, 2x points on restaurants, and no annual fee (while cash-back is more boring than paying for vacations using rewards, they also tend to pay off more quickly at lower levels of spending). But it also looks like Apple will try to make Apple Pay’s technology one of the main lures.
The report cites anonymous Apple engineers who are working on accompanying card features, and they described what sounds a lot like Apple Watch fitness trackers, for your money. They’ve considered using the “fitness rings” visuals from the smartwatch that fill up when users achieve their daily workout goals. Apple’s Wallet app could become like a financial health app that encourages users to pay off their credit card early and track their rewards.
But there are some likely cons, as there are with every credit card.
It could give customers 2 percent cash back on Apple purchases.
Apple Credit Card Drawbacks
The WSJ’s sources don’t specify exactly what the perks and rewards could look like, but hint that they won’t be too remarkable, reporting that neither company is “eager” to leap into the credit card perks war. Apple’s previous credit card perk program offers users a $25 Apple store gift card for every 2,500 points, which could require people to spend a couple thousand of dollars.
Karimzad also notes that there will also be potential drawbacks buried in the fine print, for example the sneaky deferring interest deals like the ones used with the Barclaycard.
“When you’re looking at credit cards if it says ‘0 percent APR’ then you can feel safe that this is not a deferring interest deal,” he said. “Something more vague like ‘special financing’ is a red flag that what’s being offered is interest free for a period but it has deferring interest if you don’t pay it in full at the end of that period.”
Be wary of deferred credit.
Apple Credit Card: How to Get One
Apple and Goldman are still fine tuning this idea, but the WSJ reported that employees will begin testing it in the coming weeks and begin issuing it this Spring. It’s still too early to say how difficult the card will be to qualify for but, if the 2 percent cash back figure is to be believed, that would put it among the higher-end cards like the Citi Double Cash, which generally requires a score of 700 or higher, according to WalletHub.

Story 171
Legal cannabis shops have a problem: financial institutions in the US still aren’t eager to play nice with an industry whose product remains federally illegal, even though it’s been legalized for recreational use in 10 states.
For dispensaries in these legal markets, finding a local credit union willing to take on cannabis customers is often the only option. Otherwise, opening a bank account is difficult, and credit card companies are also wary of the burgeoning weed industry—meaning cannabis businesses are often left without a legitimate bank account or the ability to accept credit card transactions.
That means handling cash. A lot of it. And cash causes problems.
“Marijuana-related businesses are drowning in cash, literally piles of cash,” Steve Schain, a banking and cannabis lawyer at Hoban Law Group in Pennsylvania (where medical pot is legal, but not for recreational use), told Motherboard. “It creates security problems, it’s not insured, and if lightning were to strike a dispensary it would all be gone. You’ve got to pay your vendors in cash, your utilities in cash, and it’s a real pain in the neck.”
Cryptocurrency advocates have long lauded the technology’s promise for people or groups who are under-banked or un-banked entirely. In reality, digital currencies are still a niche interest with few businesses willing to accept them—where, if anywhere, is all this theory being put into practice?
In the wild and weird world of the US legal pot market, some cannabis businesses—though it’s unclear how many—have either found workarounds involving cryptocurrency that allow customers to use bank-issued cards in-store, or even accept Bitcoin directly.
“We use a system that briefly takes hard currency and changes it into cryptocurrency and then swaps it back,” Lisa Gee, director of communications and corporate responsibility for Lightshade dispensaries in Colorado, said.
Lightshade doesn’t advertise on its homepage that its payment system injects cryptocurrency between customer and merchant. For the company, it’s a means to an end.
“The conventional merchants services world is not really open to cannabis,” Gee said. “The workarounds have been really creative. Pretty much everyone has found their own solution by hook or by crook, and we’re no different from any other grower or dispensary group that’s found something that works for us.”
Gee didn’t divulge the name of the company Lightshade works with, but Motherboard came across a startup called Posabit that allows customers of cannabis businesses to pay using their debit cards with a cryptocurrency conversion step. Posabit’s website includes testimony from Starbuds dispensary in Colorado, and a 2017 article in the Globe and Mail notes that, at the time, Posabit’s system was used by 30 dispensaries in Washington state.
According to Schain, while cannabis is federally illegal, the real reason banks and merchant services won’t work with cannabis companies is that the practice is seen as too costly.
Schain explained over the phone that this all stems from the Bank Secrecy Act of 1970, which was enacted to curb money laundering and other illegal activities. Anything that is federally illegal—including cannabis—also violates the Bank Secrecy Act, he said.
Things changed somewhat in 2014, when the Department of the Treasury Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) released guidelines for financial institutions to onboard cannabis businesses while remaining compliant, a move that Schain described as a “wink and a nod.” These guidelines, while technically allowing institutions to service cannabis businesses, also create numerous requirements and roadblocks for providing financial or merchant services to cannabis companies, including having to file Suspicious Activity Reports (SARs) on transactions.
Read More: Ancient Viruses Are Probably Why Weed Has THC and CBD
“None of these [guidelines] have the weight of law,” Schain said. “It’s all the same as if you went into Chipotle and the bathroom says all employees must wash their hands.”
Now, banks and merchant services like credit cards are in a curious position. If they provide services to cannabis companies, they are technically breaking federal law. But FinCEN’s guidelines have created a loophole lined with red tape. So the question of whether to provide financial services comes down to risk, and the cost of compliance.
According to Schain, some banks charge cannabis companies anywhere from $2,500 to $10,000 a month to essentially provide a bank account, and the margins that credit card companies make on transactions—paired with all the reports they must file to remain compliant—make it a non-starter. Credit card companies in the US don’t even have a merchant code for cannabis transactions, Schain said.
Visa didn’t respond to Motherboard’s request for comment.
But some banks do take the risk. “It’s 100 percent illegal to do that,” Schain said, “but I advise banks all the time on doing this, and they’ve chosen to do it, because states want the tax revenue.”
Cryptocurrency services that work on the back end is one workaround available to legal dispensaries, but so is accepting cryptocurrency directly. This comes with its own challenges.
Helping Hands Herbals, a dispensary in Boulder, Colorado, is another dispensary that has implemented cryptocurrency. In fact, it accepts Bitcoin directly. According to manager Luis Palacios, Bitcoin is the only form of payment that the dispensary accepts besides cash and debit cards—no credit.
“All we can do now is cash or a debit transaction at the point of sale, which is basically an ATM transaction, those are the two options,” Palacios said. “So cryptocurrency allows for the very much growing cryptocurrency environment to join us as another method of payment, which is great.”
Helping Hands is one of a handful of dispensaries, grows, and even a seed company, that are owned by Brooke Royse-Mallers—known online as “Bitcoin Mom” for her advocacy—and her husband. Royse-Mallers said that accepting Bitcoin is, firstly, a way for the two to obtain more bitcoins, and secondly, a way to avoid the pitfalls of a cash-only business.
“We can offer a better, safer alternative to accepting cash—we don’t have to hire armed guards and trucks to deliver it,” Royse-Mallers said.
Still, accepting Bitcoin directly—versus using a service that converts money to cryptocurrency, and back again, which Royse-Mallers described as a “wonky workaround”—presents its own problems, she explained.
“Nobody has Bitcoin, so we have to find a way to get people onboarded to have Bitcoin that they can spend,” Royse-Mallers said. “And people who have Bitcoins don’t want to spend them because they think it will go up in value, so we have to offer discounts and incentives.” Helping Hands offers a 10 percent discount to customers who pay in Bitcoin, she said.
“It’s a great idea theoretically, but often operationally it just doesn’t work,” Schain said.
If the finance situation in the US gets sorted out, Royse-Mallers said, there’s no question that most people will simply start using credit card services just like any other business. “At that point there’s not really a need to use cryptocurrency if you can accept credit cards, because it’s just more convenient,” she said, adding that Helping Hands will still find ways to incentivize people to use Bitcoin.
It’s ultimately unclear how many dispensaries are really looking to cryptocurrency as a stopgap at a very, very weird time for the legal cannabis industry in the US—instead of simply remaining a cash-only business—but at least some businesses are finding it somewhat useful.
“It’s unfortunate that they don’t allow us to have proper payments, it really de-legitimizes us in a way,” Palacio said. “We’d rather have that full support from all payment entities but it comes down to the unfortunate reality that cannabis is still a Schedule-1 drug.”
Get six of our favorite Motherboard stories every day by signing up for our newsletter.
Correction: An earlier version of this article stated that Posabit lets customers pay with their credit cards. This information is out of date, and Posabit currently supports debit purchases. Motherboard regrets the error.

Story 172
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 173
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
When your credit score takes an unexpected turn downward, it can cause concern or frustration. Credit scores do fluctuate a bit over time, and a couple of points up or down is not a big deal — but a downward trend or a big drop is.
Here’s a list of things that might be behind your credit score drop, and tips for fixing them:
You missed a payment
It happens. Maybe you have online statements and you deleted the email notice, thinking it was one more ad. Or it was a new credit card and the first bill got tucked inside a flyer in your mail; you weren’t accustomed to paying that bill so you didn’t notice its absence.
The fix: Pay it. Once you’re sure the money has reached the creditor, call and ask if you could be forgiven just this once. There’s no guarantee it will work, but it can’t hurt to ask. If the creditor agrees not to report your delinquent payment to the credit bureaus, your credit reports won’t carry a negative mark for seven years.
Know where your credit stands Check your credit report for free. We'll help you monitor your credit and track any changes, with weekly updates. Get started — it's free Check your credit report for free. We'll help you monitor your credit and track any changes, with weekly updates.
Your credit card balance is higher than usual
If you had unexpected expenses and you put them on a credit card or cards, your credit score could drop. That’s because a major factor in credit scoring is “credit utilization,” or how much of your credit limit you’re using. Generally, you want to use 30% or less of the credit limit on any card, and the lower the better for your score. If your credit utilization went up — even if it’s still below 30% — your score could drop.
The fix: Pay down the high balances as soon as you can and return to using a small portion of your available credit. Or, you could consider asking for a higher credit limit. Ask your issuer if it can be done without a “hard inquiry” on your credit because those also cost a few points (see more on that below).
Here’s a snapshot of the factors that determine your credit score, in order of importance.
There’s a mistake in your credit report
Your credit score is based on the data in your credit reports. Credit report mistakes like a transposed number, a payment reported to the wrong account or a payment reported late when it wasn’t can hurt your score.
The fix: Check your credit reports for mistakes and gather the documentation you need to dispute the errors. You can dispute online or by mail, and you will need to follow the process with each credit bureau individually.
You’re a victim of identity theft
A big, unexplained drop in your credit score can be the first sign of identity theft. When checking your credit reports, look for warning signs like addresses where you’ve never lived or accounts that look unfamiliar. You can clean up the mess, but the sooner you discover it’s there, the simpler the job.
The fix: Go to identitytheft.gov and file a report. You’ll need that report to dispute the information on your credit reports. Follow up by checking your credit reports again in 30 days to be sure corrections have been made. Consider freezing your credit or at least adding a fraud alert to protect yourself in the future.
Someone else used your credit card account
Whether your 10-year-old pulled it out of a desk drawer and set up an online game account or your credit card was cloned and used by a stranger, someone ran up a big balance and you had no idea.
The fix: Call your credit card issuer. In the case of a stranger using your card, you’ll get a new card and won’t be responsible for charges. Someone in your household using the card without your knowledge is more of a family issue.
You co-signed a loan or credit card application
A friend or relative needed to use your good credit, and you agreed. Just signing does not hurt your credit. But if the person you co-signed for has a late payment or runs up a large balance on the credit card, your score could take a hit.
The fix: Have statements sent to your home or be sure you have access to the account online so you can watch for trouble and address it early. You are on the hook for the full amount, so it may be worth the trouble of making a payment yourself to avoid a negative mark on your credit. If it’s a credit card, you can pay it off and close the card to preserve your credit score, but first, you may want to talk to your friend or relative and see if a less draconian approach would work.
You applied for a lot of credit
Getting approved for a loan or credit card, especially if it’s your first, feels pretty good. And so it can seem logical to go ahead and use your good credit to get other credit products. But “hard inquiries” — when a lender or card issuer looks at your credit for purposes of making a decision about approving you — can cause a small, temporary dip in your credit. Several within a short window, say, six months, can cause a pretty big dent.
The fix: Time. Stop applying for credit until your score rebounds. Then space out applications every six months or so. And apply only for credit products you are almost certain you’ll be approved for, because losing a few points and getting turned down carries an extra sting.
You closed an old credit card
We get it. Once you got rid of crippling credit card debt, you vowed “never again” and closed those credit cards. Or maybe a card’s benefits were no longer competitive or you just never used it, so you closed it. But losing that card’s credit limit means your overall credit limit went down, so your credit utilization went up. That can cost you some points.
And if it was one of your older cards, you took another hit, because the age of your credit also affects your score. It’s not nearly as big a factor as paying on time or credit utilization, though.
The fix: Think very carefully before closing old cards. If your credit card issuer offers a better card, see if you can switch.
You paid off a loan
Paying off a loan is an achievement, but can also leave you with a lower credit score. That’s because when you pay off a loan, you have one less credit account.
The fix: Keep your other accounts active, keep your credit usage low and pay on time. Your credit will continue to benefit as your track record with credit grows longer and is filled with positive information.

Story 174
Getty
If you’re wondering if we’ll see a financial shake-up in 2019, the answer is yes—at least when it comes to digital transformation. We will see big changes this coming year, especially for the banking giants, many of which have operated with a legacy-era brick-and-mortar mindset for hundreds of years. The truth is, consumers now have so many options when it comes to banking that even the most established financial institutions will need to work to stay relevant if they want to stay ahead. Below are what I consider to be the most significant digital transformation trends in the financial services industry for 2019.
Mobile Banking
When was the last time you set foot in an actual bank? In today’s digital banking environment, most of us are also able to deposit checks—transfer funds—apply for loans!—all from our mobile devices. Mobile banking is truly an environment where he with the easiest app wins. The change means that today’s banks are looking at their brick-and-mortar locations not as places of business, but—in many cases—pure overhead. Today’s customers don’t want a pretty building. They want 24/7 access, easy-to-use (and glitch-free) apps, and as little human contact as possible. This year, we’ll be seeing an increasing focus on bringing even more customer-centric services to the consumer marketplace via mobile banking, be it text-to-save or a new focus on mobile pay. (Just as Lloyd’s, which invested £1 billion in digital transformation in 2017 alone.)
Mobile Pay
The past few times I’ve entered a store (without my wallet) hoping to pay with mobile pay, I’ve been disappointed. Many stores in the United States specifically still aren’t set up to accept mobile payments, but I anticipate that changing drastically this year. I believe 2019 will be the year that mobile pay becomes a “normal” part of retail—especially if brick-and-mortar retailers want to remain relevant in today’s mostly paperless marketplace. In fact, even retailers like Honda have introduced mobile pay options gas via their own car dashboards! If Honda can do it, big banks and other companies certainly can, as well.
Mobile Apps
There seems to be a trend here—everything in financial services and banking is going mobile. But that also includes third-party financial service providers who are now competing with banks in the financial space. This could be unconventional lenders, financial managers, or simple financial budgeting apps. As we move into 2019, banks themselves will need to consider how they integrate with these third-party services—what information to offer, which companies they’re willing to partner with, and which of the services they may be able to offer to their customers directly—eliminating the middle-man altogether.
Banks stepped up in 2018 and created Zelle to challenge payment apps Vemno, Cash, and PayPal. I think we are going to see more of this in the coming year. Banks will need to stay relevant to customers by going where they are.
Blockchain
Last year was kind of a letdown for blockchain overall, but I do believe blockchain will see an uptick this year—just not through bitcoin (or cryptocurrency), as many would have anticipated. Instead, blockchain will prove to be a huge asset in digital payments, escrow services, loan processing, and just about every other area where valuable information or currency needs the utmost security. I also think we’ll see an increased use of blockchain in “RegTech”—helping automate processes that need to meet certain regulations before being executed.
Automated Wealth Managers
AI is playing an increased role in just about every industry this year, and nowhere is that more true than smart (automated) wealth managers—er, wealth bots. Using complex algorithms, AI-driven bots can calculate the best investment opportunities, the best interest rates, the best loan providers—pretty much everything someone needs to stay on top of their investment prospects. For all you financial planners out there—you might think long and hard about how you can start digitizing your business in a way that makes you competitive in this soon-to-be booming industry.
Big Data
Face it: data is everything today. But it’s not enough just to have it. Banking and financial institutions need to have the machine learning tools to process it quickly and accurately in ways that allow them to better serve customers, save money, save time—or make money more efficiently.
Cleaning Up the Smoke and Mirrors
Have you ever submitted an online application or submission form, assuming it was being automatically processed—only to find out the digital submission went directly to a human person who may or may not read it any more efficiently than if you had submitted the application by snail mail? Today’s banks are in a stage where they need to bring the back-end up to date when it comes to the automated services being provided on the front end. After all, you’re only as efficient as your least efficient process. And in banking and financial services, there are still many legacy-era processes that need to be updated.
Digital transformation will be explosive in the financial services arena this year. I’m truly excited to see how much paper—time—cost—and headaches technology will be able to eliminate this year through an increased focus on innovative financial services.

Story 175
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
Apple Pay and Apple Cash are digital services from Apple designed to streamline paying bills and sending money to friends and family.
The services are integrated into the Messages app. You can send and receive money as you would a text message, with no additional downloads necessary beyond the operating system. These services are available only in the U.S.
How do Apple Pay and Apple Cash work?
Apple Pay users make payments from their mobile device, funded by a linked credit or debit card. These payments must be approved with a passcode, Touch ID, Face ID or a double-click on Apple Watch’s side button.
Apple Cash, on the other hand, is in Apple’s digital wallet. You can load cash from a debit or prepaid card, then use the wallet to fund Apple Pay transactions or send and receive money from others.
You can send and receive money directly in the Messages app.
People can also send money and get paid directly in the Messages app or by using virtual assistant Siri, which involves making a voice command like “Send 15 dollars to Susan for lunch.”
When a user receives money, it’s kept in the recipient’s Apple Cash account. The user can store and eventually spend it using Apple Pay or transfer it to a bank account, which can take up to three days.
Apple Cash has a $1 minimum transfer requirement when transferring money to a bank account. But the minimum deposit is $10 when transferring into the wallet from your debit or prepaid card.
Here’s a chart with a summary of Apple Cash features.
Apple Cash (previously Apple Pay Cash) digital wallet
Digital wallet cost There’s no fee to send, receive or request money using Apple Cash with normal delivery. If you select “instant transfer” when moving Apple Cash money to your bank account, however, there is a 1% fee subject to a $0.25 minimum and $10 maximum. Funding options Eligible U.S. credit, debit and prepaid cards. Speed for cashing out to a bank account With Instant Transfer, within 30 minutes if using an eligible Visa debit card.
1-3 business days to use a bank transfer. What you need Apple device (with iOS 11.2 or later or watchOS 4.2 and later). Two-factor authentication set up for Apple ID. Money on the Apple Cash card or an eligible debit card that’s linked to the mobile Apple Wallet.

» Plan to save the money you receive? Check out NerdWallet’s best online savings accounts
How do Apple Pay and Apple Cash compare with competitors?
Only on iOS: Apple Pay and Apple Cash are available only on iOS, while competitors Venmo and PayPal are available on both Android and iOS devices.
Digital wallet costs: Apple Cash and Venmo are free to send money using a linked debit card or in-app balance. With Venmo, you can also use credit cards, but it costs 3% of the transfer amount. With PayPal, sending money with a debit or credit card costs 2.9% of the total amount plus 30 cents.
Up to three days to transfer money to your bank: As with Venmo and PayPal, money received in Apple Cash goes on an in-app balance, which you can then transfer to a bank account. This can take up to three days.
Apple Cash, Venmo and PayPal also have an instant transfer option, which delivers funds within minutes. The transaction fee is 1% of the transferred amount, subject to certain minimums and maximums.
FDIC Insurance: Apple Cash transfers are serviced by a bank. When you register your Apple Cash account, your money is federally insured up to $250,000, just as it would be in a traditional bank account. Balances in PayPal and the Venmo app aren’t insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
Large transfer limits: Apple Cash allows you to send up to $10,000 to another recipient per transaction, and transfer up to $20,000 per week to your debit card or bank account. With Venmo, you can send up to $4,999.99 per transfer and per week. PayPal caps individual transactions at $60,000, and in some cases $10,000, per transfer.
You can use money received via Apple Cash on many apps and websites as well as at millions of stores that accept Apple Pay. In addition, you can apply for the company’s credit card, the Apple Card, which also integrates with the other digital applications.

Story 176
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
It’s your credit card and it’s your mortgage. You’d think it’d be no sweat to use the former to cover the latter — and rake in credit card rewards on that hefty expense — as long as the bill gets paid. But that’s not always the case.
In fact, it’s generally a stretch to find companies that accept debt-for-debt payments. Whether you have the option to pay your mortgage by credit card depends on several factors, including the terms of the card issuer, your mortgage lender and your credit card’s network — Visa, Mastercard, American Express or Discover.
A few third-party services let you get around some of the roadblocks for a fee, but it’s only worth it if you stand to gain more in rewards than you’ll cough up in cash. You’ll want to think through whether it’s the right move.
Obstacles to paying a mortgage with a credit card
It seems that the stars have to align so that you can make a mortgage payment with your credit card. Your card network, your card issuer and your mortgage lender all have to give the green light for a mortgage payment to go through successfully. Each party has its own rules.
For example, Visa allows mortgage lenders to accept Visa debit and prepaid card payments; Mastercard allows the use of debit and credit cards for mortgage payments.
But some credit card issuers don’t allow mortgage payments. Bank of America credit cards, for instance, cannot be used to pay a mortgage. Wells Fargo credit card holders may have more luck; their cards can be used to pay a mortgage as long as the mortgage lender accepts them.
Of course, not all mortgage lenders do, but they might be more willing to accept your payment if it’s processed by a third-party payment service provider. (More on that in a bit.)
Check with all three parties — card network, card issuer, mortgage lender — to ensure your payment will process.
It’s best to check with all three parties — card network, card issuer, mortgage lender — to ensure your payment will process. Otherwise, you run the risk of a late or declined mortgage payment.
Third-party options for paying a mortgage with a credit card
If you’re having a hard time getting your credit card accepted for mortgage payments, you may still have the option of a third-party payment service.
One such service, Plastiq, facilitates mortgage payments with a Discover or Mastercard credit card. Visa and American Express don’t currently allow mortgage payments through Plastiq, according to Landon Howell, head of marketing at Plastiq.
Even if you can find a way to pay your mortgage with a credit card, it may not be worth it for your budget, your credit or both.
You pay Plastiq a fee equaling 2.5% of your mortgage payment every time you use your credit card. Plastiq then delivers an electronic payment if the lender accepts it, or it cuts the mortgage lender a check, eliminating the need for all three companies to approve the transaction.
You can pay manually or set up automatic payments. You also have the option of making a one-time payment.
Factors to consider when paying a mortgage with a credit card
Even if you can find a way to pay your mortgage with a credit card, it may not be worth it for your budget, your credit or both. There are several factors to consider before choosing this option:
FEES VS. REWARDS
It’s tempting to pay your mortgage with a credit card if it means you could earn rewards on that typically significant bill. But the cost of a third-party processing fee can eliminate your earnings. If you have a mortgage payment of $2,500, and you’re paying a 2.5% processing fee, that’s $62.50 each time.
The cost of a third-party processing fee can eliminate any credit card rewards earnings.
Credit card reward rates vary by issuer, but it’s rare that they exceed the cost of such a fee. One exception is a credit card’s sign-up bonus. If putting a one-time mortgage payment on your card would help you meet a minimum spending requirement for a lavish bonus that far exceeds the fee, it could make sense.
THE COST OF INTEREST
Putting your mortgage payment on a credit card can result in costly interest charges if you don’t pay your credit card bill off in full every month. The long-term expense of carrying large ongoing balances would easily wipe out any rewards you might earn.
Affect on YOUR CREDIT SCORES
Making a mortgage payment with your credit card will likely take up a significant amount of your credit limit and increase your credit utilization ratio, your total debt compared with your total credit limits. This figure has a significant impact on your credit scores, and ideally you want to keep the ratio low, generally 30% or lower. A mortgage payment reaching into the thousands of dollars won’t help.
A mortgage payment reaching into the thousands of dollars won’t help your credit utilization ratio.
Consider an example: Suppose you have a $10,000 limit on the credit card you want to use to pay your mortgage. Let’s say that you already have a balance of $2,000 on that card, and that your mortgage payment is $2,500. Putting that payment on your card would push your credit utilization to 45%. Add more transactions, and your credit utilization keeps climbing.
If you’re planning to make mortgage payments with your credit card, consider requesting a credit limit increase from your issuer to minimize the impact on your credit scores.
Should you pay your mortgage with a credit card?
If you can navigate the waters to make it possible, paying your mortgage with a credit card is an option, assuming the rewards outweigh the fee. As long as it won’t hurt your credit and your budget, it’s worth considering.
But if you’re already using a large chunk of your credit limit, or if you’re tight on money for bills this month, putting your mortgage on a credit card isn’t the best idea. It could hurt your credit scores and end up further straining your budget over the long term if you don’t pay your credit card bill off in full.

Story 177
Access Denied - Sucuri Website Firewall
If you are the site owner (or you manage this site), please whitelist your IP or if you think this block is an error please open a support ticket and make sure to include the block details (displayed in the box below), so we can assist you in troubleshooting the issue.
Block details:

Story 178
The federal watchdog agency created to protect consumers is not regulating two of the country’s fastest-growing financial institutions despite receiving voluminous complaints about them, NerdWallet has found.
Escaping scrutiny are Green Dot Corp. — which partners with Walmart, Apple, Intuit and more than 100,000 retailers — and Credit One Bank, which issues NASCAR credit cards.
A NerdWallet investigation found that many other businesses also are not subject to oversight by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau despite being the subjects of many complaints.
The lack of supervision means that consumer grievances about the companies do not appear on a public complaint database the bureau set up to help guide consumer decisions.
The absence prevents the CFPB from defending consumers in tens of thousands of disputes and gives the companies an advantage over competitors that are subject to bureau oversight. It also falsely assures consumers about the integrity and service the companies provide.
A NerdWallet analysis of previously undisclosed CFPB data shows that Green Dot, a dominant prepaid card company, and Credit One, a leading credit card issuer, are among the businesses Americans complain about most to the bureau.
Companies escape scrutiny because of regulations that have not evolved with changes in financial technology, or because of quirks in the CFPB system.
But those disputes are kept on what amounts to a shadow list of complaints that aren’t on the public portal. NerdWallet obtained the list through a Freedom of Information Act request to the government.
Green Dot and Credit One serve millions of consumers but escape CFPB scrutiny because of regulations that have not evolved with changes in financial technology. Those rules predate the Trump administration, which has moved to weaken the CFPB.
» MORE: Your wallet will suffer if this agency is gutted
The bureau oversees banks with over $10 billion in assets. Although Green Dot and Credit One process tens of billions of dollars in transactions each year, they don’t have the combination of assets held by traditional banking institutions that pushes them above the $10 billion threshold.
Many other businesses have escaped scrutiny because of quirks in the CFPB system. Those businesses include ITT Educational Services, a large for-profit college the bureau sued in 2014 over predatory lending practices.
The CFPB did not respond to repeated requests to discuss the fairness or efficacy of its complaint system.
Unaccounted complaints
The CFPB was created to promote fairness and transparency in financial markets and to protect Americans from financial harm. The agency was given jurisdiction over a broad range of financial companies, including large banks and credit unions, debt collectors with over $10 million in annual revenue, mortgage servicers and student lenders.
Consumer complaints have helped set the agency’s priorities, informing the bureau’s enforcement and rule-making for financial institutions.
When the complaint portal went online in June 2012, Richard Cordray, then the bureau’s director, said it marked the first time “the general public has been able to see such individual-level consumer complaint data for financial products and services.”
One of every three consumer complaints made between April 2013 and February 2018 do not show up on the CFPB’s public portal.
The bureau invites consumers to use the database to evaluate whether they should do business with a company.
But NerdWallet found that about one of every three consumer complaints made between April 2013 and February 2018 do not show up on the bureau’s public portal.
During that span, the CFPB helped Americans deal with more than 850,000 complaints against financial companies. But roughly 420,000 other complaints are not on the bureau’s public database, NerdWallet found.
About two-thirds of those complaints were outside CFPB jurisdiction. The data show that the bureau forwarded them to the appropriate agencies, often the Federal Trade Commission. But none of those agencies maintains a public-facing complaint database for consumers.
‘Shadow’ patterns
California-based Green Dot Corp. has at least 1,580 complaints across its products. Out of the roughly 5,000 businesses that appear on the public portal, this would place it among the top 2% of companies consumers have complained about the most, NerdWallet’s analysis found.
Green Dot has become one of the country’s most widely distributed banking franchises. It issues prepaid cards for Walmart and other retailers, handles transactions for Apple Pay Cash, and has a partnership with Intuit’s TurboTax and 25,000 other tax preparers.
The company said customers loaded more than $21 billion onto its products during the first half of this year, a 40% jump from the same period in 2017. But only five complaints that mention Green Dot show up on the CFPB’s public complaint portal, all filed under different companies’ names.
NerdWallet reviewed hundreds of complaints on the shadow list and grievances consumers filed with state agencies.
Many Green Dot customers told regulators they have had money stolen from their accounts or experienced unauthorized charges and had difficulty resolving the problems.
Green Dot Corp., which partners with such companies as Walmart, Apple and Intuit, has at least 1,580 complaints across its products.
Some consumers said that when they disputed transactions, Green Dot froze their accounts, cutting them off from money they had deposited to cover vital expenses. Millions of Americans use prepaid cards in lieu of checking accounts, or because they don’t qualify for traditional banking services.
Mary Drummer says she complained to Green Dot after noticing more than $4,200 of unauthorized charges on her Walmart prepaid card issued by Green Dot. Green Dot representatives told her she could not access any of her money until the company investigated, which might take at least two weeks, Drummer said in a complaint filed with the Ohio Attorney General in 2014.
“The money on that card was the ONLY income I have,” she wrote. “I absolutely cannot wait almost 2 weeks to receive my money.”
» MORE: How do prepaid debit cards work?
In an email to NerdWallet, Green Dot said it may block customers’ cards and mail them a replacement if they report unauthorized charges. It says it credited Drummer’s account within 10 days of her complaint.
The company said it strives for 100% customer satisfaction and responds promptly to all complaints, resolving most within 24 hours.
“While even one complaint is one too many, we believe that our customer satisfaction scores and complaint volumes are among the best in the banking industry,” the company said. “We believe the complaint volume referenced for this article represents approximately one complaint per 2 million customer transactions.”
Resolving conflicts
Consumer advocates say the CFPB’s complaint resolution process has led many businesses to improve their customer service, as they are more apt to resolve customer conflicts when their regulator is watching. The agency has said the system helped drive actions producing more than $750 million in relief for wronged consumers.
Financial industry executives argue that the system unfairly shames companies and provides them with inadequate opportunities to respond to consumers. One agency leader appointed by President Trump threatened in April to remove the entire complaint database from public view.
As the financial services market has evolved, some say the bureau should expand its regulatory authority to include companies such as Green Dot and Credit One.
“If we are concerned that these companies are taking advantage of consumers, that’s why the CFPB was created,” says Ira Rheingold, executive director of the National Association of Consumer Advocates. “The CFPB in a better time, where you have leadership that was interested in actually protecting consumers, they would look at that seriously.”
As it is, Green Dot escapes CFPB oversight because of a structural change the company made shortly before the CFPB database went online in 2012. Green Dot had been processing its prepaid card payments through Synovus Financial Corp., a company that then had $26 billion in assets, making it subject to CFPB oversight.
But in December 2011 Green Dot acquired a small Utah bank and began processing prepaid card payments on its own. The move allowed the company to escape the CFPB’s public complaint system because the bank had less than $10 billion in assets.
Green Dot escapes CFPB oversight because of a structural change the company made shortly before the CFPB database went online in 2012.
Green Dot says it filed notice that it planned to acquire the bank before the CFPB was created.
The bureau sends Green Dot complaints to the board of governors of the Federal Reserve System, the company’s financial regulator.
The Federal Reserve says it investigates consumer complaints, making sure financial institutions have not violated any regulations. But the agency’s primary job is to make sure banks have adequate capital, a responsibility that critics say does not prioritize consumers’ needs.
“They see their customer as the lender — the financial institution — not the consumer,” says Ruth Susswein, a deputy director at Consumer Action, a nonprofit consumer advocacy group.
While Green Dot has escaped the CFPB’s public complaint portal, several of its competitors without bank subsidiaries have not. Empowerment Ventures LLC, owner of UniRush and the prepaid Rush Card, had amassed over 1,000 public complaints — until the company was purchased by Green Dot in 2017. Several months later, complaints about UniRush and the Rush Card stopped appearing on the CFPB portal.
That same year, UniRush and MasterCard were ordered to pay $13 million for system outages that blocked tens of thousands of consumers from accessing their money.
Nearly all complaints naming NetSpend Corp., one of the few big companies that charge overdraft fees on its prepaid cards, are in full public view. By regulating some companies but not Green Dot, the CFPB is giving Green Dot a competitive advantage.
The bureau would not answer NerdWallet’s questions about that inequity.
Processing delays
Credit One Bank is the subject of at least 5,300 complaints that don’t appear on the public complaint portal. The Nevada-based company issues NASCAR credit cards, among others, and caters to people trying to rebuild credit. The bank’s name appears just eight times on the complaint portal, all related to complaints about different companies.
Credit One is owned by Sherman Financial Group, a multibillion-dollar global investment company. The company’s owner and CEO, billionaire Benjamin W. Navarro, recently tried to buy the NFL’s Carolina Panthers.
Credit One had more than $5.8 billion in outstanding balances last year, up 23% from 2016, according to the Nilson Report, which tracks consumer spending. That was the largest balance increase of any major credit card company, the publication found.
Many consumers have balked at Credit One’s late fees and the time it takes to process payments, NerdWallet found in its review of complaints consumers have filed with the CFPB and state attorneys general. Credit One often takes a week to credit payments, the complaints say.
Consumers say they’ve had trouble making payments online, forcing them to pay by phone, which incurs charges. Sometimes the company charges late fees even when payments were made on time, the complaints allege.
Many consumers have balked at Credit One’s late fees and the time it takes to process payments, NerdWallet found in its review of complaints.
Consumers also have complained about billing disputes and difficulty closing accounts.
William Venable tried to cancel his Credit One card after learning that it had a $75 annual fee, which he did not see disclosed in his application, he said in a complaint filed with the Missouri Attorney General in 2016.
» MORE: How to set up automatic credit card payments
The company charged him the $75, plus a $25 late fee, before sending him his first bill, his complaint said. Venable, who was a doctoral student in health policy at the time, said he notified the company in writing to close the account and paid subsequent charges, minus the contested fees, but the company did not credit his payment.
Credit One later listed his account as delinquent with the credit reporting agencies, he said in his complaint.
Credit One did not respond to NerdWallet’s requests for comment.
‘Get them off there’
The bureau’s lawsuit against ITT Educational Services accused the company of luring students with misleading job prospects and strong-arming them into taking out private loans it knew they couldn’t afford.
ITT denied the government’s allegations. The case was closed after the company filed for bankruptcy.
In the wake of that lawsuit, the CFPB received more than 1,500 complaints about ITT, which went out of business in 2016. Only a handful of those complaints appear on the bureau’s website, all listed under other businesses.
James McCarthy, a former bureau employee who helped oversee its complaint resolution process from 2011 to 2015, says he tried to put ITT complaints on the complaint portal. But two of his superiors ordered him to take them down soon after they went online, he told NerdWallet.
“There was almost a sense of, ‘Oh, my God, you can’t do that, get them off there,’” McCarthy says. “I’m not sure why.”

Story 179
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 180
Across the globe, countries are waging a war on cash, with the likes of Sweden and China rapidly transitioning to digital currency as a primary form of payment. While digital currency was started by payment providers and banks to increase corporate profit, small businesses aren’t reaping the benefits. They’re pushed towards a completely digital society without knowledge of increasing swipe fees and processing rates, ultimately footing the bill for a digital revolution that does them more harm than good.
Digital is often seen as a safer and more streamlined payment process, but small business owners are misinformed and misguided by credit card companies whose goal is to increase their own profits. While large chains like Starbucks can make up for the processing fees with sheer sales volume when they go cashless, small businesses do not have that luxury.
However, digital transformation does not mean that a cashless society will happen overnight. Cash still accounts for more than 80 percent of the world’s transactions, so it is far from obsolete. If cash is still prevalent among the majority of the population, businesses need to maintain flexibility by accepting cash while also adopting strategies that will prepare them for an increase in credit card processing fees as consumers do make the switch to digital.
The Cashless Society: More Risk Than Reward
Wall Street is the biggest winner in a cashless society, with increasing swipe and processing fees from business owners bringing profits to banks and credit card companies. If the world turns away from cash, small businesses could potentially be at the mercy of the major financial institutions’ hidden merchant fees, further driving Main Street into debt and preventing economic growth.
Luckily some small businesses have seen relief that may lead to overarching changes in the payments industry.
For example, Visa and Mastercard, along with several big banks, recently came to a $6.2 billion settlement with merchants across the nation for violating antitrust laws and illegally inflating swipe fees. However, just as a cashless society won’t happen overnight, change to the payments industry will not suddenly appear either. To look out for their bottom line, small business owners need to make proactive, operational changes to protect themselves against processing fees from credit card companies and big banks, while adapting to an increasingly digital world.
Strategies to Increase the Small Business Owner’s Bottom Line
As the cashless society goes mainstream, merchants will continue to foot the bill. Certain preventative strategies will help small business owners avoid going into deep debt as a result of transaction and swipe fees and instead maintain or grow their bottom line.
A basic understanding of the payments industry is a good starting point for most business owners. To ensure the most transparency, they can implement strategic partnerships that work harder for small business. For example, a payment processor that runs on an interchange-plus pricing model will ensure that merchants are working with an equal partner that has clear margins to offer them the lowest rate possible for accepting credit cards. Business owners must educate themselves about this model in order to make an informed decision before entering into an agreement with a payment partner.
Additionally, cutting overhead expenses and regularly reviewing budgets will help manage unnecessary costs. Regular financial review allows merchants to look at which expenses are hurting their business the most. This will help business owners find efficiencies in daily operations, from credit card processing fees to inefficient technology. While it might seem like a no-brainer, it is often forgotten as business owners’ schedules quickly fill up with more pressing matters. Making a regular expense review a priority allows merchants to get ahead of any detrimental issues, ultimately saving the bottom line.
Cash Is Still King
The cashless society will be heavily debated for the foreseeable future, especially as more people embrace digital currency. However, business owners do have the ability to educate themselves about the current status quo of the payments industry so they understand what partnerships with major financial institutions might entail. It is important to keep in mind that cash is not yet obsolete – it still amounts to one-third of transactions in the U.S. alone, and is a savior for small businesses that fall prey to high swipe and processing fees.
Digital transformation will ultimately affect every aspect of daily life, and merchants need to adopt defensive strategies to protect the businesses they’ve worked hard to build. Understanding the pitfalls of a cashless society will allow small business owners to advocate for themselves and push for a more transparent payments market. Utilizing a partner that views them as an equal will allow merchants to better advocate for themselves and strengthen their bottom line.
About Austin Mac Nab:
Austin Mac Nab is a Managing Partner at VizyPay, a company revolutionizing the payments industry by offering a transparent credit card processing model that focuses on powerful payments solutions. With over 14 years of experience in the bankcard industry, Mac Nab has set out to change the way business owners make pricing and payment decisions. With a passion to build a company that makes a difference for small to medium size businesses, Mac Nab and the Vizypay team are here to solve the problems in the payments industry. It’s by transforming the industry through a credit card processing model that focuses on powerful solutions, real human customer support and simple payments services that VizyPay has created a transparent payments market for businesses across the United States.

Story 181
Alphaville is completely free.
All you have to do is register.
Ready to subscribe, View our subscription options

Story 182
While it’s not quite a pivot, it seems more and more tech companies are straying out of their lane and into the finance world. T-Mobile has decided to join the collection of startups and legacy tech players that want to handle your banking with a new checking account product simply called T-Mobile Money.
Of course, checking accounts aren’t new, and technically neither is T-Mobile Money, as it’s been in available since it soft launched late last year. But today marks its official rollout and with it, T-Mobile is looking to upgrade the traditional checking account by offering its customers a four percent interest rate on the first $3,000 in their account, with a one percent return on anything above that.
Advertisement
If you’re not a T-Mobile customer, you can still sign up for Money, but you’ll only get a flat one percent return on everything instead of the four percent return on your first three grand.
While T-Mobile’s Money debit card isn’t as fancy as the Apple Card, it’ll get the job done. Photo : Sam Rutherford ( Gizmodo )
For some, four percent might not sound like a lot, however, compared to the 0.05 percent to 0.5 percent returns you get from a typical checking account, four percent is a pretty huge improvement.
And just to make sure T-Mobile Money is super clear about what kind of returns and benefits you’re getting, the app has a perks page that tells you how much money you’ve made, and how you are generating that interest.
Advertisement
For Money, T-Mobile is also doing away with the banking fees sometimes associated with checking accounts and offers an overdraft limit that lets you go $50 into debt without penalty. However, if you don’t pay that $50 back within a month, you’ll lose that feature forever. And thanks to a partnership with Allpoints ATMs, the Money debit card will have access to over 55,000 no-fee ATMs, with the app including a map to guide you to the nearest machine.
in case of emergency, Money users can disable their debit card from inside the app. Photo : Sam Rutherford ( Gizmodo )
Advertisement
But the real benefit of T-Mobile Money might be its more contemporary app-based design, an approach that feels a bit more at home in our smartphone-centric world. So instead of having to do a bunch of paperwork and fill out forms, almost everything you might want to do with a checking account, including signing up for the service itself, can be done online right in the app.
Though if you prefer the comfort of brick-and-mortar, you will also be able to sign up for Money at T-Mobile stores. Just don’t go there looking for financial advice, as your local T-Mobile representative is not a banker, and as far as T-Mobile Money is concerned, they are mostly there to help guide you through the process.
Advertisement
Photo : Sam Rutherford ( Gizmodo )
Inside the app, aside from checking your balance, Money also allows you to deactivate your card in case it gets lost or stolen, set up direct deposits, transfer money to mobile wallets like Google Pay, Samsung Pay, or Apple pay with a single touch, or even send payments to friends using services like Cash App, PayPal, and Venmo without needing to switch to another app, assuming you registered your account first inside Money first.
Advertisement
Meanwhile, for those worried about T-Mobile selling your data, T-Mobile’s director of marketing for financial services Tiffany Minor assured me that both T-Mobile and its banking partner BankMobile won’t share any data between the two companies, and will not sell any user data to third-party sources either.
The perks tab makes it easy to see how much interest you’ve earned this month and lifetime. Photo : Sam Rutherford ( Gizmodo )
Advertisement
In a way, the most surprising thing about Money isn’t that T-Mobile is dabbling in banking, but how boring the app itself is. A lot of features like the support for virtual wallets and the ability to disable your debit card in-app are things every banking app should have but often don’t because of the seemingly glacial pace at which institutions like banks adjust to the speed of modern tech.
But if you’re looking for a checking account that plays a bit more nicely with modern payment apps and wallets while also offering a higher than normal interest rate, T-Mobile Money might be a good fit. You just better make sure you fully taking advantage that four percent interest.

Story 183
The Coconut App is designed to assist those who work for themselves. The team behind the app understands the unique challenges of working for yourself, from sorting out expenses to estimating taxes so you can save appropriately and avoid nasty surprises when they are due. Coconut aims to make all these challenges easier by taking care of those tasks, so you can focus on running your business instead of worrying about its finances.
Visit Coconut App
The team behind Coconut has years of experience in a range of fields, including freelancing, accounting, and technology. Coconut is based on their experience facing the struggles of working for themselves, such as staying on top of expenses and taxes, managing unpredictable income flows, and getting paid in a timely manner.
How Does Coconut Help with Taxes?
One of the big benefits of the Coconut application is its ability to help you estimate your taxes. You use your Coconut account for your regular business expenses and income, and the program uses the information that gets automatically input to estimate how much you will need to pay in taxes. This way, you do not have a surprisingly high bill at the end of the year. Instead, you will have a clear idea of your taxes at any given moment, letting you put aside the appropriate amount of money as you earn.
How Does Coconut Help Organize Your Expenses?
The other major benefit of the Coconut application is the way that it helps you automatically sort your expenses to give you an overall picture of your business’s finances. Coconut automatically categorizes every transaction you make as you spend. To make sure your records are complete, the application also sends instant expense notifications following transactions that remind you to take a picture of the receipt. This type of categorization will help you when it comes time to complete your taxes and can even grow the amount of money you save when you do your taxes.
How Does Coconut Help with Invoices?
In addition to assisting with expenses, Coconut provides some help with invoices. Specifically, the application lets you know when someone makes a payment or you receive the payment, so you can stay on top of any late invoices.
Is Coconut a Bank, or Does It Work with One?
It is important to note that Coconut is not a bank. Instead, it is an option for a smart current account combined with a debit card and application designed with freelancers in mind. Because Coconut is not a bank, the project has a banking partner, PrePay Solutions (PPS). Coconut’s registration with the Financial Conduct Authority is in the form of an agent of PPS (with FRN 902016). PPS is a financial services provider with company number 04008083. It has authorization from the FCA as an Electronic Money Institution (FRN 90010). It is responsible for issuing the Coconut account and card and gives Coconut access to the payments and banking infrastructure. PPS is partly owned by Mastercard and has experience issuing more than 100 million cards around the world.
Coconut App Features
All the functionality associated with Coconut is available via the smartphone application, as this is the main platform. This is where you can manage everything regarding your account, including viewing your full UK account number plus sort code. The Coconut application also lets you manage direct debits, use the Mastercard debit card, block or unblock the card instantly, order a replacement card, send or receive payments, view your PIN, or chat with the support team.
What Types of Accounts Does Coconut Offer?
Coconut is currently in beta and solely offering its Start plan, which is free. This plan is already available for both Android and iOS and designed for sole traders. It includes the UK current account, the Mastercard debit card, automatic express categorization, instant notifications, receipt capture, a tax estimate, and tax reports. An invoicing feature will also be added soon. During the beta version of Coconut, there are unlimited bank transfers, a perk that will apply to the first 2,000 users. When the beta period ends, there will be a limit of 10 bank transfers each month.
The Grow plan is for limited companies and will be coming soon to both Android and iOS. This type of Coconut account includes all the features of the Start plan, including invoicing, as well as the ability to share access with an accountant, connect other bank accounts to the Coconut account, and enjoy VAT management. The Grow plan increases the number of free bank transfers per month to 20, with a small fee for subsequent transfers.
Are There Contracts with the Coconut App, and Can You Stop Using Your Account?
If you ever stop using your Coconut account but do not close it, the company will automatically change your account, so you are at the cheapest tier of membership that applies for your situation. There is no contract when you open a Coconut account, so you can close it whenever you want.
How Much Does Coconut Cost?
The Start plan from Coconut is free, while the Grow plan costs £4.95 a month. Once you reach the limit for free bank monthly bank transfers, Grow accounts can add more for 20 pence per transfer. Regardless of the account type on Coconut, cash withdrawals come with a fee of £1, and replacement cards cost £4. Direct debits are free, and cashback will be coming soon. There is no fee for purchases made abroad.
Are There Limits for the Coconut Application?
Whether you have a Start plan or a Grow plan, your Coconut account can only have a maximum balance of £40,000. There is also a daily ATM limit of £500.
How Can You Use the Coconut Card?
The Coconut card is accepted by most online major retailers, most mobile app services, and in most countries. Coconut only blocks a few key types of transactions from being used on your card. This is a strategic move to deter fraud. You cannot use your Coconut card to pay for dating or escort services, massage parlors, automated fuel dispensers, or certain money transfers/products.
Who Can Use Coconut App, and What Platforms Is It Available On?
Only sole traders can use the Coconut App, which is available for both Apple and Android devices. However, there will also be support for limited companies soon. To use Coconut, you must be a UK resident and have a permanent address within the UK. You will also need a valid ID and to use the camera on your smartphone.
If you are interested in opening an account, you can join the waiting list and will receive a notification when it is your turn. Joining the waiting list also automatically signs you up for the monthly insider news. When joining the waiting list, you will be asked whether you use an iPhone, Android, or other and whether you are a sole trader/self-employed, limited company, or other. Then, you just input your email address.
How Do You Open a Coconut Account?
As mentioned, to open a Coconut account, you must join the waiting list. Once you get to the front of the line or receive an invite code, you start by downloading the application. Then, you sign up by entering your name, address, and date of birth. You then take a photograph of your identification and a selfie. Valid IDs include driver’s licenses, passports, National Identity Cards, and EU Resident Permits. That process should only take you a few minutes.
Coconut will review your application before approval. This is typically very quick and takes less than an hour but may take longer, especially when automatic checks do not work. In some cases, Coconut may also request additional information if the automated checks do not match your address and name to the records checked. It is also possible that you will need to prove your intended account use if the automated procedures cannot verify your intent.
Once you receive approval, you get an account number and sort code to use immediately. Coconut will also send you your debit card via first class post at this point.
How Do You Pay Money into Your Coconut Account?
As soon as you order your Coconut card, you can begin paying in as well as sharing details with clients. Go to the “Card” part of the application, then select “Share account details.” You can copy or view the sort code and account number or directly share them via WhatsApp, SMS, or email. Since Coconut is on the Faster Payments network, payments out of and in your account should arrive within two hours.
Can You Export Data from Coconut?
Coconut aims to make it easy to manage your finances, including sharing information with your accountant. As such, it is possible to export data from your account. Go to the main page of the Coconut application, and you will see an export icon sitting right above the list of transactions. Click on this button, then export your data in the CSV Format, Open Financial Exchange (OFX) format, or as a PDF statement. The last lets you choose the date range, while the CSV Format has all categories and notes for transactions.
What Features Is Coconut Looking into Adding?
Coconut is already looking into ways to expand their offerings. For example, it is investigating methods of offering credit, such as credit cards via trusted partners. Coconut is also investing how it can add multicurrency transfers since the accounts currently only accept payments in GBP and from UK accounts. If you have any suggestions of features you want Coconut to add or simply want to express your interest in a potential feature to help Coconut prioritize features, you can email the team at requests@getcoconut.com. Alternatively, you can comment on the Coconut roadmap.
How Does Coconut Ensure Security of Funds?
PPS manages the funds that are deposited into a Coconut account, then stores them in a safeguarded and ring-fenced account held with Barclays, so they are never at risk. PPS, Coconut, and Barclays do not have the ability to use client funds for settling liabilities, ensuring that the funds always remain accessible.
What Other Security Measures Does Coconut Have?
Coconut uses Amazon Web Service for its cloud infrastructure due to the use of best practices and state-of-the-art security. It also has automated systems to monitor vulnerabilities. Other security measures include the use of HTTPS, encryption at rest with a rotatable key, regular third-party penetration tests, continuous security vulnerability scanners, regular backups of customer data, strong password hashing techniques with bcrypt, and requiring two-factor authentication.
What Kind of Customer Support Does Coconut Offer?
Coconut has an extensive FAQ section with in-depth articles on a range of topics that should answer most questions. If you do not find an answer to your question, you can chat with the team using the application, which will always connect you to an actual person and not a bot. Or you can email the support team at support@getcoconut.com. Customer Support works on weekdays from 9 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., so the team will respond to contact outside of those hours during the next business hour.
In the case of emergencies, there is also a phone line, +44 808 169 9928. This emergency line is available 24/7 and designed for situations like stolen or lost cards or cases where you suspect fraud on your account. Although the phone line is reserved for emergencies, you can speak to a team member during regular office hours or leave a message, so someone calls you back. Emergencies have the priority for phone contact, and Coconut encourages you to use other methods first for nonemergency situations.
In the case of any complaints, you can email complaints@getcoconut.com. Coconut takes complaints seriously and always acknowledges receipt of them within five working days. Complaints are handled by its own Complaints Manager, who works toward a resolution while keeping you informed. Coconut always aims to resolve the issue as soon as it can but asks you to allow up to 15 working days for this process.
Conclusion
The Coconut application is designed to appeal to freelancers and entrepreneurs who work for themselves. It helps manage your business finances, including transactions, and assists you with planning for your taxes.
Visit Coconut App

Story 184
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
This year, when NerdWallet writers came together to update our list of best credit cards, there was one category that inspired a particularly intense debate: airline credit cards. In this case, naming a winner is hardly a cut-and-dried case of which card offers the richest rewards and benefits. We also wanted a card associated with an airline that offered service to several destinations and a robust loyalty program.
That’s how the Alaska Airlines Visa Signature® credit card took top honors in this category for 2019. For those who can take advantage of the card’s benefits, its ongoing value is head and shoulders over the competition. It also features a rich loyalty program, good airline partners and — thanks in part to Alaska’s acquisition of Virgin America — routes that span the U.S. You don’t need to live in Alaska to appreciate this card’s value.
You do, however, need to frequent the routes offered by this Seattle-based airline to make the card worth your while. Alaska Airlines doesn’t fly to every state, and even in certain states that it does serve, your destination options may be limited.
But for those who can unlock its value, this $75-annual-fee card deserves your attention. Here’s why it triumphed in this hotly contested category this year.
» MORE: Full review of the Alaska Airlines Visa Signature® credit card
Its Companion Fare is incredibly valuable
The Alaska Airlines Visa Signature® credit card offers something that makes it stand out among other major co-branded airline cards at the same price point: an annual Companion Fare benefit. With this perk, you can bring a companion with you on the same flight in coach for as little as $121 ($99 plus taxes and fees) when you book through Alaska Airlines. You get this perk annually on your account anniversary, regardless of how much you actually use your card for purchases. This cannot be emphasized enough: There aren’t any other $75-annual-fee cards that make it this easy to save hundreds of dollars on flights every year.
This cannot be emphasized enough: There aren’t any other $75-annual-fee cards that make it this easy to save hundreds of dollars on flights every year.
Say you took a flight that would otherwise cost $800 per passenger. That’s not hard to do when flying to a smaller airport, or to one of the airline’s far-flung destinations such as Costa Rica or Hawaii. With the Companion Fare, you could potentially save $679 on your traveling partner’s ticket. That would make the card’s annual fee seem minuscule.
» MORE: Other airline credit cards that offer companion tickets
The sign-up bonus is generous
In a crowded field of competing airline credit card sign-up bonuses, the Alaska Airlines Visa Signature® credit card holds its own. Its offer is two-fold: Get 40,000 bonus miles and Alaska's Famous Companion Fare™ from $121 ($99 fare plus taxes and fees from $22) with this offer. To qualify, make purchases of $2,000 or more within the first 90 days of opening your account NerdWallet values Alaska miles at 1.1 cents apiece on average, so that bonus could be worth $330 before even factoring in the Companion Fare offer. Just keep in mind that you can’t combine the Companion Fare with miles while booking a flight; it can only be used to cover cash fares.
» MORE: Benefits of the Alaska Airlines credit card
Other travel-friendly perks make it a keeper
When we were looking for NerdWallet’s best airline credit card award, we knew flashy benefits alone aren’t enough to seal the deal. The winning card also needed to offer certain table-stakes perks, such as waived baggage fees, bonus rewards on airline purchases and no foreign transaction fees. And, of course, it would have to offer service to several destinations and a good loyalty program so that miles earned were actually useful.
For a reasonable annual fee that’s roughly $20 lower than what you could typically find on other airline cards, the card’s strong benefits make it worth holding on to.
We found that the Alaska Airlines Visa Signature® credit card easily checked all those boxes:
Free checked bags: With this card, you can check one bag free for you and up to six other people on your reservation for a flight marketed and operated by Alaska Airlines or its subsidiaries. Without this benefit, your first standard checked bag would cost $30.
Bonus rewards on airline purchases: You’ll get 3 miles per dollar spent directly on Alaska Airlines, and 1 mile per dollar spent on all other purchases.
Discounts: Get 50% off day passes at the Alaska Lounge and 20% back on all Alaska Airlines inflight purchases when you pay with the card.
Get 50% off day passes at the Alaska Lounge and 20% back on all Alaska Airlines inflight purchases when you pay with the card. No foreign transaction fees: You won’t pay extra just for using this card abroad.
Service to several destinations: Alaska Airlines offers service to more than 115 destinations across the U.S., Canada, Mexico and Costa Rica as of this writing. And because of its strong network of airline partners, which includes Cathay Pacific and American Airlines, you can redeem miles on even more routes.
Solid loyalty program structure: With Alaska Airlines’ loyalty program , you earn miles based on distances flown, rather than cash fares paid. Distance-based airline loyalty programs like this, which make it easier to rack up miles, are rare these days.
For a reasonable annual fee of $75 — roughly $20 lower than the annual fees you could typically expect on other airline cards — the card’s strong benefits make it worth holding on to.
How we would improve this card
The Alaska Airlines Visa Signature® credit card is an excellent airline card, but it’s not perfect. If we could make some tweaks to improve it, here’s what we would ask for:
If it added a couple of new categories, the card would be more appealing to use for everyday purchases.
More rewards on everyday purchases. This past year, both the Citi® / AAdvantage® Platinum Select® World Elite™ Mastercard® and the United℠ Explorer Card added new bonus categories, making them more appealing to use for certain everyday purchases. Currently, the Alaska Airlines Visa Signature® credit card offers bonus miles only on Alaska Airlines purchases. If it added a couple of new categories, the card would be more appealing to use for everyday purchases.
Waived first-year annual fee. The United℠ Explorer Card, Citi® / AAdvantage® Platinum Select® World Elite™ Mastercard® and the Gold Delta SkyMiles® Credit Card from American Express all waive their annual fees in the first year. We would love to see that benefit on the Alaska Airlines Visa Signature® credit card, too.
Should you get it?
The annual Companion Fare on the Alaska Airlines Visa Signature® credit card helps it soar above the competition in terms of ongoing value. But, of course, the best airline card for you depends on your travel. While Alaska Airlines flies to several destinations, its service to certain parts of the U.S. are limited; this could make the card less worthwhile for some.
If you always travel solo and can’t use the Companion Fare, or if you seldom fly with Alaska, other cards will prove more rewarding. But if Alaska is your airline of choice, this best-in-class card is worth adding to your wallet.

Story 185
Access Denied - Sucuri Website Firewall
If you are the site owner (or you manage this site), please whitelist your IP or if you think this block is an error please open a support ticket and make sure to include the block details (displayed in the box below), so we can assist you in troubleshooting the issue.
Block details:

Story 186
Multiple studies conclude younger generations know about mobile payments, but don’t care much about them — a service such as Venmo being the rare exception. After watching Venmo dominate the mobile peer-to-peer (P2P) payment transfer market for the past few years, banks decided to do something about it, and Zelle was born. Banks have invested heavily in perfecting the technology and promoting the service, but consumer awareness and adoption continue to lag.
Members of the bank consortium that runs Zelle — including JPMorgan Chase, Wells Fargo, and Bank of America — are spending millions of dollars on ads to attract their existing customers to the mobile payment app. Zelle, which is already installed on bank customers’ phones (part of their mobile apps), is available to 95 million current bank customers versus Venmo’s user base that totals around 3.5 million. However, the Zelle brand” — aka its “cool factor” — remains practically non-existent.
A quick review on the basics: a payment app is simply a service that allows consumers to send money to another person (often by email or mobile phone number) via an app, or sometimes a website. This process is commonly referred to as “peer-to-peer” or “person-to-person” money transfer apps, or simply “P2P apps” or “payment apps.”
People are often under the impression that all payment transfers happen instantly, but it’s important to realize that many times they do not. Each major mobile payment app has its own advantages and limitations. Most payment apps use a digital wallet method of transfer, meaning when you send money, it delivers the payment to a digital wallet, after which the recipient transfers the money from the wallet into his personal account. You can think of the wallet as a virtual escrow account.
The following is a brief comparison of the mobile payment services available today.
Zelle
Zelle is peer-to-peer payment system targeting mobile majority as an alternative to cash and checks..
Payment transactions occur within minutes, which is faster than other apps, like Venmo.
Online banking customers who have accounts at participating banks can send money to anyone.
The Zelle app is already a feature within existing bank apps.
You only need someone’s email address or cell phone number to send money.
Recipients who don’t bank with Zelle partners can use standalone app to claim their money by downloading the app in Apple Store and Google Play.
There are no fees to send, request, or receive money.
You can only cancel a payment if the recipient hasn’t enrolled with Zelle, otherwise it goes directly into their bank account.
Venmo
Venmo is peer-to-peer payment system most popular amongst Millennials.
Transactions take days to process.
Anyone can use the app after setting up an account.
You only need someone’s email address or cellphone number to send money.
Request or pay other users and add a note or emoji as the transaction description.
You can share the transaction via social media if you like.
When you cash out” the money that friends have paid into your Venmo account, it typically takes 1 to 3 business days to receive your funds.
There are no fees to send, request, or receive money via bank transfers and debit card.
Using a credit card for payment will cost 3 percent per transaction.
Know the recipient before sending, as you can’t cancel payments made to wrong users.
Square Cash
Square Cash, or the Cash app, is a peer-to-peer payment system targeting younger generations.
Transactions occur within minutes or days at your choice.
Anyone can use the app after setting up an account.
You only need someone’s email address or cell phone number to send money.
An optional debit card associated with your account can be used for purchases.
Users have the option to automatically deposit received funds directly into a linked bank account.
The app can also be used for business transactions to accept payments for good or services.
There are no fees to send, request, or receive money (for person-to-person transactions via bank transfers and debit card).
Requesting instant deposit (instead of 1 to 3 business days) will incur a fee equal to 1 percent of the deposit amount.
Using a credit card for payment will cost 3 percent per transaction.
Apple Pay
Apple Pay Cash is a peer-to-peer payment system that acts like a bank account on your phone, targeting Venmo users.
Transactions occur in days.
The app is easy to use, but both the sender and recipient must have an
iPhone/iPad/Apple Watch with iOS11.2/watchOS 4.2 installed.
Spend money on your Apple Pay Cash card the app store, or at retailers that accept Apple Pay.
You need to authenticate each payment made via Apple Pay Cash with Face ID on
iPhone X or Touch ID on other iPhone/iPad models.
There are no fees to send, request, or receive money via bank transfers and debit card.
Using a credit card for payment will cost 3 percent per transaction.
So which mobile payment method is the right one for your financial institution? Which one will resonate with your audience best? The market is competitive, and each offering carries its own unique features and benefits. Most banks and credit unions will choose based on mobile preference, cool factor, convenience, and the familiarity (or level of trust) key constituencies will have with a particular platform — e.g., if the C-suite at your financial institution has heard of Venmo, that may end up being the platform you go with. Whatever your priorities, there’s a mobile payment option out there for you.

Story 187
As N26 makes its UK debut, we look at what you can expect from the new breed of services
The march of the smartphone-based “challenger banks” continues, with the German-based N26 the latest to launch in the UK.
It joins other app-based banks, such as Monzo and Starling, that are shaking up the banking industry.
Launched in 2015 and headquartered in Berlin, N26 has grown rapidly – it has 1.5 million customers across 22 countries – and clearly doesn’t plan to let Brexit stand in the way of its UK ambitions.
N26 went live in the UK on 21 November, and is offering a free-to-use current account to over-18s. But with Brexit just around the corner, is signing up with a German-based bank a good idea? And how does N26 stack up against its rivals? One thing that applies to all of the app-based banks is that you need to know your way around a smartphone. For example, in order to open an account, you will typically have to take a selfie photo or video, and also submit a photo of your passport or driving licence.
N26
The basics It offers a full bank account with a Mastercard debit card. It operates in Britain via its European banking licence, “passporting” the German licence to the UK for the time being. Your money is guaranteed by the German bank deposit protection scheme up to €100,000 (£89,000), rather than the UK’s Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS), which protects up to £85,000.
Pros The app boasts instant notifications on transactions, sub-accounts to organise money, and the ability to instantly lock your card if you lose it. It offers unlimited free ATM withdrawals in the UK; payments abroad are at the Mastercard exchange rate, with no mark-up fees.
Cons Some people will be uneasy about the fact that N26 isn’t covered by the UK protection scheme, and might wonder what will happen post-Brexit. It could be that European banks currently passporting into the UK simply continue operating here while they apply for full UK authorisation, but there’s still a lot of uncertainty in this area. At the moment, you can’t set up direct debits or standing orders, which may be a deal-breaker for some – but the bank says: “These are expected in a matter of weeks.” Also, you can’t make cash deposits or pay in cheques. Note that there is a 1.7% charge on ATM withdrawals abroad. Overdrafts aren’t available at the moment, though N26 says it expects to launch them before the end of the year.
Monzo
The basics Monzo was founded in 2015 and started out offering a prepaid debit card before switching customers to a full current account. It now boasts almost 1.2 million customers (you must be 16 or older). The account comes with a Mastercard debit card.
Pros You can split bills, set budgets and get instant notifications, plus set up direct debits and standing orders and pay people instantly and so on. Cash withdrawals in the UK are free and, like N26, when you are spending abroad, it passes Mastercard’s exchange rate on to the customer, without adding fees. You can pay in cheques by post, and this week Monzo announced that users can now deposit cash into their accounts at any of the 28,000 PayPoint stores across the UK (fee: £1). Overdrafts are available. Monzo scored well in a MoneySavingExpert customer service survey. Your money is protected by the FSCS up to £85,000.
Cons If you are withdrawing cash from overseas ATMs, you can get up to £200 every 30 days for free, after which you will be charged a 3% fee.
Starling Bank
The basics Starling went fully live in May 2017 and now has about 325,000 personal accounts. It offers a full current account that comes with a Mastercard debit card. In August it launched current accounts for 16- to 17-year-olds.
Pros You can pay people instantly and set up direct debits and standing orders. Other features include real-time notifications and the ability to split bills, and lock and unlock your card. Starling pays interest on its current accounts: 0.5% on balances up to £2,000, then 0.25% up to £85,000. There are no ATM fees in the UK or abroad, and when you spend overseas, it passes on Mastercard’s exchange rate, without any fees. It has just linked with the Post Office to allow customers to deposit and withdraw cash through its 11,500 branches. You can pay in cheques by post, and overdrafts are available. Your money is protected by the FSCS up to £85,000.
Cons In September it suddenly closed down its community forum, prompting criticism. Starling denied it was to avoid negative feedback, but it didn’t look good.
Revolut
The basics London-based Revolut launched in 2015 and has 3 million customers across Europe, of whom 1.5 million are in the UK. It’s not a bank (yet) – it’s an “electronic money institution” – though it offers a product to over-18s that is essentially a current account with a debit card. Revolut has applied for a European banking licence, which it hopes to get in the next few months.
Pros All the usual features are offered – budgeting tools, instant spending notifications, the ability to lock and unlock your card, and so on. You can use the card to spend abroad in more than 150 currencies, typically with no fees. Revolut uses the interbank exchange rate, which it says is better than the Mastercard rate used by Monzo. You can transfer money abroad in 24 currencies at that rate, too.
Cons Crucially, because Revolut is an electronic money institution, your money isn’t covered by the FSCS, though that could change in the coming Revolut is authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority and says client funds are held in segregated accounts at Lloyds and Barclays. months. Direct debits can’t be set up – this is “coming” – and there’s no overdraft available yet. ATM withdrawals in the UK and overseas are free up to £200 a month, after which a 2% fee kicks in. In certain situations, fees apply on overseas spending and transfers.

Story 188
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
Bank of America® is ringing in the new year with a card launch, debuting a fresh version of the Bank of America® Cash Rewards credit card in early 2019. And for cardholders who already carry the old version, the news could make it easier to max out bonus categories each quarter.
Starting the week of Jan. 14, cardholders will be able to choose which category they earn 3% cash back rewards in, from a list of six categories:
Gas Online shopping Dining Travel Drugstores Home improvement and furnishings
You’ll be able to change your choice of category up to once a month, according to the issuer; if you don’t change it, it will remain the same. In addition, cardholders will continue to earn 2% back on grocery store and wholesale club purchases. Both the 3% and 2% rewards only apply to the first $2,500 in combined quarterly category/ grocery store/ wholesale club purchases; after that, you’ll earn only 1% back on those purchases.
Currently, the card doesn’t give you the option of selecting your own categories. Instead, it offers 3% back on gas and 2% back on grocery stores and wholesale clubs on up to $2,500 in combined quarterly gas/ grocery store/ wholesale club spending.
The card will continue to have an annual fee of $0, Bank of America® confirms. Although the issuer is characterizing this change as a new card launch, the card’s design isn’t changing. It’s unclear whether other parts of the card will remain the same, such as the sign-up bonus and the 10% bonus on rewards you can earn when redeeming cash back into a Bank of America® checking or savings account.
What does the online shopping category include?
Of all the upcoming new categories on the Bank of America® Cash Rewards credit card, “online shopping” sounds the most mysterious — and also, potentially, the most lucrative. So, what does it include, exactly?
Bank of America® says that when the new card launches in mid-January, cardholders will be able to access an online list with examples of merchants covered in this category, as well as other categories. In the meantime, the issuer confirms that online shopping will include (but won’t be limited to) purchases made with the following merchants:
Amazon.com
Bestbuy.com
Groupon.com
Ticketmaster.com
Apple.com
Macys.com
Walmart.com
What about existing cardholders?
Cardholders who already have the Bank of America® Cash Rewards credit card will continue with the same account number, Bank of America® confirms. They will automatically receive the option to select 3% cash back categories starting in mid-January.
For cardholders, more choices is a plus
The Bank of America® Cash Rewards credit card has long offered middling benefits in the cash-back world. It didn’t lag far behind the competition, but it wasn’t particularly exceptional. This change could put it closer to other more generous cash-back cards.
For starters, it will get far easier to maximize the card’s bonus categories. In 2017, U.S. households spent only $1,968 a year on “gasoline, other fuels and motor oil,” according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. That’s not enough to max out one quarter’s worth of bonus spending categories on the Bank of America® Cash Rewards credit card. With the upcoming change, you’ll have more opportunities to earn bonus rewards.
For example, if you’re about to drop $2,000 on plane tickets, this card would allow you to change the 3% bonus category to “travel” before that purchase, helping you take home at least $60 in cash back. And if you keep a lot of money with the bank, you might qualify for larger bonuses through the Preferred Rewards program.
The quarterly spending caps can still make it less rewarding than other options if you’re a big spender. But if you tend to spend modestly and are looking for ways to earn more rewards, it could be a good fit.

Story 189
The two amendments proposed today to Regulation 924/2009 on cross-border payments aim to reduce the cost of all intra-EU payments in euro and unify the single payment market for consumers and businesses. Today, cross-border payments in euro from non-euro area Member States can be as high as EUR 20 in some countries while equivalent cross-border payments from euro area Member States are very cheap or even free.
Since taking office, a key priority of the Juncker Commission has been to build a deeper and fairer Single Market, which allows people, services, goods and capital to move freely in an economy with an annual Gross Domestic Product of EUR 15 trillion. These excessive costs described above present an obstacle to the completion of the Single Market. Today's proposal will allow all consumers and businesses to fully reap the benefits of the Single Market when they send money, withdraw cash or pay abroad. In addition, the proposal also aims to bring more transparency and competition to currency conversion services when consumers are buying goods or services in a different currency than their own.
With today's proposal, the Commission is delivering on the first two actions of the Consumer Financial Services Action Plan that was published in March 2017: tackling transparency and fees in cross-border transactions.
CROSS-BORDER TRANSACTIONS FEES
What will change for fees charged for euro payments?
The first amendment related to fees for cross-border payments applies to cross-border transactions in euro sent or received within the EU. When payment service users (consumers or businesses) make cross-border transactions in euro (credit transfer, card payment, cash withdrawal) these transactions should be charged the exact same price as an equivalent domestic ones in the official currency used in the Member State from where the transaction is sent or received (i.e. the euro for euro area Member States and respective national currencies for non-euro area Member States). This system is already in place in the euro area and the Commission proposes to extend its benefits to non-euro area countries as well.
Cross-border transactions made in EU currencies other than the euro are not covered by this amendment. However, the Regulation already includes an option for Member States to extend the Regulation to other currencies. This option remains.
What is the situation today and how will it change following the amendments?
Today, a transaction in euro within the euro area, i.e. from France to Portugal, costs exactly the same as an equivalent transaction within one Member State. Depending on the bank, it costs consumers nothing or a few cents to make cross-border payments. This allows euro area consumers and citizens to make transactions across borders with a large number of citizens and businesses at the same cost as they would within their country.
In contrast, a cross-border transaction from non-euro area Bulgaria to euro-area Finland in euro is currently priced between EUR 15 and 24, even if the person transferring money from Bulgaria only sends EUR 10. This means that consumers and businesses in non-euro area Member States face higher fees for payments as soon as they operate across borders. This is a major barrier to cross-border exchanges and is detrimental to the Single Market. Furthermore, this raises issues of equal treatment of citizens and level-playing field for businesses across the EU. Non-euro area consumers and businesses should not have to pay more than their counterparts in euro area Member States when engaging in similar types of cross-border exchanges within the Single Market.
Thanks to the amendment proposed by the Commission, the price of a cross-border transaction from Bulgaria to Finland is expected to decrease, from between EUR 15 and EUR 24 to about EUR 1.
Why is today's proposal limited to euro payments?
In its impact assessment, the Commission explored and evaluated various options of how to lower costs for cross-border payments to and from non-euro area Member States, including the possibility to extend the existing rules to other currencies. However, the assessment showed that this option was not only too cumbersome, but would also result in few benefits.
Specifically, today's proposal is limited to payments made in euro due to a variety of reasons:
euro transactions benefit from efficient infrastructures and processes that are available to all banks in the EU, directly or indirectly.
cross-border transactions in euro represent much bigger volumes than transactions in other currencies of the EU. You can pay, send money or withdraw cash in 19 Member States in euro. Transactions in other Union currencies are often effected in one Member State only.
euro transactions are the same everywhere based on the SEPA (Single Euro Payment Area) standard, e.g. SEPA Credit Transfers, SEPA Direct Debits or SEPA Credit Transfer Instant.
many banks in the EU, including in non-euro area Member States, have ties with the euro as they either are a subsidiary of a bank head-quartered in the euro area or themselves own a subsidiary in a euro area Member States. Most banks in the EU conduct activities in euro. The contrary would not be true for any other EU currency.
Why is today's proposal necessary if Member States can already extend the current Regulation to other currencies?
Current rules on cross-border payments require the same fees to be applied to cross-border euro transactions as they are applied to domestic euro transactions. While the Regulation already contains the option for countries to decide to apply the same principle to transactions in their own currency, this only impacts cross-border euro transfers indirectly.
For instance, in line with the current Regulation, Sweden decided to align fees of cross-border payments in Swedish krona with domestic payments in Swedish krona. This decision in turn positively impacted cross-border payments in euro as banks lowered fees for those types of payments as well. However, so far no other Member State has made use of this option, which continues to render cross-border border euro transactions expensive. These unnecessary costs continue to pose a problem to the Single Market.
The amendment proposed today, namely aligning cross-border euro transaction with domestic national currency transactions, is addressing an issue that had not been directly tackled before. This ensures that all EU citizens benefit from cheaper euro payments.
Why did you not propose this earlier?
The Regulation on cross-border payments dates back to 2001 and 2009. At the time, necessary conditions for the amendments we are proposing today were not yet in place. Payments in euro were neither cheap nor efficient and the Single Euro Payments Area would only fully become a reality in euro area Member States in 2014 (October 2016 for non-euro area Member States). Under these conditions, instead of extending the scope of the Regulation, the rules provided the option for Member States to apply existing rules to other currencies.
However, after conducting further impact assessments and a consultation with stakeholders it has become clear that cross-border transactions in euro from non-euro area continue to pose a substantial problem to the Single Market. This is why the Commission is today proposing to amend the existing rules.
Will your proposal put an additional burden on banks?
The new rules only affect cross-border payments in euro for banks situated in non-euro area Member States. These payments already benefit from an efficient infrastructure and are processed without manual intervention.
Furthermore, the proposal will have a limited administrative impact on banks as they will merely have to adapt their products and services fees documentation, which is already done on a regular basis.
Will consumers be charged more when banks recover the losses from lower cross-border payments fees?
This proposal will incentivise payment services providers across the EU to provide cheaper cross-border payments in euro to the benefits of consumers and the EU economy as a whole.
When similar requirements were imposed on banks in euro area Member States in 2001 payment service providers did not increase other fees. On the contrary, fees for all types of payments continued to decrease in euro area Member States. Furthermore, increased fees on other products and services in order to cover potential losses will be subject to national and EU competition rules, to ensure they remain fair and competitively-priced.
DYNAMIC CURRENCY CONVERSION
What is dynamic currency conversion and how will today's proposal change consumers' lives?
When consumers make card payments while travelling abroad or when paying online, they can often choose whether to pay in local currency or their home currency. When choosing the local currency their bank will convert the amount of the transaction and consumers only know a few days later, when looking at their bank statement, how much the transaction really cost. If consumers decide to pay in their home currency, a payment service provider converts the amount of the transaction on the spot in exchange for a fee. This process is called dynamic currency conversion (DCC). While DCC allows consumers to know immediately how much they have to pay, the use of this service is often more expensive than their bank's.
Today's proposal increases the transparency in this process so that consumers are aware of the costs of currency conversion services applied to cross-border payments in the EU beforehand. The amendment will apply irrespective of whether those payments are denominated in euro or in a currency of a Member State other than the euro.
Specifically, payment service providers will have to disclose the full costs charged to consumers. When consumers are offered more than one option for currency conversion – for instance from their banks' services and dynamic currency conversion services - they will then be able to compare offers and choose the most favourable one. Considering the technical dimension of this provision, the Commission has asked the European Banking Authority (EBA) to define Regulatory Technical Standards (RTS) on this issue.
Why does the proposal provide for a three-year transition period? How will consumers be protected?
The transition period is based on discussions with service providers. Making currency conversion more transparent entails various technical developments, such as updates of software and in some cases hardware changes (e.g. at the Point of Sales terminal). This transition period will allow enough time for the EBA to develop the Regulatory Technical Standards needed and for the market to adapt to these changes.
In the meantime, the EBA will define a transitional cap on currency conversion fees. This cap will protect consumers from being charged fees for currency conversion that are not in line with the service offered. It is too early to speculate on the exact amount of this cap as the EBA will first consult the market and carry out an impact assessment.
Why is the Commission not simply banning Dynamic Currency Conversion, if it is so costly?
Prohibiting an activity that could prove useful for consumers under certain circumstances would be disproportionate. Instead, the Commission's proposal will make it possible for consumers compare offers and take an informed decision. This increase in transparency will ultimately boost competition among payment service providers. If the fees for dynamic currency conversion become more competitive, banks may also provide better rates for their currency conversion services. This might eventually lower costs for consumers.

Story 190
Access Denied - Sucuri Website Firewall
If you are the site owner (or you manage this site), please whitelist your IP or if you think this block is an error please open a support ticket and make sure to include the block details (displayed in the box below), so we can assist you in troubleshooting the issue.
Block details:

Story 191
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
I thought that changing my name on all my credit cards after marriage would be straightforward. Countless newlyweds did the same thing every year, I figured. And that’s to say nothing of the many people who go through a similar process after changing their names for various other reasons — for example, to switch surnames after a divorce. How tedious could it be?
Very tedious, as it turns out. Especially if you have a wallet full of credit cards.
The thing is, there’s no “quick and easy” way to change a name, especially one you’ve been using for over 20 years. And updating that information on several accounts proved more time-consuming than I expected. Here’s what I learned from the process.
Avoid so-called ‘shortcuts’
Before I updated the name on my credit cards, I needed to officially change my name on my Social Security card and driver’s license. So after procrastinating for six months after getting married, I finally did the paperwork and went from “Claire Marie Davidson” to “Claire Davidson Tsosie” in 2016. (My husband’s last name is Tsosie.)
I looked into online services with zingy names that claimed they’d do the heavy lifting and minimize the bureaucratic tedium. But ultimately, it’ll likely still require significant effort on your part.
During the name-change process, I searched high and low for shortcuts. I looked into online services with zingy names that claimed they’d do the heavy lifting and minimize the bureaucratic tedium. But ultimately, those services didn’t seem worthwhile. While they made it faster to prepare some of the name-change paperwork, I found that I’d still have to complete some forms on my own and visit the California Department of Motor Vehicles myself.
If you’re changing your name, I’d recommend being skeptical of pricey services like these. Sure, they might make the process marginally smoother, but it’ll likely still require significant effort on your part. Save your money, I say.
» MORE: A post-wedding name-change guide
Double-check for mistakes upfront
After receiving my new Social Security card in the mail, my first job was to go to the DMV and update the name on my driver’s license. It was only when I returned home from my lengthy DMV appointment that I made a horrifying realization: The interim driver’s license I went home with read “Claire Marie Tsosie” instead of my actual name, “Claire Davidson Tsosie.”
It would be nice to trust that everyone is careful and detail-oriented when updating your important personal information. But if someone else messes up your name, it could leave you in the lurch.
I called the DMV and asked if I could change it, but was told that I’d have to wait to receive my incorrect driver’s license in the mail, then set up another appointment at the DMV to correct my name.
Sigh.
Another eight months passed, and I finally made another appointment at the DMV to correct the error. It was a total drag. But it also made me realize the importance of double-checking changes, which came in handy later when I was updating my name on all my credit cards.
Of course, it would be nice to trust that everyone is careful and detail-oriented when updating your important personal information. But if someone else messes up your name, it could leave you in the lurch — say, because the name on your credit card is misspelled and doesn’t match the name on any of your other IDs, for example.
After this kerfuffle, I made a habit of confirming all the changes made on my accounts so I could catch mistakes before getting new cards.
» MORE: Getting a new spouse? Keep your old credit cards
Know your issuer’s policies: Here are some
After mustering enough motivation to jump through the preliminary hoops, I started working on updating the information on all my credit cards.
I quickly found out that the process varied from bank to bank.
Inspired to finish the task quickly, I spent most of a Saturday afternoon calling the customer service numbers for each of my issuers and asking what I had to do. I quickly found out that the process varied from bank to bank. A few experiences I encountered:
Citi: They changed my name right away over the phone and mailed me a new card. Pretty easy.
They changed my name right away over the phone and mailed me a new card. Pretty easy. Bank of America®: I had to visit a branch to change my name. It took about an hour to get to a branch, wait in line and complete all the paperwork.
I had to visit a branch to change my name. It took about an hour to get to a branch, wait in line and complete all the paperwork. Chase: The customer service representative I spoke with said she’d mail me a form, and that I could return by mail or fax. Faxing that name-change form has been on my to-do list for three years now. (Step 1: Learn how to send a fax?)
The customer service I spoke with said she’d mail me a form, and that I could return by mail or fax. Faxing that name-change form has been on my to-do list for three years now. (Step 1: Learn how to send a fax?) American Express: I changed my name online and uploaded a photo of my new driver’s license, and AmEx sent me a new card. The online form was pretty intuitive.
The following week, I also worked on updating my name on my airline and hotel loyalty program accounts associated with some of my co-branded cards.
In my experience, calling issuers to inquire about changing your name can sometimes take 30 minutes each or longer, especially if you have to stay on hold, navigate through phone trees or get transferred to multiple departments. If you have several accounts to update, I recommend taking care of just one or two accounts a day to make the process less stressful. In some cases, you might not even need to make a phone call; for example, with AmEx, you can complete the entire process online.
American Express Where to complete your name change: Online Online Fill out a name-change authorization form via your online portal. Click the “edit” button next to your name to bring up the form. You’ll need to upload an image of a document reflecting your new name, such as a state-issued identification card, driver’s license or U.S. passport, according to the issuer’s website. You’ll automatically get a new card sent to you after the request is processed.
Bank of America® Where to complete your name change: In a bank branch In a bank branch Visit a Bank of America® location and bring government-issued ID and documentation regarding your name change. Bank of America® lists the documents you’ll need for this visit online. If you don’t live near a Bank of America® branch, the issuer recommends calling 800-432-1000.
Barclays Where to complete your name change: Fax or mail Fax or mail Send a letter explaining your name-change request along with one of the following documents to show proof of your name change: court document (naturalization papers, marriage license, divorce decree, etc.), driver’s license, state-issued ID, green card, Social Security card, permanent resident card. Barclays doesn’t have a form for this process, the issuer confirmed; you need to include a note with the required documents. You can fax these to 866-823-8178 or mail to this address: Attn: Correspondence
P.O. Box 8801
Wilmington, DE 19899 The correspondence team will respond upon the receipt of the documentation within two days, and a replacement card will be issued, the issuer confirms.
Capital One Where to complete your name change: Phone or mail Phone or mail The process for changing your name depends on the account status and the type of name change being requested, the issuer confirms. If the change is due to marriage or divorce, a prefix or suffix change or a typing correction, you call customer relations at 800-955-7070 to request the change. The line is open 24/7. For U.S. accounts, if the change is for any other legal reason, you’ll need to send your request in writing along with proof of the change to the general correspondence department, the issuer says.
Chase Where to complete your name change: Fax or mail Fax or mail To change your name on a card after a legal name change, start by calling the number on your card or 800-432-3117. You’ll need to fax or mail supporting documentation to complete the change, which may include court documents for the name change, driver’s license, Social Security card, passport or naturalization papers. Once the required documents are received, the change should be processed in about five business days, the issuer confirms.
Citi Where to complete your name change: Phone or mail Phone or mail The process for changing your name depends on the type of change being requested. Call the number on the back of your card to request an update. In some cases, changes can be processed over the phone. In other cases, you might have to send in supporting documents, which will generally be processed within five days of receiving the request.
Discover Where to complete your name change: Phone or secure messaging Phone or secure messaging To change your name on your credit card, cardholders can call 800-DISCOVER or send a message through the issuer’s secure inbox after logging on to Discover.com or on the mobile app. The documentation required varies based on the request and will be confirmed when the request is made. Changes are processed immediately after changes are verified, and cards are usually delivered in five to seven business days, the issuer confirms.
USAA Where to complete your name change: Phone; supporting documents can be uploaded online, mailed or faxed Phone; supporting documents can be uploaded online, mailed or faxed To change your name on your credit card, call 800-531-USAA. If supporting documents are needed, you may be asked to provide a form of state-issued identification such as a driver’s license, birth certificate, identification card or marriage license. You can upload necessary documents on usaa.com or send them to USAA via mail or fax. Most changes are made immediately upon request or upon receipt if additional documents are needed.
Wells Fargo Where to complete your name change: Fax or mail Fax or mail Requests for name changes can be initiated by phone, in a bank branch or in writing. Customers must complete a legal name change form, which they can submit by mail or fax, confirms the issuer. This form must include a copy of one of the following: a marriage certificate, passport, Social Security card or state driver’s license. Once the request is received, it will be processed in 10 to 14 business days, according to the issuers.
Prepare to do some explaining
Changing your name isn’t instantaneous. There’s not really a “before” and “after” to this process; there are just various shades of in-between. During that transitional period, some of my documents said I was “Claire Marie Davidson” while others said I was “Claire Davidson Tsosie” — and at least one said I was “Claire Marie Tsosie” (thanks, DMV). I had to explain the differences fairly often to customer service representatives, cashiers and others. That’s when I realized it was useful to have some supporting paperwork in tow.
I started carrying my marriage certificate around with me just in case I was asked to show ID when using a credit card that had a name that didn’t match the name on my driver’s license.
I started carrying my marriage certificate around with me just in case I was asked to show ID when using a credit card that had a name that didn’t match the name on my driver’s license. When questions inevitably came up, I was prepared: I’d show the person behind the counter my marriage certificate and driver’s license, explaining why my name changed.
For me, that paperwork made those interactions a little more efficient. I found that generally, people were really reasonable and understanding. My cards were accepted without a problem.

Story 192
Massacres are frequently carried out by killers using military-grade equipment that’s easier to obtain when buying on credit.
Stephen Paddock had two dozen guns inside the Mandalay Bay Resort when he rained fire on a music festival below. Police found four credit cards.
James Holmes used credit to help buy more than $11,000 in guns, grenades, a gas mask and other military gear to attack a movie theater.
Omar Mateen used six credit cards to buy two guns and thousands of rounds of ammunition before he opened fire inside the Pulse nightclub.
The New York Times reviewed hundreds of documents including police reports, bank records and investigator notes from a decade of mass shootings. Many of the killers built their stockpiles of high-powered weapons with the convenience of credit. No one was watching.
Two days before Omar Mateen killed 49 people and wounded 53 more at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando, he went on Google and typed “Credit card unusual spending.”
Mr. Mateen had opened six new credit card accounts — including a Mastercard, an American Express card and three Visa cards — over the previous eight months. Twelve days before the shooting, he began a $26,532 buying spree: a Sig Sauer MCX .223-caliber rifle, a Glock 17 9-millimeter semiautomatic pistol, several large magazines, thousands of rounds of ammunition and a $7,500 ring for his wife that he bought on a jewelry store card. His average spending before that, on his only card, was $1,500 a month.
His web browsing history chronicled his anxiety: “Credit card reports all three bureaus,” “FBI,” and “Why banks stop your purchases.”
He needn’t have worried. None of the banks, credit-card network operators or payment processors alerted law enforcement officials about the purchases he thought were so suspicious.
Mass shootings routinely set off a national debate on guns, usually focused on regulating firearms and on troubled youths. Little attention is paid to the financial industry that has become an instrumental, if unwitting, enabler of carnage.
A New York Times examination of mass shootings since the Virginia Tech attack in 2007 reveals how credit cards have become a crucial part of the planning of these massacres. There have been 13 shootings that killed 10 or more people in the last decade, and in at least eight of them, the killers financed their attacks using credit cards. Some used credit to acquire firearms they could not otherwise have afforded.
Those eight shootings killed 217 people. The investigations undertaken in their aftermath uncovered a rich trove of information about the killers’ spending. There were plenty of red flags, if only someone were able to look for them, law enforcement experts say.
James E. Holmes spent over $11,000 on weapons and military gear before killing 12 people inside a Colorado movie theater in 2012. Karl Gehring/The Denver Post, via Getty Images
“Banks will complain this is the government’s job and it’s not our job, but you know what? They are the only ones with the ability to do this,” said Kevin Sullivan, a former New York Police fraud investigator who consults with banks as president of the Anti-Money Laundering Training Academy.
After the shooting last February at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., where 17 students and staff members were killed, this column suggested that financial firms had an opportunity to help reduce violence by pushing for more responsible practices by the gun industry. As a result, some banks ended their relationships with gunmakers and some investors pushed manufacturers for more transparency.
Financial firms have so far resisted changing the way they deal with the sale of guns.
Banks and credit-card networks say it is not their responsibility to create systems to track gun purchases that would allow them to report suspicious patterns.
“We do not believe Visa should be in the position of setting restrictions on the sale of lawful goods or services,” said Amanda Pires, a Visa spokeswoman. “Our role in commerce is to efficiently process, protect and settle all legal payments. Asking Visa or other payment networks to arbitrate what legal goods can be purchased sets a dangerous precedent.”
A spokesman for Mastercard echoed that sentiment, emphasizing its protection of “cardholders’ independence” and the “privacy of their own purchasing decisions.”
But the financial industry is uniquely positioned to see, if it chose to do so, a potential killer’s behavior in a way that retailers, law enforcement officials, concerned family members or mental health professionals cannot.
57 Purchases in 61 Days USAA Mastercard May 10 2012 Gas mask James Holmes bought an assortment of guns, ammunition and tactical equipment in the weeks before the Aurora shooting Glock handgun 12-gauge shotgun June 1 .223 caliber AR-15 Handcuffs Shotgun sling 100-round AR-15 magazine June 15 Paper targets Bulletproof jacket Point Loma Visa Debit PayPal Combat helmet Pistol magazine July 1 Missile tube Glock handgun July 9 By The New York Times | Source: Appellate Unit Office of the District Attorney, 18th Judicial District
A little more than a month before James E. Holmes killed 12 people and injured 70 others at a Century 16 movie theater in Aurora, Colo., in 2012, a psychiatrist was considering having him involuntarily committed. Mr. Holmes quit his job, filed for unemployment benefits and used a new Mastercard issued by USAA to help buy more than $11,000 in weapons and military gear. He bought two tear-gas grenades, a gas mask and filter, a .40-caliber Glock handgun, a 12-gauge shotgun, a .223-caliber AR-15, a 100-round drum magazine, two 40-round magazines, a laser sight, a bulletproof vest, 5,000 rounds of ammunition, two sets of handcuffs and “road stars” meant to slice through car tires.
“This was a civilian making these orders, not the police and not the military,” said Sandy Phillips, whose daughter, Jessica, died in the attack. “Someone should have noticed.”
Read the Previous Columns:
How Banks Could Control Gun Sales if Washington Won’t
Big Investors Have Clout. They Can Use It With Gun Makers.
Citigroup Acted. Now, Two New Ideas on How Banks Can Limit Gun Sales.
Finding Fraud, but Not Firearms
When it comes to certain crimes, banks are on the front lines. They crunch transaction data to protect their customers from fraudulent purchases — often identifying stolen credit cards within seconds — and to detect money laundering, funding of terrorist organizations and other crimes.
Banks are required to report transactions of $10,000 or more by a single person, even if those transactions are legal. And after the Sept. 11 terror attacks, the government enacted even stricter rules under the Patriot Act: Banks must file so-called Suspicious Activity Reports for transactions involving more than $5,000 that the financial institution “has reason to suspect” are part of a plan to “violate or evade any federal law.”
A labyrinth of rules prevents banks and credit-card networks — many of which also handle debit card transactions — from seeing exactly what customers are buying. Retailers have historically resisted providing item-by-item information — known as SKU-level data, a reference to the stock-keeping unit number of an item — for fear that banks would sell that information or use it to steer customers to rival merchants.
In the case of gun purchases, even the nature of the retailer can be obscure: The Merchant Category Code, which identifies the type of store that sold an item, is the same for gun shops and sporting goods stores.
But retailers have the ability to send far more detailed transaction information.
A feature known as a “boxcar” allows retailers to tag transactions with extra data. It is often used by online retailers to send the bank details about consumer behavior, such as the device used to make a purchase and the location of the buyer.
If banks required retailers to transmit details on sales of guns and ammunition, they would be able to make more informed decisions about transactions.
Walmart and Dick’s Sporting Goods this year announced that they would not sell firearms to anyone under 21. If banks chose to use the systems they already have in place, they might decide to monitor such customers, perhaps preventing them from buying multiple guns in a short period of time.
“They can fine-tune their own systems, because in these cases the suspicious purchasing patterns could have been picked up on and quite frankly should have been picked up on,” said Mr. Sullivan, the Anti-Money Laundering Training Academy president.
Banks could also add information about gun sales to the infrastructure they already use to help the government investigate other criminal activity.
“We need to step back and think about what tools we use to combat terrorism and money-laundering and think about the financial rules associated with the Patriot Act,” said John Streur, chief executive of Calvert Investments, a mutual fund firm that is an advocate for responsible investing. “In a very real sense, I think these mass shootings are terrorism.”
Moving Money and Buying Guns
The shooting at the Route 91 Harvest music festival in Las Vegas last year was described as the worst mass murder on American soil since the Sept. 11 terror attacks. The gunman, Stephen Paddock, killed 58 people and injured more than 800.
When his body was found on the 32nd floor of the Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino, the police noticed four credit cards scattered across the kitchenette countertop next to his hotel key card.
His rooms were filled with two dozen firearms and thousands of rounds of ammunition. He spent nearly $95,000 on firearms and gun-related purchases in the year before the massacre, buying some 55 guns, according to the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department’s report. Police have not disclosed details of how Mr. Paddock paid for his guns. Some transactions were in cash, but law enforcement officials said he also bought firearms online.
Unlike most other mass killers, Mr. Paddock was wealthy. He spent over $600,000 at casinos in the two years leading up to the massacre, and paid over $170,000 to credit card companies. Law enforcement officials saw the full picture of his gun purchases only after they talked to the banks, but they wish they could have connected the dots in advance.
Stephen Paddock had two dozen guns and four credit cards inside his hotel room when he opened fire on a music festival in Las Vegas last year. David Becker/Getty Images
“They have all the infrastructure in place,” said Joseph Moreno, a former federal counterterrorism prosecutor and a staff member of the F.B.I.’s 9/11 Review Commission who is now a partner at Cadwalader. “A.T.F. is already involved in S.A.R.s task forces,” he said, referring to suspicious-activity reports. “It would just be tweaking it to consider firearm-related information.”
An Industry Falls Silent
Over the last several months, I have spoken to senior executives at the country’s largest banks and credit card companies who were taken aback when I presented them with the list of shootings that involved their cards: Virginia Tech in 2007, Binghamton in 2009, Fort Hood in 2009, Aurora in 2012, San Bernardino in 2015, Orlando in 2016, Sutherland Springs in 2017 and Las Vegas in 2017. That list is based on interviews and hundreds of documents including police reports and credit card receipts. It may actually underreport the use of credit cards in shootings: In some cases the payment method could not be learned.
While some executives expressed grief and were open to discussing possible solutions, virtually none were willing to speak about them on the record for fear of upsetting gun-rights advocates and politicians invoking the Second Amendment. Some raised the prospect that by trying to help they would be held responsible if the system failed. Others made a slippery-slope argument: If they were to police gun sales, should they do the same for alcohol in an effort to prevent drunk-driving deaths?
After the school shooting in Parkland, Citibank and Bank of America said they would no longer finance or advise gun manufacturers, while investment firms like BlackRock and pension funds like Calpers, the retirement fund for public employees in California, said they would demand more information from the gunmakers they invested in.
Several payment systems — including PayPal, Square and Apple Pay — already had established rules that ban the sale of guns and gun-related items using their systems.
But no bank has instituted a ban or committed to tracking gun purchases.
The inside of the nightclub where Mr. Mateen killed 49 people. Orlando Police Department
John Shrewsberry, chief financial officer of Wells Fargo — which counts the National Rifle Association as a client — has dismissed the notion that banks should regulate the use of its credit cards for gun purchases.
“The best way to make progress on these issues is through the political and legislative process,” he said in April on a conference call with investors.
There may be good reason that no bank executive wants to talk out loud about guns: In October, Senator John Kennedy, Republican of Louisiana, introduced a bill, the No Red and Blue Banks Act, which would “prohibit the federal government from giving contracts to banks that discriminate against lawful businesses based solely on social policy considerations.”
The bill was directed at banks that changed their policies regarding guns.
“Our friends at Citigroup and Bank of America apparently aren’t busy enough with their banking business; they have decided that they are going to set policy for the Second Amendment,” Mr. Kennedy wrote on Twitter.
And a policy expert at the American Civil Liberties Union recently expressed concern about how efforts to prevent mass shootings could infringe on individual rights.
“The implication of expecting the government to detect and prevent every mass shooting is believing the government should play an enormously intrusive role in American life,” Jay Stanley, senior policy analyst at the A.C.L.U. Speech, Privacy, and Technology Project, wrote in July.
Not all the concerns involve privacy or politics. Some are practical.
George Brauchler, the district attorney who oversaw the investigation of Mr. Holmes after the Aurora shooting, said the deluge of data the police receive already presents challenge.
“To some extent we are looking for a needle in a haystack and that haystack keeps getting bigger and bigger,” he said.
The data could inform old-fashioned police work that might or might not lead to something more, he said.
“Do I wish someone from law enforcement had been able to go to his door and knock on his door and figure out a way to talk their way into it or to freak him out?" he said of Mr. Holmes. “Yeah, absolutely.”
Lives and Opportunities Lost
A vigil after the Pulse shooting. Carolyn Cole/Los Angeles Times, via Getty Images
Jared L. Loughner had the Chase Visa he used to buy a 9-millimeter Glock handgun in the pocket of his jeans when he shot Representative Gabrielle Giffords in the head outside a Tucson supermarket on Jan. 8, 2011. She survived, but six people died.
“There are a lot of steps that credit card companies can take that could prevent some of the tragic gun violence in the country,” said Adam Skaggs, chief counsel of the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. “For companies to say they can’t solve the entire problem and therefore shouldn’t take any steps is just blindly ignoring what they can contribute to the solution.”
Elected officials could force the financial system to act.
In 29 states, consumers cannot use credit cards to buy lottery tickets because legislators don’t want consumers racking up debt gambling. And under the Gun Control Act of 1968, firearms dealers must report if someone buys two or more handguns in a span of five business days.
That requirement can be evaded simply by buying at more than one store, but a system involving the banks and credit card networks could have the opportunity to flag the purchases.
After the Pulse shooting, JPMorgan Chase committed more than $300,000 to support the victims and their families. One of the 49 people killed was a Chase employee: Christopher Sanfeliz, 24, a personal banker at a branch in Tampa who had worked his way up from teller after taking business classes at Hillsborough Community College.
Mr. Sanfeliz’s father, Carlos, was surprised to learn that the same industry that once employed his son had unwittingly bankrolled other shootings.
“Something needs to be done to prevent more attacks,” he said. “I live with this torment every day of my life.”

Story 193
Few industries have been rocked by digital disruption as much as banking. This is particularly evident in the payments space, where dominant incumbents must contend with a dizzying onslaught of challenges.
According to a report from Accenture, new payment solutions from digital competitors, fintechs and challenger banks are now “threatening the very existence of traditional players.”
And despite the plethora of options consumers have today, they consciously think about payments less than they have in the past. As Accenture explains, payments in the digital age are quickly becoming “invisible.” For example, Accenture cites voice-enabled solutions powered by natural language processing as an emerging trend that could not only upend traditional physical payments but even newer mobile payment tools. Given the popularity of Alexa and its ilk, that’s not at all far-fetched.
Other trends, such as the increasing use of person-to-person mobile payments via Venmo, Zelle, Square’s Cash App, “tap and go” payments, digital wallets, and various faster-pay initiatives are all pushing the payments envelope.
In other parts of the world, where more traditional forms of payments aren’t as deeply rooted as they are in the West, mobile payments and digital wallets have become the default. China, for instance, already leads the world with mobile digital wallets accounting for 40% of in-person spending, according to McKinsey — almost all of it is on nonbank platforms — and that’s not even counting digital commerce.
Here in the U.S., however, where credit and debit cards have been entrenched for decades, and cash remains strong, digital payments have grown steadily, but not exponentially… yet. But the consensus is that they will. And if banks and credit unions invest in their payments ecosystem strategically, Accenture says there is potential for 30% revenue growth by 2022.
Looking ahead, what should retail executives in the banking industry focus on? Here are seven of the biggest trends that will shake up payments in the year to come.
1. Big Threats From Big Tech (GAFA… and Beyond)
How much larger will the role of the GAFA gang — Google, Apple, Facebook and Amazon — become in payments? With GooglePay and Apple Pay already in place, and Amazon expressing interest in offering some form of transaction account, this is literally a billion-dollar question.
CapGemini considers the GAFA incursion as one of the top payment trends to watch in 2019.
“By integrating payments into their platforms and developing their own digital ecosystems,” the consulting firm wrote in a paper on payments trends, “big techs are making a foray into payments.”
There is also a real chance that Chinese e-commerce giants — Alibaba’s AliPay and Tencent’s WeChat Pay in particular — could impact the U.S. market. Experts warn that it would be a strategic mistake for traditional players in the U.S. to underestimate them. They are actively extending their reach across the Pacific, with WeChat Pay having already announced a cross-border payment app in partnership with Travelex for Chinese tourists to shop at U.S. retailers.
“The nightmare for the U.S. financial industry is that a technology company — whether from China or a homegrown juggernaut such as Amazon or Facebook —replicates the success of Alipay and WeChat in America,” caution analysts with Bloomber. “The stakes are enormous, potentially carving away billions of dollars in annual revenue from major banks and other firms.”
Bloomberg acknowledges that U.S. banks enjoy “formidable advantages” in the payments game, including longstanding customer relationships. As industry after industry has seen, however, consumer relationships with brands can change overnight if a better, easier, more intuitive, or cheaper option comes along.
U.S. consumers also have a long-standing love affair with their credit and debit cards. They are easy to use, and afford fraud protection — particularly credit cards. In any event, most digital payment options at this point in this country — even person-to-person — are essentially different form factors for credit card and checking-account payments.
Still, the biggest risk here for U.S. financial institutions is complacency. As Mark Ranta, ACI’s head of Digital Enablement, warns, the “risk of inactivity will be front and center in 2019,” as early movers will start to capitalize on global trends and changes. Ranta urges banks and credit unions roll up their sleeves and wade into the “new payments ecosystem,” or risk being left behind.
REGISTER FOR THIS FREE WEBINAR Branding Retail-Based ATMs: What’s The ROI? ATM distribution plays a key role in this new world. How do you optimize your existing footprint yet find the resources to grow and defend markets? Enter your corporate email address
2. Payments Baked Into The Customer Experience
As Accenture notes, the simplicity and convenience consumers enjoy on e-commerce platforms has altered their behavior. New payment methods introduced by non-banking players such as Google, Apple, Facebook, and Amazon have raised the bar by changing the way consumers experience payments.
Jordan McKee, Research Director at 451 Research, says there is growing recognition in banking and retail circles alike that payments serve as a “critical digital experience factor that directly influences customers’ likelihood of converting and returning, resulting in an enhanced focus on the role of payments in powering digital commerce experiences.”
As evidence on the retail side, McKee points to the various private-label digital wallets such as Kohl’s Pay wallet as well as order-ahead apps like Shake Shack’s “Shack App”.
Ranta suggests a way that banks and credit unions can boost the consumer payment experience. As more and more functionality moves to the mobile device, he says, payment controls can go beyond the simple on/off debit card function. By integrating the appropriate applications, the financial institution can offer something closer to mobile-based control of consumers’ total payment experience within one app, no matter how or where they are transacting.
3. All Data, All The Time
Transaction data represents a vast trove of information about consumer behavior that can be used to personalize the customer experience and specific product offerings. E-commerce giants figured that out long ago, but financial institutions have only recently begun to leverage this data at scale.
Already major payment industry players are building analytics capabilities to harness payments data, Deloitte reports. Advanced payments analytics are key to better understanding the consumer and to help financial institutions drive growth and assess risk.
Individual transaction-level data can help banks and credit unions learn about consumers’ interests, hobbies, and financial position, CapGemini explains. That can translate into meaningful insights for cross-selling and upselling products and services. Machine learning software can combine transaction data with data from other sources to model the characteristics of each account and predict the most appropriate offer for each customer.
Half of U.S. shoppers want location-based discounts sent to their smartphone, according to data from CapGemini. Consumers also want a personalized experience that recognizes and rewards their purchases and engagement. Three quarters of shoppers think loyalty programs should reflect their preferences, and banking providers can now personalize and target loyalty rewards for a specific individual. All this CapGemini calls “data-activated marketing” — marketing based on customers’ real-time needs, interests, and behavior.
4. Omnichannel Payments on The Rise
Just as consumers expect to buy anytime, anywhere, and anyway they choose, they are no longer partial to just one payment method. They are using whichever channel and payments method suits them — what several sources call omnichannel payments.
As technology has evolved, payments that were once location-focused (in-store versus online, for example) are now device-enabled, according to CapGemini. For example, payments are already being injected into new disruptive technologies such as voice assistants and IoT devices.
Putting some specific figures to the omnichannel payments trends, PwC’s annual holiday survey revealed that 91% of consumers planned to shop in stores vs. 84% online. Three-quarters said they would shop both online and in stores.
Payment choices are mixed as well, with almost 30% of consumers saying they will use smart payments in stores this holiday — 24% by smartphone and 16% by wearable, with some using both. As shown below, high-earning Millennials (aged 23-36 earning $70,000 or more annually) are much more likely to pay by smartphone as consumers overall.
Mobile commerce is on the move, PwC notes, resulting in a blurring of the lines between shopping and entertainment. For instance, sizeable numbers of consumers now use shoppable photos (click on part the image to buy something shown), buy buttons, videos, and gamification, especially younger consumers.

Story 194
Send this page to someone via email
Cannabis buyers who are concerned about using credit cards should use cash if possible, the federal privacy commissioner said in a strongly worded statement Tuesday.
“Cannabis is illegal in most jurisdictions outside of Canada,” the statement warns.
“The personal information of cannabis users is therefore very sensitive. For example, some countries may deny entry to individuals if they know they have purchased cannabis, even lawfully.” Tweet This
“If you are concerned about using your credit card, and the option is available, consider using cash to purchase cannabis.”
(In much of the country, that’s easier said than done, though. B.C. has one legal cannabis store, Quebec has only 12 stores to serve a population of over eight million, and Ontario won’t have any at all until April of next year, at which point it will open only 25.)
Story continues below advertisement
In mid-October, U.S. border officials said they might bar Canadians from the U.S. for legal marijuana use in Canada if a border officer decides they are likely to consume it in the United States. U.S. law allows them to bar people for life for past marijuana use, even if it was legal where it happened.
WATCH: B.C. woman banished from U.S. gets second chance

However, U.S. immigration lawyers who follow the issue say that since Oct. 17, that seems not to be happening in practice. The only known case of a Canadian being barred from the U.S. for cannabis-related reasons since legalization involved a B.C. man who had invested in a growing facility in Nevada.
Cannabis sellers shouldn’t record data about buyers if it can be avoided, the statement says:
“One way to minimize the possibility of disclosure to foreign governments (given that cannabis use is not legal in most other jurisdictions), and reduce the impacts of a data breach, or other incidents that reveal purchasers’ names or other personal information, is to refrain from recording customers’ personal information.” Tweet This
WATCH: Past marijuana conviction could still prevent U.S. border crossing
0:19 Past marijuana conviction could still prevent U.S. border crossing Past marijuana conviction could still prevent U.S. border crossing
Sellers should also pay attention to where the customer data they do have is stored.
“Keep in mind that storing data in the Cloud or in proprietary software means there is likely transfer or storage of that personal information outside of Canada, which could then potentially be accessed by foreign law enforcement. … [P]otential access to this data by foreign governments is of particular concern, which means it will generally be more privacy protective to store personal information on a server located in Canada.”
WATCH: Canadian lawyer questions government advice to be honest at U.S. border
2:55 Canadian lawyer questions government advice to be honest at U.S. border Canadian lawyer questions government advice to be honest at U.S. border
Customers, for their part, should ask sellers what country their data will end up in, and boycott sellers who don’t give them a good answer.
Story continues below advertisement

Story 195
Courtesy of Wealthfront
The battle for deposits by financial institutions and fintech companies continues to heat up, and it bodes well for your wallet.
On Tuesday, Wealthfront announced that it increased the rate on its online-only cash account to 2.51 percent APY — making it the top-yielding account nationwide, per Bankrate data. The rate also blows past the national average savings account rate of 0.1 percent.
It marks the second time the fintech company has raised the rate on a product it launched in mid-February. Most recently, Wealthfront was offering a 2.29 percent yield.
Account details
There is a lot to like about the Wealthfront Cash Account, which you can open with as little as a dollar. As a customer, you will also have unlimited free transfers to move money in and out of your account, and impressively, there are no fees. You will get free access to Path, its robo-planning software. If you open the account, you will also get up to $1 million in FDIC insurance.
Importantly, Wealthfront isn’t offering a basic savings account — it is not a bank. Rather, Wealthfront is offering a cash management account, which sweeps your deposits into FDIC member institutions. But again, the Wealthfront Cash Account is a fully insured place to park your money. Other fintech firms, like Aspiration, use this model, too.
The signup process ought to happen quickly. On its website, Wealthfront says it takes only a couple of minutes to set up an account, putting it in the group of institutions and fintech firms that have found ways to help you open an account in minutes.
Why Wealthfront is raising the account rate again
Weathfront is raising the rate on its cash account again for a simple reason: to grab your cash deposits at a time when you have ever-more options and rate is relevant again.
Because the company doesn’t operate branches, it can afford to pass on a higher rate to you. As Wealthfront wrote in a blog post announcing the news: “We fundamentally believe that your money should be making money for you, not your bank, and we’ve built our entire business around this belief. As our service scales, we benefit from cost savings that we’ll always pass on to you. When rates improve, that’s yours too.”
What this means for you
A higher rate is good for your bottom line, and there is a reasonable chance you are overdue to open a new account at a time when rates are higher. Almost seven in 10 Americans (69 percent) have bank accounts paying less than 2 percent APY, according to a recent Bankrate study.
If you are looking for a new account for your short-term needs, Wealthfront is a good option to consider. But shop around because rates change regularly. Already, you can find a number of banks and fintech companies offering tempting yields on savings accounts and money market accounts. For example, WebBank offers 2.5 percent APY on a savings account, as does Customers Bank. If you don’t need easy access to your funds, you can earn higher rates on certificates of deposits. Capital One, for example, currently pays 2.7 percent APY on a one-year CD.
You can compare savings accounts on Bankrate to find a high-yield account that fits your needs.
Also, keep in mind that the Wealthfront cash account is still very young. If you open an account, you will have to wait on features, like a debit card, direct deposit and auto bill pay — all of which the company says is in its pipeline.
Learn more:

Story 196
FairFX provides currency cards, currency and payments services as well as owning Card One, a digital banking services business, and City Forex FairFX
The travel money and payments company FairFX has warned that Britain’s looming exit from the European Union has hit its business, even as it announced a surge in revenues.
Turnover more than doubled to £2.36 billion last year, boosted by acquisitions, while adjusted earnings before interest, taxes and other charges is forecast to have jumped to about £7.5 million from £1 million in 2017, the company said in a trading update.
However, its shares slumped by 8¾p, or 8.2 per cent, yesterday to close at 98¼p after it said that a plan to overhaul its supply chain and improve margins in its corporate card business had fallen behind schedule and that despite the surge in revenues and profits, the pound’s weakness amid Brexit worries had…

Story 197
Given the vast number of savings products out there, spread across all manner of different types, it may be difficult to determine which is the best one. Indeed, you may be disappointed to find that there's not a single best savings deal we can point to as the absolute number one.
Sure, there will be the account with the highest interest rate, and that might be perfect for you, but it won't be right for everyone. Standard high interest savings accounts in the form of fixed rate bonds are good for those who have a lot of cash to put away and don't mind losing access to their money for five years or more.
Alternatively, you might want a high interest savings account in the form of a regular saver, which, as stated above, will offer potentially the highest rates of interest you can find, but won't usually allow you to put aside more than £500 per month. As you can see, even picking out the highest interest savings account isn't straightforward.
To find the best deal for you, you will need to know how to compare savings accounts. Once you know what type of account you want, you can look at the best savings account interest rates available in your search, but you may want to look a bit closer before you decide. How will you be able to open and manage the account? What is the minimum investment limit, and do you have enough? Is it a variable or fixed rate? Is early access allowed? How is interest paid out?
These are all important questions to ask before you pick an account, and only you will be able to answer them. So, instead of looking at who has the best savings rate, see who offers the top rate among those that fit your criteria. You may well find that this is a bank you've never heard of before, but don't be afraid - all banks and building societies featured on our charts are covered under a Depositor Protection Scheme, so your savings will be protected (up to £85,000 per person per bank for UK providers) no matter where you place them.

Story 198
Getty
OBSERVATIONS FROM THE FINTECH SNARK TANK
By now, you've probably heard of the financial services industry's version of the Payless Shoes prank: The Robinhood checking account with a high-end 3% interest rate on account balances that a lot of people were tricked into thinking was real. According to a Forbes article:
"Robinhood’s checking and savings accounts have no account minimums, no monthly fees, no overdraft fees and no foreign transaction fees. The new Mastercard debit card can be used for free at 75,000 ATMs around the country, and Robinhood will start shipping the cards to customers in January. Cash in the [accounts] is insured up to $250,000 by SIPC, according to a Robinhood spokesperson."
The game plan was to invest deposits in the account in Treasury securities. With short-term Treasury yields well below 3%, the startup brokerage firm expected to take losses on the account.
[I'm reminded of the episode of The Office where Michael Scott starts his own paper company and his accountant tells him that the price he's planning to charge will result in a loss. When asked how he expects to make a profit, Michael replies, "We'll make it up on volume."]
Turns out that the Robinhood account wasn't insured by the SIPC, though. After being mocked by the fintecherati for being nothing more than a money market account (and perhaps some scolding from regulators and a snoozing compliance department), plans for the checking account were shelved.
The Account Never Would Have Succeeded
It's just as well. It never would have succeeded for one obvious reason and one less obvious reason.
The obvious reason: It would never have been profitable. Consumers aren't dumb. If everyone else in the market is offering 1.5% interest rates (or lower), consumers figure that a 3% offer has to be an introductory offer or come with strings attached.
Robinhood claimed that the 3% rate wasn't an introductory offer. That's crazy. Unless--and until--rates rise, the company would have been looking at huge losses on the accounts. Profitability of the account would have been hammered by:
Declining interchange rates. As far as I can tell, the account didn't come with strings attached--i.e., requiring account holders to make a minimum number of purchases with the debit card. The longer-term trend in interchange rates is downward, making interchange revenue a shaky strategy to hang your hat on.
As far as I can tell, the account didn't come with strings attached--i.e., requiring account holders to make a minimum number of purchases with the debit card. The longer-term trend in interchange rates is downward, making interchange revenue a shaky strategy to hang your hat on. Reward costs. Want to get people to use your payment card? Offer better rewards. In reality, Robinhood's 3% interest rate was the reward. Despite being a superior deposit rate, it's not necessarily a vastly superior reward in light of credit cards from Bank of America card offering 3% cash back on gas purchases, and from Capital One card offering 4% cash back on restaurant spending.
Want to get people to use your payment card? Offer better rewards. In reality, Robinhood's 3% interest rate was the reward. Despite being a superior deposit rate, it's not necessarily a vastly superior reward in light of credit cards from Bank of America card offering 3% cash back on gas purchases, and from Capital One card offering 4% cash back on restaurant spending. Delivery and support costs. More than half of Millennials have their primary checking account with one of the four Megabanks. Why is that? Because those banks offer superior interest rates? Hardly. Because megabanks are kinder, gentler banks appealing to Millennials' sense of civic duty? Yeah, right. There are two reasons why Millennials bank with megabanks: 1) They don't really care who they bank with, and 2) Megabanks offer superior mobile banking tools. Robinhood would not have attracted the Millennials who bank with megabanks for the first reason. And it would have been hard-pressed to match keep up with the mobile banking innovations coming from the megabanks. Mid-size banks spend roughly $9 per active online banking customer per year and another $4 to $6 per active mobile banking customer per year. Do you think Robinhood took those costs into considerations when it slapped a 3% rate on its account?
More than half of Millennials have their primary checking account with one of the four Megabanks. Why is that? Because those banks offer superior interest rates? Hardly. Because megabanks are kinder, gentler banks appealing to Millennials' sense of civic duty? Yeah, right. There are two reasons why Millennials bank with megabanks: 1) They don't really care who they bank with, and 2) Megabanks offer superior mobile banking tools. Robinhood would not have attracted the Millennials who bank with megabanks for the first reason. And it would have been hard-pressed to match keep up with the mobile banking innovations coming from the megabanks. Mid-size banks spend roughly $9 per active online banking customer per year and another $4 to $6 per active mobile banking customer per year. Do you think Robinhood took those costs into considerations when it slapped a 3% rate on its account? Marketing costs. For sure, Robinhood would have attracted some consumers with a 3% interest rate. After all, look how well Goldman Sachs has done with its Marcus product which has offered superior rates and has amassed roughly $25 billion in assets. But Goldman spends about $80 million a year marketing Marcus. Does Robinhood have that kind of money? They would have needed it. According to consumer research conducted by Q2 and Cornerstone Advisors, about eight of 10 Younger Millennials (i.e., those in their 20s) and seven of 10 Older Millennials (in their 30s) and Gen Xers have never heard of Robinhood.
The Account Flies In The Face Of Emerging Consumer Behavior
The less obvious reason is that--despite the fact that 94% of US households have a checking account--the importance of a checking account in consumers' portfolio of financial accounts has diminished.
Checking accounts have become "paycheck motels"--temporary places for people's money to stay before it moves on to bigger and better places. Consumers get paid, and through direct deposit, put their paycheck in a checking account. But that money often leaves the account to go to:
Health savings accounts. Nearly 25 million Americans have a health savings account (HSA) with more than $44 billion sitting in those accounts. That’s $44 billion that used to go into checking accounts, but now gets diverted—typically in the payroll processing process—before the money even gets to the checking account.
Nearly 25 million Americans have a health savings account (HSA) with more than $44 billion sitting in those accounts. That’s $44 billion that used to go into checking accounts, but now gets diverted—typically in the payroll processing process—before the money even gets to the checking account. Person-to-person (P2P) payments apps. In 2018, Venmo will process more than $64 billion in P2P payments, with Square Cash doing about $30 billion. Users of these two services leave so much money in those “accounts” that both services are branching out (pun intended) into other types of banking products.
In 2018, Venmo will process more than $64 billion in P2P payments, with Square Cash doing about $30 billion. Users of these two services leave so much money in those “accounts” that both services are branching out (pun intended) into other types of banking products. Merchant apps. Got the Starbucks app on your mobile device(s)? Got money in the account? Of course you do. So do millions of other people. A conservative estimate is that there's $2 billion sitting in those accounts. It could be double that. And now other merchants are realizing the profitability of that strategy. The result: More money coming out of checking accounts.
Got the Starbucks app on your mobile device(s)? Got money in the account? Of course you do. So do millions of other people. A conservative estimate is that there's $2 billion sitting in those accounts. It could be double that. And now other merchants are realizing the profitability of that strategy. The result: More money coming out of checking accounts. Robo-advisor tools. Consulting firm AT Kearney estimates that by 2020, consumers will have more than $2 trillion sitting in robo-advisor accounts. Perhaps the more interesting and relevant prediction is that half of that will come from funds currently sitting in deposit accounts. Ironically, the success that Robinhood has had with its brokerage account is the result of this change in consumer behavior.
Consulting firm AT Kearney estimates that by 2020, consumers will have more than $2 trillion sitting in robo-advisor accounts. Perhaps the more interesting and relevant prediction is that half of that will come from funds currently sitting in deposit accounts. Ironically, the success that Robinhood has had with its brokerage account is the result of this change in consumer behavior. Saving tools. While banks offer savings accounts (with near zero interest rates over the past few years), new providers have launched savings services that actually help people save money. According to the Q2/Cornerstone research, consumers have opened roughly 7.2 million accounts at savings tools providers like Acorns and Stash and will use them to save about $5.6 billion in 2018. In contrast, consumers have opened only 3.6 million accounts with Neobanks like BankMobile, Chime and Varo, and have just $1.7 billion in those accounts. A superior rate is great but people want help saving money--at whatever rate they can get.
There's A Bigger Issue Here
The Robinhood account announcement isn't an anomaly. In the same week, another Neobank called Good Money launched. The firm--touting a 2% rate on savings, free ATM withdrawals, no overdraft fees and even ownership in the bank--promotes itself as a "socially progressive financial services provider."
Beyond the similarity in account features, there's an underlying philosophy--I would call it a malady--common to Robinhood and Good Money, as well as a number of fintech startups:
Bank Displacement Syndrome, the belief that traditional banks can be displaced with nothing more than a digital checking account.
It's fine to aspire to disrupting banks and inventing new financial products and services. But fintech startups may be vastly--and dangerously (for their own and their customers' financial health)--overestimating consumer demand for their services. Why?
There is no huge mass of disgruntled bank customers just waiting for something new to come along. In fact, JD Power has found that Millennials' satisfaction with large banks is on par with their satisfaction with smaller institutions. Younger Millennials are not the ones opening Neobank accounts. Time and again, fintech founders refer to the opportunity to serve young Millennials who reportedly need help managing their financial lives. The problem with that view: Of the 3.6 million Neobank accounts, half were opened by Gen Xers, 38% by Older Millennials.
Bank Displacement Syndrome will be the downfall of some of today's fintech startups. Fortunately for Robinhood, the firm already has a viable service in place. Other Neobanks may not be so lucky.

Story 199
OK
For optimum operation, this website makes use of cookies. For more information click here

Story 200
About Author
Gabriel Wood
Gabriel Wood is a personal finance and technology writer for NextAdvisor.com, covering personal and small business loans, VoIP, and Internet fax services. He is a graduate of American University in Washington D.C., and currently lives in Oakland. Follow him on Twitter @GabrielAdvisor.

Story 201
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
If you found yourself frustrated or confused as to why your Uber credit wasn’t showing up in your account as a holder of The Platinum Card® from American Express, you’re not alone.
When Uber introduced Uber Cash in September 2018, a change was made in how the monthly rideshare credit would appear for those cardholders.
Before Uber Cash, you’d select your AmEx card as your method of payment in the Uber app, and the $15 monthly credit ($35 in December) would automatically be applied toward the cost of the ride, with any remaining balance charged to your AmEx.
Now, you need to select Uber Cash as your payment method, as that’s where the $15 credit each month will reside.
This change may have caused some users to miss out on the perk. The good news is that American Express is offering a one-time rollover of the unused credits.
“Due to the introduction of Uber Cash, AmEx Platinum Card members who were unable to fully use their November Uber Rides with Platinum credit will be provided with a one-time credit for the unused amount of their November credit,” which will be available to use on rides through Dec. 31, 2018, says Heather A. Norton, a spokesperson for American Express. “These credits can be accessed by selecting the Uber Cash payment option.”
The potential downside is that if your ride costs more than the monthly credit, you’ll have to have funds in your Uber Cash account to pay for the balance of the ride, adding an extra step when it comes to using those credits.
Your best bet to ensure you maximize those Uber credits every month is to set up your Uber Cash account to automatically refill when the balance dips below $10, using a bank account, credit card, debit card, Venmo or PayPal. Uber Cash gives you a discount when you add to your account: 5% when you add $100, 3% when you add $50, and 2% when you add $25.
Just make sure you pick Uber Cash as your payment method for your rides so you don’t miss out.

Story 202
Barclays, which issues branded credit cards for Apple, JetBlue, and the NFL, has a practice of rejecting applications from former customers who have fallen behind on payments, even if they've improved their credit history.
The bank's practice of not pulling credit reports for former customers is uncommon among banks willing to discuss it.
Other banks say they always request credit reports, even for former customers.
Few financial sectors are as deeply embedded in the lives of Americans as the credit-card industry. It aims to protect consumers from fraudulent transactions, volatile incomes, and lost wallets. Certain credit cards offer attractive perks, such as free travel and cash back, while others are more likely to trap consumers in endless cycles of accumulating debt.
Most significant, its products underpin the US credit-reporting system, which governs access to home mortgages, automobile loans, and credit cards themselves. Who has access to credit, and how that access is determined, matters a great deal.
I had to relearn this lesson last year after I embarked on improving my credit history by applying for a number of cards. I did so to decrease my "credit-utilization rate," which refers to the percentage of available credit you're using. Nearly a third of an individual's credit score, as calculated by the Fair Isaac Corp., or FICO, is based on this statistic.
While the bulk of my efforts succeeded, in a few cases my applications were rejected. My search for an explanation led to obscure online forums in which credit-card enthusiasts spoke of "blacklists" and "lifetime bans," and to an overlooked corner of the industry that dictates the availability of consumer credit.
My personal process for obtaining credit was essentially random and heavily influenced by advertising. I applied for one card because I saw an online ad for it, another because a credit-monitoring app recommended it to me, and still another because an airline attendant handed me a physical trifold application. Most of these were approved. But two cards turned me down: the Uber Visa Card and the AAdvantage Aviator Red World Elite MasterCard.
At first glance, these cards have nothing to do with each other. They're associated with different companies and belong to competing payment networks. But according to their rejection letters, and the fine print on each card's website, they have one important thing in common: They're both issued by Barclays, the British multinational bank.
Founded in London in 1690, Barclays is one of the oldest banks on earth. It entered the US credit-card market in 2004, with its acquisition of Juniper Bank, and now holds more than $24 billion in consumer credit-card debt.
Besides Uber and American Airlines, it issues cards for consumer brands like the National Football League, Frontier Airlines, Barnes & Noble, Priceline, JetBlue, and Apple. Barclays has established its US presence in other ways too. It owns the naming rights to Barclays Center, the massive indoor arena in Brooklyn, as well as Atlantic Avenue–Barclays Center, the subway station underneath the arena. It's the busiest train station of New York City's most populous borough.
A few weeks after I applied for the Uber and AAdvantage cards, I received letters from Barclays Bank Delaware, the subsidiary that operates the bank's US credit-card business. Except for the name of the card, both had the same language:
"We have reviewed your application and determined that we are unable to approve you for … the following reason(s): Our records indicate that a previous credit card account that you held with Barclays Bank Delaware experienced charge-off, bankruptcy, severe delinquency or other negative performance. A credit bureau report was not used in making this determination."
My initial reaction was confusion: I didn't remember ever having a credit card through Barclays. But when I went back and looked through my old emails, I discovered that I previously had two such cards: one associated with Apple and another with Sallie Mae. I remember applying for and using both cards, but I'd forgotten they were serviced by Barclays.
The embarrassing thing is that both letters were largely accurate. Several years ago, I paid a debt-settlement company to contact each of my creditors to negotiate a lower balance and a repayment schedule. To open those negotiations, however, I first needed to stop making payments on them. That’s probably why Barclays mentioned "severe delinquency."
It ended up working out. The company reduced the balance of the first card by about $850 and the second one by $1,000. I eventually paid off those and a few other accounts, thereby avoiding bankruptcy. My credit score, after taking a nosedive, has inched upward since.
The letters from Barclays drew my curiosity because, for a few years after the aforementioned negotiations, I was rejected by every credit card I applied for, and for the same reason: My credit score and credit history, as recorded by the three major credit-reporting bureaus, were in disarray. This was discouraging but not entirely hopeless. After all, there are ways to improve both.
The Barclays letters, by contrast, seemed to suggest that my eligibility for another Barclays credit card had been revoked, because their internal file for me overrode my external credit history. They wouldn't even ask for it, as stated in the last sentence of the bank's explanation: "A credit bureau report was not used in making this determination."
"Several different things go into underwriting criteria," Barclays spokesman Matt Fields said. "We definitely use all three credit bureaus. They are used dozens and dozens and dozens of times every day for new customers. Another piece of that, though, is that we do look at whether an applicant has a past or current relationship with us."
Fields added that, while no two applications are alike, the bank followed certain guidelines when assessing them. "Let's say someone had a previous relationship with us, where they charged off," he went on. "As a general practice, we are not looking to do business with someone who has not honored their obligations with us."
I later found other people in a similar position. They had flocked to online forums devoted to credit cards (and associated rewards programs) to complain about being placed on the so-called Barclays blacklist and receiving a "lifetime ban" from the bank. Some detailed their frustrating experiences with the bank's customer-service representatives, who struggled to explain their employer's policy.
Two things make that policy especially confusing. The first is that the majority of their cards carry the branding of other companies. Of the 23 cards it issues, only three are primarily branded as Barclays. Of the remaining 20 cards, only five carry a small Barclays logo on the front of the card. The websites of the remaining 15 cards — none of which have obvious Barclays branding, and which account for 65% of the bank's offerings — bury their Barclays affiliations in fine print.
This arrangement isn't problematic in and of itself. Branded credit cards are not new. But it gets confusing when paired with Barclays' policy of rejecting former customers based on the bank's internal records, rather than external credit reports.
If you had a credit card through JetBlue, which offered JetBlue-specific rewards, you likely associated that credit card with JetBlue. So it would seem counterintuitive for Barclays, which operates JetBlue's credit card, to reject you for a credit card associated with a different company simply because that company also contracted with Barclays.
The second thing that makes this confusing is that the degree to which Barclays' relies on internal records to evaluate former cardholders who became delinquent — to the point of ignoring their updated credit history, even if that history has been rehabilitated — appears to be uncommon in the credit-card industry, at least among the institutions that were willing to discuss the practice.
I came to this conclusion by asking the largest credit-card issuers in the US about their policies. Three of the five largest issuers — JP Morgan Chase, Capital One, Bank of America — confirmed to Business Insider that they always pull an applicant's credit report when they apply for a new line of credit. Wells Fargo, a smaller issuer, confirmed it does so as well.
Other banks were less willing to discuss this aspect of their operations. Citigroup, US Bancorp, and Discover declined to comment. American Express and Synchrony did not respond to multiple requests for comment. In fact, Barclays was the only bank willing to confirm that it rejects former cardholders who became delinquent, without seeking their credit reports, as a matter of policy.
In 2017, the top 10 issuers of credit cards in the US held a combined $712 billion in credit-card debt. Slightly more than half of that debt, $358.5 billion, was held by banks that always consider external credit reports. The remaining $353.5 billion belonged to banks that either ignored external credit reports for certain applicants (in the case of Barclays) or refused to disclose their practices.
Their differing responses, or lack of responses, are noteworthy because the US closely regulates how consumer credit histories may be used to make underwriting decisions. Since 1970, when the Fair Credit Reporting Act became law, consumers have had the right to obtain a copy of their credit histories from Experian, Equifax, and TransUnion. They can also challenge the accuracy of those histories. In most cases, adverse information is automatically removed after seven years.
At the same time, the law doesn't require banks to consider those credit histories when assessing the risk of a prior customer. And that can lead to inconsistent policies across different issuers.
"It certainly depends on the lender as there is no rule one way or the other," said John Ulzheimer, who has studied and written about the credit-card industry for nearly three decades. "Your previous performance with a lender is absolutely considered if and when you make future applications with that same lender.
"If you defaulted on or discharged previous debts with a lender they may simply choose to never do business with you again as a matter of policy."
Most issuers do both, he added: "They'll review their own master file for previous performance records and then, if that's satisfactory, they'll pull a credit report and credit score as a basis for their decision."
A certain degree of inconsistency among financial institutions is understandable: It's not as if competing issuers coordinate, or would want to coordinate, their underwriting processes. But when only a handful of institutions decide who gets credit, and how much, those inconsistencies take on a greater weight. They exist in tension with the fact that having good credit, which heavily depends on access to credit, is a necessity for more and more of our lives.
Fields, the Barclays spokesman, clarified that the bank sometimes reverses rejections if it's made aware of "extenuating circumstances," and encouraged me to call the bank's customer service line to ask about my case. He didn't know how long Barclays retains records about former customers. But the upshot of our conversation was clear: Because of my prior history with Barclays, I would likely be unable to obtain another credit card through them, at least for a while.
Later, when I called their help line, a Barclays representative told me that he couldn't discuss my applications or the underlying reasons they were rejected, because it had been more than 90 days since I applied. I would need to reapply for both and then contest the inevitable rejection letters.
A particular practice at a particular bank — and a relatively small one, at least in the US — can't fully explain the broader system to which it belongs. Obviously, Barclays is not legally or morally obligated to extend a line of credit to me or anyone else. But the power Barclays and its peers exert on the personal lives of Americans should not be ignored.
Credit doesn't just dictate what kind of cellphone you can buy, or whether you can consolidate student loans under a lower interest rate. It can also influence where you live, where you work, and whom you marry.
Remember this the next time you apply for a credit card.

Story 203
The European Commission is today proposing to make cross-border payments in euro cheaper across the entire EU. Under current rules, there is no difference for euro area residents or businesses if they carry out euro transactions in their own country or with another euro area Member State.
Today's proposal aims to extend this benefit to people and businesses in non-euro countries. This will allow all consumers and businesses to fully reap the benefits of the Single Market when they send money, withdraw cash or pay abroad. All intra-EU cross-border payments in euro outside the euro area will now be priced the same – with small or zero fees - as domestic payments in the local official currency. Moreover, the Commission is today proposing to bring more transparency and competition to currency conversion services when consumers are buying goods or services in a different currency than their own.
Valdis Dombrovskis, Vice-President responsible for Financial Stability, Financial Services and Capital Markets Union, said: "With today's proposal we are granting citizens and businesses in non-euro area countries the same conditions as euro area residents when making cross-border payments in euro. All Europeans will be able to transfer money cross-border, in euro, at the same cost as they would pay for a domestic transaction. Today's proposal will also require full transparency in currency conversion when consumers are paying by card in a country which does not have the same currency as their own."
Consumers and businesses in the euro area already benefit from very low fees for cross-border payments in euro, thanks to the introduction of the cross-border payments regulation in 2001. Under current rules, there is no difference for euro area residents or businesses if they carry out euro transactions in their own country or with another euro area Member State. Today's proposal aims to extend this benefit to people and businesses in non-euro countries whenever they travel or pay abroad, putting an end to the high cost of intra-EU cross-border transactions in euro.
In particular, this proposal provides that fees charged for cross-border payments in euro are the same that would be charged for equivalent domestic payments in the local currency. This will bring down fees to a few euro or even cents. For example, a cross-border credit transfer in euro (EUR) from Bulgaria will be priced the same as a domestic Bulgarian lev (BGN) credit transfer. This is a major change, as fees for a simple credit transfer can be exorbitant in some non-euro area Member States (up to EUR 24 for a transfer of EUR 10!). Today's hefty fees are an obstacle to the Single Market as they create barriers to cross-border activities of households (buying goods or services in another currency zone) and businesses, in particular SMEs. This creates a major gap between euro area residents who benefit from the single currency, and non-euro area residents who can only make cheap transactions within their own country.
Today's proposal will also bring about transparency on payments that involve different Union currencies. At the moment, consumers are usually not informed or aware of the cost of a transaction that involves a currency conversion. The proposal will therefore require that consumers are fully informed of the cost of a currency conversion before they make such payment (e.g. with their card abroad, be it a cash withdrawal at an ATM or a card payment at a point of sale, or online). This means they will be able to compare the costs of different conversion options to make a fair choice. Recent findings show that consumers have been complaining about dynamic currency conversion practices - i.e. paying abroad in their home currency – and asking for their ban after having found that they were losing out in the majority of the cases studied. The lack of necessary information to make the best choice often results in consumers being unfairly led towards the more expensive currency conversion option. The European Banking Authority will be tasked with drafting the necessary Regulatory Technical Standard to implement this enhanced transparency.
The legislative proposal will now be submitted to the European Parliament and Council for adoption.
Background
A key priority of the Juncker Commission is building a deeper and fairer Single Market, which allows people, services, goods and capital to move freely in an economy with an annual Gross Domestic Product of EUR 15 trillion. The Single Market also aims to give consumers access to better products and cheaper prices, thanks to greater competition. The European Commission has already taken a lot of steps to empower and protect European consumers in financial services: the Payment Account Directive grants all EU residents access to a basic bank account; the Payment Services Directive brings about significantly increased payment security; and the Commission's proposed pan-European personal pensions (PEPP) Regulation will offer greater choice when saving for retirement. In March 2017, the European Commission published an Action Plan setting out a strategy to strengthen the EU single market for consumer financial services. The Commission is now delivering on the first two actions of this Action Plan: tackling transparency and fees in cross-border transactions. Cross-border payments are crucial for the integration of the EU economy and play an important role in bringing together EU citizens and businesses. Restrictions and excessive costs affecting cross-border payments are an impediment to the completion of the Single Market.
To prepare these amendments to Regulation 924/2009, the Commission carried out a public consultation from July to October 2017 to gather stakeholders' views on the best way forward to complete the objective of reducing the cost of cross-border payments in the EU. In responding to the public consultation, payment services users (consumers or businesses) all put forward the high price they pay for cross-border transactions as well as the lack of transparency of fees charged to them. Payment services providers largely insisted on the difference between payments in euro that were straight-through-processed (i.e. processed automatically without manual intervention) and the far less efficient and hence more costly processing of payments in other currencies.
For more information
MEMO
Factsheet
Text of today's proposal
General information on Cross Border Payments

Story 204
Welcome to Consumer Reports.
We’re so glad to have you as a member. You now have access to benefits that can help you choose right, be safe and stay informed.

Story 205
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
With similar names and many of the same perks, it may seem like the Discover it® Student Cash Back could be the Discover it® Student chrome’s stunt double, or vice versa.
But there is one main difference between the two credit cards — their rewards rates and structures.
The Discover it® Student chrome offers decent ongoing rewards in specific categories, while the Discover it® Student Cash Back credit card earns a higher rate on spending categories that change quarterly.
Both choices are worthy candidates as starter cards, but your spending habits can point you toward the best option.
» MORE: NerdWallet’s best student credit cards
What’s the same for both
Neither card has an annual fee.
Both cards offer a similar sign-up bonus and an introductory APR period.
Neither card requires you to have a FICO history, according to the issuer. (Learn about the range of credit scores, or get your free credit score on NerdWallet.)
Rewards rate
Discover it® Student chrome: Earn 2% cash back at gas stations and restaurants on up to $1,000 in combined purchases each quarter. Plus, earn unlimited 1% cash back on all other purchases – automatically.
Earn 2% cash back at gas stations and restaurants on up to $1,000 in combined purchases each quarter. Plus, earn unlimited 1% cash back on all other purchases – automatically. Discover it® Student Cash Back: Earn 5% cash back at different places each quarter like gas stations, grocery stores, restaurants or Amazon.com up to the quarterly maximum each time you activate. Plus, earn unlimited 1% cash back on all other purchases – automatically.
The current bonus categories for the Discover it® Student Cash Back are:
Discover bonus rewards categories for 2019 Q1 (Jan. 1 – March 31) • Grocery stores Q2 (April 1 – June 30) • Gas stations.
• Uber and Lyft. Q3 (July 1 – Sept. 30) • Restaurants.
• PayPal. Q4 (Oct. 1 – Dec. 31) • Amazon.com.
• Target (in store and online).
• Walmart.com.
WHICH IS BETTER?
It depends. It all comes down to your spending habits and whether you’re willing to put in a little more work for a higher rewards rate.
For a low-maintenance option, the Discover it® Student chrome will be a better bet, especially if you spend a lot on gas or dining out.
If, however, you don’t mind keeping track of bonus categories that change each quarter, the Discover it® Student Cash Back can be a potentially more lucrative option. You’ll have to activate these categories each quarter.
You might also find that some quarterly categories don’t match your spending with the Discover it® Student Cash Back. You’ll still earn 1% on all purchases, though, which is a decent rate for a student credit card.
» MORE: NerdWallet’s best Discover credit cards
Sign-up bonus
Discover it® Student chrome: Discover will match ALL the cash back you've earned at the end of your first year, automatically. There's no signing up. And no limit to how much is matched.
Discover will match ALL the cash back you've earned at the end of your first year, automatically. There's no signing up. And no limit to how much is matched. Discover it® Student Cash Back: Discover will match ALL the cash back you've earned at the end of your first year, automatically. There's no signing up. And no limit to how much is matched.
WHICH IS BETTER?
It’s a tie. They both have the same bonus and spending requirements to earn it.
» MORE: How to choose a student credit card
Interest rate
Discover it® Student chrome: 0% on Purchases for 6 months and 10.99% on Balance Transfers for 6 months, and then the ongoing APR of 14.74% - 23.74% Variable APR.
0% on Purchases for 6 months and 10.99% on Balance Transfers for 6 months, and then the ongoing APR of 14.74% - 23.74% Variable APR. Discover it® Student Cash Back: 0% on Purchases for 6 months and 10.99% on Balance Transfers for 6 months, and then the ongoing APR of 14.74% - 23.74% Variable APR.
WHICH IS BETTER?
Another tie. Both options offer a short break from interest payments if you need some time to pay off expensive textbooks or a new computer. Of course, minimum payments still apply.
Redemption requirements
Discover it® Student chrome: There’s no minimum redemption requirement (with a couple of exceptions). Redeem rewards at any amount for statement credit, a deposit into an account or by using your rewards to pay at select merchants, including Amazon. (Redeeming rewards for gift cards or instant eCertificates with Discover partners does require a minimum of $20 earned in cash back.)
There’s no minimum redemption requirement (with a couple of exceptions). Redeem rewards at any amount for statement credit, a deposit into an account or by using your rewards to pay at select merchants, including Amazon. (Redeeming rewards for gift cards or instant eCertificates with Discover partners does require a minimum of $20 earned in cash back.) Discover it® Student Cash Back: The same applies to this card.
WHICH IS BETTER?
Yet another tie. Both cards offer the same variety of redemption options. With either card, the flexibility to redeem rewards at any amount is beneficial — especially when you need money for a late-night study session or pizza run.
Which should you get?
If you want simplicity: The Discover it® Student chrome is a low-maintenance option that offers a competitive 2% cash back at gas stations and restaurants on up to $1,000 in combined purchases each quarter, and 1% back on all other purchases.
The Discover it® Student chrome is a low-maintenance option that offers a competitive 2% cash back at gas stations and restaurants on up to $1,000 in combined purchases each quarter, and 1% back on all other purchases. If you want to maximize rewards: The Discover it® Student Cash Back can offer higher rewards in specific categories, if you’re willing to put in the effort to track those categories and activate them each quarter.
DOES THE REWARDS RATE REALLY MATTER?
When it comes to student credit cards, rewards are nice — and in this case of similar cards, they can be a deciding factor — but what really matters is the opportunity to establish credit. Once you do that, you can qualify for lower interest rates in the future when you buy a car, a house or take out a loan.
Not many student or starter credit cards offer the chance to build credit while also earning rewards, but these cards are among the exceptions. Choose the one that earns the most value for your everyday spending.
Keep in mind that for either card, even if you have no credit history, that may not prevent you from qualifying. If, however, you have a credit history but it’s poor, you can consider an alternative option that looks beyond credit scores.

Story 206
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 207
Cashier's Check vs. Money Order: An Overview
If you need to pay someone and don’t want to use cash or write a personal check, you could use a money order or cashier’s check instead. Both are types of guaranteed payments, but they differ in terms of where you can buy them, what they cost and when it makes sense to use one over the other.
Key Takeaways A cashier’s check is a type of official check that banks issue.
Money orders are available in several places including the U.S. Postal Service, convenience stores, drug stores, grocery stores, and check-cashing companies.
It is usually easier to buy money orders but cashier’s checks are more secure.
Cashier’s Check
A cashier’s check is a type of official check that’s issued by a bank. It’s not to be confused with a certified check, which is also a bank-issued check.
When you purchase a cashier’s check, the bank takes the money from your checking or savings account and puts it in its own account. The bank then writes out a check to the person or business you need to pay. You’ll typically pay a fee for a cashier’s check to the bank, with the average fee at the nation’s largest banks hovering around $10.
The upside of using a cashier’s check to pay someone (or receive payment) in place of a personal check or cash is that it’s secure. Because the bank takes the money directly from your account and puts it into its own, the check is guaranteed not to bounce. That means whomever you need to pay is guaranteed to get the money. And you don’t have to worry about any overdraft or non-sufficient funds (NSF) fees, which are charged when you don’t have enough money in your account to cover a check.
Cashier’s checks aren’t entirely foolproof, however, and fraudulent cashier’s checks can feature in financial scams. A scammer may present you with what looks like an official cashier’s check, which you deposit into your account.
Weeks later, however, your bank may discover that the check is a fake. If someone you don’t know very well tries to pay you with a cashier’s check, it’s a good idea to contact the bank whose name is on the check to make sure it’s authentic before trying to deposit or cash it.
A cashier's check should not be confused with a certified check, which is also a bank-issued check.
Money Order
Money orders are also secure payments. But instead of buying them at a bank, you can get them from the U.S. Postal Service, convenience stores, drug stores, grocery stores, and check-cashing companies. These same places can also cash a money order for you if you’ve received one, or you can deposit a money order at your bank.
When you purchase a money order, you have to pay for it with cash, a debit card or traveler’s checks; you generally can’t use a credit card or write a personal check. If you use a credit card, it could be treated as a cash advance. Like cashier’s checks, you’ll pay a fee for a money order, but they’re inexpensive. Depending on where you buy a money order from—and how much it is for—the fee may be less than $1 or go up to $5.
One advantage money orders have over cashier’s checks is that they’re usually easier to replace if they’re lost or stolen. With a cashier’s check, you must request a new check from the bank and, in most cases, purchase an indemnity bond from an insurance company. This bond protects the bank if you lose the cashier’s check a second time. Once you file your request for a new check, it can take anywhere from 30 to 90 days for it to be issued.
Replacing a lost or stolen money order is often as simple as returning with your receipt to the place where it was purchased and asking for a replacement or refund. The money-order issuer may charge you a fee to replace it, but you can get it right away, instead of waiting months for a cashier’s check to be reissued.
Special Considerations: When to Use Which
Money orders are generally easier to buy, but cashier’s checks are more secure. So which one should you use and when?
The safety factor makes cashier’s checks the better choice if you need to make a large payment, say, for a car or boat. In some cases, a cashier’s check may be your only payment option. If you’re buying a home, for example, the lender may require you to get a cashier’s check to pay what you owe during the closing.
Money orders are less expensive, making them better suited for a smaller payment or when you can’t write a personal check. For instance, you may use a money order to pay your rent or to send a few hundred dollars to a friend who’s short on cash.
Key Differences

Story 208
Jan. 22, 2019
By Mark Flamme, managing director, AlixPartners
What’s the future of the point of sale?
We will see global, cross-channel, point of sale solutions integrated with the merchant back-office and financing options to reach scale. Globally, European open banking efforts will create the foundation of significant point of sale innovation. Successful merchant acquirers/payment processors will innovate through some combination of three strategies:
Create a POS platform upon which others can develop industry specific applications (e.g., First Data Clover)
Create easy-to-integrate with APIs, market to developers and merchants and actively seek ISV partners (e.g., Braintree)
Acquire ISVs in select industry verticals and integrate payments with them (e.g., Clearent integrating with Spot and FieldEdge ISVs)
What impact will a decelerating economy have on credit risk management and risk pricing?
Issuers, as well as point-of-sale finance innovators like Affirm and Greensky that share in credit risks, should prepare by optimizing underwriting, pricing, and collections and recovery operations.
Credit risks will impact merchant processors that underwrite merchant card sales as well as banks that finance trade and cross-border foreign exchange hedging. Any downturn will certainly test the risk management capabilities of newer players like Square, Adyen and cross-border trade innovators.
What’s the future of APIs in payments?
Effective ecosystem development and management, enabled through standardized APIs, will be a differentiated capability.
Companies will need to be adept at rapidly assembling an ecosystem that provides access to the right type and scale of data, advanced analytics, and the right customer touch points to deliver enhanced value propositions to customers. Innovators will have to work to establish data sharing and API standards. We expect 2019 to bring enhanced ecosystem solutions in account aggregation, fraud detection and prevention, rewards, loyalty, deals and offers, and integrated payments.
Will regulatory focus on data privacy and security stifle open data related innovation?
Industry participants must be proactive in setting data sharing standards and enhancing data security to allay public and regulator concerns.
Most importantly they must develop compelling data related use cases in loyalty, financial management, and deals and offers. For the right value propositions, consumers and businesses have expressed willingness to share data. For the farsighted there may be opportunities to leverage trusted brands to become custodians/stewards of customer data as a revenue-generating service.
Where will we see investment in business to business payments innovation?
Investments will be focused on real-time, cross-border, improved settlement, and customer experience.
Company CFOs and treasurers have high expectations of their treasury and cash management providers shaped by their experiences as individuals with retail banking innovation. Expectations include: transaction status and fee transparency, mobile transacting and reporting, cash flow forecasting, information rich payments, speed of access to funds, and straight-through transaction information flow into back office systems.
In response, banks expect cash management technology spend to increase dramatically over the next two years. Investments will focus on improved transaction transparency, cash position reporting, fraud detection and prevention, anti-money-laundering/compliance efficiency, payments hub technology, cross-border/FX transaction streamlining, and API-based partnerships with back-office solution providers.
What will the impact of fraud be on payments investment?
With commerce and payments becoming more digital, fraudsters have developed sophisticated attacks to steal consumer and corporate digital payment account information, driving up the cost of cyber-security and fraud losses.
Fintech innovators are developing solutions using such things as biometrics, acoustic analysis, geolocation, and behavioral traits (swiping patterns on smartphone) that not only provide improved fraud prevention in customer authentication but also improve the customer experience over traditional easily forgotten passwords. Banks, Fintechs, Payment processors, merchants will invest heavily in these solutions in 2019 given the growing magnitude of losses and brand impact of major fraudulent events.
Is the traditional plastic card form factor dying a slow death?
QR code-based transactions dominate the Chinese urban payments landscape, changing the market entry calculus for the US based card brands.
Significant portions of US online transactions use payment credentials stored online with Uber, Airbnb, Starbucks, PayPal, Amazon or others and research has shown once the card is set, it stays top of the eWallet. In Europe open banking will enable new account to account payment schemes, eliminating the card in the transaction. Card issuers will have to refine strategies to get to top of digital wallet and stay there through rewards partnerships, cobranding, and auto-provisioning of card credentials. However, the long-term impact is likely a reduction in interchange fees. Payment service providers will have to continue to focus on flexibility, offering a menu of services to enable least cost routing, rewards integration, payment settlement to multiple merchant sub-accounts, prepaid account management and back-end bank integration.
Will hyped solutions remain experimental or have specific use cases that are broadly disruptive?

Story 209
Are you wondering why you received a new debit card while your existing debit card is just working fine? Well, here is the reason. Banks are in the process of replacing the existing magnetic strip debit and credit cards with latest EMV chip cards, to comply with Reserve Bank of India guidelines.
As part of its security measures for transactions where you swipe your card, RBI in May 2015 asked banks to gradually phase out the magnetic cards and move to EMV chip cards. In August that year, it set December 31, 2018 as the deadline for the changeover.
What is it?
EMV chip technology is the latest global standard for card payments. EMV is an acronym for Europay Mastercard and Visa, who developed this technology. EMV cards are chip-based payment cards with enhanced safety features that are designed to prevent fraudulent practices such as card skimming and cloning.
Here's how they work. Your old credit and debit cards store your data on the magnetic stripe found on the reverse side of your card. This makes it easy for a fraudster to copy your data when you swipe the card. EMV cards, in contrast, store your data on a microprocessor chip embedded in the card.
This means that the card generates fresh user data every time you transact, making it impossible for fraudsters to copy your original data from your card.
The other feature of EMV cards is that they use both your card and a secret PIN to complete a transaction. When you use your EMV credit or debit card at a terminal, it generates a unique encrypted code called a token or cryptogram, which is unique and specific only to that transaction.
It cannot be used another time. The token is generated from a combination of information contained in the chip and that in the terminal.
Why is it so important?
A recent response to Parliament stated that, in the three years to FY17, India saw 3,409 cases of reported bank fraud involving credit cards, debit cards and internet banking with the amount lost at ₹134 crore. In recent times, bank customers have grappled with increasing attempts to defraud them using practices such as phishing, vishing and card skimming. The old magnetic cards are quite vulnerable to skimming. Fraudsters place a skimmer device inside the card swipe slot in ATMs or terminals at the point of sale, to read the customer data stored in the magnetic stripe.
They then use this skimmed information to clone a new card with identical details. Or alternatively they transmit this information to fraudsters across the globe who then siphon off the account balance by shopping online. EMV chip cards prevent such skimming, because they do not reveal your user data to the terminal at the time of swiping the card and instead generate a cryptogram.
Indian banks are now vying to attain global standards in product and service offerings. Therefore, migration to EMV cards is inevitable as it represents the latest standard in credit card security. Many developed countries have phased out magnetic stripe cards to adopt EMV technology.
Why should I care?
Because it’s not a good idea to begin your New Year without cash. Banks are all set to deactivate magstripe-based debit cards this December 31 to comply with RBI guidelines. If you received your debit or credit card after September 1, 2015, it is likely that it is already an EMV chip card. If it is older, it may need replacement. You can find out if you already have an EMV card by examining the left corner of your card where the EMV chip is usually embedded. If you own a mag-stripe card, your bank should have replaced your card by now. If it hasn’t, do follow up to get a replacement.
The bottomline
As you go on a card-swiping spree this Christmas season, make sure you don’t gift away your bank balance to fraudsters.
A weekly column that puts the fun into learning

Story 210
When Court Harrington, a small-business owner in North Carolina, found himself unable to log in to his bank account one day because the website was down, he was not happy about it.
When you can’t access your money, he says, “the safety net we feel we have is not really there.”
Eventually he was able to log in, but he says the snafu cost him hours of wasted time and stress.
Harrington is among the millions of banking customers affected by website outages every year. While a blip in access may just be an inconvenience to some, for customers racing to pay bills on time or requiring emergency cash, an outage can wreak financial havoc. Delayed payments due to a website outage can result in late fees, interest on a missed credit card payment, or a lack of cash to pay for everyday expenses like food or rent.
And bank website outages are likely to become a bigger problem as banks increase their digital offerings, says Joe Fielding, a partner and banking expert at Bain, a management consulting firm. “As they make those changes, the systems sometimes go down,” he says.
These six steps will help consumers protect themselves from the occasional outage.
1. Make sure it’s the bank and not you
If your bank’s website isn’t loading properly, it’s possible you have landed on the incorrect URL. It might even be one intended to spoof the real website and capture your personal information.
Warren Taylor, co-founder and head of customer service for BankMobile, a branchless bank that operates online and through its mobile app, recommends bookmarking your bank’s URL on your computer so you don’t accidentally type in the wrong address. And if you do land on a page that doesn’t look quite right, close the window and try again, double-checking that you have the correct address.
2. Use the mobile app instead
Banks’ mobile apps and websites generally run on different sets of servers, so if one is down, the other should still work, says Paul Benda, senior vice president for risk management and cybersecurity policy at the American Bankers Association, an industry group.
“If you have the mobile app, it’s like having a bank branch in your pocket,” he says. “You can make sure everything is there,” as well as take care of paying bills or transferring funds. If your bank has a physical branch, you could also make an in-person visit.
3. Check your bank’s social media posts
Julie Conroy, research director for retail banking and payments at Aite, a financial services industry research company, recommends checking the bank’s official Twitter handle. If you don’t see a message already posted, you can tweet at the bank to ask for an update.
Conroy also suggests calling the bank; the number should be on the back of your debit card. With widespread outages, though, the wait time might be long. Third-party sites such as downdetector.com can also offer information, but the accuracy can vary by region.
4. Be on guard against fraudsters
High-profile website outages are often followed by phishing attacks, where con artists email or call bank customers and elicit personal information from them.
“They leverage the chaos to trick [consumers] into giving up their credentials,” says Conroy.
If you receive any unsolicited emails from your bank, take a close look at them before you click or respond. Accessing your bank through your bookmarked URL rather than a link embedded in an email will ensure you arrive at the right place.
5. Have a backup plan
Given the inevitability of the occasional bank website outage, Fielding says consumers should make sure they have an alternative way to pay their bills, such as an emergency savings account with another financial institution, a prepaid debit card, or a credit card from a different bank.
“While most consumers can’t keep multiple active primary checking accounts, you might at least have a contingency plan,” he says.
6. Don’t panic — your money is safe
Even if you can’t access your bank account online, your money is still there, and it’s safe and insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., says Benda. “Your bank has spent a lot of effort to make sure everything you have is extremely well-protected. Any interruption is temporary and likely to be fixed quickly,” he says.

Story 211
A customer pays via the GCash payment system, a local version of Alibaba's Alipay solution, at a store in Manila. [Photo/Xinhua]
More countries and regions accept China's mobile platforms
China's mobile payment platforms, including Alibaba's Alipay, Tencent's WeChat Pay and UnionPay's QuickPass, are rapidly expanding their international footprints, pioneering a global payment revolution to determine how money changes hands.
During the weeklong holiday to mark National Day, Chinese shoppers spent more in the United Kingdom than in any other country in Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
At Bicester Village, a shopping hub for designer goods near Oxford, they bought 50 percent more than they did in the UK as a whole, according to Alipay.
This made Bicester the No 1 outlet globally among Chinese outbound tourists in terms of total spending through Alipay, China's leading mobile payment platform, during the holiday week.
Restaurants in London's Chinatown were also a popular destination, with 7.5 percent of all Alipay transactions in the UK taking place there.
Shoppers using Alipay spent an average of $369 each in the UK during the week, higher than the global average of $289.
The fast expansion of China's mobile payment platforms has significant implications for the spending habits of outbound travelers.
Alipay is now accepted in about 40 countries and regions, and supports tax refund activities at 80 airports.
WeChat Pay is available in more than 40 countries and regions, and 800 million users have linked their bank accounts or credit cards to the service.
QuickPass is accepted across 1 million point-of-sale terminals in some 20 countries and regions outside the Chinese mainland.
A Nielsen survey published in July showed that 65 percent of Chinese outbound travelers used mobile payments on trips. Chinese mobile payment platforms have become so widely available that some travelers who were surveyed said they had struggled to spend all the 100 euros ($116) in cash they had prepared for their trips.
Eighty-four percent of those questioned said they had also noticed an increase in the acceptance rate of Chinese mobile payment platforms by overseas merchants, compared with two years ago.
Wang Li, head of Alipay in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, said: "We hope to champion the concept of 'smart travel' to make payment and travel easy. We want to build a big network globally so that Chinese tourists traveling abroad can feel that they are enjoying payment convenience as if they are still in China.
"Our expansion overseas has two considerations. We see the outbound Chinese tourist market as a big opportunity, but also we think from our customers' perspective, to provide them a service they truly need."
Growth factors
Central to Chinese travelers' deciding to use Alipay, WeChat Pay and QuickPass overseas is the fact they are already familiar with and trust these payment platforms.
For outbound travelers, the two key benefits are that they no longer need to carry large amounts of foreign currency on their travels, and they can also secure good exchange rates.
These are guaranteed because Alipay, WeChat Pay and UnionPay all convert prices of foreign products from local currencies directly into yuan. In comparison, alternative platforms, including Visa and Mastercard, first convert product prices into US dollars and then into yuan, passing on the additional conversion costs to end users.
Unlike the UK, the United States and other developed markets, where consumers are familiar and comfortable with card payments, until a few years ago China was largely a cash-transaction-based society before the advent of mobile payments.
The extent of the popularity of these payments in China is perhaps hard to imagine by those living outside the country.
Not only are mobile payments taken for granted for shopping, traveling, accommodations and utilities payments, they are also now available at many street markets, pop-up shops, and are used for the instant transfer of cash between friends.
China is now the world's biggest mobile payment market. Its market size reached 40.36 trillion yuan ($6 trillion) in the first quarter of this year, according to a report by Analysys, a Beijing data research company.
Alipay and WeChat Pay account for 53.76 percent and 38.95 percent of market share, respectively, in terms of transaction amount.
WeChat Pay now has more than 900 million active users, while Alipay has over 500 million. These numbers are incredible compared with Apple Pay's 127 million active users - and they are growing.
Having captured the domestic market, in recent years Chinese mobile payment providers have begun to focus increasingly on overseas growth, starting with the Chinese outbound travel market.
Alipay first entered Europe in 2015, when it became accepted at Tripidi, a luxury retailer at Frankfurt Airport in Germany.
Payment is easy. Customers just open the Alipay app on their mobiles, scan a QR code provided by Tripidi, type in the amount they wish to pay, and confirm the transaction. The customers pay in yuan, Tripidi receives euros, and Alipay makes the conversion in between.
From there, Alipay expanded to many other well-known shopping locations, including Harrods in London and Printemps in Paris. In 2016 alone, 120 million outbound Chinese travelers used Alipay overseas.
WeChat Pay, which processes payment through its own app in a method similar to that used by Alipay, became available in Europe last year, with a key venue being Camden Market in London.
Meanwhile, Chinese outbound tourist numbers are growing rapidly, pointing to more opportunities.
Last year, Chinese travelers made more than 130 million outbound trips and spent $115 billion overseas, making China the world's biggest source of outbound tourism, according to a report published in March by the China Tourism Academy and the online travel service Ctrip.
Further growth appears imminent, given that China's middle-class population of 300 million is forecast to rise to 550 million by 2022.
Jurg Schneider, a spokesman for Six Payment Services in the Swiss city of Zurich, which supports merchants across Europe in accepting Chinese payment platform transactions, said, "Across luxury brands, souvenir shops, hotels and restaurants, so many merchants are keen to offer their Chinese customers UnionPay, Alipay and WeChat Pay."
In 2006, Six Payment Services made payments through UnionPay cards available for its customers, and did the same for Alipay 10 years later. It is now in talks with WeChat Pay.
"Our client merchants want all three, because they want to enable Chinese shoppers to pay using a method they prefer, know and trust," Schneider said.
Six Payment Services has processed UnionPay and Alipay transactions worth more than 2 billion Swiss francs ($2 billion), and not one has encountered difficulties or fraud.
Other international banking institutions helping Chinese cross-border payment systems to receive payment include Wirecard in Germany, Ingenico and BNP Paribas in France, Unicredit in Italy, Barclays and Santander UK in Britain, and ePassi in Finland.
Additional benefits
Alipay and WeChat Pay also operate as platforms to help international retailers communicate their products and services to Chinese customers.
Alipay's mobile app has a "discovery platform", which allows Chinese outbound travelers to search for shops, restaurants and tourist attractions in the country they are visiting.
The platform has become so popular in informing users about these retailers' products that, to date, 570,000 European merchants in 20 countries have signed up.
Similarly, many merchants who accept WeChat Pay have also started official WeChat accounts, which they use to promote their products through descriptions, photos and stories. They can also share the latest information about shops' opening hours or seasonal promotions to aid customer experience.
Meanwhile, UnionPay has targeted the outbound student market to offer secure and convenient tuition transactions that benefit both outbound students and their schools. It has partnered with more than 2,000 schools and universities in the US, the UK, Australia and New Zealand, among other countries.
Some academic institutions accept online payment, meaning students can pay while they are still in China preparing to travel overseas to study. Others accept payment in-person, where students just need to present their UnionPay card and have the transaction processed immediately. UnionPay is being increasingly accepted in university dormitories, libraries and student centers.
Challenges ahead
Despite their rapid growth, the acceptance rate of Chinese payment platforms among non-Chinese customers remains low.
One key challenge is the limited potential for mobile payment growth in markets where customers are accustomed to credit card payments.
A survey conducted by US online transaction service provider Paypal found that only 3 percent of Singaporeans use mobile wallets regularly, in sharp contrast to 48 percent in China.
This year, Tencent announced a change of direction, saying it would not seek to offer more local payment wallets to overseas customers in the next three years.
UnionPay faces an equally tough journey to compete for market share with rivals Visa and Mastercard. While Union-Pay transactions accounted for 15 percent of global card transactions in 2016, just behind Visa and Mastercard, most of these transactions were made in China.
Less than 2 percent of the UnionPay cards in use are issued outside China, showing there is a long way to go in penetrating the international market.

Story 212
One year ago, Edo Kurniawan, a jovial 33-year-old Indonesian who runs the Asia-Pacific accounting and finance operations for global payments group Wirecard AG, called half a dozen colleagues into a Singapore meeting room. He picked up a whiteboard pen and began to teach them how to cook the books.
His company would soon become one of Germany’s most valuable financial institutions, but as Mr Kurniawan spoke, the task at hand was to create figures that would convince regulators at the Hong Kong Monetary Authority to issue a licence so Wirecard could dole out prepaid bank cards in the Chinese territory.
The group was seeking to take over payment operations from Citigroup, covering 20,000 retailers in 11 countries stretching from India to New Zealand. Regulatory approvals in every territory were crucial, even if it meant inventing numbers to be used in the Hong Kong licence application.
Mr Kurniawan then sketched out a practice known as “round tripping”: a lump of money would leave the bank Wirecard owns in Germany, show its face on the balance sheet of a dormant subsidiary in Hong Kong, depart to sit momentarily in the books of an external “customer”, then travel back to Wirecard in India, where it would look to local auditors like legitimate business revenue.
Wirecard chief executive officer Markus Braun © Bloomberg
In isolation, Mr Kurniawan’s scheme might have appeared to be the act of a rogue employee in the provincial outpost of a little known financial group. But the account of what happened, in a preliminary report on the investigation by one of Asia’s most eminent legal firms, indicated it was part of a pattern of book-padding across Wirecard’s Asian operations over several years. Documents seen by the Financial Times show two senior executives in the Munich head office had at least some awareness of the round-tripping scheme: Thorsten Holten and Stephan von Erffa, respectively the company’s head of treasury and head of accounting.
The revelations call into question the figures reported by one of Europe’s few technological success stories, a German fintech group that has grown into a €20bn global payments institution. Before the FT exposed the existence of the investigation last week, the group was more valuable than Deutsche Bank or Commerzbank, whose place it has taken in Germany’s main stock market index. Wirecard is a favourite of retail investors, who saw its rapid expansion into Asia as a sign that it can challenge the world’s biggest banks for primacy in the $1.4tn market for payments.
Markus Braun has run the company since helping to recapitalise it in 2002, an investment which made the 49-year-old Austrian a billionaire. In the field of digital money, Wirecard presents itself as best in class.
In response to the news of the preliminary investigation, Wirecard initially said no material compliance findings had resulted. This week the company told the FT that while its investigation was ongoing, it had made no conclusive findings of criminal misconduct and it would be wrong to draw conclusions from the preliminary report.
It is not the first time the group’s accounting practices have been called into question. Accusations of suspect accounting were levelled in 2008, 2015 and 2016. Each time Wirecard has alleged market manipulation, sparking investigations by the German market regulator, BaFin.
This time questions about its Asian operations began internally, prompted by a whistleblower left stunned by Mr Kurniawan’s January meeting last year. Notifying Wirecard’s senior legal counsel in the region on March 26, the whistleblower identified two senior finance executives, James Wardhana and Irene Chai, as accomplices in the book-cooking operation. A separate whistleblower also raised concerns in February, and on April 3 that person supplied the compliance team with a suspect contract they had received via Telegram, the encrypted messaging app.
Daniel Steinhoff, Wirecard’s head of compliance in Munich, flew in to Singapore for a briefing. On April 13 he ordered the email archives of these individuals “mirrored”, with copies seized.
Compliance staff, who evidently found the accounts of the whistleblowers credible, soon found enough in the documents to warrant a snap investigation, codenamed Project Tiger. They called in Singapore-based Rajah & Tann, which sent in a team of former prosecutors.
On May 4 R&T submitted a preliminary report, running to 30 pages of bombshell allegations: evidence in the documents of “forgery and/or of falsification of accounts”, as well as reasons to suspect “cheating, criminal breach of trust, corruption and/or money laundering” in multiple jurisdictions.
The trio in Singapore, led by Mr Kurniawan, appears to have been fabricating invoices and agreements to create a paper trail which could be shown to auditors at EY, as if money was moving in and out of Wirecard for legitimate purposes.
Jan Marsalek, Wirecard’s chief operating officer
The job of his finance team was to oversee the figures put together by the various Wirecard companies in the region, then supply the accounts to head office. But the book-keepers were also putting together contracts and signing off on technology projects.
Not only were there no emails from certain supposed customers and suppliers to Wirecard, the preliminary investigation found that Wirecard lawyers, salespeople and technology staff did not appear to be involved in the deals either.
For example, in March last year Mr Wardhana, sitting at his computer, sent himself a digital copy of the logo for Flexi Flex, a hydraulics and piping company with offices in Singapore and Malaysia. The image was on invoices he presented to colleagues for payments, according to documents seen by the FT. These documents, including contracts for the supply and purchase of obscure software products signed by Mr Kurniawan, made it appear Flexi Flex was doing substantial business with Wirecard.
In an April 9 2018 email chain, Mr Wardhana drafted answers for queries from EY in Germany needed to close out that year’s audit. He described Flexi Flex as “a new client engaged in 2017” which generated €4m of revenue for Wirecard Malaysia.
Wirecard has since confirmed it had no genuine business relationship with Flexi Flex. Mr Wardhana’s email also attributed €3m of Hong Kong revenue to Right Momentum Consulting, another third party business partner. The Kuala Lumpur address for the company on documents seen by the FT could not be traced.
The R&T preliminary report said: “We may draw strong and irrefutable inferences from the documentary evidence there has been at the very least several accounting irregularities which take the shape of forged agreements. In the best-case scenario, the purpose behind these deliberate acts may be limited to the false creation of revenue, with no wrongful misappropriation of monies.”
Suspect transactions, while individually small in the context of Wirecard revenues, appear to have been designed to stop Wirecard entities missing profit targets, by filling holes after the end of a financial year with fake and backdated sales agreements according to the preliminary report and certain emails reviewed by the FT.
Wirecard told the FT on Wednesday that, subsequent to R&T’s preliminary report, a separate internal investigation with access to accounting systems determined that the allegations were unsubstantiated and no regulations were broken. Notwithstanding those findings, the external R&T investigation — ongoing for more than eight months — reflected a commitment to good corporate governance, it said.
Munich-based Wirecard was hailed as a star of the fintech firmament © DPA
Since 2012 the company has raised €500m from shareholders, and spent it on a collection of obscure payments companies. Missing profit targets could have called into question the basis of Wirecard’s Asian expansion over the past decade.
R&T’s preliminary review of the documentary evidence and whistleblower testimony identified potential for accounting irregularities in numbers reported to Germany for businesses in the Philippines, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia and India.
It also indicated another potentially significant issue. Singapore and Hong Kong, like Germany, have put in place strict reporting requirements to combat money laundering. Suspicious transactions, such as those identified by Project Tiger, should be brought to the attention of the authorities in a reasonable timeframe.
As the owner of a bank, and as a member of the Visa and Mastercard payment networks, Wirecard has a responsibility to file such reports. It distributes hundreds of millions of euros in credit and debit card transactions every day. It is a gatekeeper with responsibilities to help police flows of cash as governments try to restrict the ability of criminals and terrorists to move money. Wirecard this week said it has complied with applicable regulatory requirements.
Yet, faced with evidence that a rogue unit in its fast-growing Asian business was forging documents, inventing money flows and sending real cash out the door to fictitious suppliers, the reaction of senior executives in Munich was curious.
A briefing document dated May 7 2018 was prepared for a meeting of Wirecard’s four most senior executives. Alexander von Knoop, chief financial officer, thanked the author in an email following the meeting “for the great job you are doing to clarify the circumstances and to prevent Wirecard Group from any financial and reputational damage”.
The email also announced that Jan Marsalek, Wirecard’s chief operating officer, had been appointed to co-ordinate the inquiry, “to get the necessary pressure on the investigation”, Mr von Knoop said.
Wirecard joined the Dax 30, Germany's premier stock market index, last year © Reuters
Mr Marsalek, a 38-year-old Austrian with a military haircut, tailored suits and novelty solid gold credit card, was renowned within the company. He was also the management board member responsible for the Asia-Pacific region.
Wirecard’s lawyers in Singapore warned Mr Marsalek’s proposed role presented “a perceived and potential conflict of interest”. He was a material witness of fact who had worked closely with Mr Kurniawan on certain projects, they said.
R&T said in a May 9 email that his appointment could “invite forceful queries by regulators and enforcement agencies”. It was a potential conflict which could be managed, but that “in the worst case the investigation may be seen as fatally flawed to begin with — with the consequence that regulators and enforcement agencies may swoop in suddenly to conduct a full investigation of their own”.

One matter under scrutiny was Wirecard Singapore’s relationship with a third party, Matrimonial Global. R&T believed a sales agreement with the company had been backdated. A November 8 2017 email from Mr von Erffa pointed to Mr Marsalek’s knowledge of the deal. Outlining the transaction, it said “Jan will support us for contracts and communication etc.”
Ms Chai appears to have thought he had a stake in Matrimonial Global. On January 9 last year she wrote to a colleague: “If not mistaken this agreement is something like the one with Wirecard Dubai, I think the company belong to Jan.”
The colleague replied: “Yup, is the additional ‘revenue’ that was put in last Q [quarter].”
Wirecard told the FT that Mr Marsalek does not own Matrimonial Global, and that he has had no involvement in the investigations.
The COO had worked closely with Mr Kurniawan for years. For instance, a few days before the end of 2015 a Wirecard subsidiary in Indonesia, Aprisma, needed income of €3.3m to hit its profit target for the year. The two men discussed options. The target was reached thanks to what was described as an “additional project from Jan”, according to subsequent emails. The backdated sales agreement which resulted did not appear to be genuine, according to R&T’s preliminary report.
A year later Mr Kurniawan and Mr Marsalek had worked together to provide answers to questions from EY during a tough audit, according to documents seen by the FT.
In October 2015, Wirecard agreed to pay €325m for a collection of businesses in India, its biggest-ever takeover. The deal came after the FT published a series of articles highlighting apparent inconsistencies in Wirecard’s accounting and what looked like a growing hole in its balance sheet. The India deal attracted the attention of sceptical analysts and investors, who reported difficulty finding the scale of operations the company claimed. Inside Wirecard, EY directed a team at the end of 2016 to take a close look, now that a full year of ownership had passed.
In April 2017 Mr Kurniawan told a colleague he could not sleep because of Hermes, Wirecard’s main business in India. And the entity’s CFO, appointed only months before, submitted a disclaimer to the Hermes board that he “should not be held in any way responsible” for many of the documents relating to the 2016 audit, due to his recent arrival. EY eventually signed off on the revenues Wirecard reported.
The clean audit in early 2017 helped to reassure investors. Wirecard’s share price proceeded to quadruple, amid global enthusiasm for fintech companies.
Yet some of the documentary evidence placed in front of R&T, and since seen by the FT, raises fresh questions about the scope of accounting irregularities and the authority extended to the young book-keeper in Singapore.
Indeed, a central question remains. What did management in Munich know about Mr Kurniawan’s activities, and what should it have known?
A February 15 2018 email chain indicates that some in Germany were at least made aware of a version of the round-trip scheme Mr Kurniawan had sketched on the whiteboard weeks earlier. Documents show that Mr Holten, whose signature was needed to authorise payments from head office, wrote: “I need to know the whole cash flow.”
Mr Kurniawan replied 13 minutes later with a plan to move €2m into India, via Wirecard Hong Kong and an outside entity. “Hope it’s clear?” he asked.
“Very good, thx,” Mr Holten replied. Copied into the email was Mr von Erffa, whose signature would also be required.
When the FT broke news of the investigation last week, Mr Kurniawan was still head of international finance and his alleged accomplices were still employed. The company on Wednesday said certain individuals had been temporarily assigned to other roles, pending the outcome of the probe, and any disciplinary action would be determined by the evidence.
Wirecard also said there had been significant developments and substantial new information taken into account since R&T’s preliminary report.
A whistleblower, who initially approached the FT due to the apparent lack of action, this week said: “If a payments company can do this, how can you have trust in the system?”

Story 213
The Walmart MoneyCard is a debit card that requires no bank account or credit check and so avoids overdraft fees. Available in either Visa or MasterCard versions, the card can be used not only at Walmart but at any retailer that accepts Visa or MasterCard. Several levels of the MoneyCard are available, including a Preferred Card that differs from the regular card in some of its fees.
You can add money to the card through direct deposit; by reloading it at a register, cashing a check at Walmart, or by using a Walmart money center express machine. There are also options for online bank transfer and to have your tax refund sent to your card account. Here's a look at the available services.
Key Takeaways Walmart's low-cost pre-paid debit card, the MoneyCard, requires no existing bank account and can be funded via direct deposit.
There are mutliple levels of MoneyCard perks from basic to Preferred, which comes with added features (but also can bring additional fees).
In addition to direct deposit, the MoneyCard can be loaded at store registers, at Walmart Money centers, or with your IRS tax refund, among others.
Direct Deposit
Payroll checks or your government benefits can be loaded directly onto a MoneyCard through direct deposit. This service is free and you can opt to deposit all or part of your check. Employers may notify the bank of direct deposits up to two days before the official "payday," Walmart says and the retailer says it then transfers funds to the card early.
Walmart Rapid Reload
This option allows you to add between $20 and $1,100 to your MoneyCard by swiping it at the register at Walmart or another participating retailer. There is a $3 fee for the service, but the charge is waived for Preferred cardholders.
Check Cashing at Walmart
if you cash your paycheck or government benefits check at Walmart, the funds instantly load onto your MoneyCard. No reload fees are charged, but there may be a charge for cashing the check. This option is unavailable in New Jersey, New York, and Rhode Island. Using the MoneyCard's smartphone app, there's also the option to deposit checks to the your card account by using your smartphone camera, according to Walmart.
Walmart Money Center Express
These centers are located toward the front of Walmart stores, near the customer service department. They allow you to add funds to your card, check the card balance, purchase money orders and buy phone cards. Fees apply, depending on the type of MoneyCard and the transaction.
Online Bank Transfer
The transfer typically takes one to three business days and there is no reloading fee. However, your bank may charge fees on the electronic transfer.
Tax Refunds
If you electronically file your income taxes, you can opt to directly deposit your refund onto your Walmart MoneyCard; no reloading fee applies. You send your card number and mobile phone number to Walmart, which then texts you the direct-deposit information you enter into your tax forms. The standard IRS processing time applies, although e-filing typically allows you to receive a refund more rapidly than filing by mail.
Benefits
The MoneyCard offers many of the benefits found on all Visa and MasterCard debit cards, including fraud protection. Free online bill paying service is also included. You can send money orders, free checks to a landlord, or set recurring monthly payments for bills such as for your auto insurance. These cards also allow you to send funds to friends or family anywhere in the United States.
You can also earn cash-back rewards by shopping at Walmart.com (3% cash back), Murphy USA and Walmart fuel stations (2%) and Walmart retail stores (1% cash back). The limit for cash-back rewards is $75 a year.
Fees
MoneyCards cost between $1 and $4 to buy, depending the card type. The regular card has a $5 monthly service fee, which is waived if you loaded $1,000 or more onto the card in the previous month. The Preferred card has a $3 fee, which is waived if you deposit at least $500 to the card within the month or have payroll or government benefits deposited directly to it.
ATM withdrawals cost $2.50 with the regular card and $2 with the Preferred one, but the Preferred card also allows free withdrawals from 24,000 MoneyPass ATMs. Other fee differentials include a 3% foreign transaction fee with the regular card, compared with 2% for the Preferred one. The Preferred card also allows you to skip the $0.50 balance inquiry fee at ATMs, provided you use one of the MoneyPass ATMs.
The Bottom Line

Story 214
More and more businesses are opting not to take cash – it’s expensive, slow and makes them vulnerable to robbery. But millions of people don’t have bank accounts. Will they be cut out of this new economy?
A strange thing happened to me recently. I was in a bar, but I couldn’t buy a beer. Or, to be exact, I refused to. I was in Öl at Hatch, a shipping container complex of food and drink purveyors on Oxford Road in Manchester, where the bar – to my surprise – was card-only. No cash. They had no way of taking my £10 note. It was stalemate. I had cards on me. But, in instinctive solidarity with the unbanked, those paid in cash or those who, like me (for years, a permanently skint freelancer), still budget in cash, I stood firm (and thirsty), irritated that any business would dictate how its customers pay.
I sat down to eat a curry I had bought (with old-fashioned cash) from another Hatch unit. Then, an Öl barman brought over a conciliatory glass of beer, on the house. I told him the bar’s cash-free policy is elitist; who wants to be forced to put a pint on a credit card? He talked about time saved and how not having cash on the premises was safer for the staff. We politely agreed to disagree.
Relating this later, to Öl’s co-owner David McCall, I find him irrepressibly upbeat, as if everything is going to plan: “We have probably given away 10 beers to people who didn’t have cards – and a few when Visa went down. But we would rather give you a free beer than give the bank five grand, and we want our staff to feel secure. On our second week, we were broken into [overnight] with sledgehammers. All they could take was one iPad.”
McCall’s Manchester coffee shop Takk takes cash. But opening Öl and a second Takk at the student-oriented Hatch was a chance to dispense with the £3,000- to £5,000-a-year in bank charges that the original Takk, like every business, incurs for depositing cash. “We pay above Living Wage [Foundation rates], but we want to pay our 25 staff more,” says McCall. The savings made by going card-only will help with that.
But where does this leave people without bank accounts (nearly 2 million people, according to the Financial Inclusion Commission), or those with poor credit histories who have to pay fees to use prepaid debit cards? Removing the cash option penalises them.
“We’re aware of the community issues,” says McCall. He says that Takk gives free coffee to homeless people sleeping rough – those at the sharp edge of this cashless evolution. “But when we’re picked up on the fact we could be excluding people, we have to say that’s a story for banks and government. Scandinavia is largely cashless, and there businesses and governments are having that debate.”
It is a debate that Britain may soon be having, too, as a wave of card-only food and drink venues hit UK high streets. With the exception of London’s bus network (cashless since 2014; south London’s trams follow suit in July), cash-free everyday businesses have previously been experimental one-offs. But now if you want a wrap at the Athenian in Bristol, a salad at the London chain Tossed or a coffee at Habitat cafe in Aberfeldy, Perthshire (after its local bank branch closed, Habitat’s owners were facing a 60-mile round trip to the bank) you will need to pay by card.
Facebook Twitter Pinterest Standon Calling … went cashless and saw spending rise. Photograph: Alamy
It may seem a divisive move for hospitality businesses (in the US, a mixture of media criticism and customer confusion has meant that the burger chain Shake Shack has halted its cashless trials), but, says Matt Paice, owner of the London restaurant Killer Tomato, for small indies, whose cash sales run at 30% or far less, “cash is just grief”.
Card-only bill settlement is faster for diners, makes it easier to split bills and is cost-effective (no safe, no bank charges, fewer accounting errors, no cashing-up). If Killer Tomato took cash, says Paice: “On a busy night, I might have two staff counting and reconciling the float with the receipts. I’d be paying senior staff to count coins.”
Assessing which – card or cash – is cheaper for restaurants is difficult. As well as direct fees (0.49% of each card sale and 0.15% of each cash transaction, calculates the British Retail Consortium), there are indirect costs (staff pay, equipment), to consider. Everyone uses a different formula. Restaurateurs don’t agree on which offers better value.
Flat-broke people are not eating in restaurants and everyone in London has a bank card: 12-year-olds, 90-year-olds
What is clear, however, is that the new card-payment processors, such as SumUp and iZettle, make going cashless far more attractive. The established “merchant services” providers (which hire out card readers on long contracts and charge a variety of fees on different card transactions), are, says Paice, “complicated and deliberately opaque. It’s impossible to know what you’re going to be charged.”
In contrast, the new players in the “fintech” sector levy a set percentage for each transaction. No contract. No expensive card readers. “iZettle has transformed payment-processing,” says McCall, who adds that it costs a tenth of his old provider’s service.
The infrastructure is there for cashless, says Paice, as is the customer enthusiasm. Very occasionally, he has to turn someone away, but he adds: “In two years, I have had four angry customers – and I’m guessing the ones who get really angry are people operating in cash because they’re fiddling their taxes. They give me this phoney outrage about how I’m discriminating against the poor or old people. It’s cobblers. Flat-broke people are not eating in restaurants and everyone in London has a bank card: 12-year-olds, 90-year-olds. What they really mean is: ‘I don’t want to declare my income.’”
In Sweden, where 81% of all payments are digital, VAT receipts are up 30% in five years. But, says Ross Clark, author of The War Against Cash, that argument is just another bogus way in which cashless is presented – by banks and governments, but also by Mastercard, Visa and others chasing a fees bonanza – as unrelentingly positive: “It’s nonsense to say you could eliminate tax evasion by eliminating cash. Transactions are theoretically traceable. It doesn’t mean that anyone is tracing them.”
From contactless payments at self-service supermarket tills to online banking, it can seem like the digitisation of money is inevitable. But cash is proving curiously resilient. Payments UK reports that it is still used in 44% of consumer transactions and, oddly, as the Bank of England has observed, despite the rate of card transactions soaring and the value of cash payments falling by 10% annually, the volume of cash in circulation is at a record high. The number of British people who deal solely in cash – 2.7 million – is also rising. That oddity is often attributed to low interest rates, people hoarding money after the 2008 crash and a booming criminal economy. But do we prefer to use cash for minor transactions? The 2018 G4S World Cash Report found that, in Europe, the use of cash in physical point-of-sale transactions has risen from 60% to 79%. “People trust cash; it’s free to use, readily available, confidential, it can’t be hacked and it doesn’t run out of power,” said G4S’s Jesus Rosano.
From concerns about data privacy to poor broadband in rural areas, there are all sorts of reasons, argues Clark, why people in the UK want to – and should be allowed to – use cash: “One in 10 of the population have never used the internet. Only 19% of over-65s own a smartphone. This is a real demographic who find [cashless] difficult. Yet the government seems to think it acceptable to cut them out of the economy.” The former Bank of England chief cashier, Victoria Cleland, put it this way in a 2017 speech: “Cash is vital in supporting financial inclusion.”
In this push by businesses and card providers to eradicate cash, food and booze is a key battleground. Last year, in the US, Visa’s “cashless challenge” offered $10,000 each to 50 restaurants, cafes and food trucks if their owners opted to go cashless. For bigger chains, cashless looks like a windfall. It will allow them to automate sites, reduce overheads and, given how people tend to behave when using cashless systems, increase spend. At one McDonald’s branch, introducing cashless kiosks upped order values by 30%.
The bars at the Standon Calling music festival went cashless in 2013. Punters pay with preloaded, contactless wristbands. Sales went up 24% and have continued to increase. The festival’s founder, Alex Trenchard, insists this is not because of drunken ravers spending wantonly at 1am: “It eradicates cash-handling mistakes, speeds up bar operation, reduces queues and allows us to price incrementally. Better-value drinks boost spend.” Festivalgoers, he says, like the fact that, by putting a set amount on their wristband, they can cap their spending.
Facebook Twitter Pinterest Does contactless make handing over cash too easy? Photograph: Getty Images/Hero Images
However, it is an absence of control in cashless transactions that bars will see as an opportunity. In a 2016 survey by the financial technology firm ClearScore, 59% of people blamed their overspending on using cards and 72% said that contactless payments make them prone to impulse purchases. For example, that round of espresso martinis bought on Saturday night, which, redefining the two-day hangover, does not appear on your banking app until Monday morning.
“The haptic, physical sensation of handling and spending a £20 note makes you ‘feel it’. With cashless, that is lost somewhat,” says Jez Groom from Cowry Consulting, which researches “behavioural economics”. “The Apple Pay ding you get from your iPhone should be replaced with a vibration calibrated to the amount spent: light for under £10; heavy and consistent for £30.”
In an industry notorious for unscrupulous deductions from staff tips, card-only payments will make that easier, too. At Killer Tomato, all the service charge (a discretionary 10%) goes to staff. Paice covers the processing fees associated with such card tips. Do not expect corporate chains to be so generous. That is, if cashless doesn’t erode tipping entirely. Habitat in Aberfeldy posted on Facebook that so many customers now use contactless cards that tips have dropped alarmingly. “Technology,” it said, “has begun to kill the tip.”
For these reasons and more, David Fox, owner of the East Street and Tampopo restaurants in London and Manchester, has no intention of going cashless. But, given Britain’s direction of travel (“no institution is defending cash”), he can already see a future gap in the market for a restaurant aimed at people who crave the authenticity of notes and coins. “Like buying vinyl,” he asks, only half-joking, “will there be a generation who still enjoy the interaction of cash?”
This article contains affiliate links, which means we may earn a small commission if a reader clicks through and makes a purchase. All our journalism is independent and is in no way influenced by any advertiser or commercial initiative. By clicking on an affiliate link, you accept that third-party cookies will be set. More information.

Story 215
A real-time payments network for individuals and corporations is being implemented by the The Clearing House (TCH) a private firm owned by 24 of the largest banks. It will be the first major upgrade in electronic payments since the Automated Clearing House (ACH) was created 40 years ago and Check 21 launched in 2001.
Commercial real-time payments began in the U.S. in November 2017 and by the end of 2018 had reached 11 large banks of the 24 that are owners of TCH. Together they account for about 50 percent of the deposit base in the country, although only a small percentage of the approximately 10,000 financial institutions in the U.S. when you include community banks and credit unions. Individuals can make real-time payments through Zelle, a service developed by large banks.
The banks participating in real time payments can all receive payments and some can also send. So far they are working with corporate payments.
Steve Ledford, senior vice president of product strategy and development at The Clearing House said the real-time payments project has generated a lot of interest from corporate users.
Courtesy TCH
“One of the things we hear is a big drive for customer satisfaction or employee satisfaction. “When you have a payment which is immediately paid and you get immediate confirmation, that can really help reducing back office costs and customer service calls. Banks with large cash management have been eager to get on the system, earlier rather than later.”
It is still early days for RTP, the registered trademark for TCH's real-time gross settlement system, added Ledford and the payment types being processed are nothing unusual, so far.
“We do know that banks and the tech providers are developing products that are not just your typical one-way payments,” he added. “A good example is consumer bill pay that would use a Request For Payment, which could be used to send the bill or a reminder, deliver it to a mobile device and the customer could immediately pay it. We came up with a design for this, tested it with some consumer panels and it proved very popular.”
He expects to see it operational this year.
For supply chain payments, companies could provide immediate delivery of invoices.
Banks can connect to TCH through a gateway or hub, or through third party services providers such as FIS, Fiserv, Jack Henry Finastra and other third party processors who offer payment services.
Many banks that are not part of TCH are waiting to see what the Federal Reserve does. In October it issued a request for comments on whether the Fed should develop its own real-time payments (real-time gross settlement or RTGS) network and whether it should offer a liquidity management service.
“It would be a full blown faster payments service, in the same market as we are,” said Ledford.
A liquidity management tool that would enable transfers between Federal Reserve accounts 24/7/365 to support real-time interbank settlement of faster payments, regardless of whether those payment services are provided by the private sector or the Federal Reserve Banks, has won general approval.
As for Fed-operated RTGS, TCH and member banks are not in favor.
“We don't believe there is a need for the Fed to enter the game as a processor of faster payments,” Ledford said. “The market is being well served, we have ramped up considerably and have plans by 2020 to be able to get to all of the country, every financial institutions in the U.S. Not only are we open to them, we are encouraging participation. We have programs to make it easy to connect to the RTP network. We don't think there is an unmet need and we are happy to fulfill that.” And do it faster than the Fed could.
Some community bankers are skeptical. TCH began operations of RTP at the end of 2017 and still has less than half of its members operational, so what’s the chance they can reach the thousands of community banks and credit unions across the country?
Ledford said “It is misleading and a bit disingenuous to extrapolate the number of early implementations to an implementation rate for all financial institutions. It is important to remember that the 11 banks currently on the RTP network represent nearly half of all transaction deposits, providing solid foundation for future growth.”
Each direct connection, such as those with members of the clearing house or regional banks is customized, he added.
Smaller banks will typically connect through a third party aggregator, such as a core banking provider or a correspondent bank.
“In the case if third-party connections, the onboarding process is engineered to serve a large number of financial institutions. There is a great deal of planning and process integration needed to prepare for the first implementation…but subsequent implementations can be done through a standardized, streamlined process.”
Smaller banks and merchants also just don't trust TCH to operate a neutral, accessible payments platform.
On Jan. 22 Finextra reported that Mastercard, whose Vocalink technology powers TCH RTP, was fined EUR 570 million "for obstructing merchant access to low-cost cross-border payment services."
A year ago, MarketWatch reported a KBW list which showed 11 the largest banks, all of them members of TCH, had paid $243 billion in fines since the end of the financial crisis. At least one commenter to the Fed asked if the TCH banks were morally qualified to run the national real-time payments system.
Both sides agreed the Fed should act quickly to end uncertainty over the payment system.
TCH, its member banks and bankers from around the country are concerned about delay; TCH would like the Fed to quickly announce it won’t launch a system. Those who favor a Fed RTGS also want it to decide quickly, and get moving on implementation.
Brian Damman, legal counsel for Dwolla, attended a Federal Reserve Town Hall in Cedar Rapids, Iowa.
“The representatives from the Federal Reserve seemed surprised by how quickly the attending bankers hoped the [faster payments] system would be in place,” Damman says. “The representatives did well to temper expectations, and clarified that a determination had not yet been made whether such a system would be adopted, or how the system would operate.”
If a Fed system couldn’t be implemented with 18 to 24 months, it might “forego a lot of early adopters based on time to market,” said Adam Steenhard, Dwolla’s director of professional services, who also attended.
Ledford said the Fed could get in the way of faster payment adoption.
“They [the Fed] will be coming to the market after there has been a lot of work done by ourselves and others, and they won’t be able to bring it to market immediately. They have to go through comments and then build out the network, and that will take a few years. If folks wait for the Fed to be in place it will delay the goals we all have to implement true nationwide faster payment. This will just slow down the movement to get to faster payments.”
However the Fed already runs an ACH network and Fedwire, so it might be able to get up and running faster than that.
Two RTGS systems could fragment the market, Ledford added.
The Fed’s request for comments suggests that two separate RTGS systems could interoperate as the ACH networks do, but, said Ledford that has never been done with real time payments.

Story 216
Time's running out: The FCA's advert, which features a model of Arnold Schwarzenegger, urges claims to be registered by August 29
In a last-minute dash for cash, banks are bracing themselves for a wave of claims for mis-sold payment protection insurance — better known as PPI.
Households have just one month left to make a PPI claim with their bank or credit provider. And with the clock ticking, PPI sharks have ramped up their campaign to get a chunk of your money.
Since January 2011, £35.7 billion in compensation has been paid out to families, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) says.
Around 64 million PPI policies were sold in the UK, mostly between 1990 and 2010, according to the regulator.
The cover was commonly issued alongside loans, including mortgages, credit cards and credit agreements for furniture purchases or car finance, for example. The insurance was meant to cover your repayments if you were made redundant, or couldn't work because of accident, sickness, disability or death.
But it was often given to people who were ineligible to use the cover, or added to the cost of their debt without their knowledge.
As the cut-off date of August 29 looms, claims sharks are circling, bombarding us with TV adverts, cold calls and unwanted text messages urging you to contact them with your PPI claim.
Gripes about spam PPI texts soared by more than 450 pc in July, from 20 to 111, compared with the same month last year, according to the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO). And complaints about unwanted PPI calls rose 16 pc from January to July, compared with the same period in 2018.
Claims management companies promise to take the hassle out of searching for any PPI policies you have been mis-sold, in exchange for a share of your compensation.
They work on a no-win, no-fee basis. But if you are entitled to money back, their charges can you leave you out of pocket.
PPI BY NUMBERS PPI compensation of £35.7 billion has been paid out since January 2011.
Approximately 64 million PPI policies have been sold in the UK.
In total, more than two million complaints about PPI were made to the Ombudsman.
Six claims management companies handle more than half of all PPI complaints.
99 PPI TV adverts provoked households to complain their promises to pay out compensation were misleading.
Financial claims firms generated £600 million last year, driven by chasing PPI complaints.
Until May 2018, when commission was capped at 20 pc plus VAT, some claims sharks were holding on to up to 40 pc of your money.
Complaints website Resolver has received hundreds of emails from households who contacted a claims company in the first instance, but after receiving no help, ended up chasing the claim themselves. On winning a payout, they were shocked to receive a bill from the claims firm demanding a cut.
Experts say families should not fall for the hype: using a claims manager doesn't save you time, as they ask for the same information as your bank, and they don't improve your chances of success. It is just as easy and quick for families to make their own claim — and it is free.
Here is Money Mail's guide to claiming compensation for free before time runs out:
How do I check if I have PPI?
If you have your loan agreement or old statements, you may spot words such as protection plan, loan care, or ASU (Accident, Sickness and Unemployment). It may also show up on credit card statements as a separate payment.
But often the insurance premium was rolled up into the original loan amount so it is impossible to find.
How was it mis-sold?
If you were unemployed, self-employed or retired when you took out the loan, you should not have been sold the policy. If you suffered from a medical condition that would stop you from working, you should have been advised you were unlikely to be eligible to claim under the policy.
Other reasons include being given no choice to take the loan without PPI or not being told it was included in the cost of your credit. You may have exceeded the upper age limit of 65 or 70 when the policy was issued, or not have been asked if you already had your own adequate cover. You may also suspect that the seller added the PPI to the agreement without your consent.
As the cut-off date of August 29 looms, claims sharks are circling, bombarding us with TV adverts, cold calls and unwanted text messages
I can't find the paperwork
If you are unsure whether you were sold PPI or cannot find your original paperwork, contact the firm you think may have sold you the policy directly. You will need to tell them your name, date of birth, your current address and the one you lived at when you took out the loan, if you can remember.
You also need to tell the provider approximately when you think you took out the loan. The firm will investigate if you had a policy with it. The FCA provides an A to Z service on its website (fca.org.uk/ppi/how-to-check) of providers that have received the most complaints. It supplies links to banks' online PPI checking tools and ways to contact them by phone or post to complain. You can also use the tools on Resolver's website, resolver.co.uk/rights-guide/ ppi-reclaim.
How long does it all take?
Firms are allowed to take up to eight weeks to check whether you had a policy with them, but this will cause you to miss the deadline, so if there is a chance you had a policy, skip this part of the process and begin your complaint. Because time is running out before the deadline, some firms have agreed to raise a complaint on your behalf if they locate a PPI policy for you. However, not all providers are doing this, so make sure that you check.
Use our template PPI letter to claim for free [Your name and address] [Date] [Name and address of company providing payment protection insurance] Dear Sir or Madam, Re: Account number: [Your account number] I am writing in relation to the above payment protection (PPI) policy which I believe was mis-sold to me. I believe you have not treated me fairly for the following reasons; [Enter reason. Examples include: * The PPI was added without my knowledge. * I was [select from — told I had to take the insurance/told I could not get my [loan/credit card etc] without the PPI/only provided with a quote for the cost of the [loan/credit card etc] with PPI attached]. * I [select from — was/knew I was soon to be] [select from — unemployed/self-employed/ retired/over the age limit] when I took out the policy.] Unless you can prove that the policy was fair and reasonable and that I was treated fairly when I was sold the insurance, I demand a full refund of all premiums, and subsequent interest on these payments, that I have paid in relation to this policy. I also expect 8 pc interest to be added to each payment I have made as this is the statutory amount a court would pay. I look forward to your full and prompt response to this letter. If this matter is not settled within eight weeks of this letter I shall be contacting the Financial Ombudsman to investigate my complaint. Yours faithfully, [Your signature] Download a template letter at thisismoney.co.uk/reclaim-ppi
My bank says I had a PPI policy
If you had a policy and were unhappy with how it was sold, you can complain directly to them. You can use our template letter (thisismoney.co.uk/reclaim-ppi) to send to the financial institution with which you had a policy. Or if you prefer to complain online or over the phone, the FCA's website has a list of the most commonly complained about firms and their contact details.
Can I claim for the deceased?
If you have the legal authority to do so, you can claim PPI compensation on behalf of a deceased person. If there is a will, as the executor you will need to show the bank the Grant of Probate. If there is no will, the administrator will need to produce the Letters of Administration.
If the estate is worth less than £5,000 in England, Wales and Northern Ireland, or £36,000 in Scotland, the next of kin will have to show the bank proof of their relationship with the deceased and evidence that it was a small estate.
I'm not happy with the decision
The business has up to eight weeks to respond to your complaint. After receiving the final response, if you are not happy, you have up to six months to take the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. The Ombudsman typically takes around nine months to resolve any complaints.
You can contact them by phone on 0800 023 4567, or write to them at Exchange Tower, Harbour Exchange, London E14 9SR; or complain online at financial-ombudsman.org.uk/contact-us/ complain-online.
How can I stop nuisance calls?
Ask the firm in question to stop contacting you. If they continue to do so, you can then report them to the ICO. You can also sign up to the Telephone Preference Service using your landline or your mobile phone number to prevent nuisance calls.
The ICO can impose fines of up to £500,000 on firms who call people on this list. An ICO spokesman said: 'Nuisance calls and texts made by rogue operators blight people's lives. It's our job to take action against firms that break the law.
'We rely on the public to report calls and texts to our website, so that we can track down illegal operators, but people can also protect themselves.
'Be careful when ticking boxes so that you don't give consent for companies to contact you or to use your information.'

Story 217
1. What is the Payment Services Directive?
The first Payment Services Directive (PSD1) was adopted in 2007. This legislation provides the legal foundation for an EU single market for payments, to establish safer and more innovative payment services across the EU. The objective was to make cross-border payments as easy, efficient and secure as 'national' payments within a Member State.
Since 2007, this Directive has brought substantial benefits to the European economy, easing access for new market entrants and payment institutions, and so offering more competition and choice to consumers. It offered economies of scale and helped the Single Euro Payments Area (SEPA) in practice. The first PSD has meant more transparency and information for consumers, for example about execution time and fees; and it has cut execution times, strengthened refund rights, and clarified the liability of consumers and payment institutions. A very tangible benefit is that payments are now easier and quicker throughout the whole EU: payments are usually credited to the payment receiver's account within the next day.
2. Why did the Commission propose to review this Directive?
The Commission proposed to review PSD1 to modernise it to take account of new types of payment services, such as payment initiation services (see question 18). These service providers have brought innovation and competition, providing more, and often cheaper, alternatives for internet payments; but were previously unregulated. Bringing them within the scope of the PSD has boosted transparency, innovation and security in the single market and created a level playing field between different payment service providers.
At the same time, certain rules set out in the first PSD, such as the exemptions of a number of payment-related activities from the scope of the Directive (payment services provided within a “limited network” or through mobile phones or other IT devices) have been transposed or applied by Member States in different ways, leading to regulatory arbitrage and legal uncertainty. In a number of areas, it has also led to impaired consumer protection and competitive distortions. Updated definitions ensure a level playing field between different providers and address in a more efficient way the consumer protection needed in the context of payments.
The Commission proposed to revise the Payment Services Directive (PSD1) in July 2013. The proposal was part of a package of legislative measures on payment services, which included a proposal for a Regulation on interchange fees for card-based payment transactions (the Interchange Fee Regulation). The Interchange Fee Regulation 2015/751 entered into force on 9 June 2015.
3. What are the main objectives of the revised Directive?
The revised Payment Services Directive (PSD2) updates and complements the EU rules put in place by the Payment Services Directive (PSD1, 2007/64/EC). Its main objectives are to:
Contribute to a more integrated and efficient European payments market
Improve the level playing field for payment service providers (including new players)
Make payments safer and more secure
Protect consumers
4. What are the main differences between PSD1 and PSD2?
PSD2 widens the scope of PSD1 by covering new services and players as well as by extending the scope of existing services (payment instruments issued by payment service providers that do not manage the account of the payment service user), enabling their access to payment accounts.
PSD2 also updates the telecom exemption by limiting it mainly to micro-payments for digital services (see question 9), and includes transactions with third countries when only one of the payment service providers is located within the EU ("one-leg transactions"). It also enhances cooperation and information exchange between authorities in the context of authorisation and supervision of payment institutions. The European Banking Authority (EBA) will develop a central register of authorised and registered payment institutions.
To make electronic payments safer and more secure, PSD2 introduces enhanced security measures to be implemented by all payment service providers, including banks. In particular, PSD2 requires payment service providers to apply strong customer authentication (SCA) for electronic payment transactions as a general rule. To that end, the Commission adopted rules that spell out how strong customer authentication (SCA) is to be applied.
KEY BENEFITS
5. What are the benefits for consumers under this Directive?
A. Economic benefits
The new EU rules should help stimulate competition in the electronic payments market, by providing the necessary legal certainty for companies to enter or continue in the market. This would then allow consumers to benefit from more and better choices between different types of payment services and service providers.
During the past years, new players have emerged in the area of internet payments offering consumers the possibility to pay instantly for their internet bookings or online shopping without the need for a credit card (around 60% of the EU population does not have a credit card). These services establish a payment link between the payer and the online merchant via the payer's online banking module. These innovative and low cost payment solutions are called “payment initiation services” and are already offered in a number of Member States (e.g. Sofort in Germany, IDeal in the Netherlands, Trustly in Sweden). Until now, these new providers were not regulated at EU level. The new Directive will cover these new payment providers (“payment initiation services”), addressing issues which may arise with respect to confidentiality, liability or security of such transactions.
Furthermore, PSD2 will help lower charges for consumers and ban "surcharging" for card payments in the vast majority of cases (including all popular consumer debit and credit cards), both online and in shops. The practice of surcharging is common in some Member States, notably for online payments and specific sectors, such as the travel and hospitality industry. In all cases where card charges imposed on merchants are capped, in accordance with the complementary regulation on interchange fees for card-based payment transactions (the Interchange Fee Regulation), merchants will no longer be allowed to surcharge consumers for using their payment card. This will apply to domestic as well as cross-border payments. In practice, the prohibition of surcharging will cover some 95% of all card payments in the EU and consumers would be able to save more than €550 million annually. The new rules will contribute to a better consumer experience when paying with a card throughout the European Union.
Consumers will be better protected against fraud and other abuses and payment incidents, with improved security measures in place. As regards losses that consumers may face, the new rules streamline and further harmonise the liability rules in case of unauthorised transactions, ensuring enhanced protection of the legitimate interests of payment users. Except in cases of fraud or gross negligence by the payer, the maximum amount a payer could, under any circumstances, be obliged to pay in the case of an unauthorised payment transaction will decrease from €150 to €50.
B. Consumers' rights
PSD1 and PSD2 protect consumer rights in the event of unauthorised debits from an account under certain conditions. A direct debit is a payment that is not initiated by the payer, but by the payee on the basis of consent of the payer to the payee. It is based on the following concept: "I request money from someone else with their prior approval and credit it to myself". The payer and the biller must each hold an account with a payment service provider and the transfer of funds (money) takes place between the payer's bank and the biller's bank. However, since the biller can collect funds from a payer's account, provided that a mandate has been granted by the payer to the biller, the payer should also have a right to get the money refunded. Member States have applied different rules with regard to this issue.
Under PSD1, payers had the right to a refund from their payment service provider in case of a direct debit from their account, but only under certain conditions. In order to enhance consumer protection and promote legal certainty further, PSD2 provides a legislative basis for an unconditional refund right in case of a SEPA direct debit during an 8 week period from the date the funds are debited form the account. The right to a refund after the payee has initiated the payment still allows the payer to remain in control of his payment. In such cases, payers can request a refund even in the case of a disputed payment transaction.
As far as the direct debit schemes for non-euro payments are concerned, where they offer the protection as set out under PSD1, they can continue to function as they do today. However, Member States may require that for such direct debit schemes refund rights are offered that are more advantageous to payers.
Consumers will also be better protected when the transaction amount is not known in advance. This situation can occur in the case of car rentals, hotel bookings, or at petrol stations. The payee will only be allowed to block funds on the account of the payer if the payer has approved the exact amount that can be blocked. The payer's bank shall immediately release the blocked funds after having received the information about the exact amount and at the latest after having received the payment order.
Furthermore, the new Directive will increase consumer rights when sending transfers and money remittances outside the EU or paying in non-EU currencies. PSD1 only addresses transfers inside the EU and is limited to the currencies of the Member States. PSD2 will extend the application of PSD1 rules on transparency to "one-leg transactions", hence covering payment transactions to persons outside the EU as regards the “EU part” of the transaction. This should contribute to better information of money remitters, and lower the cost of money remittances as a result of higher transparency on the market.
Finally, the new Directive will oblige Member States to designate competent authorities to handle complaints of payment service users and other interested parties, such as consumer associations, concerning an alleged infringement of the directive. Payment service providers that are covered by the Directive on their side should put in place a complaints procedure for consumers that they can use before seeking out-of-court redress or before launching court proceedings. The new rules will oblige payment service providers to answer in written form to any complaint within 15 business days.
C. Payment security
The new rules also provide for a high level of payment security. This is a key issue for many payment users and notably consumers when paying via the internet. All payment service providers, including banks, payment institutions or third party providers (TPPs), will need to prove that they have certain security measures in place ensuring safe and secure payments. The payment service provider will have to carry out an assessment of the operational and security risks at stake and the measures taken on a yearly basis.
6. How will PSD2 benefit potential market entrants and contribute to the Single Market?
Market entrants
Since the adoption of PSD1, new services emerged in the area of internet payments, where so called third party providers (TPPs) offer specific payment solutions or services to customers. For example, there are services which collect and consolidate information on the different bank accounts of a consumer in a single place ("account information services - AIS"). These services will typically allow consumers to have a global view on their financial situation and to analyse their spending patterns, expenses, financial needs in a user-friendly manner. Other third party providers facilitate the use of online banking to make internet payments (so-called "payment initiation services - PIS"). They help to initiate a payment from the user account to the merchant account by creating a software “bridge” between these accounts, fill-in the information necessary for a transfer (amount of the transaction, account number, message) and inform the merchant once the transaction has been initiated.
Until now, entering the market of payments was complicated for TPPs, as many barriers were preventing them from offering their solutions on a large scale and in different Member States. With these barriers removed, more competition is expected with new players entering new markets and offering cheaper solutions for payments to more and more consumers throughout Europe. The TPPs will have to follow the same rules as the traditional payment service providers: registration, licensing and supervision by the competent authorities. In addition, new security requirements included in the text of the PSD2 will oblige all payment service providers to step up the security around online payments.
Single Market
PSD2 will allow consumers and merchants to benefit fully from the internal market, particularly in terms of e-commerce. The Directive aims to help develop the EU market for electronic payments, which will enable consumers, retailers and other market players to enjoy the full benefits of the EU internal market, in line with the digital single market. Such further integration is becoming increasingly important as the world moves beyond bricks-and-mortar trade towards a digital economy.
SPECIFIC QUESTIONS
SCOPE OF THE DIRECTIVE
7.What is the scope of the Directive?
The Directive applies to payment services in the European Union. The Directive focuses on electronic payments, which are more cost-efficient than cash and which also stimulate consumption and economic growth.
There are a number of payment means (including cash and cheques) not falling within the scope of this Directive.
8. Will the new rules also apply to international payments?
While PSD1 only applies to intra-EU payments, PSD2 extends a number of obligations, notably information obligations, to payments to and from third countries, where one of the payment service providers is located in the European Union.
The extension of the scope has implications primarily for the banks and other payment service providers that are located in the EU. In practice, this means that these financial services providers shall provide information and transparency on the costs and conditions of these international payments, at least in respect of their part of the transaction. They can also be held liable for their part of the payment transaction if something goes wrong that is attributable to them.
Moreover, the extension in scope will also have as an effect that the same rules will apply to payments that are made in a currency that is not denominated in Euro or another Member State's currency.
This will be an important improvement for consumer protection in particular in the area of global money remittances.
9. To what extent will payments through telecom operators be covered by this Directive?
Under PSD1, payments made through a telecom operator were not covered, where the telecom operator acts as an intermediary between the consumer and the payment service provider (by operator billing or direct to phone-bill purchases). Under PSD2, the purchase of physical goods and services through a telecom operator now falls within the scope of the Directive.
Under the new rules, the exclusion for payments through telecom operators has also been further specified and narrowed down. The exclusion now covers only payments made through telecom operators for the purchase of digital services such as music and digital newspapers that are downloaded on a digital device or of electronic tickets or donations to charities.
In order to avoid the risk of exposure to substantial financial risks to payers, only payments under a certain threshold are excluded (€50 per transaction; €300 per billing month). Telecom operators that engage in such an activity shall notify to the competent authorities, on an annual basis, that they comply with these limits. The activity will also be listed in the public registers.
ENHANCED RULES ON AUTHORISATION AND SUPERVISION OF PAYMENT INSTITUTIONS
10. Will there be changes in the authorisation requirements for payment institutions?
Under PSD2, payment institutions are required to fulfil a variety of requirements in order to obtain an authorisation to provide payment services. These requirements are largely the same as under PSD1.
The main changes relate to the enhanced levels of payment security under PSD2. Entities that wish to be authorised as a payment institution shall provide with their application a security policy document, as well as a description of security incident management procedure, contingency procedures etc.
Capital requirements which aim to ensure financial stability have largely remained the same under PSD2 as they were set out in PSD1. Specific capital requirements have been defined for third party service providers in relation to their respective activities and the risks these represent. Third party service providers are not subject to own fund requirements. However, they need to hold a professional indemnity insurance covering the territories in which they offer services.
11. Will the rules change for waived payment institutions?
Under PSD1, entities with an average volume of monthly payment transactions below €3 million can benefit from a lighter authorisation regime, if their Member State of establishment makes use of that option.
This so-called "waiver" regime will be maintained under PSD2 as an option for Member States, albeit with this difference, that Member States making use of the option can decide to define a lower threshold under which such "waivers" can be granted.
Payment institutions that have obtained a waiver under PSD1 may need to re-assess their status under PSD2, depending on whether the Member State that has made use of the option under PSD1 decides to continue to make use of the option and/or to lower the threshold under which the waiver is granted.
12. What are the changes for limited networks under this Directive?
As under PSD1, payment transactions based on a specific payment instrument within a limited network - for instance a chain of department stores or a network of petrol stations under the same brand offering a dedicated payment instrument to their customers - are outside the scope of the Directive. In order to ensure a more coherent supervision of such networks across the Union, the Directive provides that networks, when their activities reach a certain value, shall notify these activities to competent authorities, so that these can assess whether or not the network shall apply for a licence as a payment institution. This is to ensure that the financial risks for consumers are minimised.
13. Will this Directive strengthen the supervision of payment institutions that provide services cross-border?
As a main principle, payment institutions are supervised by the Member State where they are authorised to provide the defined payment services (the so-called 'home Member State'). When a payment institution intends to provide payment services in another Member State, the supervision of these activities in principle remains with the home Member State. However, if the payment institution provides these services through established agents or branches in the other Member State (the host Member State), that Member State can act in case of an infringement or a suspected infringement of EU rules under the Directive.
In this respect, the supervision under PSD2 has not changed. However, to reinforce the investigative and supervisory powers of the host Member State, PSD2 has introduced a more detailed passporting procedure. This procedure will ensure better cooperation and information exchange between the national competent authorities. Furthermore, the host Member State can ask payment institutions operating with agents and branches in its territory to regularly report on their activities. To that end, the payment institution can be requested to set up a central contact point in the host territory (see question 15 below). In emergency situations, requiring immediate action, the host Member State is allowed to take precautionary measures with regard to the payment institution concerned, in parallel to the host's duties of cooperation with the home Member State to find a remedy.
The European Banking Authority has been mandated to draft regulatory technical standards on the cooperation and information exchange between authorities.
14. Is there a need to set up a central contact point in a Member State if they are providing payments services cross border?
PSD2 contains an option for Member States to require a payment institution that provides cross-border payment services to set up a central contact point if it operates with agents or branches that are established in their territory. The central contact point shall ensure adequate communication and information with regard to the activities of the payment institution in the host territory. The European Banking Authority is mandated to draft regulatory technical standards on the criteria under which a central contact point can be requested, and the functions of such contact point.
The fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive (Directive EU/2015/849) also contains an option for Member States to request a central contact point in its territory. The set-up of such a contact point, however, can only be requested for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the money laundering and anti-terrorist financing rules. This provision should be distinguished from the Member States option under PSD2, which can only be invoked for the purpose of adequate communication and information by the payment institution on compliance with the rules under PSD2.
15. Will payment institutions be able to access accounts maintained by credit institutions?
For payment institutions, access to a payment account maintained by a credit institution is vital for the operation of their business. PSD2 provides specifically that Member States will have to ensure that credit institutions do not block or hinder access to payment accounts and that payment institutions have access to credit institutions' payment accounts services in an objective, non-discriminatory and proportionate manner. This aspect is very relevant for money remittance services as many of them have lost access to the banking system in the recent years.
SECURITY OF PAYMENTS
16. What is strong customer authentication?
The PSD2 text introduces strict security requirements for the initiation and processing of electronic payments, which apply to all payment service providers, including newly regulated payment service providers. This stricter approach on security should contribute to reducing the risk of fraud for all new and more traditional means of payment, especially online payments, and to protecting the confidentiality of the user's financial data (including personal data).
Payment service providers will be obliged to apply so-called strong customer authentication (SCA) when a payer initiates an electronic payment transaction. Strong customer authentication is an authentication process that validates the identity of the user of a payment service or of the payment transaction (more specifically, whether the use of a payment instrument is authorised). Strong customer authentication is based on the use of two or more elements categorised as knowledge (something only the user knows, e.g. a password or a PIN), possession (something only the user possesses, e.g. the card or an authentication code generating device) and inherence (something the user is, e.g. the use of a fingerprint or voice recognition) to validate the user or the transaction. These elements are independent (the breach of one element does not compromise the reliability of the others) and designed in such a way as to protect the confidentiality of the authentication data. On 27 November 2017, the Commission adopted rules that spell out how strong customer authentication (SCA) is to be applied."
For remote transactions, such as online payments, the security requirements go even further, requiring a dynamic link to the amount of the transaction and the account of the payee, to further protect the user by minimising the risks in case of mistakes or fraudulent attacks.
17. Will all payments have to apply strong customer authentication? Are exemptions possible?
As a matter of principle, all electronic means of payment are subject to strong customer authentication. However, exemptions to the principle of strong customer authentication (SCA) are possible, as it is not always necessary and convenient to request the same level of security from all payment transactions.
These exemptions have been defined by the European Banking Authority (EBA) and adopted by the European Commission, taking account of the risk involved, the value of transactions and the channels used for the payment.
Such exemptions include low value payments at the point of sale (to facilitate the use of mobile and contactless payments) and also for remote (online) transactions. The exemptions from strong customer authentication seek to avoid disrupting the ways consumers, merchants and payment service providers operate today. They are also based on the fact that there are alternative authentication mechanisms that are equally safe and secure.
RULES FOR NEW TYPES OF PAYMENT SERVICE PROVIDERS
18. What are payment initiation services?
The PSD2 opens the EU payment market for companies offering consumer or business-oriented payment services based on the access to the information from the payment account – so called "payment initiation services providers" and "account information services providers". Payment initiation services providers typically help consumers to make online credit transfers and inform the merchant immediately of the payment initiation, allowing for the immediate dispatch of goods or immediate access to services purchased online. For online payments, they constitute a true alternative to credit card payments as they offer an easily accessible payment service, as the consumer only needs to possess an online payment account.
19. What are account information services?
Account information services allow consumers and businesses to have a global view on their financial situation, for instance, by enabling consumers to consolidate the different payment accounts they may have with one or more banks and to categorise their spending according to different typologies (food, energy, rent, leisure, etc.), thus helping them with budgeting and financial planning.
20. What is payment instrument issuing?
The issuing of a payment instrument is one of the payment services that falls within the scope of PSD1 and of PSD2. Any authorised payment service provider, be it a bank or a payment institution, can issue payment instruments. Payment instruments do not only cover payment cards, such as debit cards and credit cards, but any personalised device or set of rules agreed between the issuer and the user used to initiate a payment.
PSD2 allows payment service providers that do not manage the account of the payment service user to issue card-based payment instruments to that account and to execute card-based payments from that account. Such “third party” payment service provider – which could be a bank not servicing the account of the payer – will be able, after consent of the user, to receive from the financial institution where the account is held a confirmation (a yes/no answer) as to whether there are sufficient funds on the account for the payment to be made.
21. What opportunities will these providers offer to consumers and enterprises?
The "payment initiation services providers" allow consumers that shop online to pay for their purchases through a simple credit transfer from their payment account. In some countries, these services are already in use (55% of internet payments in the Netherlands). By providing a proper legal framework in which these services can be offered, PSD2 opens possibilities for providers of these services to operate across the EU and to compete on an equal basis with other regulated players in the market, such as banks.
Account information service providers already exist today and offer tools that allow companies and consumers to have a consolidated view of their financial situation. Nowadays, these services are not regulated, at least at EU level. PSD2 will provide for a common framework with clear conditions under which these providers can access the financial information on behalf of their clients. This will allow these services providers to operate without hindrance and to reach a broader audience which normally does not make use of such account managing services.
Today, account holders are not obliged to use payment instruments offered by the same payment service provider with which they hold their account. For example, credit cards are not only provided by the bank where the user holds its account, but also by third party providers. This does not work, however, in the case of debit cards, where payment service providers have found it very difficult to offer such payment service in connection to accounts not held by them. The source of these difficulties is the fact that these third providers do not have access to feedback information on the availability of funds on the account held by other financial institution. PSD2 lifts this obstacle, which is likely to see consumers benefit from competitive card services offered by third party providers.
22. Will these providers be subject to the same rules as other payment institutions i.e. authorisation and security?
The PSD2 requires all that payment services providers be authorised and regulated. The inclusion of new payment providers within the scope of PSD2 will allow competent authorities to better monitor and supervise the activities of these new players.
PSD2 also fully clarifies the liability issues between bank servicing the account of the payer and the payment initiation service. When a payment initiation service provider is used by a payer to initiate a payment, it will be liable for any payment incidents within its sphere. In particular, the bank of the payer shall not be held liable for payment incidents that can be traced back to the initiator.
23. To what extent will these providers have access to information on my payment or bank account?
These new providers will only be allowed to provide the services the payer decides to make use of. In order to provide these services they will not have full access to the account of the payer. Those offering payment instruments or payment initiation services will only be able to receive information from the payer's bank on the availability of funds (a yes/no answer) on the account before initiating the payment (with the explicit consent of the payer). Account information service providers will receive the information explicitly agreed by the payer and only to the extent they are necessary for the service provided to the payer.
The security credentials of the payment service user shall not be accessible to other third parties and will have to be transmitted through safe and efficient channels to the bank servicing the account. A dynamically generated code only valid for that specific transaction (linked to the amount and recipient) will have to be used in the authentication process.
TRANSITIONAL PERIOD
24. Is there a different date of application for the security requirements?
Without prejudice to the date of application of PSD2 (13 January 2018), a different date of application is foreseen for the new security measures - strong customer authentication and standards for secure communication - introduced in the PSD2. Their entry into force is subject to the adoption of the regulatory technical standards which have been developed by the European Banking Authority and adopted by the Commission. As a result, the new security measures shall apply 18 months after the publication in the Official Journal of these standards, currently under objection period of the European Parliament and Council.
25. Will authorisations under PSD1 keep their validity under this Directive?
The text of PSD2 foresees transitional provisions for payment institutions that are already authorised to provide services under PSD1. These institutions are allowed to continue providing payment services for 30 months (authorised institutions) or 36 months (“small” institutions that benefited from the waiver under Article 26 of PSD) after the entry into force of PSD2.
In order to provide payment services beyond that transitional period, the existing payment institutions would need to submit all relevant information required under PSD2 to the competent authorities that have granted them their existing licenses and fully comply with the relevant PSD2 requirements.
In addition, Member States may provide for the existing payment institutions to be automatically granted PSD2 authorisation if the competent authority already possesses evidence that the payment institution complies with PSD2 requirements. Competent authorities shall make such an assessment on a case-by-case basis. They should inform the payment institution concerned before the authorisation is granted.
26.Can existing providers of payment initiation and account information services continue to provide their services after the date of application of PSD2? As of when will they need to apply for a licence?
PSD2 provisions ensure that providers of payment initiation services (PIS) and account information services (AIS) that are already established in the market can continue to perform their activities. More specifically, PSD2 states that Member States shall allow existing PIS or AIS providers in their territories to operate in accordance with the currently applicable regulatory framework.
As the provision of PIS and AIS is a new payment service recognised in PSD2, existing and new providers of such services would need to apply for authorisation under the PSD2 regime from the date of application of the new Directive.
Furthermore, because the new security measures of PSD2 regarding strong customer authentication and standards for secure communication will become applicable later than other provisions (see answer 24), PIS and AIS providers that seek authorisation under PSD2 are not required to submit proof of compliance with these security requirements until that later date. As provision of both types of services is dependent on the authentication procedures provided by banks, upgrades to the security requirements and procedures applied by banks need to be fully implemented by banks before the application of these measures is possible for the PIS and AIS. In case banks do not comply on time with the security requirements and standards for secure communication, they cannot use this non-compliance to hinder or obstruct the use of PIS and AIS.
The delayed application of the security requirements should not create any difficulties for the provision of existing payment-related services by market players that have been operating in Member States before 13 January 2016. Article 115(5) of PSD2 ensures the continuity of these services. These payment services providers should still apply for the relevant authorisation under PSD2 to their national authority as soon as possible.
27. What is the role of the Internet Security Guidelines, published by the European Banking Authority in 2014, during the transitional period?
The EBA guidelines on the security of internet payments address the issue of security of internet payments as an interim solution, until the application of the PSD2 and its more comprehensive security requirements.
When the EBA Guidelines are applied by the competent authorities of the Member States, in the transitional period, they must be interpreted in so far as there is any scope to do so, in line with the PSD2's content and objectives. As a consequence, compliance with the EBA Guidelines on the security of internet payments should not be used to justify obstructing or blocking the use of PIS or AIS.
Pending the full application of the PSD2 rules, including the rules on the security of payments, and in accordance with the PSD2 text, “Member States, the Commission, the European Central Bank and the European Banking Authority, should guarantee fair competition in that market avoiding unjustifiable discrimination against any existing player on the market”.

