Story 0
About 85 per cent of charities are earning less interest on their money than the Bank of England base rate of 0.5 per cent, according to research carried out by Third Sector.
The online survey of 194 charities found that 80 per cent of them were dissatisfied with the level of interest they were receiving from their banks, with nearly a third earning less than 0.1 per cent interest.
As well as getting little return on their money, the survey found, many charities felt they were taking too much risk by keeping all their money with the same banks: 42 per cent said they were dissatisfied with the level of diversification their charity had achieved.
Just over a third of charities (35 per cent) kept money that was not needed day-to-day in two separate accounts, 24 per cent had just one account and 15 per cent kept all their money in the charity’s current account. Twenty-seven per cent said they kept their money in three or more accounts.
When asked what prevented them from opening accounts with a wider range of banks, 58 per cent said they were deterred by the amount of time and paperwork involved in setting up new accounts, and 42 per cent said they were worried about the risk of placing their money in newer, non-high-street banks, many of which offer higher interest rates.
The survey was carried out in partnership with the online cash deposit platform Flagstone.
Simon Merchant, co-managing partner at Flagstone, said: "We knew that the persistent low interest rate environment, combined with the complexity of bank account opening processes, had created inertia and an over-concentration of deposits with a small number of banks. This research reveals the scale of that problem for charities."
He said tools such as Flagstone could support charities to open and manage multiple accounts.

Story 1
Experts, who gave insight into the unfolding events in the insurance sector, recalled that the number of customers who entrusted their accounts to banks grew enormously after 2004, which expanded the measurable money base, saying that it is a strong precedent for something similar to develop in the insurance industry, starting in 2020.
The Head of Coronation Research, Guy Czartoryski, told The Guardian that the first and essential thing about the industry presently, is that the building blocks for the transformation are in place.Czartoryski explained that it seems the reform will reduce the number of insurance companies in Nigeria and within that number, it is possible to identify a group of six-to-eight largely foreign-owned insurance companies and a group of six-to-eight wholly indigenous insurance companies, followed by a number of small companies.
“So, there is likely to be an even split between foreign and indigenous ownership among the biggest companies. This bodes well for the competitive aspects of the industry going forward and for the relationship between the industry and the regulators,” he said.Raising capital, he said, costs money, and therefore, there has to be a return on that money, adding that the re-capitalised industry of 2020, needs to achieve scale, if it is to make the kind of profits, which strategic investors and stock market investors demand.
“That scale can only be reached with rapid expansion, and the industry is likely to work together, and with distribution partners and regulators, to go for growth,” he said.“There are 38 million Bank Verification Numbers, so the ability of banks to distribute insurance – bancassurance, is not in doubt. There are over 170 million ringing mobile phone lines, which suggests another potent distribution method.
“Number-plate recognition technology, using real-time referencing with insurance records, is already being used in some parts of the country. So, the data sets, hardware and technology for rapid development are already there.“The technological platforms for managing high numbers of customers have been tried and tested in other markets and are available for deployment here. In other words, the systems exist to turn Nigerian insurance companies, which today are accustomed to managing thousands of customer account into companies managing millions of accounts.
“There is micro-insurance, whereby low-cost insurance is distributed in cooperation with state institutions, development finance institutions, foundations and other agencies. Micro-insurance can play a key role in familiarising a market with insurance products and pave the way for the expansion of insurance overall,” he said.
According to him, while different countries roll out insurance in different ways, it is a matter of which combination of these assets and initiatives will be deployed in Nigeria.But the Director at Coronation Merchant Bank, Abiodun Sanusi, pointed out that in insurance consolidation, there are two things- either the insurance companies raise capital through right issues or through mergers and acquisitions route.
“We are also going to see flow on offerings like Initial Public Offerings in the capital market if the insurance industry and investment banks are able to communicate the equity story, because there is enormous potential in the sector.“So, the insurance consolidation that we are going to see is going to have a positive impact on the capital market. When there is consolidation, we would have bigger players and investors would be more confident to invest. As we speak, there are lots of pension funds that have not been invested in the insurance sector.
“Coronation Merchant Bank is an investment bank and one of our key service offerings is investment banking. We offer both capital leasing services and mergers and acquisitions.“We are seeing it as an opportunity to awaken a sector that has been flat over the years, so looking at that concept, we see it as an immense advantage and we are already positioning to advice a lot of insurance companies this time, guiding them either through acquisition and merger or takeover.
“We have started working with a lot of insurance companies in the industry, giving them our best advisory banking services so that at the time this consultation happens and the deadline closes by June 2020, we would be well positioned to be the zenith investment bank that would raise the desired equity capital for them to further meet their investment needs and scale up their operations,” he said.

Story 2
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 3
where to begin?

Perhaps here: there has been galloping inflation in the US for 20 years now. It has just not been called that. It has been called "wealth building through rising asset prices". Heretofore, the inflation affected prices of everything that is sensitive to fraudulent credit, primarily housing, stock prices, and possibly luxury goods. None of which is counted as inflation.

The inflation in the price of sausage has been subdued, primarily because the debt explosion has a long term effect of destroying the purchasing power of the public. Should there be a remedy for this indebtedness, the price of sausage will rise accordingly, particularly because a prolonged period of subdued demand destroys productive capacity.

And finally, there is this little problem: population growth. It is a very simple calculation that Mr El-Erian can do in a jiffy: to extend US level of consumption of oil to the rest of the world, we need to quadruple the production of oil. To the EU level, we need to double the production of oil. Should someone stoke the demand through fiscal means, like a meaningful debt relief, the reality of energy supply will come roaring back, producing inflation, likely followed by a financial crisis. The way out of this dilemma is to find energy substitutes, as well as substitutes for other scarce materials, which will have an effect of making the economy more productive. This would be the old fashioned way of avoiding inflation, and in the end it will have to happen, or else ...

Story 4
The Tankan headline large firm manufacturing index fell more than expected (to 7 from 12) which puts it only just above the 2016 trough. To put that into perspective though, this index fell to -58 during the global financial crisis, so manufacturing is softening, not collapsing.
The forward-looking “outlook” series for the manufacturing industry also dimmed, which is not surprising given the issues facing Japan and the rest of Asia - Trade war, tech slump and slowing global trade.

Story 5
Bharti Airtel suffered another plunge in net income during the last three months of 2018, as increased 4G usage in India and a strong performance in Africa failed to offset the impact of fierce price competition in its home market.
The operator group’s net income declined by 72 per cent year-on-year in its fiscal Q3 to INR860 million ($12 million) on revenue of INR205 billion. Its profit fall would have been even higher were it not for a one-off gain of INR10 million related to accountancy changes for its Payments Bank.
In a statement, the company said its operation in India had increased revenue from digital TV service and business segments. However, despite a jump in data usage and its number of 4G connections, India mobile revenue was down 4 per cent year-on-year due to “sustained pricing pressure”.
The story is becoming a familiar one with the company also posting large declines in its bottom line in fiscal Q2, as a price war in its home market shows no sign of easing.
Bharti Airtel CEO Gopal Vittal added: “Our simplified product portfolio and premium content partnerships have played out well during the quarter,” noting strong trends in data usage.
Africa
While home woes continued, Airtel Africa booked an 11 per cent year-on-year increase in revenue to INR60.8 billion, driven by higher data usage and continued increases in its Airtel Money operation.
Data traffic across its Africa business increased 61 per cent year-on-year with a 26 per cent boost in the number of data connections.
Airtel Money transaction values increased by 29 per cent year-on-year to $6.9 billion during the quarter. Its active mobile money base on the continent was 13.8 million at the end of December, up 32 per cent year-on-year.

Story 6
My father had purchased a flat in Navi Mumbai for Rs5 lakh in 2002. He is 67 now and retired, with an annual pension of Rs2.25 lakh. If my father transfers this same flat in my name, is there any stamp duty implication?
I am planning to buy another flat (under-construction property) in Mumbai, in which my father is a co-applicant. I have taken a loan of Rs80 lakh. Just before possession of the flat in December 2019, my father would sell the Navi Mumbai flat for around Rs45 lakh and transfer the amount to pre-close our loan of Rs80 lakh. Here, we are considering that my father doesn’t transfer the property to me.
Will my father get the benefit of saving tax on long term capital gains on sale of the house?
—Rohan Patil
The transfer of immovable property from father to son can be considered a gift. As per the Transfer of Property Act, the transfer of house property as a gift needs to be effected by a registered document (gift deed) signed by the person gifting the property. The amount of stamp duty payable on gift deed is same as in a regular sale. However, there is an exemption in case of specified relatives, which includes gifts from father to son. In Maharashtra, the rate of stamp duty on such a transaction was limited to Rs200 till 16 May 2017. Now the stamp duty applicable will be 3% of the market value of the transaction.
Sale of property and reinvesting it in another property gives the benefit of exemption of long term capital gains under section 54. If your father sells the Navi Mumbai property to part pre-pay the loan, he will not need to pay long term capital gains tax.
An individual can be a co-applicant in a home loan without being a co-owner of the property. But to get the tax benefit (under section 54) on reinvestment of sale proceeds of another house property, the individual needs to necessarily be a co-owner of the new property. If the new property purchased is through a loan, the payment will go to the loan account and not to the builder directly; hence, the individual also needs to be a co-applicant in the loan. You may also want to check the following points before deciding to pre-pay:
•Check your liquidity position: is there any need that can come up in short time which will require that money? Try and keep the money from the sale proceeds for those needs.
•Use only the capital gains amount to pre-pay the loan. Use the rest for investments if you can get better returns than your home loan rate.
I have a home loan with State Bank of India (SBI) on a base rate of 9.15%, with an outstanding amount of about Rs11 lakh. The repayment term is 15 years and EMI is about Rs15,000.
Can I switch to MCLR (marginal cost of funds based lending rate) now, or should I wait for some time for MCLR interest rate reduction? If I switch now, how much will I benefit?
—Dheena Deenan
Base rate system was introduced from July 2010. The banks referenced their lending rates on a ‘base rate’ which was computed on the cost of funds to the bank. However, there was wide variation in the way different banks calculated this rate, hence the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) introduced MCLR, which proposed a uniform marginal cost funding methodology for all banks. MCLR was introduced in September 2015 and made applicable for all new loans from April 2016. It was expected that any change in interest rates in the system will reflect faster in the home loan rates for customers. In your case, I presume that the original loan tenure was 15 years and the original loan amount was Rs15 lakh. Accordingly, at 9.15% the EMI works out to Rs15,349.
Based on this, 77 months’ EMI has been paid and 103 remain. The total interest paid, if you continue on this rate, is about Rs4.88 lakh.
If you shift to MCLR and get a rate of 8.5% for 103 months, your EMIs will reduce to about Rs14,976 and the total interest in the remaining tenure will be about Rs4.50 lakh.
The reduction in interest and EMI is not large. There will be other charges that the bank will levy to make this change. The decision to shift to MCLR needs to be made on the saving that will accrue to you after considering the actual rate and the charges levied for the change. Also, once you shift to MCLR, you cannot go back to base rate. And, if rates rise in the future, you may end up paying more.
Kiran Telang is co-founder and director of Dhanayush Capital Advisors Pvt.Ltd.
Queries and views at mintmoney@livemint.com.

Story 7
In an attempt to stimulate a weak economy, central banks employ quantitative easing (QE) by purchasing securities on the open market to increase the money supply. This unconventional monetary response is used when interest rates approach very low levels.
The Reserve Bank of Australia’s (RBA) record low rate of 1% has been forecasted to fall further by the end of the year and Governor Phillip Lowe recently discussed what form QE would take if implemented in Australia, stressing it would only be considered under certain circumstances.
In this special note for Livewire, we discuss the probability of this happening, what it means for markets and how investors could prepare for it.
What are the chances of RBA using QE?
In Governor Lowe’s view, several stimulus measures working in conjuncture with one another would be more effective than one unconventional monetary response. He discussed the tools used by other global central banks over the years such as negative interest rates, which encourages people to borrow more and stop holding cash, Governor Lowe said that this policy is unlikely in Australia. Instead, the RBA has assured it will provide forward guidance of pledging extended periods of low interest rates.
Other methods include providing longer-term funding to banks to support credit, buying private sector assets, such as mortgage-backed securities or equities, and foreign exchange intervention to drive the currency lower.
If QE was introduced, the most likely form it would take would be the purchasing of government bonds, something that has already been done in Australia but on a smaller scale. If the RBA were to implement a QE program similar to the United States Federal Reserve’s from 2009 to 2014, it would need to purchase $550 billion worth of assets, representing 70% of Australia’s long-term government debt securities market (as of the end of 2018), which is not realistic.
Economy unlikely to be weak enough to justify QE
We consider it unlikely that a quantitative easing program would be implemented in Australia anytime soon, primarily because we expect to come out of this economic slowdown in the first quarter of 2020.
Australian economic growth is expected to exceed that of most developed economies due to its low unemployment, population growth and several promised tax cuts.
The factors that have affected the stagnant growth this year are likely to begin to fade by the start of 2020 and the boosts to consumer disposable income are likely to translate into greater stimulus, justifying little need for an unconventional monetary policy.
QE supports asset prices with little effect on an economy
Historically it was thought that a QE program would lead to economic growth while also increasing inflation across the economy. Recent examples have failed to stimulate economic growth and only caused asset price inflation.
Japan was the first country to implement QE in 2001, following the Asian financial crisis of 1997 and years of low growth, yet despite these efforts, it failed to create any tangible growth and Japanese GDP fell from USD 5.45 trillion to USD 4.52 trillion between 1995 and 2007.
Since the 2008 global financial crisis, several other countries began employing QE such as the United States, United Kingdom and several European countries. The United States Federal Reserve increased the money supply by USD 4 trillion, however banks held onto much of it as excess reserves instead. The direct relationship between the recovery of the US economy and the policy of QE is unclear and difficult to quantify - what is clear is that asset prices rose as a result.
QE in the Australian context
If QE was implemented in Australia, it is likely to artificially inflate asset prices, while failing to boost economic activity or productivity in real terms. QE pushes down the real cost of money, and coupled with low interest rates, could be bad for the bank sector in particular.
Australia’s bond market is not particularly deep compared to other countries, therefore QE does not have particularly far to go.
If a structural change in the money base was to be implemented, there would be less risk in holding investments in equities over the longer-term or investing in commodities such as energy and base metals. Long-term holdings provide resilience and allow any risk premiums to materialise over an extended period of time.
Invest in the highest quality companies
WAM Leaders provides investors with diversified exposure to a portfolio of undervalued growth companies within the S&P/ASX 200 Index and exposure to market mispricing opportunities in large-cap companies. For more information hit the contact button below.

Story 8
Orange Money paved the way for wider financial services in its African markets, the operator’s MEA CEO Alioune Ndiaye (pictured) explained, with the company prepared to launch fully-fledged banking in several locations as soon as regulators give the nod.
The operator is currently awaiting the green light from West African Economic and Monetary Union regulators after submitting the application for a licence in 2018. Approval would allow it to provide a wide range of financial services in any of the authority’s member states. These include Senegal, Ivory Coast and Mali.
Speaking at Orange’s Middle East and Africa update event in London, Ndiaye said the licence would allow the provision of credit, savings and other microfinance products. This is in addition to standard money transfer and payment services already offered through Orange Money.
“As soon that licence is granted we will launch the fully-fledged bank in Africa,” he confirmed, adding the company ultimately plans to bring the service to its entire footprint in the region.
The provision of advanced banking products is one of its key strategies for its unit in Africa, where it also expects to continue increasing the penetration rate of its standard Orange Money service.
Ndiaye noted there was “huge potential” in the 17 markets where it offers the service, adding the company aimed to replicate uptake reported by Safaricom in Kenya, where 80 per cent of the operator’s mobile customers also use its m-Pesa mobile money platform.

Story 9
With new reforms set to impact Nigeria's insurance sector from 2020, Coronation Merchant Bank will offer support through its strategic advisory role in the investment banking sector
Over the past 10 years, Nigeria’s insurance sector has exhibited poor performance – in fact, it has not expanded at all. Gross premiums, for example, did not achieve any growth in inflation-adjusted terms during the period from 2008 to 2018. They also only grew very slightly in US dollar terms over the same period, according to a report by Coronation Research, one of the leading research houses in Nigeria and a subsidiary of Coronation Merchant Bank.
The implications of this become all the more obvious when you compare the sector to the country’s pension fund industry, where the total assets under management (AUM) grew at an average annual compound rate of 9.8 percent in inflation-adjusted terms. This can largely be attributed to the fact that insurance companies have not yet become part of Nigeria’s broader drive for financial inclusion – however, things could soon be set to change, thanks to new reforms that are due to be implemented in 2020. In light of this upcoming transformation, World Finance spoke with Guy Czartoryski, Head of Research at Coronation Merchant Bank, about the industry as it stands today and what’s on the horizon for the near future of the business.
Why is insurance penetration so slow in Nigeria?
The Nigerian insurance industry is very fragmented: of its 59 companies, many lack adequate capital. When there are so many companies, it’s difficult for customers to compare service standards, for the regulator to monitor activities and fix problems as they arise, or for the industry to effectively engage with the regulator. Essentially, the industry lacks an adequate capital base while having far too many companies. Without these two problems being addressed, the industry is unlikely to grow.
What opportunities does this slow growth present?
If you look at countries with a similar GDP per capita to Nigeria, you will find very big differences in insurance penetration, which measures the total gross premiums of the industry against nominal GDP. For example, India has an insurance penetration rate of 3.69 percent, while Kenya has a rate of 2.37 percent. Nigeria, on the other hand, has an insurance penetration rate of just 0.31 percent.
The systems already exist to turn Nigerian insurance companies – which are accustomed to managing thousands of customer accounts – into companies that are able to manage millions
Although concerning, this is a great opportunity for the country: if Nigeria can get close to India’s level (say, reaching 3.1 percent in the next 10 years), the industry’s total gross premiums would expand at a real-term compound annual growth rate of 25.9 percent. The encouraging thing is that this has happened before in the banking sector, during the five years following the banking reform of 2004. In that period, Nigerian banks’ total gross loans grew by a compound annual growth rate of 27.9 percent.
How can insurance penetration be increased?
The essential thing to understand is that the building blocks for transformation already exist. For example, there are 38 million bank verification numbers in Nigeria, so banks’ abilities to distribute insurance or bancassurance is not in doubt. What’s more, there are 170 million mobile phone lines in the country, which suggests another effective distribution method. Number-plate recognition technology, using real-time referencing with insurance records, is already being used in some parts of the country, showing that the datasets, hardware and technology for rapid development are already there.
The technological platforms for managing high volumes of customers are tried and tested in other markets, and are available for deployment here too. In other words, the systems already exist to turn Nigerian insurance companies – which are accustomed to managing thousands of customer accounts – into companies that are able to manage millions.
In addition, there is microinsurance – low-cost insurance that is distributed in cooperation with state institutions, development finance institutions, foundations and other agencies. Microinsurance can help to familiarise a market with insurance products and pave the way for the expansion of insurance overall. It’s therefore a matter of which combination of these assets and initiatives will be deployed in Nigeria.
Can you tell us about the reforms due for completion in 2020 and what impact they will have on Nigeria’s insurance sector?
Nigeria’s National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) has found a deceptively simple device to reform the industry as a whole. This involves helping insurance companies to raise extra capital.
In the coming months, the minimum level of capital for a composite insurer is set to rise from NGN 5bn ($13.8m) to NGN 18bn ($49.8m). Meanwhile, the minimum level of capital for a non-life or general insurer is set to increase from NGN 3bn ($8.3m) to NGN 10bn ($27.6m) and the minimum level of capital for a life insurer is predicted to rise from NGN 2bn ($5.5m) to NGN 8bn ($22m). In May 2019, instructions regarding these changes were given to insurance companies, and a further document was issued in July giving clarification to NAICOM’s precise definition of ‘capital’. The deadline for complying with NAICOM’s minimum capital requirements is June 2020.
In the process of recapitalisation, we expect two things to happen: first, we expect companies to raise fresh capital on their own. As of September 2019, we can already identify eight companies that are doing this, but there will be more companies raising capital over the coming months. Second, we expect more mergers and acquisitions to take place, consolidating some of the medium-sized and smaller players together and perhaps bringing them under the umbrella of one or two of the larger players. It is also possible that some of the weakest players will be eliminated entirely. The result – and we can see this evolving at the moment – is the creation of a suitably capitalised industry with fewer companies.
89 Number of banks in Nigeria in 2004 25 Number of banks in Nigeria in 2005 59 Number of insurance companies in Nigeria in 2019 25 Predicted number of insurance companies by 2020
The insurance reforms of 2020 looks very much like the banking reforms that took place in 2004. The banking reform of 2004 was introduced under Charles Chukwuma Soludo, who was governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria at the time. His reforms involved a steep increase in the capital requirements of banks; as a result, there was a round of capital raising and mergers and acquisitions. The number of banks in the country fell from 89 in 2004 to 25 in 2005. In a similar way, we expect the number of Nigerian insurance companies to fall from 59 today to around 25 by the middle of 2020.
The banking reforms of 2004 also re-established the credibility of the industry in the eyes of international partners, domestic commercial customers and, crucially, retail customers. The number of clients who entrust their current accounts and savings to banks has grown enormously, which in turn has expanded the measurable money base. There is a strong precedent for something similar to happen in the insurance industry too, starting in 2020.
In addition to these reforms, what else is needed to promote the growth of Nigeria’s insurance sector?
The role of the government and regulators is very important. In countries where the government takes an interest in the development of insurance, there have been many instances of successful insurance rollouts. These governments understand the social benefits of widespread insurance deployment in providing a safety net for individuals, SMEs and businesses in sectors as diverse as agriculture, logistics, transportation and power generation. When it is understood that insurance is a social good and essential to the smooth running and development of the economy, then governments are likely to get involved.
Regulation is not restricted to insurance regulators. If the insurance industry is going to expand through bancassurance, then it requires both insurance and banking regulators to work together; if the industry is going to expand through mobile telecoms, then it requires the insurance and telecoms regulators to work together too. In fact, all three need to collaborate in order to create the optimal mix. Ultimately, what is required is a collaborative approach from NAICOM, the National Communications Commission and the Central Bank of Nigeria. It may be a tall order, but there are gains to be made for all the parties involved.
What role does Coronation Merchant Bank play in helping to make this change happen?
Coronation Merchant Bank plays many roles in supporting the insurance industry in Nigeria. We have a strategic advisory role with our investment banking division, which has a clear insight as to how the industry is going to develop. We also have advisory and capital-raising capabilities in investment banking and Coronation Securities, as well as key contacts in the industry.
Part of the success of an insurance company comes from the effectiveness of its liquidity management – in other words, how effectively it manages the premiums it receives. This is an important factor in Nigeria, where risk-free interest rates are in double digits. It is therefore very important to judge fixed income markets well. Thankfully, our global markets and Coronation Asset Management divisions provide critical services and support for insurance company liquidity management.
What can we expect to see from Nigeria’s insurance sector in the coming years?
It seems likely that the NAICOM reform will reduce the number of insurance companies to around 25. Within that number, it is possible to identify a group of six to eight largely foreign-owned insurance companies, and a group of six to eight wholly indigenous insurance companies, followed by a number of small companies. So, there is likely to be an even split between foreign and indigenous ownership among the biggest firms. This bodes well for the competitive aspects of the industry going forward, and for the relationship between the industry and its regulators.
Raising capital costs money, therefore there has to be a return on that money. Clearly, the recapitalised industry of 2020 needs to achieve scale if it to make the kind of profit that strategic investors and stock market investors demand. That scale can only be reached with rapid expansion. Fortunately, the industry is likely to work together with distribution partners and regulators to achieve growth.
It can also be expected that development finance institutions, foundations and other agencies will take greater interest in the industry, quite possibly through sponsoring microinsurance schemes. There could also be innovations in bancassurance and mobile telephony if regulators are prepared to amend existing regulations. As such, the insurance industry is likely to be very dynamic, with rapidly evolving partnerships and alliances forming over the coming years.

Story 10
Governor of the Central Bank of Iran says Iran and Russia have connected their financial messaging services to handle two-way banking transactions.
Outlining details of his talks with the Russian delegation in Turkey, Abdolnasser Hemmati said banks in both countries are now connected through the Russian SPFS and Iran’s SEPAM.
The initiative is to be used as an alternative to payments through SWIFT (Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication) for protection against third country sanctions.
This was first reported by the Russian presidential aide Yury Ushakov on Friday.
“To protect bilateral trade and economic ties from the sanctions of third states, we are taking measures to expand direct settlements, use national currencies, and establish interaction between the Russian financial messaging system and Iran's SEPAM, as an alternative to making payments through SWIFT", Ushakov told reporters.
SEPAM (a Persian acronym) currently functions as a venue through which inter-bank transactions are conducted electronically. It is said to be capable of being connected to foreign banks.
The Belgium-based SWIFT announced in November that it would sever ties with individual Iran-based banks for the sake of the "global stability of the system." It did not elaborate.
SWIFT declared in October 2014 that it was under pressure from several states that were adding to the sanctions against Russia but said it does not plan to surrender.
However, the Bank of Russia created its own transaction system in the same year as an alternative to SWIFT to ensure intermittent financial services.
Alluding to Iran’s ongoing plan to join Eurasian Economic Union (EEU) in the near future, Hemmati underlined the importance of the mechanism for expanding trade between EEU member states.
“The system will help expand trade exchanges between Eurasian Economic Union members,” he wrote in an Instagram post late Monday.
Iran is due to officially join the union next month.
EEU is an international economic union comprising countries in central and northern Asia and Eastern Europe. The founding member states, Belarus, Kazakhstan and Russia established the union by a treaty that came into force on Jan. 1, 2015.
According to media reports, Iran’s non-oil trade with the five EEU member states in the last Iranian year (ended March 20, 2019) was worth $2 billion.
Hemmati was in Ankara on Monday as part of a delegation accompanying President Hassan Rouhani for a summit with his Turkish counterpart Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Russian leader Vladimir Putin. The meeting focused on ways to help restore peace to war-ravaged Syria.
Non-Dollar Trade With Turkey
Hemmati touched on the details of bilateral talks between the presidents of Iran and Turkey, saying both sides exchanged views and focused mainly on expanding commercial and banking relations.
Underlining the need for bilateral trade using national currencies, he referred to data saying “34% of two-way trade is presently done with national currencies”.
Iran’s trade with Turkey totaled $4.21 billion during the first seven months of 2019, according to data released by Turkish Statistical Institute. Iran exported $2.8 billion worth of goods to Turkey during the period while imports stood at $1.39 billion.
Hemmati referred to a meeting with his Turkish counterpart in which they reviewed banking issues and ways to improve financial exchanges.
It was agreed that representatives from the CBI attend training courses held by the Turkish central bank to improve their skills for the soon-to-be launched open market operation.
“For years Turkey has had a monetary policy that aims to control inflation through the OMO and regulate short-term interest rate,” Hemmate wrote in his Instagram post.
Iran’s central bank has high hopes in the mechanism (OMO) hoping it would help reduce inflationary effects of the ballooning liquidity.
The senior banker said earlier that the mechanism is getting the final touches and would be launched in the coming weeks.
The policy was endorsed as part of a CBI plan to introduce new instruments in its monetary policy, regulate interest rates, curb inflation and develop a regulated framework for controlling the borrowing of banks from the CBI.
OMO is a financial instrument through which central banks buy and sell securities in the open market to expand or reduce money supply.
In the OMO framework, central banks also buy government bonds to increase the money base (cash reserves) and by extension curb inter-banking lending rates. By the same token, selling government bonds reduces the base money and raises interbank rates.
In short, within the OMO governments issue bonds to be later used by banks as collateral to borrow from the CBI. The CBI decides lending rates or the price of bonds.

Story 11
In this series on Bitcoin and money, Crypto Briefing takes a deep dive into the complexities of the modern monetary system and how Bitcoin, as the ultimate hard money, can serve as a solution to many of its problems.
In concluding the series, we examine the steps that will lead to a truly decentralized global economy, and the challenges that participants in this economy will face along the way.
The full nine-part series is available here.
The Circle Is Complete
When we began our exploration of the evolution of money and its eventual arrival at the mathematical “discovery” of Bitcoin, we examined the simplest of all forms of trade: bartering.
Bartering offered the objectivity of purely market-based exchanging of goods holding intrinsic value to trading parties. It held the freedom of purely consensual trade without the need for intermediation. Yet, the bartering method was held back by the inconvenience of trading one thing for another, thus limiting the capacity for trade between parties with differing wants or needs.
Bartering was also held back as an ideal trading method due to its lack of portability, requiring vast shipments of unwieldy quantities of goods for the purposes of larger scale or distant trade between nations.
While early currencies like beaver pelts and seashells, to be eventually replaced by purer forms of money like electroneum and eventually the more refined and much harder money; gold, served a purpose as a means of exchange — and in gold’s case, a storage of value — practical limitations led to the inception of paper currencies or “flying money” that made trade far easier.
These currencies, time after time, fell victim to manipulation as governments and other economic powers struggled throughout history to prop up failing systems with easy money. Paper and digital currencies of today are facing this same problem, but a new innovation in the hardest form of money ever conceived, with all the advantages of the ancient barter system and the conveniences of modern currencies, is now available to the world.
Bitcoin is the completion of this full circle in the evolution of money.
Small Steps
It bears mentioning that we are in the early, some might even say, infant, stages of this monetary development. This is a period of rapid change, great volatility, mistakes paired with learning, and exponential growth.
Many problems remain, from achieving true fungibility, to managing custody, to delivering true privacy. The fact that Bitcoin is pseudonymous in nature rather than anonymous means that certain bitcoins attached to particular addresses, associated with criminal behavior for example, may not in fact have the same fungibility as “clean” bitcoins might.
Custody remains an intimidating issue for many more casual users who are fearful of losing funds due to human error, such as losing seed phrases to private keys or incorrectly sending transactions.
Privacy also remains a concern, particularly as governments and banks in certain jurisdictions are doing their best to stem the tide of cryptocurrency adoption, especially in unstable or fragile economies.
This is the great advantage of a programmable decentralized money. While facing barriers of various kinds on multiple fronts, the technology continues to innovate. Developers across the world continue to contribute enormous quantities of brainpower to finding solutions that will only make blockchain technology stronger and more useful.
This is a young technology, only a decade old. The speed of maturation on this tiny timescale is stunning. New innovations like the Lightning Network, Schnorr signatures, Taproot, and a myriad of other proposed advancements will continue to improve the protocol’s speed, privacy, utility, and efficiency.
This is only possible with a decentralized force of innovators across the world contributing to the cause of development.
While Bitcoin already successfully acts as a storage and settlement layer for large exchanges of value, second-layer technologies like the Lightning Network enable virtually instantaneous transactions of smaller amounts — think buying a coffee — in the secured Bitcoin ecosystem.
Small steps in improving the network’s functionality can be innovated through various second-layer technologies, anchored to the hard money base layer of Bitcoin.
The possibilities for future innovations of technologies running on top of the Bitcoin protocol are virtually infinite, akin to the vast range of applications running atop the Internet today.
Hedging Against Disaster
At this stage of the game, with current conditions pointing to the possibilities of greater quantitative easing, inflation, and in many cases, hyperinflation, Bitcoin is becoming more attractive as a hedge against economic disaster.
While gold certainly has its place as such a hedge, as mentioned in Part Two, Bitcoin offers significant advantages. True custody, rather than reliance on papers that declare ownership, the ease of “capital flight” from failing economies, true scarcity as the hardest money ever conceived, and the aforementioned programmability distinguish Bitcoin from all other forms of money.
It is the best suited solution to protect against the failures of our deeply flawed global economy.
Changing The Money Mindset
We live in a world that has been conditioned to spend, often well beyond monetary means. This is symptomatic of a Keynesian economic philosophy that lives and dies on an unsustainable and constant increase in spending habits from the population. The cure for recession is “stimulation”, accelerated in the past decade through the tool of quantitative easing that prints money ad infinitum, ex nihilo; infinitely, out of nothing.
Bitcoin offers a change in mindset for every participant who holds or exchanges it. A gradual shift takes place in the mindset of such a user, from spending to saving, from excess to investment.
This is caused by a shift from short-to-long-term gratification, that manifests in the act of saving an asset with the goal of achieving greater returns in the future.
The current low-to-negative interest rate climate causes precisely the opposite effect, encouraging a preference for consuming rather than saving, living in perpetual debt, and spending without any concern for future implications.
This worldview extends globally to the enormously out-of-control spending practices on, for example, the irrationally expensive military industry, which must then enforce the fiat standard by any means necessary in order to maintain compliance between nations.
With easy money as the base layer for economies, notions of fiscal restraint are often merely a distraction, wielded by so-called conservatives to pander to voters, with no genuine intention to change the fundamental flaws of the system, benefiting the few at the cost of many.
Thus, the change in mindset must take place in individuals who choose to exercise their ability to achieve monetary sovereignty.
Bitcoin, as a money that is freely traded and stored without the possibility of government interference, acts as such a tool, enabling an organic infiltration of the monetary system that cannot be stopped by any central power.
As this mindset spreads among populations, it only becomes stronger and more influential in changing the way money works as a free market entity, without the need for any form of coercion or heavy-handed control.
True Capitalism Unleashed
Bitcoin as the first truly free-market money will unleash a form of capitalism that the world has never seen.
In such an economy, cronies and oligarchs can not persist since hard money prevents the acts of manipulation and control present in our current near-feudal system of monetary control.
Monopolies and duopolies will be challenged by new entities who, seeking to invest for the longer term, will innovate and produce in a competitive environment that sees the best products and services win favor from consumers.
Central banks and elite allies can no longer collude to hold the rest of the economy hostage when they are unable to hold the reins of money production, instead being forced to play on a “level field”, competing along with the rest of the population.
The Great Shift To Satoshis
Such a shift appears enormous, and perhaps even impossible, but it is not as far-fetched as once imagined. It is often argued that it was far more difficult for Bitcoin to move from zero to something in value than it was for it to move from $1,000 to $20,000.
This recognition of monetary value first took place in 2009 when Martti Malmi, “a Finnish developer that helped Satoshi work on Bitcoin, sold 5050 Bitcoins for $5.02. This gave 1 Bitcoin the value of $0.0009.” (From 99Bitcoins)
From this point forward, bitcoins have held some quantity of free market value, albeit with significant volatility due to the relatively small size of the market and the enormously rapid growth in popularity of the digital asset.
As this market continues to grow, Bitcoin gradually spreads to more users and continues its infiltration as the new base layer for money. Being the hardest money to ever exist, it may indeed act as the new metric of money.
Just as the metric system — a mathematically objective and scientific system of measurement — eventually grew and was adopted as the most popular standard for much of the world, the satoshi, the smallest increment of value in Bitcoin, can be used as a standard for the measurement of value that is more objective than any other form of money.
This shift in mentality is a step forward from the arbitrary comparisons between fiat currencies that hold no free-market or objective value between economies. Unlike the metric system, this form of measurement will not need to be officially adopted or enforced by central powers in order to grow in utility, instead spreading freely via market forces.
Bitcoin offers a sound money solution that was abandoned entirely at the inception of fiat currency.
Offering objective, purely market-based money that allows for trustless and permissionless trade between parties, Bitcoin establishes a new standard that democratizes money in a manner that was not possible until its creation.
This transformative revolution is silent; moving forward merely through the simple act of free exchange between any who wish to participate as it unfolds.

Story 12
Tesla has reconfigured its UK pricing structure and range as part of a move towards a simpler and more concise global line-up.
The most significant alteration is the discontinuation of entry-level Standard Range variants of both the Model S luxury saloon and Model X SUV. To compensate for the reduction in choice, prices for both models in Long Range trim have been brought down by £800.
In line with the removal of these Standard Range variants, Tesla has sought to distinguish the two remaining trim options with a £6300 price hike for the top-spec Model S Performance and an increase of £5900 for the equivalent Model X. These two options are now available from £91,800 and £96,400 respectively.
All Model S and X Performance variants will come as standard with the brand’s Ludicrous Mode, which brings 0-60mph times down to 2.4sec for the saloon and 2.7sec for the SUV.

Story 13
Montana Gov. Steve Bullock (D) attends a meeting of the Board of Land Commissioners in the State Capitol building in Helena on August 20, 2018. Tom Williams | CQ-Roll Call Group | Getty Images
Montana Gov. Steve Bullock is showing increasing signs he is getting serious about a White House bid. On Saturday, the two-term governor visited with voters and Democratic Party officials in Iowa for the second day of his trip to the key early-voting state. Since he began weighing a 2020 bid, Bullock has made five trips to the Hawkeye State, according to the Associated Press. The 52-year-old is being touted as a candidate with political support in a red state, and one who could help strengthen the Democratic Party's showing in rural areas. Bullock, who won a second term in 2016 by edging out a GOP challenger in a state where President Donald Trump defeated Democrat Hillary Clinton by 20 points, has tried to frame himself as a bipartisan leader. He previously served as Montana's attorney general, and holds the governorship of a state where Republicans dominate the legislature. Bullock, who declined CNBC's interview requests, is seen as progressive on most bread and butter issues such as health care and education, but changed his views on gun control just last year. Here are some key issues he's likely to run on as the field of Democratic presidential candidates continues to grow.
Bowman Lake, Glacier National Park Heath Korvola | DigitalVision | Getty Images
Infrastructure
Bullock has been a big proponent of infrastructure spending — roads, bridges, water and sewer lines — in urban and rural areas in his state, including a new $290 million program he's pushing legislators to approve. It would be funded by a mix of cash and new bonds. In previous sessions of the legislature, Republicans have turned down infrastructure plans by the governor. Still, the new proposal by and large appears to have more support. It includes infrastructure grants for areas experiencing different impacts from coal, oil, or gas development. Meantime, Montana's economy remains strong, and the state unemployment rate recently dipped below the national rate. Yet some Republicans and business leaders in the state are critical of Bullock's leadership, and claim things could be even better if the governor didn't stand in the way of mining projects that could bring jobs and millions of dollars in new revenues. "He proposes to spend more money on daycare, more money on Medicaid, and more money on infrastructure but there are no real proposals to grow our economy and grow the money base," said Republican state Sen. Fred Thomas, Majority Leader of the Montana Senate. "He just wants to raise taxes."
Health Care
The Democratic governor pushed for bipartisan Medicaid expansion in 2015 that allowed thousands of additional low-income Montana residents to access health care. But that expansion is scheduled to expire in June, and some Republicans in the legislature are demanding major changes to the current program. Bullock has been pushing the legislature to reauthorize the program after Montana voters defeated a tobacco tax ballot initiative in November. The plan that would have raised revenue for health care services. In the state legislature, there are competing proposals to tackle the Medicaid expansion. One plan pushed by Republicans would tighten eligibility by adding work requirements, boost premiums and require drug-testing. Bullock has complained that modifications could increase administrative costs of the overall program, and even hurt rural hospitals, since thousands of people could get kicked off their coverage by adding stricter rules. In the end, some believe Bullock may have to agree to some changes to satisfy even moderate Republicans.
Education
The governor has emphasized early childhood education, including proposing a Head Start public preschool program in his budget for the current legislative session. He tried two previous times to get more funding for government-funded preschool education and in 2017 had to settle for a pilot program. There's been opposition from some lawmakers because of the way he wants to fund the new plan, via taxes on hotels, rental cars, and liquor. At the same time, Bullock is pushing for more money for higher education, including to help students returning for retraining after losing jobs. He also advocates a living wage for teachers.
Dark money
Bullock has spoken on multiple occasions about the need for campaign finance reform and the danger of dark money flooding American elections. As governor, he signed an executive order last June that requires contractors to disclose dark money spending in elections. He has a connection to a landmark court case involving dark money. Back in 2010, Bullock was the top law enforcement officer in Montana when the U.S. Supreme Court handed down its ruling on Citizens United, a campaign finance case. Bullock wrote the brief to uphold the state's longstanding citizen initiative banning corporate campaigning. "Campaign finance affects every single American, from the halls of Congress to the kitchen tables in Montana," Bullock wrote in a tweet Feb. 7. "We must keep fighting against the out-sized influence corporations and special interests have on our democracy – Americans deserve no less."
A bump fire stock that attaches to an semi-automatic assault rifle to increase the firing rate is seen at Good Guys Gun Shop in Orem, Utah, U.S., October 4, 2017. George Frey | Reuters
Gun Control

Story 14
Varoufakis teaches Economics. He must know that there can never be 'a single real interest rate that would spur investors to funnel all existing savings into productive investments'. I suppose he is referring to the return on a riskless asset to which risk premiums are added. No such assets exist because if you buy Treasury Bills and the currency falls, you may get sacked.

In any case the existence of Liquidity preference means 'all existing savings' will never be channeled into productive investment. Rather it will fluctuate with Knightian Uncertainty of various sorts.

Similarly, because of information asymmetry, it is never the case that 'employers hire all who wish to work at the prevailing wage.' This is because there are costs and lags involved in acquiring signals or performing screening.

Why does Varoufakis speak of 'Capitalism's natural tendency to stagnation'? Any Social arrangement may be accompanied by economic stagnation unless reformed in a timely manner. But such arrangements don't have a 'Nature', an 'entelechy' or teleology. To pretend otherwise is to take a mere figure of speech to be a concrete fact.

In Economics, the first thing we are taught is that in the short run, where technology and physical capital is fixed, diminishing returns arise. Thus 'stagnation' is bound to occur as you hit the boundary of the production possibility frontier. 'Self regulation' is about noticing this is happening and doing things differently by using smarter technology. This takes time. Slowdowns and shake-outs enable this process.

There was once a very foolish branch of mathematical economics called 'Growth theory'. It was abandoned because it was not just useless it was mathematical garbage. A Capitalist economy can be represented as an Arrow Debreu General Equilibrium. However, the 'anything goes' theorem, proved in the early Seventies, showed there were no 'magic numbers' of the sort ignorantly sought by Neoclassical Growth theory- or, indeed, the Monetarists. By the time Varoufakis and I got our first degree, this was widely known. Moreover we could see with our own eyes that Mass Unemployment did not matter. Thatcher got re-elected despite high real exchange rates 'deindustrialising' great swathes of the country. The interest rate became a policy instrument. Then in '92, Lamont raised them too far and Britain finally committed to floating exchange rates. It was obvious that no 'magic numbers' for Inflation, Unemployment, Interest rates or Exchange rates exist either in the Political or Economic sphere.

Varoufakis quotes Freidman who, though wrong about a magic number for monetary expansion was right that, if something is scarce, it is costly. Information is scarce and therefore costly. Suppose I want to open a factory to supply widgets to China. If I have enough alethic information and others have enough information about me to judge me worthy of credit, then I can get a loan at the prevailing risk premium. However, since the information I am speaking off is very costly, it would not be worth purchasing it. If someone gave me a free gift of this information I could use it to make myself rich in the options market. I wouldn't bother with a factory.

More generally, because most resources are not homogeneous and radical uncertainty prevails, the general equilibrium of the economy is multiply realisable or 'anything goes'. This is true of both a Kantorovich 'shadow price' type Command Economy as well as an Arrow Debreu Capitalist Model. I think all economists of my generation- including Varoufakis- knew all this and could see this was true during the course of the Eighties and subsequently.

It is precisely because there is no 'magic number' which can clear markets for heterogenous supply that it is nonsense to say 'The ECB’s interest rate must fall to at least -5%'. Moreover, it would erode but not destroy pension funds. The effect is the same as inflation at 5 percent above the nominal exchange rate- which actually happened as older people like me can vividly recall.

Money markets adjust quickly. The problem with the EU is it thought Physical Capital would be more mobile than Labor because it neglected to take account of production externality and network effects. Still, if the EU had a common language and education system and licensing system and had equal ease of doing business- i.e. if it was more like the US- then it would not demonstrate these sclerotic symptoms.

Varoufakis says investment depends on short term predictions by Central Banks. This is silly. Capital projects are medium to long term. The Investors may use the futures market to reduce risk but that is the extent of their sensitivity to money markets. Similarly, for legal reasons, M&A, stock buy-backs etc typically have eighteen month lags and are based on medium term projections for the sector in question. It is a different matter that structural changes in the financial sector can spark a mischievous type of activity. However, that is where mechanism design- 'reverse game theory'- comes in. Pretending that everything is the fault of 'natural tendency of Capitalism' is as silly as pretending there is a 'natural' rate of unemployment or inflation or interest rate etc. What is important to understand is that Economists no longer have the slightest scrap of prestige. Their own reckless publicity mongering means that we can check, using the internet, that they keep making foolish predictions while thriftily recycling their old essays. It seems there is a small but profitable globalised niche for silliness of this sort. But it has no effect on anything.

Varoufakis and I are too young to remember the Bretton Woods system- which was about preserving the economic rent of the former Colonial Powers through Capital Controls (which Keynes wanted to make legally enforceable at both ends) and rigging prices for primary products. The OPEC countries rebelled against this inequity and helped fuel deregulated spaces- e.g. the Eurodollar market or the Amsterdam commodity market. Ordinary Americans had also started rebelling during the Sixties- they wanted to hold gold and foreign currencies. Similarly the 'Belgian dentist' wanted a better return for his money from 'the gnomes of Zurich'. The elite White Man's club was broken up. Countries like Nigeria and Venezuela started getting rich. In London, the posh locality of South Kensington gained the sobriquet 'Saudi Kensington'.

Deregulated Financial markets increasingly hired women and blacks rather than blue-blooded White Males. Why? Because they had to stay competitive- not rely on an 'Old Boys' cartel.

Other exporting countries- the Tigers, China, India etc started to take off. Why? Because Bretton Woods- a straitjacket devised by elite, misognynistic, racist, White Men- had broken down.

The world has never needed any sort of vision from people who have been consistently wrong in their forecasts and utterly calamitous in their actions while holding public office. Instead, we should listen to people who have genuine expertise in the industries which will shape our future.

Story 15
Funding an ecological transition in Europe via ‘green money’ bonds would be economically justifiable.
To what extent can the money created by the central bank be used to finance investments in the environment? This is a question often asked today. The green activists respond with enthusiasm that the central bank—and, in particular, the European Central Bank (ECB)—should stimulate the financing of environmental investments through the printing of money.
The ECB has created €2,600 billion of new money since 2015 in the context of its quantitative easing (QE) programme. All that money has gone to financial institutions which have done very little with it. Why can’t the ECB inject the money into environmental investments instead of pouring it into the financial sector?
Most traditional economists react with horror. The ECB should not interfere with the environment, they say. The government should do that. If the ECB jumps on the environmental bandwagon, it will be obliged to print too much money. This will fuel inflation in the long run, with terrible consequences. Ultimately, the environment will not be served.
Join our growing community newsletter! "Social Europe publishes thought-provoking articles on the big political and economic issues of our time analysed from a European viewpoint. Indispensable reading!" Polly Toynbee Columnist for The Guardian Thank you very much for your interest! Now please check your email to confirm your subscription.
Creating money
Who is right? It is good to recall the basics of money creation by the ECB (or any modern central bank). Money is created when that institution buys financial assets in the market. The suppliers of these assets are financial institutions. These then obtain a deposit in euro at the ECB, in exchange for relinquishing these financial assets. That is the moment when money is created. This money (deposits) can then be used as their reserve base by the financial institutions to extend loans to companies and households.
There is no limit to the amount of financial assets the ECB can buy. In principle, it could purchase all existing financial assets (all bonds and shares, for example), but that would increase the money supply in such a way that inflation would increase dramatically. In other words, the value of the money issued by the ECB would fall sharply. To avoid this, the bank has set a limit: it promises not to let inflation rise above 2 per cent. That imposes a constraint on the amount of money which the ECB can create. So far, it has been successful in remaining within the 2 per cent inflation target.
There is also no restriction on what types of assets the ECB can buy. Since 2015, when it started its QE programme, it has mainly bought government bonds, but also corporate bonds from financial institutions. The ECB could, however, also purchase bonds issued to finance environmental investments. The only restriction on these purchases (again) is that they do not endanger meeting the inflation target.
ECB options
What are the options for the bank? The €2,600 billion of government and corporate bonds it has bought since 2015 have not fuelled inflation, which has remained below 2 per cent in the eurozone. The ECB has now stopped making new purchases. It has announced, though, that when these government and corporate bonds come to maturity new bonds will be bought in the market, so as to keep the money stock (money base) unchanged. This creates a window of opportunity for the ECB. It could replace the old bonds with new ‘environmental bonds’, issued to finance environmental projects.
Watch the latest Social Europe Video Podcast
In doing so, the ECB would not create new money. It would only reorient money flows towards environmental projects. As the total amount of money would remain the same there would be no risk of additional inflation.
A possible objection is that if the ECB buys these ‘environmental bonds’ it will be involved in the decision-making process about which environmental investments should have a priority. How much public and how much private investment must be made? Should it be in renewable energy or nuclear energy? Should the priority rather be public transport? These are all questions which have to be settled by political authorities, not by the central bank.
One way out would be for the European authorities to give a mandate to the European Investment Bank (EIB) to finance, say, €1,000 billion of environmental investments. These political authorities could add guidelines for the EIB about environmental priorities. The EIB would issue bonds to obtain the resources necessary to fund these investments.
This is the moment when the ECB could step in, buying the EIB bonds at a pace dictated by the expiry of the old bonds on its balance sheet. This way the ECB would create ‘green money’ without fuelling inflation. And as the ECB bought EIB bonds, it would create the possibility for the EIB to increase its borrowing in the capital markets without endangering its AAA status.
Perfectly possible
The bottom line is that it is perfectly possible for the ECB to use the instrument of money creation to favour environmental investments without endangering price stability. Of course, one could also argue that the ECB could use its monetary instrument to favour other worthwhile projects, such as poverty reduction. If a majority of the population were to desire this it should be done. But it would create the risk that the ECB was loaded with too many social responsibilities which it could not handle properly.
Given the existential threat of the degradation of the environment, including climate change, the priority should be to use the ECB’s money-creation capacity towards the support of environmental projects. This can be done without creating inflation.

Story 16
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 17
Paul De Grauwe, John Paulson Chair in Political Economy at the London School of Economics, gives his thoughts on the ECB meeting this Thursday, where Mario Draghi is expected to announce a programme of quantitative easing.
Get our daily newsletter Upgrade your inbox and get our Daily Dispatch and Editor's Picks.
IT APPEARS that the European Central Bank (ECB) is ready to start a large programme of “quantitative easing” (QE): it will buy government bonds and in so doing will put money base into circulation.
There is still a lot of disagreement on the necessity of QE in the euro zone. I see two reasons why the case for QE is overwhelming. First, QE is merely a correction for what happened during the last two years. During that period, the ECB withdrew about €1 trillion out of the euro-zone economy. Admittedly this was the result of banks repaying loans they had taken during the height of the debt crisis. But surely central banking is more than passively reacting to decisions taken by banks.
Second, the euro-zone economy is not getting off the ground. This contrasts with America, Britain and the non-euro EU countries. More importantly, the ECB fails to achieve the only objective it takes seriously, ie, an inflation target of 2%. Since the end of last year inflation in the euro zone has become negative.
Since Milton Friedman we have all become monetarists. In order to raise inflation it will be necessary to increase the growth rate of the money stock. This requires that the ECB increase the money base. And to achieve the latter there is only one practical instrument, ie, an open-market purchase of government bonds. There is no other way to raise inflation than through an increase in the money base and a bond-buying programme is the time-tested way to achieve this.
But as stressed by many observers, QE alone may not do the job. It is necessary but not sufficient. The fact that it is not sufficient, however, should not lead to the conclusion that it can be dispensed with. Even if little else is done, QE should have a significant effect on the exchange rate of the euro. By increasing the supply of money base the ECB will contribute to a further weakening of the euro vis-à-vis other currencies such as the dollar, the pound and the yuan, thereby increasing exports and boosting inflation.
There is much misunderstanding and fear regarding QE, especially in Germany. There is the fear that if the ECB buys government bonds from countries like Greece, Italy and Portugal, German taxpayers risk having to foot the bill. This, the argument goes, will happen if one or more of these countries defaults on their debt. Such a default will create a loss on the balance sheet of the ECB. The other member countries in the euro zone, especially Germany, will then have to step in to cover the loss. The fear that taxpayers may be forced to cover future losses of the ECB has become the main reason why the ECB has waited so long to begin QE.
What to think of this fear? I think it is unfounded. In fact it is surprisingly easy to implement QE without creating risks for taxpayers of the "strong" countries of the euro zone. The way to do this is as follows: the ECB buys a portfolio of government bonds in proportion to the economic weight of each country in the euro zone, as represented by the equity share of these countries in the ECB. Thus, the ECB buys 27% German bonds, 20% French bonds, 18% Italian bonds, etc. As long as these bonds are kept on the ECB’s balance sheet the governments of these countries pay interest to the ECB. The ECB could then apply a rule of “juste retour”, ie, it reimburses the same amounts to each of these governments. No fiscal transfers between member-states occur.
If one of the governments, say the Italian government, were to default on its bonds, the Italian government would stop paying interest but at the same time (applying the “juste retour”) it would not get any interest refund. Again there would be no fiscal transfers.
What about the need for the ECB to write down the Italian bonds? Would that not lead to a fiscal transfer? The answer again is negative. Such a write-down is purely an accounting operation, without any implication for the taxpayers of other countries.
This is not often well understood. When the central bank writes down the Italian bonds, the value of its assets declines. The counterpart on the liabilities side of the central bank’s balance sheet is a decline in equity. A central bank, however, does not need equity. It can easily live with a negative equity. When the equity of the central bank declines there is no need to call upon taxpayers “to foot the bill”. There is no bill to be paid.
Unfortunately, the ECB (and many other central banks) keep this fiction of the need for equity alive, by asking the participating governments to “recapitalise” the bank. But such a recapitalisation is also a purely accounting convention without implications for taxpayers. It implies that governments place bonds on the ECB’s balance sheet. These bonds then create the same circular movement of interest payments, ie, the governments make interest payments to the ECB and the latter refunds these back to the same governments. No taxpayers are involved.
This confusion between accounting losses and real losses is unfortunate. It has led to long hesitation to act. It also leads to bad ideas and wrong proposals. The compromise the ECB is now likely to move towards, whereby each national central bank buys its own government bonds is such a bad idea. One can argue that from the point of view of risk sharing it is equivalent to our “juste retour” proposal. But in going into that direction the ECB creates a perception that the unity of action in the monetary policy field is lost. This is not good news for the future of the euro zone.
The sad thing about this likely solution is that one can achieve the same objective, ie, preventing fiscal transfers between member-states, without compromising the unity of action of the ECB.

Story 18
The Irish lotto was launched in the late 1980s and it has gone on to raise more than €4.9 billion for good causes, funding projects in sport, recreation, health, welfare, arts, national heritage and the Irish language.
There are currently two draws each week – Wednesday and Saturday – and the Irish Lotto results and winning numbers are usually made available online shortly afterwards.
The Irish Lotto Results and Winning Numbers for the latest draw are:
13, 19, 22, 24, 34, 40, 47*
The Irish Lotto Plus 1 results were:
Pending
The Irish Lotto Plus 2 results were:
Pending
The winning raffle number is:
7983
The next draw will take place on Wednesday, 4 September 2019. The next jackpot is € 3 million!
The post Irish Lotto Results and Winning Numbers for Saturday, 31 August 2019 appeared first on Lottery News and Results.

Story 19
Against the backdrop of tumultuous times in their industry, five credit unions have unveiled plans to merge, in a move that would create New Zealand's biggest credit union with $600 million in assets, about 75,000 member-owners and nearly 300 staff.
According to a statement, NZCU South, NZCU Central, NZCU Steelsands, Aotearoa Credit Union and NZCU Baywide have signed a conditional Heads of Agreement to merge, with their boards having recommended a transfer of engagements under the Friendly Societies and Credit Unions Act into one single credit union.
"The unification of NZCU South, NZCU Central, NZCU Steelsands, Aotearoa Credit Union and NZCU Baywide under one brand will create scale efficiencies that will allow the merged credit union to better serve its customers," the five, who are all non-bank deposit takers licensed by the Reserve Bank, say.
"Upon completion of the transfer of engagements, the merged credit union will be positioned as a strong competitive alternative to mainstream banking in New Zealand."
The formal process of obtaining member approval is yet to be undertaken by the five.
The merged credit union would combine services and specialise in home loans, personal loans, savings and investments, transaction accounts, plus insurance for vehicles, loan protection, funeral protection, home and contents.
“The scale of the larger credit union will deliver efficiencies, better pricing for savings and lending rates, and reach across the combined nationwide branch network and online. It will bring more potential to invest in technology to improve services and wider access to capital for the benefit of member owners," the statement quotes Iain Taylor, chairman of NZCU Baywide as the five's spokesperson, saying.
“Scale does matter in an increasingly competitive financial sector and we all believe our united approach will bring a competitive banking alternative that is 100% customer and Kiwi owned," says Taylor.
Aotearoa has been striving to survive
The statement doesn't acknowledge that Aotearoa Credit Union has been forced to look to either transfer its members and business to another credit union or raise about $2 million of capital to survive after losses caused by switching to a new Oracle core banking platform.
The introduction of the Oracle system is being overseen by Co-op Money, the industry association for member owned credit unions, of which all five credit unions proposing to merge are members. The new core banking system has taken longer than expected to implement and cost more than expected. Credit unions have been working on a project to give them "step-in rights" for delivery of key services, enabling them to operate independently if necessary. Both the chairman and chief executive of Co-op Money have stepped down this year.
Taylor describes the Oracle Flexcube system as a "modern operational platform on a par with the technology used by leading tier one banks."
"[It] will give the merged credit union greater flexibility to grow its customer base, as well as add many more services and systems in the future. This ensures we are able to deliver future digital banking services by leveraging the common IT platform. This is something that is not traditionally available on day one when entities merge. It’s an exciting opportunity for all,” Taylor says.
“This is about securing a sustainable future for all our membership bases. The benefits are significant for our member owners to enjoy better products, pricing and a sustainable financial service provider in the future," says Taylor noting "it’s going to be an exciting challenge to deliver."
What does it mean for Co-op Money?
It's not immediately clear what the proposed merger would mean for Co-op Money, of which the five are all members. Co-op Money's other members are First Credit Union (which has stopped taking business services from Co-op Money and wants repayment for its $5.4 million of Co-op Money base capital notes), Fisher & Paykel Credit Union, NZ Firefighters Credit Union and NZCU Employees. Associate members are Heretaunga Building Society, Nelson Building Society, and Wairarapa Building Society.
First Credit Union is currently NZ's biggest with about 60,000 members and assets of $358 million.

Story 20
This week the test car being reviewed was the all-new, redesigned Volkswagen Polo TSI for 2018. The car belongs to the Highline spec category, with an all-new 1.0 litre TSI engine designed to keep fuel economy as low as possible while maintaining a reasonable power output, as the new engine produces 85 kW at 5000 r/pm with 200Nm of torque being available as low down as 2000 r/pm.
The new Polo’s appearance is striking to say the least. It appears as an evolution of the old Polo, in that all of its design serves to improve on that of the previous. The interior is luxurious and easily gives the driver the feel of a pilot in a cockpit.
The infotainment system is German in nature – it’s efficient and has clearly been through a couple thousand assessments before being set into production. It took me less than 20 seconds to add a Bluetooth device following which my music auto played into the cabin. The speakers, like the infotainment system, have clearly been thoroughly checked through by their German automaker.
This car is designed to be a city run about, and essentially be perfect for student life. Dealers have been describing it as a companion to everyday life, and the best one for the money. Base price for the Polo Trendline starts at R235 9000, with the Comfortline going for R264 700 for the manual and R280 700 for the DSG variant. So far the GTI and R model ranges have not been released, however the manual Highline starts at R286 200 and DSG at R302 200.
What makes a city car good? City cars are the most difficult to quantify as the criteria is so vast. City cars in summary need to simply be light on fuel, comfortable to sit in and drive, and easy to park. Immediately I loved the seat in the Polo, it walks the perfect line between comfort and support. The clutch is a work of art by Volkswagen and a massive improvement on the old one. Gone is the ridiculously high bite-point however torque seems less accessible with the new clutch, as I learnt on the infamous Beaufort/Somerset street intersection.
On the highway the Polo is comfortable, and road noises are kept to a minimum, noticeably less than the previous model. It cruises along and is extremely capable of maintaining highway speeds as well as accelerating to over-taking speeds.
Around areas like Grahamstown, suspension is vital. The self-proclaimed pothole capital of South Africa is known for ruining control arms, springs and shock absorbers alike. Volkswagen has clearly built the New Polo to take a beating, as the seamless ride and clearance over bumps illustrated during the review.
To sum up my experience with the all-new 2018 Volkswagen Polo, it is pure evolution from the previous model. Volkswagen have branded it as the New Polo however almost every aspect of the new car is designed based on the previous car with the mindset of improving on it. From the start I loved the car and could see the effort by the German automakers to truly make a consumers’ car that would function as a pure companion to everyday life. Every aspect of the New Polo has been thoroughly designed and redesigned to make sure it does nothing but make your life easier.
As a consumer, it is your choice whether to opt for the Conceptline/ Trendline’s 70kW or Highline’s 85kW output, as both should serve as reliable and tough hearts of the Polo, however my personal recommendation goes to the Highline’s massively impressive 85kW TSI engine. It thoroughly impresses any of its drivers and feels extremely capable, especially owing to the fact that it is a 3 cylinder turbo built to feel as if it’s closer to a 4 cylinder engine.

Story 21
Monetary policy is a term that has been thrown around a lot since the 80’s, and even more since the 2008 financial crisis.
It sounds like something technical and complex. But what does it actually mean?
Monetary policy refers to how money is actively managed in the economy. Most people probably don’t even realize that money is actively controlled like this. In fact, it has always struck me as quite strange that not much interest arises among the general population when it comes to money.
We work for it, covet it, spend it… We are very much in tune with the functional side of money. But the actual meaning and origin of it is something we choose to ignore. After all knowing about money is not going to help you get more. Or is it?
I will try to explain in as brief and concise a manner possible what money is, where it comes from and how it has evolved since it first appeared. This is the only way in which we can understand how monetary policy works and affects us.
Read: The Great Recession: What Caused the 2008 Financial Crisis?
What is money?
Money is simply a good that we use to exchange other goods. Money evolved from bartering to facilitate trade. In reality, no one “needs” money, to the extent that money is not the final thing you are trying to get. You are trying to get goods and services using the money.
Before money was “invented”, so to speak, people used to barter, which is a straight up trade. I give you X amount of cows and you give me Y chickens. This system can work in a very simple economy. But it’s easy to see it’s shortcomings as the economy grows and there are more goods. I might want to sell cows but don’t actually want your chickens. I might actually want tomatoes instead. So I have to find someone with tomatoes who wants cows. Or in its defect find out what the tomato guy wants and change my cows for that.
Money comes into the equation to help us assign a value to things, thus making it much easier to trade. As a society, we decide to use a certain good as a kind of intermediary device for all trades. We could decide, for example, that rocks will be used in exchanges.
So I sell you my X cows for Z rocks, which should be the equivalent of Y chickens. But now I can use the rocks to buy the tomatoes since the tomato farmer knows he can then, in turn, use the rocks to buy what he desires.
Money comes in handy to measure the value of things. But money is also paramount in the process of saving. I can’t keep my cows for 10 years. But I can sell them and keep the money I get (in this case rocks) for as long as they last.
With this simple analysis, we can already begin to see that money is used for something much more important and that there are certain characteristics that money should have.
Read: How do Banks Work? A Complete Beginner’s Guide
The virtues of money
There are three basic uses of money, each one requiring a specific virtue.
Money is used to exchange goods.
In its simplest form, money is something you can take with you and use to exchange for goods.
This means it has to be somewhat easy to transport and it must be commonly accepted wherever it is that you make your purchases. Also, money has to be easily countable and divisible. This makes it easier to make big and small purchases using the same thing.
Money is used as a unit of measure .
This is the way we assign a value to things. It doesn’t suffice to say we accept salt, as was the case with the Romans, in exchange for goods. You need to measure that salt and say how many grams or kilos each good is worth.
As a result, money has to be easily divisible, allowing you to make both small and big purchases. But most importantly, the value of money has to remain stable. It would be no use to assign prices and value in terms of grams of salt if the next day everyone turns around and says salt is worthless, or salt now is a lot more precious. This would mean buyers and sellers would have to constantly be changing the price of things and reassessing the value of their money.
I like to illustrate this point by imagining money as a rule that we use to measure prices. Imagine you had a ruler, but the units kept changing. So from one day to another 10cm becomes 10mm for example. This would absolutely defeat its purpose. You wouldn’t actually be able to measure things as the ruler would give a different reading on different days.
This would be incredibly tedious and confusing, which is something that doesn’t help business and the economy as a whole.
Money is used to store and accumulate wealth.
As I mentioned earlier, another problem that arises from not having money is the increased difficulty of storing wealth. To be able to store wealth money has to be durable. If you are planning to store something for over 20 years, it better last. Furthermore, extending on the two points made above, the money you store has to maintain its value, throughout the years, and hopefully, still be commonly accepted in trade. (Though this is not as important as long as its value remains).
The origin of money
The first forms of money came about in spontaneous, decentralized ways. Money has been around before governments, and back in the day when there was no body of power deciding what was considered money or not. It was simply up to the people to decide. Eventually, central geographical areas and societies would reach some kind of consensus.
Throughout history, many different goods have been used as money. From seashells to salt and even working tools.
But without a doubt, the most accepted and prevalent form of money in our history has been precious metals, namely, gold and silver.
This is because precious metals possess all the “virtues” we outlined before.
Gold is easy to carry and can be divided easily. It’s also easy to measure its value by weighing it. Gold and silver coins are practical to carry around and use in trade.
On the other hand, we can use gold bullion or lingots to store our wealth. Gold does not decay or erode in any form. It stands the test of time and is not too bulky. Even today, one could store a small fortune in their own home using gold.
Lastly, and most importantly, the value of gold is accepted worldwide and has remained stable throughout history.
Value is a subjective thing. A price is just an aggregate of everyone’s subjective valuation of something.
Gold has value because it’s nice to look at and we use it to decorate things. It sounds silly but it’s true. Another reason gold is valuable, is because it’s rare and this is the key to what makes gold such a good form of money. The supply of gold is limited. The only way you can get more gold is by mining it. As of today, an astonishing 98% of the gold in existence has already been mined.
Read: Investing in Gold: A Complete Guide for Beginners
This is the main factor that contributes to keeping its price stable and makes gold such a great form of money.
Imagine we were still using salt as money, and suddenly a huge salt mine is discovered, there would be a great increase in the supply of salt which would make it less valuable. Prices would have to adjust and any savings you had would become a lot less valuable.
Gold detractors like to mention that “you can’t eat gold”, but, to be fair, you can’t make a sandwich with 10-pound bills either.
Their point, really, is that gold isn’t actually useful, in a practical sense, which is true, but that doesn’t matter. People have always valued gold. Moreover, the fact that it’s useless is another guarantee that its price won’t change.
If gold suddenly became a renewable non-polluting source of energy its price would skyrocket. Like with the salt example, this would disrupt prices, as everything is valued in gold.
But that’s unlikely to happen. In all its history and for the foreseeable future, gold will remain just a shiny, yellow metal. Which makes it the best form of money.
The recent history of money
So around the 1800s, with the development of industry and international trade, it became pretty standard for countries to use gold and silver as their currency. The British Pound is in fact named like this because it used to be made up of exactly 1 pound of silver.
Countries started standardizing the coinage of gold and silver, which was great for trade.
A silver pound could be used all around the world without any inconvenience. People didn’t even have to bother weighing the coins anymore. Every British Pound had a pound of silver, and people took this at face value (for some time). This monetary system is often referred to as the Classical Gold Standard
But coins were limited in some ways, as large amounts of them could be heavy. As a result, people starting using notes too. The first notes to arise were simply promises to pay the bearer of that note in gold.
The first U.S. dollars stated quite clearly on the front that they were redeemable in gold.
It wasn’t long after the development of notes that western governments realized there could be a lot of benefit in controlling the use and production of money.
In fact, monetary fiddling has been around for centuries. In the Roman Empire, it wasn’t unusual for emperors to fund wars by debasing the currency. This meant issuing coins with less of the precious metal in them, normally mixed with another to maintain the same weight. This system would “trick” people for a while. But eventually, prices would rise as a consequence.
Abraham Lincoln discovered he could do quite the same thing when he started issuing greenbacks. This was back in the day when gold was still at the center of our currency system. These greenbacks were like regular notes, except they weren’t redeemable in gold. Of course, in the end, this meant higher prices too since there was more money but the same amount of goods.
This may be the oldest form of monetary policy, commonly known as devaluation.
In more recent years, countries have also used this technique to gain an edge on rival countries. The idea is that by devaluing the currency, one’s exports become cheaper to the outside world and they will be more competitive, which should help the economy.
Modern Monetary Policy
What many people don’t realize is that until 1971, gold was still at the center of our currency system. All currencies back then could be exchanged into dollars, which in turn could be exchanged into gold at a fixed price. This would “limit” the actions of monetary policy.
Since 1971, we have had a system of floating currencies. This has ushered in a new wave of monetary management.
Before that, monetary policy was generally geared towards maintaining the stability of a currency’s value in terms of gold.
How did banks do this? By controlling the supply of money. If the value of the money was above that of gold, you simply issue more money. If it’s below, then you buy it back, using gold, or even bonds. Imagine the supply and demand curves from my previous article. We have demand for money and supply of money. The idea is that by controlling the supply, we can maintain the stability of the price of money, even if demand changes.
Nowadays, all currencies are managed by Central Banks via adjustment of the total supply of base money. Base money consists of paper bills and coins (typically about 90%), and bank reserves (10%).
Central Banks today, such as the Bank of England, adjust base money every day, through their various open market operations. The only difference between the Bank of England’s present system and a gold standard, or any other system — currency peg, currency basket, commodity basket, CPI target, monetarist aggregate target, etc. — is when and how much to adjust base money. The present system is a short-term interbank interest rate target. When the market interest rate for interbank credit is above the BoE target, the BoE increases base money supply. When the market interest rate is below the target, the BoE reduces base money supply.
Read: The Pound Sterling: A Guide to the Oldest Currency in Existence
Open market operations, basically consist of the BoE either buying or selling government bonds. When they buy debt from the government, they are increasing the supply of money. If they sell government debt, they are reducing the supply of money.
The BoE buys the bonds by creating new money. It’s worth noting that the BoE doesn’t typically buy bonds directly. It may instead buy the debt from other banks, or simply offer a line of credit to certain banks to buy the bonds. The results, however, are always the same.
The question we must answer is whether interest-rate targeting is a good monetary policy, and if so if it’s superior to a fixed value targeting.
Economists now believe that the economy can be somehow “aided” through monetary policy. The basic idea is that by decreasing the interest rate, more money will be spent, people will borrow more and spend more. The economy will enter a virtuous circle.
Leading up to the 2008 financial crisis, central banks kept decreasing interest rates in an effort to stop the bubble from bursting Was this helpful?
Furthermore, after the 2008 meltdown, central banks around the globe continued to lower interest rates. When they could not do that anymore, they resorted to straight-out purchases of debt (quantitative easing). In the U.S. not only banks but even auto firms were essentially rescued using money created out of thin air.
So central banks are essentially creating money, which others have to work for, to bail-out banks and fund governments on the brink of bankruptcy. It really isn’t very different than what the Roman Empire did, or how Abraham Lincoln funded his war.
But of course, you can’t just keep printing money without consequences. Eventually, a price has to be paid and the people paying the price are everyday users of the currency. People like you and me who receive no benefits from money printing but all its drawbacks, mainly, currency devaluation
See below the evolution of the U.S. dollar in terms of gold since the 1700s. Since abandoning the gold standard the value of the dollar has fallen by almost 1000%.
And this is only the effect on your money. Much more can be said on how this form of tampering actually affects the whole economy, induces mistakes, punishes savers and destroys capital. I shall probably make this the subject of another article.
For now, simply keep in mind the importance of money. And remember that the money we are all forced to use today is controlled by central banks which are actually private institutions. They are managing the currency according to their best interest, not yours.
Your best interest is to have a stable currency. Which you can still do. You simply have to make sure you keep your savings denominated in a currency that has maintained its value for millennia; gold.

Story 22
By VIVIAN MBOWE
In our fast growing and ever changing economy, businesses frequently resort to borrowing in order to meet investment capital requirements and manage cash flows. When faced with the decision of choosing a lender, companies often resort to borrowing from related parties/ group entities rather than third parties such as banks for a number of factor such as favourable terms of the loan, grace periods and the lack of a collateral requirement.
Although the commercial need for funding is easily understood, complexity and related risk does arise from a transfer pricing perspective as not only is the interest rate, but also all the terms of the loan, scrutinised under a microscope to ensure the arm’s length nature thereof.
A company is typically financed through a mixture of debt (with interest being tax deductible) and equity (with dividend not being tax deductible).
Where the debt is from a related party, there is a need to consider (i) whether the full amount of funding is accepted as “debt” for tax purposes, and (ii) whether the interest on such debt is a market value interest rate.
The acceptable level of debt is determined by thin capitalisation rules introduced in the income tax legislation in 2010, and which replaced predecessor “interest cover” provisions. Thin capitalisation refers to a situation where a borrower is financed through a relatively high level of debt compared to equity.
Any commercial lender will want to determine whether a prospective borrower is thinly capitalised, because this might indicate that it would be more risky to make further loans to the prospective borrower.
Advertisement
The rules limit eligible debt (namely debt on which interest can be claimed) by reference to a debt to equity ratio of 7 to 3. Therefore, any interest expense on debt that exceeds the allowable ratio is disallowed for tax purposes.
Once the thin capitalisation test is passed, from a transfer pricing perspective it is then necessary to show that the interest rate meets the arm’s length test.
To determine the appropriate commercial interest rate, two components are considered: (i) a component of interest to reflect the use of money (base rate) and (ii) a margin added on top of the base rate to reflect the additional reward required by the lender to compensate for the risk taken (i.e. that the borrower might default).
There are a number of factors that determine the base rate, such as: currency, term of the loan, whether it is a fixed or variable rate, and liquidity in the market.
It is usually relatively straightforward to determine the arm’s length base rate as this is set by reference to an internationally recognised basis such as the Bank of Tanzania base rate for the Tanzanian Shilling or the London Interbank Lending Rates (LIBOR) for the United States Dollar.
Determining the margin is often more challenging because it is more subjective as account must be taken of both the creditworthiness of the borrower (as a standalone entity) and the macroeconomic conditions affecting the credit spreads.
There are a number of credit rating methodologies, tailored for separate industries that have been developed by credit rating agencies such as Standard & Poor’s (S&P), Moody’s, and Fitch Group that provide guidance on how to determine the credit worthiness of a company. Once a credit rating/worthiness is determined, a search is conducted to ascertain the interest rate that borrowers have obtained as corporate bonds/ loans based on that credit rating.
The Tanzania Tax Administration (Transfer Pricing) Regulations, issued in November 2018, provide that a person who provides or receives intra group financing directly, with or without consideration, shall determine the arm’s length interest rate for such assistance.
However, there is no further guidance, and so suggests that one must then revert to the international standards / best practice in determining the arm’s length interest rate for a intra group financial transaction.
In July 2018 the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) issued a discussion draft on financial transactions which attempts to provide further guidance on the transfer pricing of financial transactions including in relation to financial transactions such as treasury function, cash pooling, hedging, guarantees and captive insurance. It is expected that when the draft is finalised, it will be added into the 2017, OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines.
Complicated? Yes. Might there be a simpler approach? Possibly - and here I am thinking of application of the so called “interest cover” approach (removed in 2010). But that can be a subject for another day.

Story 23
The purpose of this note by the Economic Research Department of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka is to educate the general public on the Central Bank’s intended move to a flexible inflation targeting framework for the conduct of monetary policy by the year 2020. The note explains the historical evolution of monetary policy regimes in Sri Lanka, and the reasons for adopting various monetary and exchange rate policy regimes from time to time. At present, flexible inflation targeting is considered the international best practice of Central Banking, and subject to several conditions, flexible inflation targeting enables the maintenance of low inflation on a sustainable basis, thereby helping economies to achieve a high and stable growth path. The note concludes by articulating expectations for Sri Lanka under the proposed flexible inflation targeting regime and clarifies a number of misconceptions in relation to the Central Bank’s view on the determination of the exchange rate as well
1. Introduction

With the objective of institutionalising the achievement of maintaining single digit inflation for a continued period of over 10 years, the Central Bank of Sri Lanka has announced the adoption of flexible inflation targeting as its monetary policy framework by 2020. Following international best practices, the proposed flexible inflation targeting framework is expected to establish the maintenance of price stability as the prime objective of the Central Bank, and ensure independence of the Central Bank while holding it accountable for achieving this objective.1

The Central Bank has conducted numerous programmes to educate the general public on the efforts to adopt flexible inflation targeting as its new monetary policy framework. These include public lectures and articles on the evolution of central banking in Sri Lanka, awareness programmes for journalists, and updates through the Central Bank Annual Reports over the past few years. Accordingly, the proposed flexible inflation targeting framework is increasingly gaining recognition as a landmark reform that could ensure price stability and thereby contribute to improving Sri Lanka’s economic prosperity. The purpose of this article is to further explain the evolution of monetary policy and central banking in Sri Lanka and articulate the key features of the proposed flexible inflation targeting framework.
Central banks around the world are typically mandated to conduct monetary policy in order to maintain price stability in their respective economies.2 Price stability means maintaining the general price level in the economy at low and stable levels. It is widely accepted that price stability is an essential requirement for high and sustained economic growth and increased wellbeing of the general public. Monetary policy, by controlling the cost and availability of money, seeks to maintain price stability in an economy.

Cross country practices of conducting monetary policy vary, depending on their macroeconomic and financial market conditions. Hence, different types of monetary policy regimes can be observed in today’s world. Further, monetary policy frameworks have been evolving over time, in response to economic and financial crises as well as increasing trade openness and global financial integration. In determining the monetary policy framework, a monetary authority is expected to abide by the condition of “impossible trinity”, i.e., the choice between independent monetary policy, fixed exchange rate, and capital account openness.

The transmission of monetary policy depends on these macroeconomic and financial market conditions, the choice of monetary policy frameworks. The monetary policy transmission mechanism is defined as the process through which economic activities are affected by monetary policy decisions. According to the “impossible trinity” condition, a country cannot have a fixed exchange rate, an open capital account and independent monetary policy (ability to move the domestic interest rate freely) simultaneously. If the capital account is closed, monetary policy penetrates into domestic demand, regardless of the exchange rate regime. On the other hand, with free capital mobility, transmission of monetary policy depends on the exchange rate regime.

Based on the concept of impossible trinity, at least three different monetary policy combinations can be made by countries depending on their macroeconomic and financial market conditions as follows:

i. Maintaining an open capital account and a fixed exchange rate, while forgoing monetary independence

ii. Independent monetary policy with a fixed exchange rate, along with capital controls

iii. Maintaining an open capital account and monetary independence, with a flexible exchange rate

Choice (i) above is essentially a fixed exchange rate regime, which could include a Currency Board arrangement, a dollarised economy, or a hard peg. Choice (ii) involves capital controls, which have become increasingly unpopular over time. Choice (iii) allows the exchange rate to float with capital account openness, while enabling the Central Bank to conduct monetary policy independently. Monetary policy regimes under Choice (iii) include inflation targeting, whereas monetary targeting could be conducted under both Choices (ii) and (iii) with varying success. Some countries attempt to conduct monetary policy using interim combinations, such as managed floating exchange rates and partially controlled capital flows as well [See Figure 01].

Similar to many other countries, Sri Lanka’s monetary policy framework evolved from Choice (i) and moved towards Choice (iii) during the past 70 years. The Central Bank of Sri Lanka is of the view that flexible inflation targeting under Choice (iii) is the most suitable monetary policy framework for Sri Lanka. However, it is worthwhile to briefly discuss the evolution of monetary policy regimes in Sri Lanka during the past 70 years, before outlining the features of the proposed flexible inflation targeting framework.
2. Currency Boards vs. central banking

a. Transition from the Currency Board to the Central Bank

Prior to the establishment of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (Ceylon) in 1950, the Sri Lankan monetary system was a Currency Board system, whereby the Currency Board would automatically issue or retire Ceylon rupees against an equivalent value of Indian rupees lodged with the Reserve Bank of India. Further information on the Currency Board system during this period can be found in the following documents:

1. Report on the Establishment of a Central Bank for Ceylon, Sessional Paper XIV – 1949, November 1949. (The Exter Report)

2. Gunasekera, H.A.de S., “From Dependent Currency to Central Banking in Ceylon: An Analysis of Monetary Experience 1825-1957, London, 1962.

The reasons cited in the Exter Report for the establishment of a Central Bank in place of the Currency Board are primarily twofold: first, the need to establish an independent monetary system which can issue currency and create deposits against domestic as well as foreign assets; second, the need to establish an institution with powers to control the expansion and contraction of credit by commercial banks. In relation to the first reason, Exter shows that, “as the role of the Currency Board must remain purely passive, it cannot influence the money supply in any way and thus relieve the pressure to which rapid swings in the balance of payments may at times subject the economy.”

With regard to the second reason, Exter further explains that “demand deposits subject to transfer by cheque have in most countries of the world become a more important form of money than actual currency, and variations in the volume of demand deposits resulting from changes in the cash positions or in the credit polices of commercial banks frequently have more profound economic effects than variations in the supply of actual currency.”

These arguments are still valid for Sri Lanka, and a Currency Board arrangement is not appealing for a small open economy like Sri Lanka where the relative share of domestic demand in aggregate demand is very high, as this system shall only be credible if the Central Bank holds sufficient foreign exchange reserves to cover the country’s gross monetary liabilities consistently. At this stage of development, such a return to a Currency Board will result in an agonising macroeconomic adjustment and a sharp reduction in social welfare, thus rendering this arrangement a non-option. Further, with the low level of external reserves with large external debt service payment requirements, a mild external shock can trigger a collapse in a Currency Board arrangement. In the context of such shocks, instead of exchange rates and interest rates, the adjustment is expected in terms of prices and wages, which could be more costly to the public.

Although there was renewed interest in establishing Currency Boards after the collapse of Soviet Russia, Argentinian currency crisis and Asian financial crisis, these efforts were mainly aimed at taming inflation by introducing a non-discretionary policy regime. It is for the same purpose that some countries adopt a currency of another country at times, which is known as dollarisation. However, even vociferous proponents of Currency Boards, such as Steve Hanke, have acknowledged that “monetary discipline can be delivered if a monetary authority has either a credible internal or external anchor. It must be stressed that these anchors are mutually exclusive: one or the other, but not both. An internal anchor requires a monetary authority to have a well-defined monetary policy. For example, this could be an inflation target or a target for money supply growth.”3 In other words, what could be achieved by establishing a Currency Board in place of a Central Bank, could be achieved under well-structured monetary targeting or inflation targeting as well.

b. Exchange rate based monetary policy regimes

Broadly speaking, from the time of the establishment of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka in 1950 until the adoption of open economy policies in 1977, Sri Lanka has followed a fixed exchange rate regime. Capital controls were non-existent in the initial years where there were no balance of payments concerns, but controls were introduced soon in the 1950s. The international monetary system under the Bretton Woods agreement, which was essentially a pegged exchange rate system, was followed by Sri Lanka until its collapse in the early 1970s.

The pegged exchange rate system continued in Sri Lanka until the introduction of the managed floating exchange rate regime in 1977. Under the fixed exchange rate regimes, the Central Bank did not have any control over domestic inflation, as domestic inflation was directly linked to foreign inflation and therefore there was no need for an explicit monetary anchor to manage inflation. However, the fixed exchange rate system worked well only as long as Sri Lanka earned sufficient foreign exchange to meet expenditure on imports.

During periods of export booms particularly in the early 1950s, Sri Lanka enjoyed significant foreign exchange earnings arising from the external factors rather than domestic export promoting policies. In general, during most periods, the Central Bank had to support the exchange rate peg by restricting the use of available foreign reserves and imposing severe import restrictions. The Central Bank also failed to satisfy its multiple stabilisation and development objectives prevailed at the time.

The managed floating exchange rate system introduced in 1977 made the monetary system more complex. Even after the introduction of monetary aggregate targeting in early 1980s, the exchange rate remained a nominal anchor. With expanding twin deficits, it was increasingly becoming difficult to manage the exchange rate, and the Central Bank experimented with numerous permutations of managed floating exchange rate regimes including “soft peg” arrangements such as crawling pegs and crawling bands [See Figure 2 for the Spectrum of Exchange Rate Regimes]. These efforts, which often resulted in a loss in international reserves of the Central Bank, culminated with Sri Lanka announcing a floating exchange rate regime in January 2001 and the subsequent amendment to the Monetary Law Act to streamline the objectives of the Central Bank.

Further details of the evolution of exchange rate regimes in Sri Lanka and the Central Bank’s current view on exchange rate management can be found in the following articles:

1. Weerasinghe, Nandalal, “Olcott Oration 2017 – Evolution of Monetary and Exchange Rate Policy in Sri Lanka and the Way Forward”4

2. Gunaratne, Swarna, “Determining the Exchange Rate – Exchange Rate Regimes in Sri Lanka”, 60th Anniversary Commemorative Volume of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka: 1950-2010, 2011.

3. Central Bank of Sri Lanka, “Exchange Rate and Economic Impact of Depreciation”, December 2016.5

In the modern world, only a few countries practice exchange rate targeting as the monetary policy framework as it requires a sizeable international reserve to support the credibility of the regime. Exchange rate targeting is defined as the process through which a Central Bank intervenes in the market so as to maintain the exchange rate at a desired level or a predetermined target. Singapore presents itself as a success story with the exchange rate being used as its key monetary policy instrument in its monetary policy conduct.

As an economy that is heavily reliant on external trade and finance, with both imports and exports far exceeding the country’s GDP, the exchange rate has historically played a pivotal role in determining inflation in Singapore. Moreover, as Singapore operates a managed floating exchange rate regime, it has greater control over the exchange rate, particularly in the form of direct interventions in the domestic foreign exchange market. The exchange rate is allowed to fluctuate within a policy band, thereby allowing for it to act as a cushion against short term volatilities arising from imperfections in the real economy.

Under this exchange rate based monetary policy framework, Singapore can ensure exchange rate stability while allowing for greater capital mobility, but has no control over domestic interest rates and money supply. While alleviating the impact of short term macroeconomic pressures, the exchange rate based monetary policy framework has also ensured that the exchange rate remains aligned with Singapore’s macroeconomic fundamentals.

Furthermore, greater fiscal discipline, flexible factor markets, robust financial system as well as innovation, have supported and led to the success of Singapore’s exchange rate based monetary policy framework.

However, such an exchange rate based monetary policy framework may not be suited for a country like Sri Lanka as the country is experiencing persistent current account deficits and fiscal deficits with relatively large debt service payment requirements. Also, channelling efforts to maintain the exchange rate at a particular level would be at the expense of the country’s limited foreign exchange reserves. Moreover, the success of such a framework would require strong macroeconomic fundamentals such as fiscal surpluses, robust product, factor and financial markets, as well as greater policy stability and consistency.

c. From monetary targeting to flexible inflation targeting

With the abandonment of the fixed exchange rate regime that was followed by Sri Lanka until 1977, interest rates and monetary aggregates, which had played a secondary role in Sri Lanka’s monetary policy framework until then, assumed a greater role. In early 1980s, Sri Lanka introduced a monetary aggregate targeting framework of monetary policy. This involved the use of policy instruments of the Central Bank to manoeuvre the operating target of reserve money (base money/high powered money) and the intermediate target of broad money in order to achieve the objectives of monetary policy.



The annual monetary programme required under this framework is explained in the Annual Report of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka in 1982 as follows: “Having taken into consideration the real growth, estimated rate of price increase and increased monetisation of the economy, the desired monetary targets were set with a view to maintaining the consistency between financial and real output flows in the economy. The monetary targets were then translated into a permissible level of credit to the private sector by commercial banks after allowing for the impact of the behaviour of the external sector and the credit requirements of the Government.”
Although inflation spiked at times during some periods under the monetary targeting framework with managed floating or free floating exchange rates, following strict monetary targets at times enabled the Central Bank to bring back inflation to tolerable levels in general. For instance, the implementation of strict quarterly reserve money targets when inflation peaked at levels over 28% in 2008, enabled a rapid disinflation during a short period of time. At the same time, the requirements for the successful implementation of monetary aggregate targeting, namely a close relationship between nominal GDP growth and broad money growth and a close relationship between money growth and inflation, were visible until around 2009.

However, the gap between nominal GDP growth and broad money growth has widened notably since 2009. Even at times of high money and credit growth, inflation has remained in single digit levels. The ability of the Central Bank to contain inflation in single digits for a continued period of over 120 months, i.e., 10 years, in spite of relatively high average money and credit growth can be partly attributed to technological innovations which have changed the behaviour of the general public. However, it is likely that the efforts of the Central Bank to anchor inflation expectations around mid-single digit levels through active communication and commitment to maintaining inflation at such levels have contributed significantly towards this achievement.

As the eventual breakdown of the relationship between monetary aggregates, inflation and GDP growth [See Figure 03] was anticipated in line with developments in several other advanced and emerging market economies, by late 1990s and the beginning of 2000s, the Central Bank had commenced an internal process to upgrade the monetary policy formulation and implementation process while strengthening research on alternative monetary policy frameworks.

In addition to moving to a floating exchange rate regime and streamlining the objectives of the Central Bank, the upgrades included the introduction of the Monetary Policy Committee (which is a technical committee that makes monetary policy recommendations to the Monetary Board), strengthening the independence of the Central Bank by expanding the membership of the Monetary Board, commencing active open market operations and a policy rate corridor approach, signalling the changes in the monetary policy stance based on policy interest rates, announcing the monetary policy stance through a regular press release based on an advance release calendar, enunciating broad policies of the Central Bank for the medium term through an annual Road Map announcement, establishing a Monetary Policy Consultative Committee to obtain views of the private sector and academia, commencing an inflation expectations survey, encouraging the Department of Census and Statistics to update the inflation index and publish core inflation and continued strengthening of modelling and forecasting capabilities of technical staff of the Central Bank. With these developments, the Central Bank has gradually moved to a de facto inflation targeting regime of monetary policy. The Central Bank has announced that its target for monetary policy is to maintain inflation around 4-6%, which is considered to be a suitable range of inflation for an emerging market economy to support sustained economic activity.

The Central Bank projects key macroeconomic variables such as inflation and GDP growth in relation to its potential and uses the monetary policy instruments, mainly policy interest rates, to address sustained deviations of inflation from the target range. The interest rate in the short term interbank money market acts as a key operating target for the conduct of monetary policy and open market operations are used to steer this short term interest rate along a desired path.6 The exchange rate is allowed to float freely without maintaining a peg or a target exchange rate, and the Central Bank intervenes in the domestic foreign exchange market to curb excessive volatility, which typically arises from domestic and global speculative activity, and to build up its international reserve.

The Central Bank continues to monitor several other macroeconomic indicators, including movements in reserve money, broad money, credit disbursements, market lending and deposit rates, benchmark yield curve, balance of payments developments, nominal and real exchange rates, fiscal developments, leading indicators for real sector developments, headline inflation, core inflation, food and non-food inflation, administered price adjustments, etc., to help guide monetary policy decision making within this data driven forward looking approach to monetary policy. The recent developments in relation to the monetary policy making process are explained in the following articles:

1. Central Bank of Sri Lanka Annual Report 2015, Box Article 10: “Modifications to the Monetary Policy Framework in Sri Lanka”

2. Central Bank of Sri Lanka Annual Report 2016, Box Article 1: “Model Based Approach to Monetary Policy Analysis in Sri Lanka”

3. Amarasekara, C., Anand, R., Ehelepola, K., Ekanayake, H., Jayawickrema, V., Jegajeevan, S., Kober, C., Nugawela, T., Plotnikov, S., Remo, A., Venuganan, P., and Yatigammana, R., “An Open Economy Quarterly Projection Model for Sri Lanka”, IMF Working Paper, June 2018.

In 2017, the Central Bank announced its intention to officially adopt flexible inflation targeting as its monetary policy framework in the medium term. This was then endorsed by the Government of Sri Lanka, which has already provided the approval of the Cabinet for supporting amendments to the Monetary Law Act, and also the International Monetary Fund (IMF), which incorporated inflation targets into Sri Lanka’s Extended Fund Facility (EFF) programme and provided technical assistance for modelling and forecasting, for assessing Sri Lanka’s readiness for inflation targeting as well as for drafting of amendments.

Flexible inflation targeting is currently considered the “state of the art” of Central Banking globally [See Figure 04]. In practice, no country practices “strict inflation targeting”, while “flexible inflation targeting” appears to be the practical adaptation of inflation targeting. According to Lars Svensson, “flexible inflation targeting means that monetary policy aims at stabilising both inflation around the inflation target and the real economy, whereas strict inflation targeting aims at stabilising inflation only, without regard to the stability of the real economy.”7

Flexibility thus refers to the inherent gradualism of implementation of policy in order to minimise adverse effects on the real economy whilst bringing inflation back to target levels in case of deviations. Accordingly, flexible inflation targeting involves forecasting inflation for a medium term horizon, identifying forecast deviations from target levels, analysing the causes of such deviations, and taking proactive monetary policy action to address such future deviations gradually.

The Central Bank is given independence to conduct monetary policy with the aim of achieving the envisaged inflation targets, while it is also held accountable for its action. This rule based framework enhances credibility of monetary policy, thus allowing additional welfare gains for the entire economy. This is because the financial market and the general public are assured of inflation being maintained at the targeted level on average, thus requiring only little adjustment in policy interest rates by the Central Bank to bring back inflation to target levels.

The Central Bank of Sri Lanka is now in the process of finalising its move to adopting the flexible inflation targeting framework described above by 2020.8 It is expected that price stability will become the prime objective of the Central Bank while financial system stability will remain a core objective. Independence of the monetary policy decision making bodies of the Central Bank will be strengthened by removing Treasury representation and expanding the involvement of independent members in these bodies. However, a mechanism will be established for fiscal and monetary policy coordination, as both policies are equally important to improve the overall wellbeing of the public and to maintain policy consistency.

A framework agreement is expected to be signed with the Government, setting the inflation target periodically. Financing of fiscal deficits by the Central Bank will be prohibited and the existing provisional advances will be gradually wound down. However, the Central Bank will continue to be allowed to transact in Government securities in the secondary market for liquidity management purposes. The Central Bank will pursue a flexible exchange rate policy that will act as the first line of defence to dampen the impact of external shocks.

The Central Bank will retain its authority to intervene in the foreign exchange market at times of undue volatility and to build up international reserves to be maintained as a buffer for coverage of imports and future debt obligations. The Central Bank will be accountable to the Parliament and the general public in relation to its actions. Periodic public reporting is expected, which will enhance transparency of monetary policy action. In the meantime, the Central Bank will strengthen its supervisory and regulatory framework to ensure financial system stability while supporting market development, as monetary policy signals are better transmitted to the economy through deeper and more liquid financial markets.

As elaborated above, a Central Bank’s decision on a prudent monetary policy framework, which includes exchange rate policy, depends on the country’s macroeconomic fundamentals. Furthermore, this choice evolves over time with changes in macroeconomic conditions and theoretical and practical innovations in Central Banking. This is true for Sri Lanka as well, and the current conditions and the expected solutions to longstanding macroeconomic issues have prompted the Central Bank of Sri Lanka to adopt flexible inflation targeting by 2020.

This is a policy decision taken after careful analysis, and it is expected that flexible inflation targeting will enable the country to institutionalise its achievement of a decade of single digit inflation within a transparent and accountable framework. It is worth noting that in Sri Lanka, time and again in the past, inflation has often been highlighted as “public enemy number one”. It is to tame this public enemy of inflation on a sustainable basis that the Central Bank is continuing to work on, thus removing one key barrier that could hinder the country’s progress.

In the near future, the Central Bank of Sri Lanka intends to publish further articles under this series on the Conduct of Monetary Policy and Central Banking in Sri Lanka, with a view to educating the general public.


Footnotes

1 In addition to the introduction of flexible inflation targeting, the amendments to the Monetary Law Act are expected to strengthen the financial supervisory and regulatory framework and improve governance of the Central Bank.

2 Other goals of monetary policy could include high levels of economic growth, low unemployment and stability in the exchange rate.

3 Hanke, Steve, “Sri Lanka: Slaying the Bogey of Inflation Perspective”, Sunday Island, 10 February 2008.

4 https://www.cbsl.gov.lk/sites/default/files/cbslweb_documents/press/Olcott%20Oration%20Evolution%20of%20M onetary%20and%20Exchange%20Rate%20Policy%20and%20%20the%20Way%20Forward.pdf

5 https://www.cbsl.gov.lk/sites/default/files/cbslweb_documents/statistics/otherpub/Information_Series_Note_20161 203_Exchange_Rate_and_Economic_Impact_of_Depreciation_e.pdf

6 At times, open market operations of the Central Bank are misrepresented as “money printing”. For an accurate description of the money supply process, see Gunaratne, Swarna, “Money Printing; Is there a proper control?”, 2018 (https://www.cbsl.gov.lk/sites/default/files/cbslweb_documents/statistics/otherpub/Article_on_Does_Central_Bank _of_Sri_Lanka_Print_Money_with_a_Proper_Control_e.pdf)

7 Svensson, Lars, “Flexible inflation targeting – lessons from the financial crisis”, September 2009.

8 A flavour of the current internal discussions on technical features of the new monetary policy framework can be found in the Central Bank of Sri Lanka Annual Report 2018, Box Article 09: “Choice of the Inflation Target for Flexible Inflation Targeting (FIT) in Sri Lanka”

Story 24
The Bank of Israel yesterday published its financial statements for 2018, reporting a NIS 5.3 billion profit, compared with an NIS 800 million loss in 2017, as a result of a higher interest rate on the dollar and the rise in the shekel-dollar exchange rate. The gap in the interest rates on Israeli and US government bonds was near 200 basis points (2%) in 2018, even though the Bank of Israel raised its interest rate to 0.25% in November 2018.
The Bank of Israel achieved its profit despite the market downturn in December 2018, which caused it NIS 5.4 billion in losses on its investments in shares. The 2018 profit was not transferred to the Israeli government, however, because the Bank of Israel still has a NIS 56.9 billion equity deficit.
After years of shekel appreciation, the shekel depreciated 8.1% against the dollar in 2018. The Bank of Israel has $115 billion in foreign currency balances, so the shekel depreciation generated a NIS 24 billion profit. As a result of the Bank of Israel's conservative accounting policy, however, profit from the shekel deprecation against the dollar is listed in the finance statements only if the asset was sold during the year. On the other hand, in years in which the shekel appreciated against the dollar, the difference in value is reported as a loss even for assets that are not sold. This policy was instituted after the Bank of Israel transferred profits from a sharp shekel depreciation against the dollar in 1998 without the foreign currency assets being sold. Immediately afterwards, the shekel appreciated against the dollar again, and the accounting profit vanished.
The Bank of Israel's reports show that the main elements of its profit are NIS 5.6 billion in revenue from interest on investment of the foreign currency reserves and NIS 900 million in net non-interest revenue from securities and derivatives. The main expense items that reduced the profit were NIS 900 million in expenses incurred in printing money and issuing coins, and management and general expenses.
The Bank of Israel stated that its balance sheet total had grown by NIS 38 billion in 2018, 9% of the balance sheet total, to NIS 440 billion. Most of the growth in assets is attributable to the increase in foreign currency reserves, which was mainly a result of the increase in the reserves' shekel value caused by the shekel depreciation against the dollar, and by the Bank of Israel's foreign currency purchases in 2018. Liabilities in the balance sheet grew by NIS 13.6 billion. There was a number of significant reasons for the increase: a NIS 9.9 billion increase in the net balance of monetary mop-up tools: short-term loans and fixed-term deposits. Another reason was a NIS 4.9 billion rise in the money base caused by the growth in GDP.
Published by Globes, Israel business news - en.globes.co.il - on March 25, 2019
© Copyright of Globes Publisher Itonut (1983) Ltd. 2019

Story 25
Yes, ASB has joined the under 4% mortgage rate party. But it feels like they are following reluctantly.
ASB, which is the second largest mortgage bank in New Zealand, has adopted the 3.95% one year fixed price point.
But the bank has taken the opportunity to raise rates for two other fixed terms, one of which ASB was market-leading on.
Its 'special' rates only require customers to have a minimum of 20% equity; that is, an LVR of 80% or less.
ASB is raising its 18 month 'special from 4.15% to 4.29%. That will leave Westpac on 4.15% and HSBC Premier is still offering 3.85% for 18 months fixed.
And ASB is raising the hot three year rate of 4.39%, which was market-leading, up by +10 basis points to 4.49%. That is a level adopted by just about every bank.
ASB's changes are all effective on Wednesday, November 14.
So far today (Tuesday), wholesale swap rates are moving very little, with just a hint of weakness for durations of three years and above.
After today's shift by ASB, only three banks are not offering a sub 4% fixed mortgage rate; Kiwibank, Co-operative Bank and TSB.
As at June 2018, ASB had 64.9% of its loan book in mortgages. That is the largest proportion of any of the big Aussie banks operating in New Zealand, and of the majors is only higher at Kiwibank which has 88.9% in housing loans. The bank with the most balanced loan book is BNZ with 47.3% in housing loans and therefore the only bank that can't be called a mortgage bank.
Update: The Co-operative Bank has trimmed its one year rate from 4.19% to 4.15%.
Kiwibank earlier had a sub 4% rate, but that has since expired.
See all banks' carded, or advertised, home loan interest rates here.
Here is the full snapshot of the fixed-term rates on offer from the key retail banks.
In addition to the above table, BNZ has a fixed seven year rate of 5.95%.
And TSB still has a 10-year fixed rate of 6.20%.

Story 26
Counting 'legal tender' if gold were money again...
I THOUGHT that I would address some technical topics that come up from time to time, writes Nathan Lewis at New World Economics.
Here is a quote from a recent item, which will go unidentified for now, but which represents a common line of thinking:
"Actually, although irredeemable central bank notes are base money today, under a gold standard only coined gold and bullion reserves are base money. Notes in circulation are redeemable liabilities of the issuers and not part of actual or potential bank reserves. And although a currency board is less likely than a central bank to undermine the gold standard, there is no need for either. "The most efficient form of a contemporary gold standard makes gold the base money – that is, the medium of redemption and unit of account-while currency and other common media of exchange are the fractionally backed gold-redeemable liabilities of commercial banks."
I find this confusing, which is another way of saying: incorrect.
You can define things however you want – I do not insist that others follow my conventions – but if you define them in a confusing manner, then problems ensue. For example, if I were to define an "apple" as: an apple, pear, peach or plum, that would be confusing – confusing in such a manner as to be what one might reasonably call: "incorrect".
I define "money" as: the universal item used in monetary transactions. Of course, this then requires a definition of a "monetary transaction", but I think we all have an idea of what this means, as opposed to a form of barter.
If I were to trade a sack of potatoes for a $20 Federal Reserve Note, I think everyone would agree that that is a "monetary transaction", because of the role that $20 bills play in our society, while if I were to exchange the same sack of potatoes for a socket wrench, we would call that "barter". Thus, $20 bills are a form of "money" because they are used as "money".
"Base money" today includes central-bank-issued notes and coins, and also deposits of banks at the central bank. I've described how these things – and only these things – are "money" today within the US Dollar system, because they are the only things acceptable in payment. Lawyers understand this well: a "legal tender" law codifies what satisfies the legal definition of a "payment". Thus, it is convention today that "money" and "base money" have basically the same meaning.
From this, we can see that a banknote that is redeemable in gold, and used in monetary transactions – for example, people regularly buy and sell things with it – is "money" and "base money" in just the same way that a banknote that is not redeemable in gold is, as long as either is used in a monetary fashion.
From this, we can also see that coin and bullion reserves are definitely not the only form of "money" in a system that uses redeemable banknotes. For one thing, bullion (ie, large bars) are only marginally a form of "money" at all. I think they would be generally accepted in transactions to a degree that could arguably be called "monetary", particularly in a society that also used gold coins and redeemable banknotes, but it would be a little non-standard to ask for or receive payment in bullion bars.
Also, coins or bullion held in reserve are actually not used in transactions, since they are sitting in a vault, rather than being used in transactions. During the 1890s, 1920s or the 1960s, central bank coin or bullion reserves were not counted as a form of money (base money), just as today US Treasury bonds or other assets of central banks are not counted as money.
Note that the author tacitly acknowledges this when he says that "base money" consists of "the medium of redemption and the unit of account." This list does not include a means of transaction, which I say is the defining characteristic of money. You can have a unit of account that is not money – for example, the French Livre Tournois, which was just an accounting notion. Actual payment, in France during that time, could be made in most any coin used in Europe, with its value translated into uniform livres tournois.
The equivalent today would be "a Dollar is equivalent to ten grams of gold." There is no ten-gram Dollar coin. You can make payment in any existing gold coin, or gold bullion, with its value translated into "Dollars" at a rate of one Dollar = 10 grams. In this case, the actual "money", the means of payment, the medium of transaction, the thing that changes ownership, is whatever gold coin you have – Krugerrands, Pandas, Maples, or any coin from any mint anywhere.
For example, let's say you had $10 million of banknotes in circulation, and $5 million of central bank deposits ("bank reserves"), with $3 million of gold coins and bullion as a reserve. I would say that the amount of "money" and "base money" was $15 million. This is different than calling "money" or "base money" only the $3 million of gold reserves.
Now, let's say that the central bank suspends gold conversion, like the Bank of England did in 1797. Does the amount of "money" then jump from $3 million to $15 million because conversion was suspended? If conversion is reinstated the next day, does "base money" then go from $15 million back down to $3 million? I say that the quantity of "money" or "base money" does not change. It was $15 million before and after conversion was suspended.
The notion that banknotes are not "money" might stem from some legalistic contortion arising from the fact that the US Constitution says that: "No State shall...make any Thing but gold and silver Coin a Tender in Payment of Debts."
This principle was violated right from the start, as many people were, from the beginning, buying and selling and paying debts in redeemable banknotes issued by independent commercial banks, including the banknotes of the First Bank of the United States. Probably Edwin Viera has a nice discussion of the various backflips of sophistry that were made over the years for people to make believe that the Constitution, still unamended, does not say what it most clearly says. But, I am more interested in reality than legalistic fantasy.
My "theory of money" must apply not only to the US but to any country with any legal history, and also, any form of "money", including Bitcoin or canned mackerel, which apparently serves today as a sort of money in some prisons.

Story 27
The purpose of this note is to educate the general public on the Central Bank of Sri Lanka’s intended move to a flexible inflation targeting framework for the conduct of monetary policy by the year 2020. The note explains the historical evolution of monetary policy regimes in Sri Lanka, and the reasons for adopting various monetary and exchange rate policy regimes from time to time. At present, flexible inflation targeting is considered the international best practice of Central Banking, and subject to several conditions, flexible inflation targeting enables the maintenance of low inflation on a sustainable basis, thereby helping economies to achieve a high and stable growth path. The note concludes by articulating expectations for Sri Lanka under the proposed flexible inflation targeting regime and clarifies a number of misconceptions in relation to the Central Bank’s view on the determination of the exchange rate as well.
With the objective of institutionalising the achievement of maintaining single digit inflation for a continued period of over 10 years, the Central Bank of Sri Lanka has announced the adoption of flexible inflation targeting as its monetary policy framework by 2020. Following international best practices, the proposed flexible inflation targeting framework is expected to establish the maintenance of price stability as the prime objective of the Central Bank, and ensure independence of the Central Bank while holding it accountable for achieving this objective.
The Central Bank has conducted numerous programmes to educate the general public on the efforts to adopt flexible inflation targeting as its new monetary policy framework. These include public lectures and articles on the evolution of Central Banking in Sri Lanka, awareness programmes for journalists, and updates through the Central Bank Annual Reports over the past few years. Accordingly, the proposed flexible inflation targeting framework is increasingly gaining recognition as a landmark reform that could ensure price stability and thereby contribute to improving Sri Lanka’s economic prosperity. The purpose of this article is to further explain the evolution of monetary policy and Central Banking in Sri Lanka and articulate the key features of the proposed flexible inflation targeting framework.
Central Banks around the world are typically mandated to conduct monetary policy in order to maintain price stability in their respective economies. Price stability means maintaining the general price level in the economy at low and stable levels. It is widely accepted that price stability is an essential requirement for high and sustained economic growth and increased well-being of the general public. Monetary policy, by controlling the cost and availability of money, seeks to maintain price stability in an economy.
Cross country practices of conducting monetary policy vary, depending on their macroeconomic and financial market conditions. Hence, different types of monetary policy regimes can be observed in today’s world. Further, monetary policy frameworks have been evolving over time, in response to economic and financial crises as well as increasing trade openness and global financial integration. In determining the monetary policy framework, a monetary authority is expected to abide by the condition of “impossible trinity”, i.e., the choice between independent monetary policy, fixed exchange rate, and capital account openness.
The transmission of monetary policy depends on these macroeconomic and financial market conditions, the choice of monetary policy frameworks. The monetary policy transmission mechanism is defined as the process through which economic activities are affected by monetary policy decisions. According to the “impossible trinity” condition, a country cannot have a fixed exchange rate, an open capital account and independent monetary policy (ability to move the domestic interest rate freely) simultaneously. If the capital account is closed, monetary policy penetrates into domestic demand, regardless of the exchange rate regime. On the other hand, with free capital mobility, transmission of monetary policy depends on the exchange rate regime.
Based on the concept of impossible trinity, at least three different monetary policy combinations can be made by countries depending on their macroeconomic and financial market conditions as follows:
Maintaining an open capital account and a fixed exchange rate, while forgoing monetary independence
Independent monetary policy with a fixed exchange rate, along with capital controls
Maintaining an open capital account and monetary independence, with a flexible exchange rate
Choice (i) above is essentially a fixed exchange rate regime, which could include a Currency Board arrangement, a dollarised economy, or a hard peg. Choice (ii) involves capital controls, which have become increasingly unpopular over time. Choice (iii) allows the exchange rate to float with capital account openness, while enabling the Central Bank to conduct monetary policy independently. Monetary policy regimes under Choice (iii) include inflation targeting, whereas monetary targeting could be conducted under both Choices (ii) and (iii) with varying success. Some countries attempt to conduct monetary policy using interim combinations, such as managed floating exchange rates and partially controlled capital flows as well (See Figure 01).
Similar to many other countries, Sri Lanka’s monetary policy framework evolved from Choice (i) and moved towards Choice (iii) during the past 70 years. The Central Bank of Sri Lanka is of the view that flexible inflation targeting under Choice (iii) is the most suitable monetary policy framework for Sri Lanka. However, it is worthwhile to briefly discuss the evolution of monetary policy regimes in Sri Lanka during the past 70 years, before outlining the features of the proposed flexible inflation targeting framework.
Currency Boards vs. Central Banking
Transition from the Currency Board to the Central Bank
Prior to the establishment of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (Ceylon) in 1950, the Sri Lankan monetary system was a Currency Board system, whereby the Currency Board would automatically issue or retire Ceylon rupees against an equivalent value of Indian rupees lodged with the Reserve Bank of India. Further information on the Currency Board system during this period can be found in the following documents:
Report on the Establishment of a Central Bank for Ceylon, Sessional Paper XIV – 1949, November 1949. (the Exter Report)
Gunasekera, H.A.de S., “From Dependent Currency to Central Banking in Ceylon: An Analysis of Monetary Experience 1825-1957, London, 1962.
The reasons cited in the Exter Report for the establishment of a Central Bank in place of the Currency Board are primarily twofold: first, the need to establish an independent monetary system which can issue currency and create deposits against domestic as well as foreign assets; second, the need to establish an institution with powers to control the expansion and contraction of credit by commercial banks. In relation to the first reason, Exter shows that, “as the role of the Currency Board must remain purely passive, it cannot influence the money supply in any way and thus relieve the pressure to which rapid swings in the balance of payments may at times subject the economy.” With regard to the second reason, Exter further explains that “demand deposits subject to transfer by cheque have in most countries of the world become a more important form of money than actual currency, and variations in the volume of demand deposits resulting from changes in the cash positions or in the credit polices of commercial banks frequently have more profound economic effects than variations in the supply of actual currency.”
These arguments are still valid for Sri Lanka, and a Currency Board arrangement is not appealing for a small open economy like Sri Lanka where the relative share of domestic demand in aggregate demand is very high, as this system shall only be credible if the Central Bank holds sufficient foreign exchange reserves to cover the country’s gross monetary liabilities consistently. At this stage of development, such a return to a Currency Board will result in an agonising macroeconomic adjustment and a sharp reduction in social welfare, thus rendering this arrangement a non-option. Further, with the low level of external reserves with large external debt service payment requirements, a mild external shock can trigger a collapse in a Currency Board arrangement. In the context of such shocks, instead of exchange rates and interest rates, the adjustment is expected in terms of prices and wages, which could be more costly to the public.
Although there was renewed interest in establishing Currency Boards after the collapse of Soviet Russia, Argentinian currency crisis and Asian financial crisis, these efforts were mainly aimed at taming inflation by introducing a non-discretionary policy regime. It is for the same purpose that some countries adopt a currency of another country at times, which is known as dollarisation. However, even vociferous proponents of Currency Boards, such as Steve Hanke, have acknowledged that “monetary discipline can be delivered if a monetary authority has either a credible internal or external anchor. It must be stressed that these anchors are mutually exclusive: one or the other, but not both. An internal anchor requires a monetary authority to have a well defined monetary policy. For example, this could be an inflation target or a target for money supply growth.” In other words, what could be achieved by establishing a Currency Board in place of a Central Bank, could be achieved under well structured monetary targeting or inflation targeting as well.
Exchange Rate based Monetary Policy Regimes
Broadly speaking, from the time of the establishment of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka in 1950 until the adoption of open economy policies in 1977, Sri Lanka has followed a fixed exchange rate regime. Capital controls were nonexistent in the initial years where there were no balance of payments concerns, but controls were introduced soon in the 1950s. The international monetary system under the Bretton Woods agreement, which was essentially a pegged exchange rate system, was followed by Sri Lanka until its collapse in the early 1970s. The pegged exchange rate system continued in Sri Lanka until the introduction of the managed floating exchange rate regime in 1977. Under the fixed exchange rate regimes, the Central Bank did not have any control over domestic inflation, as domestic inflation was directly linked to foreign inflation and therefore there was no need for an explicit monetary anchor to manage inflation. However, the fixed exchange rate system worked well only as long as Sri Lanka earned sufficient foreign exchange to meet expenditure on imports. During periods of export booms particularly in the early 1950s, Sri Lanka enjoyed significant foreign exchange earnings arising from the external factors rather than domestic export promoting policies. In general, during most periods, the Central Bank had to support the exchange rate peg by restricting the use of available foreign reserves and imposing severe import restrictions. The Central Bank also failed to satisfy its multiple stabilisation and development objectives prevailed at the time.
The managed floating exchange rate system introduced in 1977 made the monetary system more complex. Even after the introduction of monetary aggregate targeting in early 1980s, the exchange rate remained a nominal anchor. With expanding twin deficits, it was increasingly becoming difficult to manage the exchange rate, and the Central Bank experimented with numerous permutations of managed floating exchange rate regimes including “soft peg” arrangements such as crawling pegs and crawling bands (See Figure 2 for the Spectrum of Exchange Rate Regimes). These efforts, which often resulted in a loss in international reserves of the Central Bank, culminated with Sri Lanka announcing a floating exchange rate regime in January 2001 and the subsequent amendment to the Monetary Law Act to streamline the objectives of the Central Bank.
Further details of the evolution of exchange rate regimes in Sri Lanka and the Central Bank’s current view on exchange rate management can be found in the following articles:
Weerasinghe, Nandalal, “Olcott Oration 2017 - Evolution of Monetary and Exchange Rate Policy in Sri Lanka and the Way Forward”.
Gunaratne, Swarna, “Determining the Exchange Rate – Exchange Rate Regimes in Sri Lanka”, 60th Anniversary Commemorative Volume of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka: 1950-2010, 2011.
Central Bank of Sri Lanka, “Exchange Rate and Economic Impact of Depreciation”, December 2016.
In the modern world, only a few countries practice exchange rate targeting as the monetary policy framework as it requires a sizable international reserve to support the credibility of the regime. Exchange rate targeting is defined as the process through which a Central Bank intervenes in the market so as to maintain the exchange rate at a desired level or a pre-determined target. Singapore presents itself as a success story with the exchange rate being used as its key monetary policy instrument in its monetary policy conduct. As an economy that is heavily reliant on external trade and finance, with both imports and exports far exceeding the country’s GDP, the exchange rate has historically played a pivotal role in determining inflation in Singapore. Moreover, as Singapore operates a managed floating exchange rate regime, it has greater control over the exchange rate, particularly in the form of direct interventions in the domestic foreign exchange market. The exchange rate is allowed to fluctuate within a policy band, thereby allowing for it to act as a cushion against short term volatilities arising from imperfections in the real economy. Under this exchange rate based monetary policy framework, Singapore can ensure exchange rate stability while allowing for greater capital mobility, but has no control over domestic interest rates and money supply. While alleviating the impact of short term macroeconomic pressures, the exchange rate based monetary policy framework has also ensured that the exchange rate remains aligned with Singapore’s macroeconomic fundamentals. Furthermore, greater fiscal discipline, flexible factor markets, robust financial system as well as innovation, have supported and led to the success of Singapore’s exchange rate based monetary policy framework.
However, such an exchange rate based monetary policy framework may not be suited for a country like Sri Lanka as the country is experiencing persistent current account deficits and fiscal deficits with relatively large debt service payment requirements. Also, channeling efforts to maintain the exchange rate at a particular level would be at the expense of the country’s limited foreign exchange reserves. Moreover, the success of such a framework would require strong macroeconomic fundamentals such as fiscal surpluses, robust product, factor and financial markets, as well as greater policy stability and consistency.
From Monetary Targeting to Flexible Inflation Targeting
With the abandonment of the fixed exchange rate regime that was followed by Sri Lanka until 1977, interest rates and monetary aggregates, which had played a secondary role in Sri Lanka’s monetary policy framework until then, assumed a greater role. In early 1980s, Sri Lanka introduced a monetary aggregate targeting framework of monetary policy. This involved the use of policy instruments of the Central Bank to manoeuvre the operating target of reserve money (base money / high powered money) and the intermediate target of broad money in order to achieve the objectives of monetary policy. The annual monetary programme required under this framework is explained in the Annual Report of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka in 1982 as follows: “Having taken into consideration the real growth, estimated rate of price increase and increased monetisation of the economy, the desired monetary targets were set with a view to maintaining the consistency between financial and real output flows in the economy. The monetary targets were then translated into a permissible level of credit to the private sector by commercial banks after allowing for the impact of the behaviour of the external sector and the credit requirements of the Government.”
Although inflation spiked at times during some periods under the monetary targeting framework with managed floating or free floating exchange rates, following strict monetary targets at times enabled the Central Bank to bring back inflation to tolerable levels in general. For instance, the implementation of strict quarterly reserve money targets when inflation peaked at levels over 28 per cent in 2008, enabled a rapid disinflation during a short period of time. At the same time, the requirements for the successful implementation of monetary aggregate targeting, namely a close relationship between nominal GDP growth and broad money growth and a close relationship between money growth and inflation, were visible until around 2009.
However, the gap between nominal GDP growth and broad money growth has widened notably since 2009. Even at times of high money and credit growth, inflation has remained in single digit levels. The ability of the Central Bank to contain inflation in single digits for a continued period of over 120 months, i.e., 10 years, in spite of relatively high average money and credit growth can be partly attributed to technological innovations which have changed the behaviour of the general public. However, it is likely that the efforts of the Central Bank to anchor inflation expectations around mid-single digit levels through active communication and commitment to maintaining inflation at such levels have contributed significantly towards this achievement.
(In the near future, the Central Bank of Sri Lanka intends to publish further articles under this series on the Conduct of Monetary Policy and Central Banking in Sri Lanka, with a view to educating the general public.)

Story 28
To ensure this doesn’t happen in the future, please enable Javascript and cookies in your browser.
Is this happening to you frequently? Please report it on our feedback forum.
If you have an ad-blocker enabled you may be blocked from proceeding. Please disable your ad-blocker and refresh.
Reference ID:

Story 29
By Gareth Vaughan
Disappointed that fellow credit union NZCU Baywide denied having asked Westforce Credit Union to leave industry association Co-op Money NZ, Westforce has provided interest.co.nz with a letter from Baywide's chairman to Westforce's chairman.
Last week's interest.co.nz article about tumultuous times in the credit union sector noted that because it disagreed with Co-op Money's strategic direction, Westforce left the industry association selling its Co-op Money base capital notes to Baywide. Co-op Money is the trading name for the New Zealand Association of Credit Unions (NZACU). Co-op Money member credit unions investing in Co-op Money base capital notes enables the industry association to provide its members with services such as core banking, data processing and support, debit card facilities and insurance products, plus a treasury function.
Last week Westforce CEO Victor Martick told interest.co.nz Westforce was asked to leave Co-op Money by Baywide, effectively being told "we'll buy your base capital notes if you go away." This was denied by Baywide CEO Gavin Earle. He told interest.co.nz Baywide took up an offer by Westforce to purchase its base capital notes, and didn't ask Westforce to leave. By selling its base capital notes, Westforce resigned its Co-op Money membership, Earle added.
The letter provided by Westforce is signed by Baywide chairman Iain Taylor and dated August 12, 2016. It's to Westforce chairman Gary Burch. It notes that at a June 2016 meeting Burch had advised that Westforce wanted to sell its Co-op Money capital notes due to concerns over the organisation's strategic direction. The letter said with First Credit Union, the country's biggest, also pulling most of its business away from Co-op Money, Westforce would be moving to impair its capital notes at August 31, 2016.
The letter went on to say Martick had invited any credit union to buy Westforce's capital notes. Taylor said he was authorised by Baywide's board to make an offer.
The offer was to acquire Westforce's capital notes at their $584,925 face value, subject to three conditions. The conditions were approval from Co-op Money's board, the approval of prudential supervisor the Reserve Bank plus meeting any other regulatory requirements, and lastly that Westforce relinquish membership of Co-op Money.
Told interest.co.nz had seen the letter and asked if he wanted to make any further comments as to why Baywide asked Westforce to leave Co-op Money, Earle noted the three conditions outlined in the letter.
"While these conditions are quite obvious, we felt it appropriate to be fully transparent in our offer to ensure both parties understood what was required to facilitate the sale, and any consequences. Co-op Money NZ is a member-owned organisation with all members having capital invested in the business," said Earle.
"Westforce’s relinquishment of their membership is a natural consequence of their decision to sell their base capital notes which we wanted to be clear on. Acceptance of the offer, on the terms presented, was entirely at the discretion of Westforce," Earle added.
However, Martick said no credit union’s membership of Co-op Money was linked to base capital note ownership until Baywide made it a condition of purchase. Without this condition he said the only impact on Westforce from selling its capital notes would've been its access to Co-op Money's business services, and it was in negotiation with Finzsoft to replace these.
According to Martick, membership of Co-op Money wasn't conditional on holding base capital notes, with membership services including lobbying, legislation and compliance, which Westforce was paying about $52,000 a year for. Westforce was additionally paying "hundreds of thousands every year" for the base capital notes related business services, Martick said.
"We never asked to leave the NZACU. The NZACU and a few member credit unions wanted us to go away and stop voicing our opinion on the future of the credit union industry," said Martick.
Baywide did ultimately buy Westforce's capital notes for $584,925.
*Separately, interest.co.nz has heard Co-op Money is looking to sell Co-op Insurance's life insurance business to Pinnacle Life. Asked about this, Co-op Money chairman Claire Matthews said: "We will confirm the purchaser for the life insurance business once the sale is approved. In terms of process, application has been made to the Reserve Bank of New Zealand for approval of the proposed sale, and we are awaiting their decision." Pinnacle Life hasn't responded to several requests for comment.
Co-op Money has already received Reserve Bank approval to sell Co-op Insurance's non-life business to Provident Insurance. It has been required to hold $5 million of solvency capital against its insurance operations.
*This article was first published in our email for paying subscribers early on Wednesday morning. See here for more details and how to subscribe.

Story 30
London — Airtel Africa has always looked like the "sick MNO" out of all the large operators in Sub-Saharan Africa. This week it surprised everyone by announcing a plan to refinance, building on its first profits since Bharti Airtel acquired the company 8 years ago. Russell Southwood looks at one of the new investors - Singtel - and the challenges that lie ahead for the newly refreshed Airtel.
Bharti Airtel is carrying out a two-stage fundraising process for its Airtel Africa. The first stage has been Singtel paying US$250 million for a 39.5% stake in the company, valuing it at around US$4.4 billion.
The second stage of the investment is to raise another US$1 billion from six global investors including Warburg Pincus LLC (a large US private equity firm), SoftBank Group International and Temasek Holdings (the investment arm of the Singapore Government and the largest shareholder in Singtel). The aim of the fundraising would be to pay down existing debt of around US$5 billion.
So where did this sudden turnaround come from? In 2017/18, the parent company Bharti Airtel - under pressure from challenger Jio - started to suffer losses. By contrast, Airtel Africa shored up its balance sheet by turning in its first profit ever.
This turnaround came from a number of things happening. Consolidation in the market meant that it was able to create a 50/50 merged company with Millicom (Tigo) in one of its more profitable markets, Ghana. It also bought out Millicom's Rwanda subsidiary.
Most strikingly, it upped its data game. Although it has 3G in all of its 14 countries, it has now rolled out 4G to 8 countries and 6 of these roll-outs were done this year. As a result it saw a 22% increase in data revenues and a 90% surge in use. It also saw a 31% growth in its Airtel Money customers, of which there are now 11.4 million. 93% of its total active Airtel Money base is in Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda, Malawi, DRC, Gabon, Kenya and Madagascar. Overall, Airtel Nigeria generates around 30% of its revenues and it will have been helped by the troubled existence of what is now called 9mobile (after the exit of Etisalat).
The bad news is that certain problems have not gone away. I would like to present a more detailed account by country market but Airtel's website does not contain a complete set of subsidiary accounts and the company's multi-layered subsidiary structure make MTN and Vodacom look like models of complete transparency. Links showing several subsidiary company accounts are simply broken.
Airtel Kenya has never made a profit from the day the original company Kencell was launched . In the words of a report in Kenya's Standard newspaper on 25 August this year:"The results show that Airtel Kenya continues to be the Black Sheep among the subsidiaries... having failed to find the magic stroke to turn its fortunes around."
Sautitech on 21 August this year reported that its losses in 2017 were US$59.5 million, down from US$79.4 million in 2016. Airtel Tanzania had a loss of US$48.06 million in 2017 down from US$56.4 million in 2016. Indeed there were reports that Airtel would dispose of these two subsidiaries.
The scale of the competitive gap in Kenya is perhaps best illustrated by the number of base stations the three main competitors had at the time of these report:
Safaricom: 4,000
Telkom Kenya 1,581
Airtel Kenya 1,548
The Singtel relationship comes out of the company's investment in the parent company Bharti Airtel. There must have been a growing realization that if it was to win back market share from Jio and sort out its investment in Africa, it needed more investment. The ability to demonstrate that Airtel Africa could turn a profit must have been the key to unlocking the new capital. The big question is whether it can repeat this kind of performance year after year.
In a Nikkei Asian Review report of 14 December 2017, Singtel's CEO International Arthur Lang talked about making large enough investments to make co-operation work. The kind of co-operation envisaged is perhaps illustrated by the announcement earlier the same month that Singtel and (the companies it has shareholdings in) Optus, AIS and Telekomsel had signed an MOU to push esports and gaming content creation and distribution across APAC and India.
Close Sign up for free AllAfrica Newsletters Get the latest in African news delivered straight to your inbox Top Headlines ICT Business Africa By submitting above, you agree to our privacy policy. Success! Almost finished... We need to confirm your email address. To complete the process, please follow the instructions in the email we just sent you. Error! Error! There was a problem processing your submission. Please try again later.
Lang said that Singel was looking for equity investments in digital businesses like mobile payments and gaming among other areas:"... in 2020 or 2030 our new associates will be digital companies, not telecommunications companies." The same month it entered a strategic partnership with Mobike, a Chinese bicycle sharing company to roll out regionally and said it was looking to create some kind of regional mobile payment platform in Asia.
Lang concluded his interview by saying something that African mobile operators may need to pay more heed to:"Even taxi-sharing companies can get you a pizza... If Singtel today only provides communication service, we need to rethink."

Story 31
By Gareth Vaughan
Some of the country's credit unions are working on a project to give them "step-in rights" for delivery of key services, enabling them to operate independently if necessary, in what's being compared to the Reserve Bank enforcing its outsourcing policy on the big four Australian owned banks.
Interest.co.nz understands Simon Jensen, a partner at law firm Buddle Findlay and a financial sector regulation specialist, is working with Co-op Money members, with the Reserve Bank's approval, on a plan for step-in rights including for their Oracle Flexcube core banking system - which is overseen by Co-op Money - should they be required. Co-op Money is the trading name for the industry association for member owned credit unions, the New Zealand Association of Credit Unions (NZACU).
It was suggested to interest.co.nz that what the credit unions are working to achieve is similar to the operational independence the Reserve Bank says ANZ NZ, ASB, BNZ and Westpac NZ must have from their Australian parents. The basic concept is financial institutions should be able to run independently, if required, from their parents or sister institutions and key service suppliers.
The work comes against a tumultuous backdrop for the credit union sector. As first reported by interest.co.nz in July, Co-op Money is at the centre of the stormy times. The credit unions working on step-in rights are its members, some of whom have adopted the new Oracle Flexcube core banking system that's costing more than expected and taking longer than expected to implement.
Two credit unions, Westforce Credit Union and NZ's biggest credit union First Credit Union, have stopped taking Co-op Money's business services amid a fallout over strategic direction causing a loss of revenue for Co-op Money, which posted a $2.5 million annual loss this year, breached the minimum solvency capital level it's required to hold by the Reserve Bank, and sold its insurance operations. Meanwhile, First Credit Union is seeking repayment for the $5.4 million worth of base capital notes it holds in NZACU.
Against this backdrop Co-op Money commissioned an independent financial assessment from an accounting firm it won't publicly name, but interest.co.nz believes was KPMG, which highlighted a number of issues impacting its financial performance, liquidity and capital base. Co-op Money CEO Henry Lynch left in April after nearly eight years in the role with chief operating officer Jonathan Lee stepping up to become CEO. Co-op Money is chaired by Massey University's Claire Matthews, who is also a director of member NZCU Baywide, one of NZ's biggest credit unions.
Step-in rights
Tania Dickie, CEO of NZCU South, said NZCU South adopted the Oracle system in April this year at a cost of $2.5 million after 17 months of extremely focused, hard work. She told interest.co.nz NZCU South is part of the discussions over step-in rights.
"We are participating in this activity and understand It is best practice of all banks to have step-in rights in place for delivery of key services. Therefore, this is not a unique activity for credit unions to be undertaking," Dickie said.
NZCU Baywide CEO Gavin Earle said NZCU Baywide is also participating in this work, along with other credit unions. Earle said it's "standard practice for the main banks to have such arrangements in place for key services to ensure continuity."
Asked about work on step-in rights for Co-op Money members, Lee would only say "anything of that nature would be confidential." Jensen said he can't speak without his client's approval, which he couldn't obtain. And a Reserve Bank spokeswoman wouldn't comment.
Such step-in rights could enable one party, being the beneficiary, to step into the shoes of another party in relation to the rights and obligations of a contract.
In May this year BNZ experienced major weekend service losses caused by problems at its parent National Australia Bank in Melbourne. At the time the Reserve Bank said major banks should have systems in place to prevent this from happening once they've implemented its new outsourcing policy, which has a deadline of September 2022.
Co-op Money says member credit unions represent about 190,000 members, hold assets of about $1.7 billion, have more than 80 branches, and employ some 480 staff. Co-op Money is both an industry representative and lobbyist for its members like the New Zealand Bankers' Association is for banks, and provides them a range of services such as core banking, data processing and support, debit card facilities and insurance products, plus a treasury function. The services are funded by credit union members investing in Co-op Money base capital notes.
Co-op Money's members, which are non-bank deposit takers licensed by the Reserve Bank, include Aotearoa Credit Union, First Credit Union, Fisher & Paykel Credit Union, NZ Firefighters Credit Union, NZCU Auckland, NZCU Baywide, NZCU Central, NZCU Employees, NZCU South, and NZCU Steelsands. Associate members are Heretaunga Building Society, Nelson Building Society, and Wairarapa Building Society.
Aotearoa Credit Union's woes
Aotearoa Credit Union, NZ Firefighters Credit Union, NZCU Baywide and NZCU South are the only Co-op Money members to have implemented the Oracle system so far. However, NZCU Auckland is scheduled to do so on December 2.
Aotearoa says it lost more than $2 million in its September financial year, and is in breach of both its Trust Deed and Reserve Bank regulations with a capital ratio of just 3.86% versus its required minimum of 11%. Aotearoa's supervisor, Covenant Trustee Services, declared an Event of Default under its Trust Deed on October 16, and reserved its right to appoint a receiver at any time. However, Aotearoa is looking to either transfer its members and business to another credit union, or raise the about $2 million of capital it requires to continue on a standalone basis.
Aotearoa was the first of several credit unions to transfer to the Oracle Flexcube core banking system from a 30-year old FACTS system. Aotearoa blames its loss on losing customers as a result of "teething difficulties" associated with its August 2017 transfer to the Oracle system, which meant it was unable to serve customers as quickly as previously. These difficulties resulted in management reports being produced that proved to be "less reliable" than what was previously produced, causing Aotearoa to "underestimate the extent of its loss," the credit union said.
Aotearoa's $2.05 million September 2018 year loss comes on top of a $804,939 September 2017 year loss, which was also blamed on the move to the Oracle system. Meanwhile as reported by interest.co.nz last month, Aotearoa previously estimated its annual operating loss at $1.75 million. Aotearoa CEO Wyn Osborne hasn't respond to messages left for him seeking comment this week.
Lee said Aotearoa is "engaged in working with [a] credit union" on a possible transfer of engagement. Asked if he's optimistic a transfer can be arranged, or that Aotearoa can raise the capital it needs to prevent receivership, Lee said "we are all very focused on this outcome."
'Cost more than we thought'
In terms of the Oracle Flexcube system, Lee said Aotearoa was in a unique position both with its business model and being the first participant. Interest.co.nz has been told implementing the Oracle system across Co-op Money's members was expected to cost about $4.5 million but is likely to cost in the vicinity of $12 million. Lee wouldn't comment on this. In July Matthews told interest.co.nz the move to the new system was running about six months behind initial estimates, which was "pretty good" given the old FACTS system has been in use for 30-odd years, meaning there was a lot to work through.
"The project has also cost more than we thought, being a combination of requiring more work than initially thought plus a number of enhancements that we decided on as we progressed with the build. Whilst, as you say this is common with IT projects, it's more than we would have liked but nowhere near like some of the other IT projects in the news," Matthews said in July.
Lee said the Oracle programme of work is funded by Co-op Money and its member credit union participants. In NZCU Baywide's annual report Earle said NZCU Baywide's total implementation cost was $2.8 million following an intensive project spanning two years.
"While this was over initial budget, it was not a surprise to us given the complexity and enormity of this undertaking, which some experts liken to trying to change the tyre on your car while driving down the motorway at 100kms per hour! This investment is very good value when compared to the costs of other core banking system conversions we have seen in New Zealand," said Earle.
Asked by interest.co.nz what NZCU Baywide had expected the shift to the Oracle system to cost, Earle said; "Our total implementation cost of $2.8 million represents significant value for our members in obtaining a new core banking system with the modern architecture that we required to replace our old legacy platform."
For its June year, NZCU Baywide posted a $1.009 million profit, down from $1.211 million the previous year. Total assets increased to $381 million from $313 million.
As for NZCU South, Dickie said its $2.5 million was "an expected cost."
"We knew at CU South from previous investigations into a transfer to a tier one core banking platform that the costs would be significant. I do not know if you are aware but to change a core banking system is a once in a 20 year, lifetime, project. It is also considered the equivalent of a having a heart and lung transplant. These costs were within our estimated price range. These included costs to Co-op Money and our own costs to deliver to the project," said Dickie.
Twelve staff worked full-time on NZCU South's internal project team.
"We are very happy with the new platform and its functionality, performance and benefits delivered to date. We believe we have had a successful project delivery and are now working on future functionality to improve both member experience and operational efficiency," Dickie said.
Additionally she said NZCU South, centred in the South Island, is not considering a transfer of engagements with the Auckland-based Aotearoa. Earle said he was unable to comment on who Aotearoa might be in discussions with.
In its June year NZCU South lost $923,000 versus a profit of $461,000 the previous year. Total assets fell to $131 million from $137 million.
'A valuable role'
Meanwhile, Lee said credit unions play "a really valuable role" in the NZ banking sector fulfilling a much needed service for their members.
"It would be nice to focus on some of this great work our members do day-in and day out," said Lee.
*This article was first published in our email for paying subscribers on Friday. See here for more details and how to subscribe.

Story 32
Twelve veterans reportedly died and possibly thousands more were victims of error or misdiagnosis by one physician working at the Fayetteville VA Medical Center.
Formerly called the Veterans Health Care System of the Ozarks, the Fayetteville VA Hospital reported one of its doctors was linked to the deaths resulting from misdiagnosis or error. Overall, the Arkansas-based health system reviewed 33,902 cases showing 3,007 instances of error or misdiagnosis.
Dr. Robert Morris Levy, a former VA pathologist, we removed from clinical care after being found impaired in 2016. He was later charged with a DUI in a separate incident, but the charges were dismissed.
VA has yet to disclose whether federal prosecutors will bring charges against Levy.
The health care of an estimated 20,000 veteran was investigated to evaluate the extent of Levy’s malpractice. Given the government’s reluctance to hold bad federal employees accountable, I double Levy will see prosecution.
Out of all the errors now confirmed, VA previously provided only 21 institutional disclosures – – over 3,000 medical errors including 12 deaths, and VA only notified 21 victims?
How is that for accountability?

Story 33
The rift between Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the government escalated in the public domain after the speech by Viral Acharya, deputy governor of RBI. While delivering the AD Shroff Memorial Lecture in Mumbai on October 26, 2018, Acharya warned the government about the potentially catastrophic effects of undermining the central bank's independence.
The government was unhappy with the speech. It wants the RBI to relax prompt correction action framework, dilute disclosure norms for defaults, pay a higher dividend to the government, and open special refinance window for mutual funds, NBFCs, and housing finance companies among other demands. The government is reportedly also asking the central bank to hand over a part of its surplus reserves. Missing from the ongoing fierce debate on central bank independence Vs. intervention has been two crucial issues — factors that led to the current slugfest and haste to address the problem through short-term measures.
Inflation Targeting
Since the introduction of economic reforms in India, RBI has been increasingly sensitive to inflation. Since then, concern to keep the value of the money constant became the primary objective of the RBI. Barring the year of global economic recession, RBI has been hawkish despite the signs of gloomy economic growth in the recent past. The government has long been pursuing the inflation-obsessed RBI to cut benchmark rates, but the central bank has been reluctant to soften its hawkish stance.
Importantly, the shock in interest rate is less effective compared to money base targeting. Such an interest rate policy cannot control the inflation due to supply-side bottlenecks; rather the RBI should curb the credit growth in the economy.
Moreover, hike in interest rates hardly influences inflation due to the growing imbalance between excess growth in the service sector and near stagnation in commodity producing sectors — agriculture and manufacturing. However, RBI does not acknowledge such inflation because such admission is inconsistent with its neoclassical framework.
Nonetheless, thanks to RBI, inflation has dropped from double-digits to single digit. But of late, the higher interest rates have been good for foreign investors but have been hurting domestic investment. Moreover, evidence suggests that foreign-invested firms were less engaged with export markets compared to that of non-FDI firms.
Credit Market Frictions
In the post global financial crisis period, RBI and the government encouraged domestic credit, particularly banks lending to large and small firms. When the domestic credit was found either inadequate or expensive, firms were encouraged to borrow in foreign currency. RBI relaxed the norms to borrow in foreign currency; and enhanced the caps on foreign investment.
Even the infrastructure sector, which does not enjoy natural hedge (forex earning) borrowed in foreign currency due to relaxed norms. However, structural flaws in the credit market were not fixed even after the quick recovery of the economy from the global shock. Such continued encouragement to foreign currency debt is counterproductive when the Nation is following is an export-led growth strategy since the early 1990s.
Now, the rupee depreciation has increased the cost of such loans and repayments; the balance sheets of the financial intermediaries especially the banks are under stress, as firms are unable to replay their domestic debt suggest a kind of twin crisis. Despite rupee depreciation, the possibilities of increase in the exports are bleak. The exchange rate depreciation deteriorates the balance sheets of the export firms through the foreign liabilities and bank-lending channel and nullifies the traditional competitiveness effect. Furthermore, empirical research shows that countries without better credit markets experience lower exports than those with a higher level of financial development. Thus, the hawkish stance not only constrains the export firms from reaping the benefits of depreciation but hurt the growth of small and medium enterprises (SMEs) which suffer due to lack of credit. The faux pas in the macroeconomic framework adopted since the 1990s was equally responsible for the current situation. The agriculture sector remains largely neglected whereas the liberalization of the manufacturing sector alone was considered as a panacea to problems of growth and structural bottlenecks remain unaddressed .
Way forward
The tussle between the RBI and Government is not new as India witnessed such spats innumerable times. The current rift is less about the independence of the central bank and more about an attempt to find the short-term solutions to the problem by both the parties. RBI and Government have to negotiate and better to address the structural flaws. Inflation targeting is essential, but RBI should not accord it the status of doctrine especially when sources of inflation are also due to supply-side factors and sectoral imbalance. RBI needs to explore other policy instruments instead of the interest rate channel. The easing of interest rate not only boosts domestic investment but also reduces the dependence on foreign investment and debt and indirectly facilitate the exports. Hence, the demand of government easing of rates is legitimate.
At the same time, addressing the problem of non-performing assets (NPAs) is indispensable to make the credit market efficient and vibrant and hence, the government has to realise the importance of stringent measures. No doubt, NBFCs need some liquidity stimulus, which RBI has provided twice, but it does not help if those responsible for the crisis go unpunished.
It has now become indispensable to develop the bond market to reduce the dependence of industry on bank lending. Then banks can cater to the needs of SMEs and agriculture efficaciously. The government is answerable to the people, and legitimately, economic growth will be its concern. At the same, RBI reserves are not the source for government expenses. Instead, the government can tweak the fiscal deficit target, and such budgetary stimulus will be more effective than the monetary measures.
The RBI is the custodian of financial and macroeconomic stability and best judge of the markets; undermining its independence will have an adverse effect. It is equally important to understand that the democratically elected government has the mandate to serve and its concerns always do not lead to political business cycles. The wrath of the masses equally needs to be understood. Therefore, RBI and the government need to reach common ground and address the inherent weakness in the policy framework.

Story 34
To ensure this doesn’t happen in the future, please enable Javascript and cookies in your browser.
Is this happening to you frequently? Please report it on our feedback forum.
If you have an ad-blocker enabled you may be blocked from proceeding. Please disable your ad-blocker and refresh.
Reference ID:

Story 35
Tesla stopped accepting orders on the Model S 60 yesterday, which means the new base version of the sedan comes standard with a stronger 75-kilowatt-hour battery. To keep starting prices low for the sedan lineup, Tesla is now asking $7,500 less for the Model S 75 than it did before it became the base model.
As reported by Electrek, the Model S now starts at $69,500, just $1,500 more than the previous base model with the 60-kWh battery. For this extra money, base-model buyers upgrade from 210 miles to 249 miles of range, as estimated by the EPA. For all-wheel-drive models, the standard range moves from 218 miles to 259 miles.
As part of the pricing changes, Tesla buyers get a few new standard features. An automatic rear power liftgate is now standard, as is the all-glass roof that was previously an extra $1,500. However, the smart air suspension is no longer an option on the 75-kWh model.
Those who already bought the 60-kWh version may be feeling some envy toward buyers of the new base model. But luckily for these customers, the price of upgrading from a 60-kWh battery to a 75-kWh battery has dropped $7,000 to just $2,000. With this change, 60-kWh owners still end up saving some money compared to the new 75-kWh price.
A Tesla spokesperson confirmed the updates in a statement to AUTOMOBILE. "Periodically we have adjusted pricing and available options to best reflect the value of our products and our customers' preferences," Tesla says. "Today's updates include slight price decreases to our 75, 75D, and 90D models to account for the discontinuation of our 60-kWh models."
The automaker also warned of small price increases for the 100D and P100D models starting next week. "Price increases for our 100D and P100D models will take effect on April 24, 2017 to best accommodate customers already in the order process, while price decreases for 75, 75D, and 90D models will take effect today," Tesla said in the statement.
Tesla discontinued its 60-kWh battery due to an apparent lack of demand. Because most customers ended up ordering the equivalent to a 75-kWh model, the company made the decision to cut the 60-kWh version and thereby simplify the ordering process.
Previous Tesla Model S 60 pictured below.

Story 36
I’m a bit late to commenting on Christina Romer’s Sunday op-ed on monetary policy and the Great Depression, but it makes a point that bears repeating. The story most of us know about the Great Depression, the one in which Herbert Hoover screws up but then Franklin Delano Roosevelt comes in and hires people to paint murals and repair roads and defeat Hitler and that solves the problem, is wrong, or at least incomplete. Monetary policy — Boring, hard-to-understand, no-one-likes-to-talk-about-it, increases in the money base — was really the key to getting the economy back on track.
To get even more specific, the two policies Romer identifies as being key to the recovery were FDR’s decision to sign Executive Order 6102 and Hitler’s decision to overrun Europe.
Executive Order 6102 sounds pretty bizarre when you explain it. Remember that in the 1930s, dollars were backed by gold. Your dollar was worth what it was worth because the American government was committed to giving you a certain amount of gold in exchange for it. In Executive Order 6102, FDR forced every American to turn in almost all of their gold at a price of about $20 an ounce. Then he said that gold would stop being worth $20 per ounce and begin being worth $33 an ounce. This meant a massive devaluation in the dollar, which sounds bad, but actually meant a huge stimulus: our exports became cheaper and more popular, which in turn meant we created jobs because we needed more people to manufacture stuff that we could export.
As for Hitler, the more he did to threaten Europe, the more Europeans did to safeguard their money in the event of a Nazi invasion. That meant investing in American stocks and bonds, which expanded the amount of money in our economy, which lowered interest rates and increased expectations for future inflation (and eased fears of coming deflation), and gave consumers and businesses reasons to invest. For a bit more on this, the video at the start this post is an interview I conducted with Romer on yesterday’s edition of the Martin Bashir show, which I’m hosting all this week on MSNBC.
It’s worth emphasizing that this interpretation of the Great Depression is also held by economists of other political stripes. Greg Mankiw, George W. Bush’s former top economic adviser, wrote that “of all the things that Roosevelt did to get the economy out of the Depression, jettisoning the gold standard was the most successful.” Milton Friedman, the Nobel laureate and Reagan advisor also argued that the Great Depression and our recovery were substantially about monetary policy.
Obviously, we’re not on the gold standard today. The modern equivalent would be permitting a bit more inflation in the economy, with Romer, Mankiw and others, like financial-crisis expert Ken Rogoff, all favor. Some time ago, Chris Hayes wrote a very good piece on what this would mean, and how we might do it.
But we’re going in the opposite direction. As Dylan Matthews showed yesterday, the Republican Party has turned sharply against expansionary monetary policy. It’s worth noting that this happened during the Great Depression, too. In 1937, the Federal Reserve became worried about inflation, and the political system became worried about all this monetary and fiscal expansion, and we started pulling both back. The result? A fresh — and completely unnecessary — recession. For more on that, see “The Mistake of 1937,” a paper by Gautti Eggerttsson and Benjamin Puglsey, both of the New York Federal Reserve.

Story 37
Take the UK banks. All saw their net interest margins slump in the first half of 2009. Royal Bank of Scotland’s net-interest margin dropped from 210 basis points to 173bps. Declining margins probably cost Barclays and RBS over £2bn each and Lloyds Banking Group £5bn in revenue in the period, according to HSBC estimates.
The problem lies with low policy interest rates. This hits banks’ liability spread, the margin between base rate and the interest rate they pay on customer deposits. During the boom, liability spreads were where banks made their money. Base rates were around 4pc and depositors received tiny returns – typically less than 0.5pc.
On the other side of the balance sheet, margins on lending were being held back by competition. The so-called asset spread – the margin between base rate and the rate charged on customer borrowing – was thin. In other words, 3-6-3 looked more like 0-5-3.
Now the opposite is true. Banks cannot cut deposit interest rates below zero, so plunging base rates have savaged liability spreads. True, lenders are re-pricing loans upwards to account for the real risks of lending: two-year tracker mortgages for first-time buyers start at over 300 basis points over base rate, while fixed rates are over 500bps. But demand for credit is subdued.
This won’t stay the same forever. Rising base rates will restore spreads on customer deposits, and asset spreads should stay high. But pressure from the regulator to replace hot wholesale funding with more stable deposit funding will mean banks have to pay up for deposits. Competition could erode the benefit of wider liability spreads.

Story 38
To ensure this doesn’t happen in the future, please enable Javascript and cookies in your browser.
Is this happening to you frequently? Please report it on our feedback forum.
If you have an ad-blocker enabled you may be blocked from proceeding. Please disable your ad-blocker and refresh.
Reference ID:

Story 39
Aotearoa Credit Union's CEO says the key factor behind its substantial annual operating loss is, again, the credit union's move to a new core banking system.
Aotearoa expects to make a September 2018 year operating loss of about $1.75 million. That's more than double its September 2017 year net loss of $804,939. This has left the credit union in breach of both its trust deed and Reserve Bank regulations. Aotearoa's capital ratio was between 4.5% and 5.5% at September 30, it says, versus the required minimum of 11%. It has put a halt on accepting new members until further notice.
Wyn Osborne, Aotearoa's CEO, told interest.co.nz last year's loss stemmed from the capital costs related to the migration to a new Oracle Flexcube core banking system from a 30-year old FACTS system. This year the trading impact of the migration "is showing in our books," he says.
Aotearoa was the first of several credit unions to transfer to the Oracle system in a project overseen by Co-op Money, the credit union industry association. Several others have subsequently followed, with the cost of the new core banking system having blown out well beyond expectations.
For Aotearoa, a small credit union with about 10,000 largely Maori and Pasifika members that had total assets of a shade under $20 million at September 30 last year, survival's now at stake.
"We're very much investing our time and effort in ensuring the continuity of ACU [Aotearoa Credit Union]," Osborne says. "The Board is intently focused on securing the future. We're working very hard on the options."
Capital raise or a transfer
The options are a capital raise of about $2 million, or transferring Aotearoa's members and business to another credit union.
Osborne declined to comment on the potential capital raise. He says transferring Aotearoa's engagements to another credit union is an option available under the Friendly Societies and Credit Unions Act.
"It has been used many a time in the past. It's a process of transferring the activities, members etc, over to receiver credit unions. One day they're a member of ACU, and then the next day all of those engagements, not just with members but with creditors as well, are transferred into the receiving credit union entity," says Osborne.
"It's a mechanism our prudential supervisor is very familiar with and has worked in the past."
Asked whether Aotearoa was talking to any specific credit unions about a transfer he said it was, but declined to provide any names.
"The sector is relatively small now, and we're all somewhat closely interlinked via Co-op Money NZ. Our situation is known so we are working with Co-op Money NZ," says Osborne.
"We're making great progress with getting back to business as usual, that's why we're out there quite confidently talking to parties to construct a solution."
Loss breakdown
In a detailed breakdown of its financials, Aotearoa says key contributors to the loss are reduced loan fee income of about $950,000, reduced income from other business activities such as EFTPOS and ATM fees of about $350,000, reduced income from members of about $85,000, increases in staff and administration costs of about $300,000, and increases in loan provisioning of about $300,000. On a brighter financial note Aotearoa says new overdraft fees income of about $200,000 is expected to be earnt on a recurring basis.
As noted above, as of September 30, Aotearoa was in breach of its 11% minimum capital ratio under its trust deed, and also in breach of section 32 of the Non-Bank Deposit Takers Act. It has informed the Reserve Bank and trustee Covenant Trustee Services.
"The Credit Union needs to raise additional capital of approximately $2 million to comply with the capital ratio prescribed by its trust deed. The Supervisor [trustee] has now declared an event of default under the Credit Union’s Trust Deed. The Credit Union currently expects to remedy the breach by raising further capital pursuant to a capital raising initiative it is actively pursuing, or by transferring its engagements to another credit union, which the Credit Union is also actively pursuing. Aotearoa Credit Union has decided not to accept any new members until further notice," says Aotearoa.
Aotearoa's 2017 year loss included write-downs and write-offs of $750,062, with $529,832 stemming from internal costs related to the implementation of the Oracle Flexcube core banking system. There was also a $220,230 impairment on Aotearoa's investment in Co-op Money base capital notes. See more on challenges in the credit union sector here.
*This article is a combination of two articles first published in our email for paying subscribers early on Thursday and Friday morning. See here for more details and how to subscribe.

Story 40
The last 18 months have proved to be a freshman year for the ages for Zlatan. In foreshadowing the exit of the Shaku Shaku movement and leading in with the Zanku, his influence has also cut through and highlighted his cultural impact.
For his latest, Zlatan goes back to basics as he recalls Phantom who he worked with on Tekno’s Agege and IVD for a romantic single which is conspicuously missing his signature street slangs and off-kilter delivery. Considering his intention to save his lover from a chaotic relationship, Zlatan tones down his usual aggressiveness and toes a more soft spoken path while still managing to capture our attention with busy instrumentals consisting of a heavy bass and a rising cadence of acoustics.

Story 41
Humbled though it may have been by what came after it, there are still things to like about the ST170


Looking back, Ford didn't do the ST170 many favours. It was clear to everyone at the time that the exceptionally nice-to-drive first generation of Focus was deserving of a performance variant, and still its maker insisted on waiting four years to deliver one. Then, when it eventually came in 2002, it neglected to give it a fighting chance; the car doomed from the start by the always-fatal combination of too little power and too much weight.
It was also hamstrung in good part because Ford had already endeavoured to make a much better job of it elsewhere. The RS model followed the ST170 into production in the same calendar year, and immediately entered the running for the title of best front-drive hot hatch ever. It too had its foibles - torque steer notoriously among them - but it was festooned with trick components as well, alongside the 212hp which had been liberated from the now turbocharged 2.0-litre engine.


So the RS went - and more importantly, cornered - like a Thomson's gazelle, and the ST170 didn't, and that was rather it for its reputation in the long run. Today, you can expect even a high-mileage example of the RS to set you back more than £10k; the ST170, meanwhile, has found itself a featured Shed on more than one occasion.
Is that entirely fair? Probably not. The model was (and is) inferior to its more famous sibling, but it was priced that way, too - and while it may have ultimately condemned its breathed-on 2.0-litre Zetec engine to ignominy via a turgid six-speed Getrag manual 'box - there was something to be said at least for the ST170's way of doing things.
For a start, it did rather look the part. Easy now to forget the impact crater created by the Focus's New Edge styling language, but, at the time, it was unquestionably Lily Collins to the Escort's Phil and it's not unreasonable to think that the ST170 - rather than the RS - represented the Mk1 at its eye-pleasing peak. Certainly it was nicer (or at least, more subtle) inside where you got an understated half-leather colour scheme instead of the garish blue on black.


It was obviously toned down in the driving, too, but not to the detriment of the Focus's free-flowing chassis, which did a fine job of harnessing its Control Blade suspension to full effect. The sophisticated quality of its damping dovetailed nicely with the feedback-happy steering, ensuring that the car delivered an oily sort of satisfaction to the driver even with the stodgy gearchange.
It was enough at any rate to furnish the ST170 with a respectable fanbase, and in 2005 howmanyleft reckons there was more than 12,500 registered in the UK. Now there's a lot less than half that, which goes someway to explaining how the asking price of today's Spotted has crept up to an optimistic £4,250. Low mileage, three doors and the best colour help to fill out the dealer's thinking, although it's worth pointing out that the same budget buys you an equally well looked after - and much quicker - EP3 Civic Type R. Which, of course, was high among the ST170's issues the first time around...
SPECIFICATION - FORD FOCUS ST170
Engine: 1,988cc, 4-cyl
Transmission: 6-speed manual, front-wheel drive
Power (hp): 172@7,000rpm
Torque (lb ft): 145@5,500rpm
MPG: 39
CO2: 218g/km
Year registered: 2004
Recorded mileage: 54,000
Price new: N/A
Yours for: £4,250
See the orginal advert here.

Story 42

Managing money is stressful straight out of college. Here’s where to start. (iStock)
The inspirational speeches are over. The celebrations have passed. And now, it’s time for the college grads who’ve landed jobs to start working.
While their paychecks will likely be the biggest they’ve seen so far, they probably won’t feel big enough to cover the rent, student loan payments and credit card debt they may have amassed as broke college students.
There are ways to stretch those meager earnings, though, especially for the millennials who are good at investing their most plentiful asset: time. Part of that means establishing certain habits — like speaking up for yourself, saving even when it feels impossible and tackling debt head on — that will pay off more and more as those paychecks grow.
Here’s where to get started.
Always negotiate.
Asking for more money is never easy, especially when it’s your first job offer and you hardly have any experience to tout. Most employers, however, say they don’t punish job candidates who negotiated salary on entry-level positions. In fact, in a survey of 700 companies by NerdWallet, three fourths said they actually left room to grow those salaries by between 5 and 10 percent during negotiations.
Use Web sites like Payscale.com and Glassdoor.com to research what the average company in your field pays employees in your region with entry-level experience. Then ask for a salary closer to that — but only after you have the offer in hand. When you ask for more money, base your argument on how much the company will benefit from hiring you, not on your financial struggles. And if they say no to a bigger paycheck, see if they’ll give you a few more vacation days or the chance to work from home once in a while.
[Most college graduates don’t negotiate job offers– but they should]
Create a budget.
Once you have a paycheck, you need a budget to make sure you’re not spending more than you earn. A rough guideline is to spend about 50 percent of your paycheck on fixed monthly bills like rent, electricity and Internet access, says Bruce McClary, a spokesman for the National Foundation for Credit Counseling. About 30 percent of pay can then go to more flexible spending like dinners out, hobbies and entertainment. And 20 percent can go toward financial goals like paying down debt and saving.
The exact figures are likely to change a bit month to month. For example, some people might choose to cut down on their entertainment spending at times to make bigger debt payments or save more money. The key, though, is to write down the target percentage breakdown at least once to know what the numbers look like.
Tackle your debt.
After figuring out how much money you can put toward debt payments each month, come up with a detailed plan for what you’ll pay on each credit card or student loan. The way to save the most money is to pay the minimum on each credit card and loan you have, then make extra payments on the loan with the highest interest rate, McClary says. Once that balance is paid, redirect that same monthly amount toward the debt with the next highest rate, and so on.
If your paycheck isn’t big enough to make a decent dent in your debt, think about using your free time to take on a side job, says David Weliver, founding editor of the budgeting blog Money Under 30. Weliver was in his late 20s when he started working at Starbucks and writing freelance articles to augment his main salary. That allowed him to make extra payments on more than $80,000 in debt, including credit cards, student debt and a car loan. He kept his living expenses low by sharing an apartment with three other roommates. And in just three years of making those extra payments, he was able to clear all his debt.
[Build emergency savings first. Then pay down that debt.]
Know your options for student loans.
Start by figuring out the total you owe in private and federal loans. If you can’t make all the payments each month, inquire first about alternatives for paying back the federal ones. Federal loans tend to be more flexible on that front. For example, those struggling to keep up with the standard payments may be able to make smaller payments based on their income. In addition, some people working in the public sector can apply for loan forgiveness after 10 years of making payments.
If you can’t afford the payments on the private loans either, ask for help. Even private lenders are starting to offer breaks to borrowers who are struggling. What’s most important is that you don’t ignore the bills altogether, since defaulting on the debt can eliminate some of these options.
[Read: A guide to paying off your student loans]
Start saving immediately.
It may feel easier to wait until you’re making more money to start saving for something as far away as retirement, but if you don’t start now you’ll have to save twice as much later on just to catch up. For instance, a 25-year-old who makes $40,000 and saves a little more than 6 percent of his pay each year until he is 65 would have a 75 percent chance of having enough savings in retirement, according to the Employee Benefit Research Institute. If that man waits until he is 40 and making $72,000 to start saving, he would need to put away 14.5 percent of his pay to have the same chances of success.
If your company will match your retirement savings, contribute at least enough of your pay to receive the full match. If you can’t afford to put away that much yet, start small and sign up for auto-escalation, which increases your contribution rate by one or two percentage points each year.
Read more from Get There and find more tips on Instagram.
Is graduate school worth the cost? Here’s how to know.
Why putting off retirement savings until you make more money is a big mistake
How, and how much, to help a college grad

Story 43
The Ohio 444 reroute project is designed to enhance security by consolidating entrances to the Air Force base. But the closure concerns some business owners because they say it will shut off a main artery into the city.
The portion of the route that will be closed off — which currently bisects Area A and Kittyhawk — is on federal land.
Area A and Kittyhawk will be combined, reducing the number of entrances on that section of the base from four to two (Gates 12A and 1A), which will save the Air Force money, base spokesman Daryl Mayer said. This is the first step in the Air Force’s long-term plan to upgrade security at all of its gates.
Cost of the project to close Ohio 444 is $700,000, which includes the installation of the new fencing and an interim Gate 1A adjacent to the commissary. The Air Force is paying for the project, Mayer said.
The interim Gate 1A, which is expected to be open by mid-November, will be open 24/7. A permanent Gate 1A is being planned, but that project — in the $12 million range — is “several years down the road,” Mayer said.
Mayer said an environmental impact study revealed that 85 percent of the traffic that travels that stretch of Ohio 444 is base-related.
“Security is the big driver,” Mayer said. “It limits the number of 24-hour entry points that we have. But also in addition to removing the road that bisects the two parts of the base, the current gate 1A is between a cemetery and a building.
“You don’t have the standoff distance around the gate. Moving it onto the current 444 gives us the amount of distance we need to build in the security measures we need to have.”
The Ohio 444 reroute has been a controversial topic in Fairborn since the Air Force revealed its intentions several years ago to shut down that stretch of road that serves the city’s business district.
While city officials are optimistic that the project will help revitalize the Kauffman corridor, business owners believe the change could potentially have more of a negative impact on the city, especially on Broad Street.
Their concern is that drivers may be more likely to continue north on Central rather than turning left onto Dayton, bypassing the businesses on Broad Street altogether.
David Gorby, who owns Wayne Gorby Transmission and Auto Services on 118 N. Broad St., has seen a decline in customers since the electronic message boards were placed on Ohio 444.
For the last three weeks, Gorby said his business has averaged between 10 to 15 customers a week, but prior to that, it was 30 to 40. He said he’s increased his advertising budget in Yellowbook by 10 percent.
“It’s usually never this slow,” Gorby said. “There’s nothing we can do (about the reroute). We just have to adapt to it.”
Jamie Hensley, owner of Jamie’s Tire and Service on 31 S. Broad St., said he remains “cautiously optimistic,” but his fear is that Broad Street will evolve from a business district into a driveway for base traffic.
“If traffic backs up in front of my store, I don’t know if people will want to go to that end of town because of the traffic snarl,” Hensley said. “I hope it’s not detrimental to my business. I’m nervous about it, that’s for sure.”
Jeff Roberts, an agent for State Farm Insurance, moved his office from 45 N. Broad St. to 1074 Kauffman in May because of the impending Ohio 444 reroute. His building tripled in size from 500 square feet to 1,600 square feet.
“I see it as nothing but a positive,” Roberts said. “We moved here because the majority of the traffic is going to be rerouted right in front of our building. For us, it was the visibility of all the cars.”
Chris Wimsatt, the city’s community development director, said the city has been in discussions with businesses and developers who are interested in investing along Kauffman, where a near-empty strip mall sits.
“It’s an opportunity for some and it makes others uneasy because it’s significant, and change is uneasy,” Wimsatt said. “People just don’t know.”
Wimsatt said the perception is that the reroute will cause Broad Street to lose traffic, but it’s too soon to come to any conclusion.
“If your business is aggressive and viable and you make a business case for people to frequent your operation, it’s not a huge issue,” Wimsatt said. “As a business owner, you can still create a demand in any situation.”
The Ohio Department of Transportation is scheduled to conduct traffic counts at three intersections — Dayton-Yellow Springs/Kauffman, Central/Dayton and Dayton/Broad — the week of Oct. 22.
An analysis is expected to be completed by the end of November, and ODOT and city officials could have an agreement in place by the end of the year for what improvements — if any — need to be made, ODOT project manager Jay Hamilton said.
The city and ODOT will work together to secure any additional funding if more improvements are necessary, and Defense Access Road Program funds could be available.
About 30 new Ohio 444 signs will be installed next week and the restriping work will be done on Oct. 10 for lane use changes at the Central/Dayton and Dayton/Broad intersections, which will require another six signs. Total cost for ODOT will be approximately $8,500.
The city will do the resignalization once the restriping is complete, Hamilton said.
“It’s hard to say,” Hamilton said of the reroute impact. “I’m a glass-half-full kind of guy. It has the potential to be a positive, especially for that stretch of Kauffman where there’s not a lot of activity in some development there. The traffic flow going across there will maybe help revitalize that area.”
Bob Hickey, associate Vice President for public affairs at Wright State University, said the school plans to send multiple email blasts with a map to its students alerting them of the Ohio 444 reroute.
Students and faculty who travel Ohio 235 to Ohio 444 to Ohio 844 to get to campus will be impacted, but the majority of WSU’s 18,000-plus students won’t be affected.
“We know it will be some inconvenience to folks at Wright State,” Hickey said. “We hope to be able to deal with that.”
Ana Ramirez, the director of long range planning and engineering for the Miami Valley Regional Planning Commission, said the impact will be “localized to the area around the base.”
“I think it’s wait and see,” she said. “There will definitely be some impact, probably for the first couple of weeks to a month until people get used to it. It might be a bit of a mess.”
Thank you for reading the Dayton Daily News and for supporting local journalism. Subscribers: log in for access to your daily ePaper and premium newsletters.
Thank you for supporting in-depth local journalism with your subscription to the Dayton Daily News. Get more news when you want it with email newsletters just for subscribers. Sign up here.

Story 44
To ensure this doesn’t happen in the future, please enable Javascript and cookies in your browser.
Is this happening to you frequently? Please report it on our feedback forum.
If you have an ad-blocker enabled you may be blocked from proceeding. Please disable your ad-blocker and refresh.
Reference ID:

Story 45
Cash transfer and payments service Orange Money was held-up as the future of the operator group’s financial service play in Europe, a week after reports revealed further issues surrounding its vaunted Orange Bank service.
Orange Money is currently available in 17 markets and is primarily Africa-focused, though limited functionality versions of the app are available in other markets.
In Africa the service is used for a wide range of mobile money services, while in selected European markets consumers are able to use the app for domestic and international peer-to-peer cash and phone credit transfers.
In a statement on the progress of the service, Orange Group deputy CEO for Mobile Financial Services, Paul de Leusse (pictured), said: “Orange Money represents the future of Orange’s mobile financial services in all our countries, especially in Europe”.
The comment is a rare mention of the service in relation to its European footprint, where recent focus from the company’s mobile financial services executives have been on its Orange Bank service – tipped by top management as ready to shake-up the banking sector.
Orange Bank launched in November 2017, having been delayed by four months due to issues related to “quality and reliability” in the testing phase. It plans to launch in Spain in 2019, but is reportedly facing issues gaining a licence in the country, meaning it will likely have to launch on a French licence.
Last week, Reuters reported Orange Bank CEO Andre Coisne was set to resign, with a new management team put in place under de Leusse, who already counts the banking unit as part of his duties.
Money expansion
The operator is working on expanding the service into loans and savings through partnership agreements, and launched the new products in Mali and Madagascar in early 2018. It noted international remittance was also a “strong area of development” going forward.
By the end of 2017, Orange Money had 40 million customers, with €26 billion worth of transactions processed during the year.

Story 46
New Yorkers can be so solipsistic. We tend to forget that New York is not the only place where you can get a decent meal, where talented young people congregate, where the mega-wealthy dump huge quantities of cash into real estate they hardly ever use.
You know where rich people also spend wads of money on ridiculous mansions? Park City, Utah.
The New York Times has a story about the ski resort of a mobile advertising mogul and home of the Sundance Film Festival in this week’s real estate section. It’s no surprise that money falls like snow in the resort town—as The Times aptly points out, Aspen may be nice, but most of it is surrounded by public land. Which you can’t buy and resell for a lot more money. Ugh.
Basically, Park City, which during the recession was in danger of becoming merely moneyed rather than covered in gold-leaf, is getting even richer than ever before. See, it’s not only movie stars, directors and fabulously wealthy ski buffs who are buying houses these days. Now, the town is diversifying and expanding it’s money base to all kinds of rich people: executives, investors, dot-com billionaires.
One investment banker was so excited that he bought seven properties for a total of over $100 million, according to The Times.
Town leaders are so excited that they are even considering installing a gondola chair lift on Main Street for a direct connection from the downtown to Deer Valley.
Brokers are so excited that they’re hosting lavish parties for potential buyers with bottles of $500 wine, snacks made by fancy Manhattan chefs and Rolls Royce test drives.
Sellers are so excited that they’re asking more than $20 million for their slope-side mansions.
“The last few years we had to beg to get people to come,” broker Paul Benson told The Times. “Real estate wasn’t really a hot topic. But this year that has changed. The people are actually spending money to be here. They aren’t here because they had free tickets. They are looking at high-end homes. It is 2006 all over again.”
Ah, 2006.
kvelsey@observer.com

Story 47
Since he started his music journey as a solo artist, Rudeboy of the estranged P-Square group has been unstoppable in the release of music and his presence in the industry. Coming from an onslaught of applauded and well received singles, he returns today – this time without assists – with a track he titles Reason With Me; a standard love and Afrobeat affair.
On Reason With Me which is accompanied by a Clarence Peters directed Video, Rudeboy accentuates the benefit of sticking with those you claim to care about, a narrative he mirrors in the dramatic video that depicts his rise from grass to grace and the emotional burdens he had to bear just to get to the top.
Unlike most members of his class, Rudeboy has gone another level, highlighted by an unwavering passion that has not waned for almost two decades and is uncommon to most Nigerian musicians – this feat alone is more impressive than every track that has come out of his camp.

Story 48
LIVE FROM BROADBAND WORLD FORUM 2018, BERLIN: Rahul Patel, general manager of the connectivity business at Qualcomm (pictured), believes the slow rollout of advanced Wi-Fi technology is a problem for the smart home sector, and warned poor performance could end up causing significant issues for operators.
As the connected home becomes a reality and users hook up ever more consumer electronics and IoT devices to the wireless networks, issues including coverage, capacity, speed and reliability come to the fore. Providing a robust connectivity platform was pegged as the central tenet for operator’s connected home propositions by executives here this week and there is a real problem for Wi-Fi as the weakest link.
In a keynote session, Patel argued while development of the wireless technology has continued apace, developments in fixed-line broadband networks have not been as fast. And with Wi-Fi generally an integrated component of routers, slow replacement rates have hampered adoption of more capable Wi-Fi iterations.
“If you keep integrating it into one part, then you are going to slow-down the best-in-class network deployment inside the home. And consumers experience wired broadband only through Wi-Fi, because they don’t connect things with a wire, they all experience the broadband connectivity on the back of wireless connectivity to the device,” he told Mobile World Live.
This has a knock-on effect for operators, which in many markets are a critical supplier of home connectivity equipment including Wi-Fi infrastructure.
“When you don’t get the best performance from the network, you pick up the phone, call the operator, moan about the service quality, because your videos are jittering or you are dropping connections on your Skype calls. To cut a long story short, you would think the operator’s network is not that great, and you could do one of two things: call the operator and give them a chance to fix it; or you would say screw this operator, I’m going to the next one,” Patel said.
Developments
The executive said 2019 will be big for the latest version of Wi-Fi, 802.11ax, or Wi-Fi 6 as it has recently been re-christened: “We expect the router market will see a significant uptick in the premium and high-tier categories by the first half of 2019. We expect a major retail OEM to launch in the next month, and also the enterprise guys and the carriers are already launching. I would not be surprised if major carriers in the US start launching in 2019.”
This version adopts a number of technologies already used in mobile networks and will deliver “carrier-class experiences”, he said.
And high-quality Wi-Fi is something customers are prepared to pay for: “What we are seeing from our customers, the OEMs who are building boxes, is that it’s one unique electronics category where average selling price for the last two years has gone up. And that is a huge indicator of the importance of the quality of Wi-Fi, that the consumer is prepared to pay and not compromise,” Patel said.

Story 49
Stay up-to-date on the latest in local and national government and political topics with our newsletter.
Sign up!

Story 50
It may not feel like it, but there is less money in the U.S.A. That's not good news for stocks.
Economics is a social science and was famously referred to by the Scottish philosopher Thomas Carlyle as "the dismal science." Well, if general economics is dismal, monetary economics could be considered funereal. It's the realm of egg-heads and wonks who dive into the intricate detail of money and its role in the economy. Monetary economics can be mind-numbingly boring -- but, nevertheless, money and credit are the life-blood of an economy.
Take the St. Louis Adjusted Monetary Base. The definition from the website of the Federal Reserve Bank of St.Louis reads, "The Adjusted Monetary Base is the sum of currency (including coin) in circulation outside Federal Reserve Banks and the U.S. Treasury, plus deposits held by depository institutions at Federal Reserve Banks. These data are adjusted for the effects of changes in statutory reserve requirements on the quantity of base money held by depositories." See what I mean? Are you still awake?
You'll be glad to know that this piece is not an article on the various nuances of the St. Louis Adjusted Monetary Base, important though they are, but rather a simple observation of what is happening.
The chart above shows the value of the money base going back 100 years to 1918. We've used an arithmetic rather than a logarithmic scale to highlight the dramatic change that occurred in 2008. That was when the Federal Reserve embarked on its Quantitative Easing (QE) policy, increasing the amount of money in the economy. A logarithmic scale would show that the most comparable (peace time) increase was during the Great Depression of the 1930s. Even then, it pales by comparison. Between 1930 and 1936, the monetary base increased by 84%. From 2008 to 2014, it increased by 374%. Clearly, what we have witnessed over the past decade has been unprecedented.
But notice what has been happening recently. The money base actually topped out in 2014 as the pace of QE slowed. In fact, the monetary base has been deflating since March this year, as can be seen from the chart below. The chart shows the 12-month Rate-of-Change (RoC) for the St. Louis Adjusted Monetary Base in the top panel, and the same measurement for the Dow Jones Industrial Average in the lower panel. Note that, for the sake of clarity, we have shortened the scale for the RoC on the monetary base -- it topped out in 2009 at 109%!
Up until this year, the monetary base deflated (RoC below zero) eleven times over the past 100 years using this metric. On eight of those occasions (73%), this has been accompanied with declines in the Dow Jones Industrial Average. As the Fed continues its policy of Quantitative Tightening and social mood transitions from positive to negative, the chances of this relationship happening again are high.

Story 51
ISLAMABAD: Pakistan needs to intensify and enhance its efforts on poverty alleviation.The panel of senior economists expressed these views during the seminar ‘Poverty as Functional Deprivation’, held by Sustainable Development Policy Institute here on Monday.
“The need for dealing with multi-dimensional poverty was urgent in its nature and thus demanded multi-facet strategy to bring about actual change at different levels. Next fifteen to twenty years would be decisive for the economic future of Pakistan as this would be an era offering number of opportunities and challenges simultaneously,” they added.
Presenting the study ‘Poverty as Functional Deprivation’ as Multidimensional Poverty Index (MPI) as new measure of poverty, Dr Rafi Amiruddin said the new SDGs commitment comprehended multifaceted nature of poverty by committing to “ending poverty in all its forms”. However, he said, no consensus has been reached upon about the definition and measurement of poverty.
He explained that going beyond money base measures, recent understanding saw poverty as much more than lack of income extending the scope to Multidimensional Poverty Index (MPI) to very broad and social exclusion, hunger, unemployment and ill-heath are just some of the many dimensions of poverty.
Dr Rafi added, ‘Our estimates suggested that the global poverty has only modestly come down by 4 percentage points from 35% in 1990-2000 to 31% in 2001-2010. This contrasts sharply with the estimates based on the poverty line of the World Bank which suggests that poverty has nearly halved from 47% in 1990 to 24% in 2015.”
Likewise, he said poverty in Pakistan was 55% in the initial period which came down by 5 percent points to 50% in a decade (2001-2010). “
Without sufficiently enlarging our focus to include important dimensions of wellbeing in our analysis and without distinguishing the relative importance of those dimensions, we might miss many aspects of poverty and deprivation which blight human lives in extremely unpleasant ways,” he concluded.
Economist Dr GM Arif was of view that the government was trying to alleviate poverty by income support through BISP, However, poverty has many dimensions and needed to be dealt with multi-sectoral strategy. He said the policy makers must include area-wise vulnerability in the strategies aiming to combat poverty.
He said that CPEC and youth bulge was offering huge opportunities for Pakistan to include them into poverty alleviations plans. However, it could not be achieved without applying people centric approach to get fully benefitted from these opportunities.
Earlier, Dr Sajid Amin, co-author of the study and head of Policy Solutions Lab SDPI, explained the importance of correct measurement of poverty for better and result-oriented efforts for poverty alleviation. He said reducing poverty in all its form was a major SDGs commitment of Pakistan that better execution of poverty alleviation strategies.

Story 52
Shopping for and purchasing a new or used car that meets one’s needs at the lowest attainable price is a chore in its own right, but savvy consumers will put as much effort into selling their existing rides to get the best overall deal. Here’s how to ensure you get the most money out of your current car, whether you’re planning on selling it to a dealer, or are looking to strike a deal with a private party.
1. Prepare Your Car For Sale
It always pays to spruce up your current vehicle before putting it on the market. If it’s a bit banged up, you might want to have minor dents and scratches professionally repaired, but don’t run the risk of making it look worse by attempting to do this yourself unless you have expertise in bodywork. Give the vehicle a good washing and a fresh coat of wax, vacuum out the interior, use a plastic cleaner on the dashboard and other hard surfaces, clean the windows, and give the seats and carpeting a good once-over with upholstery or leather cleaner. Better yet, spend a few bucks to have the car professionally detailed to return as much of its original luster as possible.
Likewise, ensure the vehicle is as mechanically sound before offering it for sale. Have the oil and filters changed, top off all fluids, and address any obvious problems – or at least those that are within your budget.
Compile maintenance and repair receipts for potential buyers to examine. Check the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration’s recall database at www.safercar.gov to see if there’s any safety-related issues for your car that still need to be resolved. Have the car or truck’s title on hand and ensure that it’s fully transferable. You might want to have a title search performed via an online source like CarFax or Experian and print out the results to confirm the car’s present and past ownership, whether there’s a lien (car loan) against the vehicle, and whether it’s been an accident or has been flooded or totaled along the way.
2. Determine What Your Car Is Worth
Research what you can reasonably expect to get for your car via an online valuation site like Kelley Blue Book or NADAGuides. Estimates are based on a car’s mileage, condition, and how it’s equipped, and will vary by region. If you’re planning on selling it directly to a dealer, you’ll want to pay attention to the noted “trade-in” value; if you’ll be advertising it and selling it to an individual buyer, look for the “private party” value. Click here for full details on how to estimate your car’s current worth.
3. Shop The Car To Local Dealerships
You’ll probably make less money on your current car by selling it to dealer than to an individual buyer, but it can be a much quicker process and is one that inherently carries less risk. If it’s a newer model in top condition, shop it around to the used-car departments of new-car dealerships in your area and/or a nationwide used-vehicle retailer like CarMax. However, don’t expect much of an offer – if any – if it’s an older and high-mileage model and/or needs work; if that’s the case try selling it to a smaller independent used-car dealer that specializes in lower-cost vehicles or consider donating it to a charitable organization that takes cars in any shape. If your vehicle is in need of extensive – and expensive – repairs and/or isn’t running, your best and only shot at selling it may be to a local auto wrecker.
Some online car-shopping services can help facilitate cash offers for pre-owned models from participating local dealer, but this still requires a trip to the lot to verify condition, features, and value, and there’s a good chance you’ll be offered less on the spot than your online estimate initially indicated.
4. Consider Selling It Yourself
You can usually get more money by selling your current vehicle to an individual buyer, though the process involves more effort than simply trading it in or selling it to a dealer, not to mention a certain element of peril. How much more money? According to Kelley Blue Book, a base model 2014 Honda Accord sedan in good condition with 45,000 miles on the odometer and located in Chicago is valued at $11,006 as a trade-in, and $12,831 when sold to a private party. If you’re offering a 2014 BMW 528i with the same variables, expect to get $21,362 from a dealer or $23,622 from an individual buyer.
While some sellers might be able to attract buyers simply by parking the car in a prominent location and putting a “for sale” sign in the windshield, most will have to place a classified ad, typically in a local publication or online site, to facilitate a sale. Advertise via multiple sources for the widest exposure. Despite their diminished presence, newspapers still run classified used-car ads, often in both their print and online editions. Regional used-car “shoppers,” like those found on racks located near the entrances of auto-parts stores and supermarkets, often feature longer vehicle descriptions and publish pictures of listed models (some will even come out and shoot them for you), but their circulation tends to be limited.
Online classifieds, via sites like AutoTrader and CraigsList make it easy to screen and communicate with potential buyers via email, and they let a seller run multiple images of a car being sold, and more is better in this regard. Show front, side and three-quarter exterior views and several interior shots. Pay attention to lighting and focus and shoot during the daylight hours; taking pictures just after sunrise and before sunset affords the softest light with minimal glare.
When writing an ad, be sure to describe the vehicle as succinctly and accurately as possible, including the year, make and model, asking price, mileage and condition and your phone number. Use catchphrases like “clean,” “one owner,” “low mileage,” “good fuel economy” and such to attract attention. Ask for a bit more money than your valuation search turned up so there’s wiggle room for negotiation.
5. Show The Car Securely
This is the part of a used-car transaction that gives sellers the most fits. Many are uncomfortable – and rightly so in this day and age – with the prospect of strangers coming to their homes with perhaps more on their minds than test-driving a car. For the sake of personal security, show a car to purchasers only during the daylight hours. Better yet, arrange to meet at a public location, like a shopping mall or supermarket parking lot.
Be honest and fair when showing your car or truck to prospective buyers and point out key features; give the navigation and infotainment system (if so equipped) a demonstration. Be sure to bring along receipts for service and repairs and don’t be put off if a buyer wants to have his or her mechanic inspect it. Always ride along on a test drive (or a trip to the buyer's mechanic), and ask to see a buyer’s driver’s license beforehand.
6. Negotiate With Confidence
Whether you’re selling your car to a trusted neighbor or a used-car dealer, expect their first offer to be less than your asking price. Reject low-ball bids outright, as these often come from so-called “flippers” who will immediately turn around and sell it for more money. Base your lowest acceptable bid on what you know the vehicle to be worth and your urgency to unload it. If you’ve already shown the car to a few shoppers and haven’t been able to obtain what you think is a fair price (or worse, haven’t had any response to your car’s ads), you may want to consider accepting less money to facilitate a sale.
7. Seal The Deal
Once the terms of the deal are agreed upon, both parties should sign a sales contract. You can either handwrite or print off a simple bill of sale that identifies the car, the price, the parties to the sale, and that it is being purchased on an “as is” basis (which means it comes without a warranty of any kind). Or, to look more official and cover your legal bases more completely, you can pick up a standard bill of sale document at an office supply store, or can download one for free online.
Never accept a personal check as payment; being stuck with a bad check is the biggest used-car selling rip-off. Taking a cashier’s check can be a bit more secure, but scammers can still perpetrate fraud by creating counterfeit checks. If you prefer to accept a cashier’s check, make sure you conclude the transaction during business hours so you can verify its validity with the bank before signing over the title (and call the bank’s listed number, not one that might be printed on a fake check).
Still, it’s always best to insist on cash. If you’re worried about dealing with a big wad of bills, close the deal at your bank where both cash and title can change hands securely, and funds can be deposited immediately to your account.
Finally, remember to retrieve any personal property from the trunk, and any personal papers from the glove box (especially your registration and insurance information), remove the license plates, and scrape off your city or town’s vehicle sticker if there is one before handing over the keys.

Story 53
Alphaville is completely free.
All you have to do is register.
Ready to subscribe, View our subscription options

Story 54
The government's move to demonetise Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 currency notes will immediately impact reserve money and money supply in the system along with the balance sheet of the Reserve Bank of India , the sole authority in the country for accepting currency notes and coins as legal tender . ET explains the interplay of currency, reserve money and money supply.It is the total value of currency (coins and paper currency) that has ever been issued by the central bank minus the amount that has been withdrawn by it.Currency in circulation comprises currency notes and coins with the public and cash in hand with banks. It is a major liability component of a central bank's balance sheet.It is essentially the central bank's money. It is also called high-powered money , base money and central bank money . As per the definition, reserve money equals currency in circulation plus bankers' deposits with RBI plus `other' deposits with RBI. It is the base level for money supply or the high-powered component of money supply.It is called broad money, too, as it also includes deposits generated in the banking system resulting from a multiplier effect of movement of currency in the banking system as well as other forms of liquid assets. Thus it is the total stock of money circulating in an economy.When a currency note of a particular denomination ceases to be legal tender, the central bank's liabilities are reduced to that extent and also the amount of currency in circulation declines. But the demonetisation impact is neutralised when the demonetised currency is replaced with new accepted currency notes. In the current context, though, if an individual chooses to park the cash as deposits with banks, then it forms a part of the overall money supply .If people choose not to declare and surrender their high-denomination currency notes, then RBI stands to gain to the extent that its currency liabilities are lowered. The gains it makes in the process are transferred to its reserves and then appropriated in its profit and loss account. This gives it leeway to transfer higher amounts as dividends to the government.

Story 55
After three straight Top 40 albums, Eddie Money was riding high in the early '80s — in more ways than one. In fact, his hard-partying lifestyle nearly got him killed during the promotional cycle for his third album, 1980's Playing for Keeps.
"Completely overworked, drink, battle fatigue. I went out and bought a case and got real drunk and snorted some fentanyl, which is like a heroin substitute, which I thought was coke — which I don't advocate anymore," Money cautioned after the ordeal. "Almost killed myself."
Money's self-described brush with death wasn't rock-star hyperbole. The damage to his internal organs included a major problem with his sciatic nerve, which severely restricted his mobility for an extended period. To his (likely life-saving) credit, the incident served as a major wake-up call for Money, who decided to put the experience into the songwriting for his next LP. But getting back into the studio was easier said than done; as he later recalled, he "was in such bad shape that I had to use a walker to go from my bedroom into the music room to write." It would take a little less than two years for Money to make his way back to record stores with his first post-overdose album, 1982's No Control.
"I got into a lot of the pitfalls that people run into in the business, and I seemed to fall into them harder than most," admitted Money. "Lots of powder, lots of barbiturates. I was drinking at the same time. And then all of a sudden I’m in a coma after that overdose, and I nearly didn’t make it. Put me out of commission for a long time, man — I couldn’t walk for a year — but then [producer] Tom Dowd got me back in the studio and we did the No Control album, which was all about what it was like to go through that."
Released in June 1982, No Control found Money with a lot at stake in a number of ways. Not only was he fighting his way back from severe trauma, he'd suffered something of a sales slide with Playing for Keeps, which marked his first release to fail to send any singles into the Top 40 despite a pronounced effort to broaden Money's base with radio-friendly pop tracks. Personally and professionally, his back was against the wall — and he delivered with one of his stronger sets.
In fact, while No Control rebounded Money's album sales, peaking at No. 20 and eventually going platinum, it reaffirmed his rock radio bona fides; lead-off single "Think I'm in Love" topped the rock charts while breaking the pop Top 20, and the set's second release, "Shakin'," also went to the rock Top 10. While it would be inaccurate to call it a concept album — and as was often the case, Money worked with a raft of co-writers on the record — he credited his emotional shock to the system with helping the album strike a chord.
"I put a lot of energy and effort into No Control. It was kinda like the 'You Can't Keep a Good Man Down' syndrome. It's almost like Richard Gere in An Officer and a Gentleman; he couldn't get thrown out 'cause he had nowhere else to go," quipped Money at the time. "I mean, that's how I was. I had to come back because that's what I did for a living. It was a very sincere and strong album because it was very much from the heart."
No Control added a triumphant note to Money's personal and professional lives, but his ups and downs were far from over. He'd suffer another commercial setback with Where's the Party? the following year before making yet another comeback with 1986's Can't Hold Back — and then by the early '90s, he'd parted ways with his longtime label Columbia. Although he's continued to tour and record, he's long since resigned himself to heritage-artist status, joking that "once they buy your greatest hits, they don't give a s--- if you live or die." Looking back over his early catalog, Money has repeatedly pointed to his fourth album as a source of particular pride.
"I think the quintessential Eddie Money album is No Control," he argued years later. "I wanted to write a record that would let kids know they didn’t have to get drunk or take drugs and get high. You can go out there and wreck a car and kill yourself or snort something that can kill you. The No Control album is like, 'you don’t want this to happen to you, look what happened to me.'"

Story 56
The Bank of Japan may have to pursue its aggressive monetary policy easing for “some time” to fully vanquish deflation, BOJ Gov. Haruhiko Kuroda said Saturday.
Speaking at a global central banking conference in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, Kuroda said the central bank’s efforts to overcome deflation by stimulating Japan’s economy with large-scale asset purchases was proving effective.
He added, however, that the public is not yet convinced the central bank will hit its 2 percent inflation target. Creating that expectation is necessary to get firms to raise wages — a key step in Japan’s long war with deflation, he said.
“We have committed ourselves to continuing the increasingly accommodative stance until the 2 percent inflation target is met and maintained in a sustainable manner,” Kuroda said. “That means inflation expectations are anchored to 2 percent . . . (and) that may take some more time.”
The BOJ deployed an intense burst of monetary stimulus last April, when pledging to double its money base with a “qualitative and quantitative” easing program of asset purchases. Kuroda wants to accelerate consumer inflation to 2 percent in roughly two years. Japan has been mired in 15 years of grinding deflation.
The program was initially successful, with inflation having recently hit 1.3 percent, excluding the impact of an April sales tax hike. Inflation is expected to slow in the coming months as the boost from a weak yen on import costs begins to fade.
Speaking on a panel alongside central bankers from Brazil and Britain, Kuroda said public inflation expectations are moving up gradually but still low at around 1 percent.
Low long-term interest rates will likely not rise until the 2 percent target is reached, he said, adding that the BOJ’s 2 percent inflation target, once met, could serve as a benchmark for wage negotiations.
Turning to labor markets, which was the focus of the high-profile Jackson Hole conference, Kuroda said Japan is showing “significant improvement,” though it still faces challenges including a large share of part-time workers in the service sector.
The quantitative easing stimulus is helping Japan escape from a deflationary cycle of falling wages and demand, he said, adding that the BOJ is trying to manage the program to avoid any “abrupt shock” to markets.
He also said Japan needs a favorable work environment for female and older workers to help counter its declining labor force.
Bank of England Deputy Gov. Ben Broadbent, speaking on the same panel, said in a prepared speech that slow wage growth is not certain to pick up soon in Britain, despite signs of skills shortages. He added that the BoE will not raise rates until there is a clear prospect of stronger wage growth.
In separate remarks, Broadbent said the BoE’s new financial stability goals were not in conflict with its inflation and growth goals. He also said there are potential but surmountable “coordination issues” between the BoE’s new financial stability committee and other bank functions.
“There is not a first-mover advantage to any of the bodies. They meet pretty regularly and share three members,” Broadbent said.

Story 57
Banks said they will further tighten loan conditions in the third quarter 2018, Q3'18, even as they increase lending to the various segments of the economy.
However, credit to the domestic economy dropped by 6.41 percent to N25.71 trillion in May, driven by decline in credit to the government and to the private sector.
Meanwhile the excess liquidity in the interbank money market will persist this week as inflow from Federation Accounts Allocation Committee, FAAC, and maturing Nigerian Treasury Bills, NTBs, worth N183 billion hit the banking system.
Last week, the market enjoyed inflow of N444.3 billion from matured TBs, which cancelled out the impact of liquidity mop up by the Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, via N137.4 billion worth of Open Market Operations, OMO, bills. The ensuing upsurge in excess liquidity prompted cost of funds to fall, with average short term interbank interest rate falling by 75 basis points to 3.21 percent last week from 3.96 percent the previous week.
This trend is expected to persist this week, baring aggressive liquidity mop up by CBN, as the inflow from FAAC and maturing TBs, far exceeds expected outflow of N60 billion through FGN Bond offer by the Debt Management Office, DMO.
Naira appreciates as I&E turnover rises by 64%
The naira appreciated in the various segments of the foreign exchange market last week, even as the volume of dollars traded in the Investors and Exporters, I&E, window rose by 64 percent last week. The naira appreciated by 60 kobo in the parallel market where the exchange rate dropped to N360 per dollar last week from N360.6 per dollar the previous week.
In the I&E window the naira appreciated by three kobo as the indicative exchange rate dropped to N361.04 per dollar from N361.07 per dollar in the previous week. According to FMDQ, the volume of dollars traded (turnover) in the window rose by 64 percent to $1.29 billion last week from $787.19 million the previous week.
On its part, the CBN sustained its weekly intervention of $210 million in the interbank foreign exchange market.
Banks to tighten loan conditions
Last week, the CBN released its Credit Conditions Survey, CCS, for the second quarter (Q2'18), which revealed that banks will increase credit scoring criteria for unsecured lending to households, as well as demand for more collateral requirements and stronger loan covenant from all categories of firms in the third quarter.
The report also revealed increased lending by banks to households and firms in Q2'18, with banks saying this would be sustained in the Q3'18. The increased lending, according to the banks, is driven by favourable economic outlook, improved liquidity position and higher appetite for risk as well as quest for increased market share.
The report stated: "In the current quarter relative to the previous quarter, lenders reported an increase in the availability of secured credit to households. They noted that improved liquidity position and market share objectives were major factors behind the increase. Availability of secured credit was expected to increase in the next quarter, with favorable economic outlook and market share objectives as the likely contributory factors
"Although lenders maintained the same credit scoring criteria for Secured loans in Q2 2018, the proportion of loan applications approved in the quarter increased. Lenders expect to leave unchanged the credit scoring criteria in the next quarter, yet still expect an increase in the proportion of approved households' loan applications in Q3 2018.
"The availability of unsecured credit provided to households rose in the current quarter and was expected to rise in the next quarter. Lenders reported higher appetite for risk and increased availability of funds as the major factors that contributed to the increase in Q2 2018
"Despite lenders' resolve to tighten the credit scoring criteria for total unsecured loan applications in the review quarter, the proportion of approved total loan applications for households increased. Lenders expect to tighten the credit scoring criteria in the next quarter, but anticipate that the total loans applications to be approved in Q3 2018 will increase.
"The overall availability of credit to the corporate sector increased in Q2 2018 and was expected to increase in Q3 2018. This was driven by changing sector-specific risks, favourable economic conditions, improved liquidity conditions, market share objectives and changing appetite for risk. Lenders reported that the prevailing commercial property prices negatively influenced credit availability of the commercial real estate sector in the current quarter.
"The proportion of loan applications approved for all business sizes increased in the current quarter, and are expected to further increase in Q3 2018.
"Lenders required stronger loan covenants from all firm sized businesses in the current and next quarters. Fees/commissions on approved new loan applications fell for all firm sized businesses except the large public non-financial corporations, PNFCs, in the current quarter, but are expected to rise for small business and medium PNFCs and fall for large PNFCs and other nonfinancial corporations, OFCs, for the next quarter."
Credit to domestic economy falls to N25.71tr
However, the Depository Corporation survey report of the CBN for May showed that banks lending to the domestic economy dropped month-on-month (MoM) by 6.41 percent to N25.71 trillion during the month. The report also revealed that banks 'demand deposit (current accounts) rose MoM by 6.36 percent to N9.65 trillion while currency in circulation dropped MoM by 1.35 percent to N1.58 trillion.
According the report, Broad Money rose MoM by 2.64 percent to N25.17 trillion in May 2018, driven by a 15.03 percent MoM increase in Net Foreign Assets, NFA, to N18.30 trillion which more than offset a 20.23 percent MoM decrease in Net Domestic Assets, NDA, to N6.87 trillion.
Close Sign up for free AllAfrica Newsletters Get the latest in African news delivered straight to your inbox Top Headlines Nigeria Business Banking By submitting above, you agree to our privacy policy. Success! Almost finished... We need to confirm your email address. To complete the process, please follow the instructions in the email we just sent you. Error! Error! There was a problem processing your submission. Please try again later.
The growth in NFA was partly attributed to sustained high crude oil prices; bonny light traded at $80.65 in May 17, 2018, the highest it has traded in 2018 and hovered around $75. On domestic asset creation, the decrease in NDA resulted from a marginal 0.09 percent MoM decrease in Other Liabilities (net) to N18.84 trillion in the month under review accompanied by a 6.41 percent decrease in Net Domestic Credit, NDC, to N25.71 trillion.
Further breakdown of the NDC showed a 0.21 percent MoM decrease in Credit to the Private sector to N22.21 trillion (share of credit to private sector of NDC rose to 86.35 percent from 80.99 percent), accompanied by a 32.80 percent decrease in Credit to the Government to N3.51 trillion (its share of NDC plunged to 13.65 percent from 19.01 percent).
On the liabilities side, 2.64 percent MoM increase in Broad Money Supply followed a 0.67 percent MoM increase in Quasi Money (near maturing short term financial instruments) to N13.94 trillion and supported by Narrow Money that also increase to N11.23 trillion (of which Demand Deposits that rose by 6.36 percent to N9.65 trillion offset the drop in currency outside banks by 1.35 percent to N1.58 trillion) in May 2018.
Meanwhile, Reserve Money (Base Money) increased m-o-m by 3.63 percent to N6.77 trillion as bank reserves rose MoM by 6.18 percent to N4.49 trillion; however, Currency in circulation decreased MoM by 1.36 percent to N1.93 trillion.

Story 58
Forbidden
You don't have permission to access /news/the-curious-case-of-software-maker-code-rebel-cdrb-soaring-stock on this server.

Story 59
Money and guvnt may well be intertwined but it is difficult to see how TFN digital time stamped money untwines guvnt from money, in fact the temporal money proposed could become a nightmare for anybody holding it because the terms of reference are open to political expediency and could have ambiguity. Furthermore the issue is guvnt debt with its account expansion and rollover problems not individuals liabilities. It is guvnt problems aka failures with debt management and servicing that are the root issue. On the face of it this is a a proposal to have a euro that has a different value depending on which side of the street you are standing which is one of the very objections made to practices and proposals in Greece post crisis - and is a fundamental problem in the EZ where different interest rates imply differing euro values - thus Schauble's early onset of anxiety and explosion when this rate drift developed. Assuming TFN money did lubricate the process it still does not deal with the fundamental structural problems of the euro and the imbalances it creates. Its main 'opportunity' would be a parallel mechanism to try and escape the Euro; however that would only increase the political machinations and exploitation of it. A pseudo sovereign currency (ultimately open to debasement with the additional issue of holder entrapment). So I still do not see how it would work or what it would solve. A common currency is supposed to have commonality and uncommon currency cannot be common currency and the problem remains the difficulty of the attributes of common currency - which it is well known are difficult to escape without chaos and catastrophic devaluation.


Story 60
With the US, Japan & Europe all pumping money into their economies, the baht is rising & exports getting more expensive & less competitive, but what can be done?
Click button to listen to Reining In Baht Appreciation download

CURRENCIES
Measures on the table to rein in the baht

Story 61
The manual transmission is on the way out. Even high-performance cars, which in the past sported stick shifts, are now being equipped with pro-racing-style manuals that eliminate the stick and the clutch.
That said, the stick shift hasn't completely vanished. It's common in Europe and a decent number of peppy, fun-to-drive cars.
If you've never driven a stick shift, it may seem daunting. But it actually isn't very complicated at all.
With just a little practice, anyone can become competent in a short amount of time.
It is also a very useful skill to have, especially if you enjoy driving. It makes you more alert and in tune with a car.
Plus, a manual transmission can save you money. Base prices for cars with manuals are typically lower than their automatic brothers. And when you choose when to shift, you also control fuel consumption. It could mean fewer trips to the pump.
[And earlier version of the story was written by Travis Okulski.]

Story 62
Rep. Tom Price (R-GA) and members of the Freedom Caucus (3rd L-R) Rep. Dave Brat (R-VA), Rep. Gary Palmer (R-AL) and Rep. Marlin Stutzman (R-IN) head for a House Republican caucus meeting in the basement of the U.S. Capitol Oct. 9, 2015 in Washington. | Getty Congress Club for Growth and Koch nurtured Freedom Caucus Campaign giving helped elect members now deemed the future of the GOP.
Behind the renegade clique of House conservatives who have upended the chamber recently stand a couple of familiar donors from the GOP’s far right — the Club for Growth and Koch Industries.
These powerful outside forces have helped nurture the political careers of the 37 known members of the House Freedom Caucus, the GOP group that helped usher out Speaker John Boehner and thwart Kevin McCarthy’s succession, according to a POLITICO analysis done in conjunction with the nonprofit Center for Responsive Politics.
Story Continued Below
The analysis shows that caucus members had strong support from industries like banking and auto dealerships that traditionally support Republican candidates. But the figures also demonstrate the influence of outside groups that have emerged as important forces in the Republican Party, sometimes colliding with its leadership over conservative principles.
The analysis, based on a review of campaign and leadership PAC donations reported by each caucus member during his or her time in Congress, shows that the Club for Growth, the free-enterprise advocacy group that claims 100,000 members, has contributed $1.77 million, or about 1 percent of the more than $175 million the caucus members raised in total. The club was the No. 1 donor for 11 members — more members than any other benefactor.
Doug Sachtleben, a Club for Growth spokesman, told POLITICO the group does not blame the Freedom Caucus for recent leadership disruptions in the House. “Our issue is not with the Freedom Caucus — we think they’re being consistent with what they campaigned on and what their constituents voted them in to do. The difficulty is the establishment side and the leadership side.”
In the leadership fight, the club had publicly expressed its support for conservative members who came under attack “for taking a stand on the principles they believe in” by a PAC affiliated with Boehner.
Koch Industries, the closely held oil and gas conglomerate out of Wichita, Kansas, contributed $599,400 over time to members now aligned with the caucus. The company’s PAC, combined with individual contributions from Koch employees, ranked as the top contributor only to Rep. Tim Huelskamp of Kansas. But the analysis showed that it spread around enough money to be the second-biggest donor overall to caucus members. The analysis did not cover the wide network of political groups marshaled by the Koch brothers that collectively have evolved as a major funding source for Republican candidates.
Koch PAC spokesman Kenneth P. Spain said the group contributes to lots of Republicans, not just the Freedom Caucus. It gave $10.8 million in the 2014 cycle, according to data compiled by CRP.
Amid a month of palace intrigue, the Freedom Caucus, which keeps secret the names of its members, has emerged as an influential force in battles over which wing of the party will dominate House leadership. Rep. Paul Ryan, who is now considered the favorite for House speaker, has said he wants the job only if the Freedom Caucus is on board and agrees to give up a procedural tactic it threatened to use against Boehner.
Roll Call, the Capitol Hill newspaper, published a list of known caucus members that POLITICO and CRP used in the analysis.
Establishment Republicans grumble about what they see as the Freedom Caucus’ disregard for the party’s business allies and, by extension, the party’s efforts to raise money and extend its majority. But the ties to insurgent financiers like Club for Growth and Koch suggest the bloc has a capable money base of its own.
It will need it, as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce has vowed to back primary challengers in the hopes of winnowing the implacable bloc.
“In the old days, the party structure and business community held a lot more sway — now the Freedom Caucus can raise more money from outside Washington by saying these Washington groups don’t contribute to them,” said a former Boehner staffer turned lobbyist. “The business community should figure out a way to talk to these guys and build relationships, because right now they look to be the future of the Republican Party.”
By industry, 7 percent of the Freedom Caucus’ donors are retirees, followed by health professionals (5 percent), according to the analysis.
The bloc’s most successful fundraiser is Steve Pearce of New Mexico, who netted $16.9 million across his career (including $347,867 from the Club for Growth and $86,000 from Koch), ranking him 38th among current House members, according to POLITICO and CRP’s analysis. Scott Garrett of New Jersey followed, with $13.6 million (including $72,500 from Koch) in 69th place.
The analysis covered only hard-money donations to campaigns and does not reflect independent spending for or against candidates in those races.
Rounding out the caucus’s top five contributors are the American Bankers Association, the National Auto Dealers Association (among the top contributors to Congress generally) and the Every Republican is Crucial PAC, or ERICPAC, which was affiliated with Majority Leader Eric Cantor before he was unseated by Freedom Caucus member Dave Brat of Virginia.
“ABA has a long history of working with lawmakers on both sides of the aisle — from freshman members to congressional leadership and everyone in between,” said James Ballentine, executive vice president of congressional relations and political affairs. “Some of these members happen to support a number of measures that are important to banks across the country.”
Kenneth P. Vogel contributed to this report.

Story 63
So, what gives?
Let's start with who Ben Carson is. He's an African American former neurosurgeon at Johns Hopkins who has been a controversial presence on the far right for his views on the LGBT community and other social issues. At the Values Voters Summit last fall, Carson told the crowd: “You know, Obamacare is really, I think, the worst thing that has happened in this nation since slavery." He has become something of a cause celebre among conservatives.
AD
The National Draft Ben Carson Committee is trying to show there is support for a Carson candidacy. The group has run electronic billboard advertisements in Des Moines, Iowa and around Baltimore in the past few months. It is also running radio ads during Sean Hannity's show, and is in the process of hiring three regional directors. Carson told Hannity in December, “If the circumstances were to evolve in such a way that [running for president] seemed to be what God was calling me to do, I would certainly do it. And I would never turn my back on my fellow citizens, if there was a hue and cry for such.”
AD
The group is sure to point to the 983 donations they received from January 1 to the end of March as proof of the groundswell of interest in Carson as a national candidate. However, looking at the super PAC's FEC filing shows that it shares many attributes with previous organizations that were far better at fundraising than helping longshot candidates.
In this quarter the National Draft Ben Carson Committee raised, as noted above, nearly $2.4 million. However, the group spent about $2.44 million. The invisible presidential primary hasn't even begun in earnest – so where were they spending all that money?
AD
The simplest answer is that they spent the money raising the money. Half of the total expenditures by the committee over the first three months of the year went to two companies: Omega List and Campaign Funding Direct.
AD
Omega List, which received $393,000 from the National Draft Ben Carson Committee last quarter, rents out direct mail lists to political organizations and candidates. The other organizations Omega List has worked with include the Cain Connections PAC, Herman Cain for President 2012, Americans for Sheriff Joe, American Border Control, ProEnglish and Vernon Robinson for Congress 2012. (Robinson -- who has unsuccessfully run for federal office several times, most recently in the North Carolina District 8th district race in 2012 -- is the campaign director of the National Draft Ben Carson Committee.)
Campaign Funding Direct, which received $778,000 from the National Draft Ben Carson Committee, says on its website that it is "the industry leader for PACs and candidates." Both companies, which received $1.2 million total from the National Draft Ben Carson Committee, are located at 1420 Spring Hill Rd in McLean, Va. and were started by Bruce W. Eberle. Another person who works with Eberle Associates, which calls itself "America's Trusted Conservative Fund Raiser" on its website, Ron Robinson received $6,000 from the super PAC for website management.
AD
The Washington Post wrote about this trend of spending money to raise money as early as 1978.
AD
Bruce Eberle, who raises money for the Fund for a Conservative Majority, which collected $317,408 last year and gave $22,400 to candidates, according to its report, attributed much of the difference to the old axiom that it costs money to raise money. "Fundraising was very expensive in 1977, because it was not a good year for giving, being a nonelection year, "Eberle said. He said his fundraising firm, Bruce Eberle Associates, has 18 other clients, and that they are all engaged in activities other than funneling contributions to candidates, such as student scholarships, speaking tours and issue-oriented campaigns. "How can these groups raise all this money, and distribute only such a small amount to candidates - and still have debts at the end of the year?" asked Wyatt Stewart Ill, director of finance and administration of the National Republican Congressional Committee.
An article was published two years later about another group on the right raising lots, and giving it away to direct mailing companies.
The national Taxpayers Investigative Fund was created a year ago for the purpose of ferreting out waste and fraud in government. Since then, the organization has been so busy raising money from contributors around the country that it hasn't had any time to look for waste and fraud. ... So far the fund has received about $175,000 in contributions for its crusade against waste and fraud from 15,000 people around the country. That response has been so encouraging that they hope soon to get on with the actual business of fighting waste and fraud. So far, though, all they have been able to do is raise the $175,000 and apparently spend most of it on the cost of raising it in the first place. ... Tapscott said he has received about $600 in "directors' fees" from NTIF to cover his expenses, and the others said they received no compensation or reimbursements. Apparently the only people who have profited so far from the existence of NTIF are printers and others involved in preparing the direct-mail fund-raising material, and Bruce Eberle and Associates, a Vienna, Va., direct-mail firm that specializes in conservative causes.
The Draft Carson super PAC also spent about $47,000 on books from Harper Collins, presumably copies of Carson's book, "Take the Risk: Learning to Identify, Choose, and Live with Acceptable Risk" to give to donors. It needed to pay $26,000 to a bank just to deal with processing online donations. Printing alone cost nearly $318,000.
Another company that works in political direct mailing campaigns has received much attention in recent election cycles for raising money for less-than-competitive Republican candidates who spend most of their donations raising money. Base Connect, formerly known as BMW Direct, is run by Kimberly Bellissimo, who worked for 13 years with Eberle Direct Marketing Group.
AD
AD
Across the board, hiring direct mailing firms is a risky proposition for longshot or down-and-out candidates -- especially at a time when donations can be harvested far more cheaply online, which doesn't require paying big for postage stamps, envelopes and the like. On the other hand, the old, retired voters who remain conservative hopefuls' best bet for campaign dollars are often found through the mailbox rather than on the Internet. And if your candidacy's only chance was as a sleeper hit in the first place, why not take a big risk?
Direct mail remains a powerful asset for more robust campaigns -- ones that know they'll be able to leverage the high-risk initial investment in building donors lists to use closer to Election Day to both raise money and persuade voters. Mitt Romney and the Republican National Committee spent more than $100 million on direct mail to target older donors during the 2012 election. Obama and the Democratic National Committee also spent tens of millions on direct mail. However, many long-shot candidates who rely on direct mail don't have the luxury of offsetting those high costs with other fundraising.
Bob Biersack, senior fellow at the Center for Responsive Politics, says he and his colleagues were surprised at how much direct mail fundraising still happens today. “They’re kind of like television ads,” he says. “It looks like they have a short shelf life, with all the online activity, and yet they continue to play a dominant role in campaigns.”
AD
AD
Dr. Ada Fisher ran against incumbent Rep. Mel Watt (D-NC) in 2004 and 2006. After her second loss, she complained about how much money BMW Direct took in fees. Her campaign raised almost $400,000, yet less than $30,000 went to the campaign. She told the Salisbury Post in 2009, "I was furious. I'm still furious."
Deborah Honeycutt, who spent 78 percent of the $5.3 million she raised through direct mail on the actual mailings, lost her Georgia congressional race 69 percent to 31 percent. BMW was the direct mailing firm she worked with. When Rep. Anh "Joseph" Cao (La.) was running for re-election in 2010, he spent nearly $9 out of every $10 he raised on fundraising expenses. He told the Associated Press, "The cost is high in the beginning, but as you go through the campaign the returns will be a lot better."He ended up cutting ties with Base Connect and lost his re-election fight 65 percent to 35 percent -- although his odds were never good in the first place in a heavily Democratic New Orleans district.
After Sharon Angle lost her bid for Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid's (D-Nev.) seat, she still owed Base Connect $225,000. In 2010, former Florida Rep. Allen West raised $2.3 million through direct mail. He spent $1.8 million on printing costs. Other candidates who spent most of their haul fundraising with Base Connect include William Russell, a longshot candidate who tried to unseat the late Pennsylvania Rep. John Murtha, and Charles Morse, a longshot challenger to Massachusetts Rep. Barney Frank. After Morse ended his bid, Base Connect continued fundraising, netting $200,000 that mostly went toward paying for the direct mail program. The Boston Globe contacted people who donated to Morse after he ended his campaign. Many lived out-of-state, many were retired and all had no idea their money was headed toward a nonexistent campaign.
AD
AD
On its website, Base Connect explains that it no longer provides a list of their clients because “predictably, the media and the Left used that list for purposes of harassment and distortion.”
Using direct mailing campaigns for super PACs -- which is happening more frequently since the Citizens United decision -- tends to side-step much of the backlash that these companies have received in recent years. The fundraising occurs one step removed from the candidates, who can't complain when the money-collecting efforts on their behalf don't reach expectations, lest they appear to be illegally fraternizing with their unaffiliated helpers. However, they do continue to get the good press of people raising extensive sums in their name, and direct mailing firms continue to stay in business.
Across the board, Republican candidates who tend to rely on high-risk direct mailing campaigns early on in their runs tend to be minorities or tea party-affiliated -- or both. And the people most likely to respond to direct-mail appeals are retired out-of-staters. The formula seems to apply to the National Draft Ben Carson Committee, which is pulling many of its donations from retired people across the country for a tea-party backed black Republican.
AD
AD
Eberle admits that direct mailing doesn't work for candidates who don't have national appeal. "The truth of the matter," he says, "is that you don't raise a lot of money with direct mail unless you are very popular."
His website has the same disclaimer. On a page titled, "5 Things Wrong, 5 Things Right With Direct Mail Fund Raising,' his firm offers warnings about the high cost and effort required for a successful direct mail campaign.
Base Connect has a similar caveat on their website: “FACT: Direct mail fundraising is not the fastest way to raise money, or the least expensive. But over the long run, when certain conditions are met, direct mail has repeatedly proven to be the most effective and reliable vehicle for raising money.” They also blame “the left and establishment RINOs” for “using tools like the blogosphere to smear Base Connect and our conservative primary challengers with innuendos and outright lies about how we raise money and where it goes.”
AD
AD
Eberle thinks that Ben Carson passes the popularity test, calling him Reaganesque and saying that his 2013 National Prayer Breakfast speech was like Reagan's "Time for Choosing" speech in 1964. "I don't work for anybody that I don't support," Eberle says.

Story 64
To ensure this doesn’t happen in the future, please enable Javascript and cookies in your browser.
Is this happening to you frequently? Please report it on our feedback forum.
If you have an ad-blocker enabled you may be blocked from proceeding. Please disable your ad-blocker and refresh.
Reference ID:

Story 65
So what? In his position, he should accept and maybe expect more than his fair share of criticism. Comes with the office. True. But if only if were that simple.
Germany's old central bank, the Bundesbank or often lovingly called "die Buba", might only be one of now 17 national central banks that make up the ECB. But it represents the biggest economy, and with that money base in the euro area it will never be just another national central bank. The Buba, with its clout and reputation, with its stubbornly defended and often flouted independence... this Buba was and is the blueprint for the ECB. And at least in Germany, it will rightly or wrongly always be set against and compared with the specter of the old Buba.
You see, the Germans have always had a very special (and often romantically clouded) relationship with their old currency, the deutschmark, and the guardians of that currency, the Buba. For the Germans, this dynamic duo symbolizes the country's post-war economic miracle. Both have long become legend. And legends are difficult to match, let alone outshine.
It's a legend that the deutschmark was more stable than the euro ; it's a legend that in deutschmark times Germany enjoyed more price stability and it's a legend that the Buba never acted politically. All not true! But there it is: the Buba president appears to the German public as an angel — or at least a Knight Templar defending German price stability and wealth — and an Italian ECB president as the devil who is out to destroy the country's post-war prosperity and empty peoples' savings accounts.
Opinion polls show that less than 20 percent of the people asked said they "trusted" Mario Draghi. Almost 50 percent stated they did not. That must smart, no matter how much ECB might play this little "trust" problem.
No Bundesbank president would ever have had that problem. The Bundesbank has been the one institution in Germany that has, throughout its history, enjoyed more trust and credibility at home than any other institition — including the church! It was always a tall order for any ECB president to match, let alone beat that. But Draghi clearly has more problems than Trichet before him. And the festering conflict or arguments and opinions between him and Buba president Weidmann are not helpful.
Draghi did the best he could under the circumstances. He went on the (friendly) offensive: He suggested that were the German parliament, the Bundestag, to invite him to explain himself and the ECB's actions, he would happily accept. His predecessor, Jean-Claude Trichet, had indeed been invited by the Bundestag a couple of years ago to speak to the assembly; but not under a cloud of criticism, but of appreciation.
Draghi's words were heard, and invitations were promptly issued. So far, however, not to speak in front of the plenary session of the Bundestag, but to appear in front of a number of non-public committees — such as the undoubtedly powerful budget committee. But that was not the "I will explain myself to the German people" appearance Draghi and his team must have had in mind. Still, it's early days, and an invitation by the Bundestag might yet come.
As a prelude to his German "charm offensive", Draghi will speak at the annual gathering of the who's who in German industry, not banking for a change: the annual conference of the German federation of Industry, the BDI. A good opportunity for the ECB president to "test the trust waters"; because while the German government has whole-heartedly joined the chorus that defended, nay praised Draghi's bond buying plans, German industry is less convinced. Especially the German Mittelstand, the small and midcaps, suffer from lack of access to credit.
So "Super" Mario will maybe get a first taste of the explaining he has to do to convince the Germans that ECB policy is protecting German wealth, not plundering it. The tougher questions, no doubt, will be in the budget committee of the Bundestag. Shame that THIS hearing shall not be in public.

Story 66
The most risk-averse lenders could start to offer special 40pc mortgages as the buy-to-let market becomes more tightly regulated, experts say.
The Bank of England has said that banks will need to start stress-testing buy-to-let buyers at a higher threshold because of tax changes being introduced from next year.
The Bank has recommended that all lenders stress-test borrowers to make sure they can afford a rate of 5.5pc and that 145pc of their mortgage is covered by rental income.
From next April landlords will no longer be able to offset their mortgage interest costs against their rental income, putting many under increased financial strain.

Story 67
“President should not be a bully,” Thompson says, and that will hurt GOP.
Get a daily rundown of the top stories on Urban Milwaukee
Former Wisconsin GOP Governor Tommy Thompson (1987 — 2001) had some blunt truth for Trump, state GOP Governor Scott Walker and other Republicans. Thompson said: “He’s (Trump) a bully, and the president should not be a bully.” And, Wisconsin Public Radio reported: “Thompson predicted the Republican Party and … Walker could face historic losses in November’s elections.” Thompson also contrasted his electoral and governing style to Trump’s and Walker’s: “The philosophy now is … 50 percent plus one vote. … don’t have to worry about those other people. I (Thompson) wanted every vote.” Small-town Wisconsin wisdom.
Thompson had foreseen last week’s electoral debacle for Walker and the state GOP. Rebecca Dallet crushed Walker-backed Michael Screnock for a seat on the state Supreme Court. Dallet won across the board, including the Fox Valley and western Wisconsin. Moreover, she triumphed despite the National Rifle Association endorsement of Screnock. Limited, sensible gun control is no longer the third rail of state politics. And, Walker and the GOP-led legislature lost big in a vote to abolish the state treasurer’s office. Voters want checks and balances.
Earlier, Walker was rebuked by three state judges, including a Walker appointee, for disregarding the law by refusing to hold special elections for two vacant state legislative seats. Walker had stunningly miscalculated with his Nixonian “dirty tricks”. Part of a pattern. Walker has attempted to suppress voting with burdensome, unnecessary voter ID requirements, severe restriction of early voting and now removing thousands from voting rolls (Milwaukee Journal Sentinel). Meanwhile, Trump “repeated his false claim that millions of people voted illegally in the 2016 election” (Washington Post). Voters are not amused.
Back in January, Democrat Patty Schachtner blew away her GOP opponent for a vacant state Senate seat. The GOP had held it for seventeen years. Moreover, Trump won the district big in 2016. Schachtner’s victory is part of a blue wave nationally. Since 2016, Democrats have flipped a net 35 state legislative seats from GOP to Democrat in special elections (Boston Globe). Then there’s Virginia.
Virginia Democratic Governor Ralph Northam won by nine percentage points last November. He had coattails – Democrats (mostly women) picked up fifteen state legislative seats. Now the GOP-led Virginia legislature is on the verge of passing Medicaid expansion. The blue wave also hit Alabama and Pennsylvania.
In December, Alabama Democrat Doug Jones beat Republican Roy Moore for a vacant U.S. Senate seat. Moore was strongly supported by Trump despite “accusations of sexual abuse and child molestation” against Moore (New York Times). In March, Pennsylvania Democrat Conor Lamb won a vacant U.S. House seat in the middle of Trump country on a message of economic fairness. The GOP spent more than $14 million. Big money lost. Change in the air for Wisconsin and elsewhere.
The nonpartisan Cook Political Report said: Favorable polls, Democratic enthusiasm and GOP retirements are “aiding House Democrats’ path to a majority”. Cook also downgraded Wisconsin’s Seventh Congressional District, held by GOP Representative Sean Duffy, from solid to likely. Checks and balances.
This column was originally published by Wispolitics.com.
Bill Kaplan wrote a guest column from Washington, D.C. for the Wisconsin State Journal from 1995 – 2009.

Story 68
Linkedin 0
Alibaba and Ant Financial’s entry in Asean is aggressive but there is still much to be done before they dominate the overseas market.
Editorial
Ant Financial is a world leading digital financial service provider. It is an affiliate company of the Alibaba Group as well as the parent company of Alipay. In the past few months, Alibaba and Ant Financial have entered partnerships with a string of Fintech firms in South East Asia. They aim to distribute its technology and business model across ASEAN.
Alibaba and Ant Financial ASEAN footprints
On 1 November 2016, Ant Financial invested in Thailand’s payment company Ascend Money. Ant financial will help Ascend Money grow its digital and offline payments and financial services business. It has sent a team to help Ascend develop technology and train professionals. In return, Ascend Money will open doors for Ant Financial in Thailand.
On 22 March 2017, Alibaba announced to set up the Malaysian electronic world trade platform (eWTP) in Malaysia’s digital free trade zone. The eWTP will include a regional logistics centre near Kuala Lumpur International Airport and an accompanying electronic. It aims to simplify the process for small and medium enterprises (SMEs) to conduct cross-border trade.
On 12 April 2017, Ant Financial announced a strategic partnership with Emtek Group, the leading media company in Indonesia. The two companies will cooperate to launch a mobile payment platform in Indonesia. This will help to increase accessibility of digital financial services in Indonesia.
On 12 April 2016, Alibaba revealed an investment of US$1 billion in Singapore’s Lazada. Lazada is a leading e-commerce platform in ASEAN. On 28 June 2017, Alibaba reinvested US$1 billion in Lazada, increasing its stake from 51% to approximately 83%. On 19 April 2017, Ant Financial acquired the payment service helloPay Group, who attached to Lazada.
On 27 November 2017, Ant Financial bought 45% stakes Globe Fintech Innovations Inc. (Mynt), a Fintech business based in the Philippines. With over three million register users, Mynt is the biggest mobile money base in the Philippines. Ant Financial will share its digital financial systems with Mynt and accelerate local financial inclusion in the Philippines.
Sources: CNBC, SCMP, Ant Financial, TechCrunch (1,2), Business Wire, The Manila Times
Acquisition of local firms as a weapon of choice
Alibaba and Ant Financial have expanded their presence in ASEAN through M&A and partnerships. In these acquisitions, Ant Financial commit not only capita, but also share technology and customer-service know-how.
Local partnerships help Alibaba nagivate local payment environment. Their partnerships with leading local companies are argubly more familiar with the domestic market, financial industry and regulations. At the same time, Alibaba and Ant Financial will acquire financial licenses through the stake acquiring in local companies.
Challenges lie ahead
However, there are potential risks for cross-border cash flows. A bank executive said each money transfer handled by banks for Alipay is usually packed with thousands of small transactions involving numerous individuals and small vendors. It poses a great challenge for banks to check the authenticity of every transaction. “Some of these transactions may involve money laundering risks,” the bank executive said.
Meanwhile, Fintech giants like Tencent and JD.com are also making high-profile investments overseas to compete with Alibaba. Ride-hailing platforms like Grab has developed their own payment systems. There will be fierce competition in ASEAN’s e-commerce and mobile payment markets. More left to be done if Alibaba wants to take the dominance.

Story 69
Even though the manual transmission is making a small resurgence — 6.5 percent of cars sold so far this year have a manual gearbox — an appalling number of people still have no idea how to operate one.
While it may seem daunting, it actually isn't very complicated at all.
With just a little practice, anyone can become competent in a short amount of time.
It is also a very useful skill to have, especially if you enjoy driving. It makes you more alert and in tune with a car.
Plus, a manual transmission can save you money. Base prices for cars with manuals are typically lower than their automatic brothers. And when you choose when to shift, you also control fuel consumption. It could mean less trips to the pump.

Story 70
NARY a week has gone by this year without news of China’s extraordinary injections of cash into its own economy. The central bank has pumped hundreds of billions of yuan into the financial system through an admixture of short-term, open-market operations; medium-term credit instruments; and direct loans to state-owned banks. Many have described it as Chinese-style quantitative easing (QE). When a central bank buys up a large amount of assets to expand its balance-sheet, it is indeed a modern-day form of money printing, and deserves to be labelled as QE. There is just one rather inconvenient fact when Chinese finances are examined more closely: in purely quantitative terms, the central bank has been tightening, not easing. And it has been doing so for several years already.
Get our daily newsletter Upgrade your inbox and get our Daily Dispatch and Editor's Picks.
The chart below shows the balance-sheets of the world’s four major central banks. The QE paths of the Federal Reserve, the European Central Bank and the Bank of Japan are well documented by the size of their assets, depicted by the blue lines in the chart. The Fed’s balance-sheet swelled in three large steps: QE1, primarily in 2009; QE2, from late 2010 to mid-2011; and QE3, the final surge that started in late 2012 and ended last year. For the ECB, the squiggle shows a brief lift from the cheap loans it provided to banks in 2011 and 2012, followed by a retrenchment as concerns about potential inflationary consequences prevailed, and then a big rise since the start of this year, when it officially launched QE. Japan’s trajectory has been pretty much straight up since April of 2013 when Haruhiko Kuroda, the BoJ’s governor, first fired his monetary bazooka.
What of the People’s Bank of China? The PBoC’s balance-sheet rose at a very steady incline for much of the past decade but it has flattened out over the past year. It held basically as many assets at the end of June this year as it did a year earlier—so much for the great, big Chinese-style QE.
It is even more striking when the Chinese central bank’s balance-sheet is assessed as a portion of GDP. This indicates how much base money (ie central bank-issued currency) is being created relative to the size of the economy. To simplify a bit, the monetary base needs to keep up with the economy, otherwise it becomes a constraint on the broader money supply, credit issuance and, ultimately, economic growth. In China’s case, as the brown line in the chart shows, the PBoC’s balance-sheet has been declining as a percentage of GDP since 2010. That is the very time that the government began to worry about the waste stemming from its massive stimulus, started in late 2008, to fight off the global financial crisis. (For other countries in the chart, the brown lines parallel the blue lines much more closely, because their GDP figures, the denominators, have increased much more slowly than China’s.)
Still it would be wrong to describe China’s overall monetary stance as tightening. The central bank is, in other dimensions, loosening policy. It has cut benchmark interest rates five times in the past year. Through its multiple cash injections, it has steered down borrowing costs in the interbank market. It has cut banks’ reserve-requirement ratios (RRR), freeing up more cash for them to lend without actually expanding the monetary base. Indeed, the broad M2 measure of money supply, which includes savings deposits at banks and money-market funds, has grown considerably faster than the money base (11.8% year-on-year in June for M2 versus 3.2% for base money). That is partly thanks to the RRR cuts and also partly a reflection of a faster credit multiplier, which tends to arise as financial systems grow. In this respect, it could be argued that the central bank’s quantitative tightening is actually more a matter of its leaning against the wind, as it knows that money growth has momentum of its own.
This leaves unanswered the question as to why there have been so many headlines about Chinese QE when just the opposite has happened. The confusions appears to stem from the two different channels through which a central bank can create money. One is external-facing: if a country is running a current or capital-account surplus, the central bank can buy the foreign cash entering its borders, issuing domestic currency in exchange. The other is internal-facing: the central bank can buy domestic assets held by the country’s banks (QE is an extreme example of this; conventional open-market operations are an everyday thing). For years, the Chinese central bank relied almost entirely on capital inflows from abroad as a source of money creation. The boom in its foreign-exchange reserves since 2000 translated directly into monetary growth at home.
Over the past year, with inflows tapering off and, in recent months, swinging into reverse, China has switched to relying on the purchase of domestic assets to expand its money supply. Capital outflows raise other concerns—most crucially, how long China can afford to run down its reserves to support the yuan and why it is so reluctant to let its currency fall. But as far as the central bank’s cash injections go, they are themselves not cause for alarm. Buying and selling domestic assets is standard operating procedure for central banks managing their money supply. Chinese-style QE may come someday. But it has not started yet.

Story 71
The Atlanta Braves christened Major League Baseball's newest stadium on Friday night with a 5-2 victory over the San Diego Padres in front of some 41,000 fans, most of whom seemed to actually make it into the stadium despite the nightmarish traffic jams and lack of parking at Sun Trust Field.
More on that in a moment.
First, let's keep in mind that none of this would be possible without Cobb County, Georgia, taxpayers kicking in more than $400 million. More accurately, none of this would have been possible without one of Cobb County's former top government officials negotiating a secret deal with the Atlanta Braves to have taxpayers pay that amount for a new stadium, and without the rest of the Cobb County commission voting to approve the stadium deal at a supposedly public hearing where members of the public were prevented from voicing their opposition to the secretly crafted deal.
And that's really only the beginning of the story of one of the worst stadium deals in American history.
When the Braves announced plans in 2013 to relocate from downtown Atlanta to the northern suburbs of Cobb County, Georgia (closer to Marietta, Georgia, than to downtown Atlanta), some observers were surprised. After all, baseball teams had been flocking to retro-style downtown ballparks ever since the opening of Camden Yards in Baltimore in 1992. Those downtown stadiums were supposed to be revitalizing portions of inner cities in return for massive public spending on the stadiums themselves.
The Braves had one of those downtown ballparks. Turner Field began life as the main Olympic stadium for the 1996 Summer Games, and the Braves moved in the following year.
Perhaps the biggest surprise, at least at first, was that the Braves were abandoning a relatively young ballpark. A ballpark that is younger, in fact, than Miley Cyrus, as Victor Metheson, a professor of sports economics at the College of the Holy Cross, points out.
At the time, the Braves said Turner Field was in need of upgrades that would cost as much as $200 million. It was a no-brainer, then, to move into a new facility that would end up costing $650 million—with taxpayers kicking in $450 million. The real reason for the move, later uncovered by the Atlanta-Journal Constitution, was a secret deal negotiated between Cobb County Commissioner Tim Lee and the Braves, which included the promise of $400 million in public cash for a new stadium in the northern suburbs.
Team president John Schuerholz later admitted that the deal had to be in private to avoid a public backlash.
"If it had gotten out, more people would have started taking the position of, 'We don't want that to happen. We want to see how viable this was going to be,'" Schuerholz told Atlanta's NBC affiliate. "We were able to get that all done."
When the deal was made public, there was a backlash—but that wasn't enough to change anything.
Unlike in Arlington, Texas, where voters last year approved a plan to build a replacement for the Texas Rangers' current ballpark (which opened in 1994, making it also younger than Cyrus, who was born in 1992), there was no referendum on the stadium in Cobb County. In fact, opponents of the stadium plan were prevented from speaking at a public meeting before county officials voted 5-0 in favor of the deal.
After the stadium was approved, things only got worse.
To pay for the stadium, Cobb County officials cut the budget for the county's park system. Then, they raised property taxes (and taxes on hotel rooms and rental cars).
The new stadium promised to bring an economic stimulus to the surrounding area, but businesses near SunTrust Park soon found out that they would be shut out of one of the major benefits of having thousands of people descend on the area for 81 home games each season. In 2016, businesses within a mile of the stadium site were told they would be prohibited from selling their parking spaces to fans. As part of the deal signed between the team and the county, The ordinance was requested by the Braves, the Journal-Constitution reported. The team said it was about public safety, because apparently fans' vehicles will only be safe and sound if those fans pay $40 to park in a lot owned by the team.
The team eventually backed down from that position and allowed nearby businesses to offer parking to fans—but only after it became apparent that a pedestrian bridge crossing Interstate 285, connecting the stadium to several nearby parking structures, would not be finished in time for this year's grand opening. Recently, county officials admitted the $3.5 million pedestrian bridge won't be ready until next year, leaving the team with an inadequate parking situation for the entire season.
As bad as the stadium deal has been for taxpayers, there's at least a silver lining. The backroom negotiations, ethics questions, and obvious lack of economic benefit for anyone or anything in Cobb County has laid bare the false claims made by teams, owners, and leagues in favor of new publicly funded stadiums.
"The reason the Braves say they want to move is because that stadium is in such a terrible neighborhood and they say 'we want to go somewhere else where we can develop that econoniy,'" Metheson told me on this week's edition of American Radio Journal. "Well, look, the original Braves stadium has had 20 years to redevelop the neighborhood that it's in, and it has been completely unsuccessful there."
The county commissioner who engineered the whole thing ended up under investigation for ethics violations and was voted out of office in 2016. That doesn't mean that taxpayers get their money back and doesn't fix any of the lingering problems at the Braves' new home, but, hey, at least it's something.

Story 72
It feels like déjà vu all over again. Tom Brady is suspended four games for his role in Deflategate. There will be books written about Deflategate, but here are some bullet points:
Jan. 18, 2015: The Patriots beat the Colts, 45-7, in the AFC Championship Game at Gillette Stadium in Foxborough. The Colts ask the officials to check the air pressure of the Patriots' footballs. A halftime inspection reveals one of the Patriots' 12 balls to be 2 pounds per square inch below the minimum of 12.5 psi.
Feb. 1, 2015: New England wins Super Bowl XLIX. No Patriot is suspended.
May 6, 2015: The Wells Report is released, and it claims Brady was "at least generally aware" of the alleged rules violations.
May 11, 2015: The NFL suspends Brady for the first four games of the regular season with no pay.
May 13, 2015: The NFLPA appeals Brady's suspension and asks commissioner Roger Goodell to recuse himself from presiding over the appeal.
June 23, 2015: Brady's appeal takes place in New York and lasts 10 hours.
July 28, 2015: Goodell upholds Brady's suspension. The next day, the NFLPA files an an injunction in Minnesota. The lawsuit is then transferred to the Southern District of New York.
August 12, 2015: The NFLPA and Brady meet in court to discuss a possible settlement.
Sept. 3, 2015: Judge Richard M. Berman throws out Brady's suspension, citing among other issues that the league had "several significant legal deficiencies."
Oct. 26, 2015: The NFL appeals Berman's decision in a 61-page brief.
April 25, 2016: The U.S. Court of Appeals, in a 2-to-1 vote, overrules Berman's ruling in the Southern District of New York and reinstates Brady's suspension.
OK, so where do we go from here?
If No Action Is Taken, Brady Is Suspended Four Games And The World Moves On From There.
In terms of team penalties, the NFL fined the Patriots $1 million and stripped them of a first-round draft pick this year and a fourth-rounder next year. Those picks are gone. Only the Brady suspension was appealed.
Here's the official statement from the U.S. Court of Appeals on Monday:
If Brady and the NFLPA do not appeal, he will miss New England's first four games:

Tom Brady will miss the first 4 games of the 2016 season. He's a combined 50-14 in his career against those teams. pic.twitter.com/cvtM6wrMQ0 — ESPN Stats & Info (@ESPNStatsInfo) April 25, 2016
Let's be honest. Starting on the road against the Cardinals is going to be difficult, but missing home games against the Dolphins, Texans and Bills is not that bad. It could be much worse. Backup Jimmy Garoppolo has only 31 pass attempts in two seasons, but he has already gone through this song and dance before, preparing for last year's supposed start without Brady.
Brady is not 100 percent confident he will win an appeal
Soon after the U.S. Appeals Court made its announcement Monday, NFL Network insider Ian Rapoport pointed out Brady was ready for this.

Tom Brady re-did his contract recently with this in mind. He'll now lose just over $200K instead of $2M. But it's the games he cares about — Ian Rapoport (@RapSheet) April 25, 2016
In March, Brady signed a two-year contract extension with the Patriots through 2019. But the deal did not just keep Brady in New England for extra seasons. As part of the contract, Brady was given a $28 million signing bonus, and his base salaries for 2016 and 2017, previously $9 million and $10 million, was changed to $1 million. His 2018 and 2019 base salaries are now $14 million each year.

Final terms on Tom Brady's 2-yr ext. $28M sign bonus, $41M in new money. Base salaries: $1M, $1M, $14M, $14M. Cap #: 14M, 14M, 22M, 22M... — Jason La Canfora (@JasonLaCanfora) March 10, 2016
If Brady does indeed miss the first four games of 2016, he will lose $235,294.12 in salary, as opposed to the $2,117,647.06 he would have lost on his old contract.
But Brady Probably Is Not Going Down Without A Fight
In re-instating the suspension, the Appeals Court ruled that the NFL "did not deprive Brady of fundamental fairness." But it did not rule whether the Goodell based his decision to suspend on Brady on bogus information.
The NFLPA issued the following statement Monday afternoon:
The NFLPA is disappointed in the decision by the Second Circuit. We fought Roger Goodell's suspension of Tom Brady because we know he did not serve as a fair arbitrator and that players' rights were violated under our collective bargaining agreement.

Our Union will carefully review the decision, consider all of our options and continue to fight for players' rights and for the integrity of the game.
That does not exactly scream, "We lost." But the NFLPA will need to research its chances of winning its next case if it chooses to appeal.
Maybe this is just coincidence (or great public relations): The NFLPA published its "Top 50 Player Sales List" Monday morning before the news, and Brady was No. 1.
Where Would The Next Court Case Be?
If Brady and the NFLPA do appeal, they can ask for a re-hearing before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (in New York City) or he can appeal the case to the Supreme Court of the United States.

Tom Brady's recourse is to seek a stay/injunction and a) ask for a re-hearing before the full 2nd circuit or b) appeal to the Supreme Court. — Albert Breer (@AlbertBreer) April 25, 2016
The worst part of this situation for Brady is that the higher the court, the longer it takes to present a case. According to the Supreme Court's website, 7,000 to 8,000 petitions are presented to the Court each year, and only about 80 are granted and heard. Brady's case is obviously high profile, and his team, the league, businesses and millions of fans around the world are affected, but even if the Court does take Brady's case, the odds of clearing his name before New England's September opener are unclear. Bart Hubbuch of the New York Post writes, "Brady is almost certain to miss the Patriots' first four games."
Will This Help Donald Trump?
Please don't take this as fishing for clicks. It's actually true.
Trump has referred to Brady multiple times on the campaign, calling the four-time Super Bowl champion his "friend." Brady's locker included a "Make America Great Again" hat this fall.
The Supreme Court is currently operating with eight justices, a rare occurrence resulting from the death of Justice Antonin Scalia in February. Although Trump says he would appoint a new justice if he were in Barack Obama's shoes, Trump has also advised Republicans in the Senate to do their best to delay such a judicial appointment until the next president takes over. Of course, Trump believes he will be that next executive.
Imagine a Tom Brady Supreme Court writ of certiorari being presented while Trump runs for office. Sean Gentille of the Sporting News proposes a mock scenario in which the Supreme Court is split at 4-4 over the Brady case. Trump can then come in with a pro-Patriots judge and win Brady's case. Of course, this would come after the start of the season, so Trump may be of no use. And this argument may be ridiculous.
Or is it?
On Monday, Trump actually spoke about Deflategate, saying, "Leave Tom Brady alone."
What Does This Mean For The Rest Of The League?
Well, for the NFLPA and players who get into future trouble with the league, this is bad. Goodell's power to suspend Brady or any other player has been upheld in court.
Teams that will benefit from Brady's absence have to be semi-rejoicing. For the Cardinals and Texans to dodge Brady (both in prime time) and potentially turn those games into wins, that could be the difference between earning a playoff spot and not. The Dolphins and Bills, AFC East division rivals, catch a huge break, missing Brady on their annual trips to Foxborough. The Jets, who finished two games behind New England last season, have big eyes looking at an division title.
Meanwhile, the poor Browns get nothing out of this. Brady's first game back will be in Cleveland on Oct. 9. If Brady does indeed miss the first four games, he will probably use the Browns' matchup to catch up on missed stats. So, we're talking maybe eight touchdown passes that game?
More NFL: 6 NFL GMs Who Need Good Draft To Keep Their Jobs
-- Follow Jeffrey Eisenband on Twitter @JeffEisenband.

Story 73
Robert Cianflone/Getty Images
In my search for reactions to the big Bridgestone announcement—reactions that still are not forthcoming—I found a piece in the Ireland-based Independent .
Along with calling the tire manufacturer’s exit “the first major crisis” for Jean Todt (add to it Toyota’s exit), the paper also suggests that South Korean tire maker Kumho could fill the gap, given South Korea’s addition to the calendar.
It makes sense, and it also reaffirms that Bridgestone’s leadership probably was disillusioned with the lack of an American stop on the F1 season.
Here are a few highlights:
THE new FIA president, Jean Todt, faced the first major crisis of his tenure when Bridgestone said yesterday it will be withdrawing as the official tire supplier for Formula 1 when its contract runs out at the end of 2010.
[snip]
After embarrassment at Indianapolis in 2006, Michelin is unlikely to return, nor is Goodyear, but with South Korea joining the F1 calendar in 2010, it is possible that the Korean manufacturer Kuomo may step up.
With the addition of the Malaysian-backed Lotus F1 team and the coming South Korean stop, it feels like Formula 1 is firming itself up in a new area.
Abu Dhabi showcased F1’s “last new” frontier of the Middle East, and while the sport has been in Singapore already, what I’m thinking about is the business phenomena of “bunching.”
In short, that’s when like businesses all exist near each other. It’s what explains why a new fast-food joint will go in next door to an existing one rather than stake out a new area. People already are conditioned to go to that area to get their burgers and fries, so why fight it?
Alternatively, it seems like Bernie is strategically building outposts throughout the world that are diluting the “base” of Europe. This makes business sense as one wants to strategically grow in areas where there already is the infrastructure, so to speak, to support the business.
In F1 terms, that is the fanbase, but more importantly the supplier/sponsor/money base that will support a race (or two, or three).
Bernie has that, increasingly, in the Middle East. He may be getting it in southeast Asia.
Of course, as a result, he may be losing it in America.
Share on Facebook

Story 74
A new map shows the stereotypes Americans have of certain regions in the United States.
While people in the western part of the country are seen as experimental and uninhibited, the Northeast is viewed rude, aggressive and impatient. Southerners are regarded as polite and easygoing and Midwesterners are considered self-reliant and conscientious.
People who took the nationwide survey conducted by YouGov were shown a list of 20 adjectives and asked to identify which four words they most associated with a particular region. For survey purposes, the country was broken down into four regions.
Here’s what the survey found:
Northeast: Worldly, impatient, smart, rude, mature, mean, worrying, suspicious, aggressive
South: Polite, Easy-going, suspicious, worrying, mean, kind, sensitive
Midwest: Self-reliant, conscientious, self-disciplined, mature, polite, easy-going, kind
West: Easy-going, uninhibited, worldly, enthusiastic, experimental, imaginative

Story 75
Monetarists will not be sad to see the end of Ben Bernanke today. The outgoing chairman of the US Federal Reserve unquestionably saved the world economy after the Lehman crisis in 2008, but only after having caused the great debacle in the first place.
Let us be clear about the chain of events. Fed chief Alan Greenspan picked him to be a junior governor on the Fed Board after hearing him argue at the Jackson Hole conclave that central banks should not lean against asset booms. They should let the bubble run their course, and "clean up" afterwards. No doubt Bernanke regrets that turn of phrase.
For the next five years or so Bernanke provided an academic and theoretical cover for the Greenspan doctrine. He was more than the Sorcerer's Apprentice. He was entirely complicit in the Fed's tolerance of the sub-prime bubble, and all its linked deformations in leveraged finance.
He stopped publishing the Fed's broad M3 monetary supply data, deeming it primitive nonsense. That was a colossal error. Had he been paying attention to monetary data he would have realized that M3 growth was spiralling out of control at a 15pc rate in the late phase of the boom.
I don't wish to be too harsh on this point since US inflation was otherwise tame and there was little evidence of overheating in the economy. Chinese excess capacity and the global savings glut were by then already casting their pall over the global economy, vastly complicating everything.
Having let the money supply go wild in 2006 to 2007, he then slammed on the brakes, and kept braking even harder into the 2008. That is when his catastrophic blunder occurred. The episode is dissected by the Richmond Fed's Robert Hetzel in the Great Recession and by Tim Congdon in Money in a Free Society, two excellent books arguing that the disaster was the result of monetary policy failure.
The months between March and August 2008 were crucial. By then the M3 and M2 growth rates were collapsing at pace not seen since the 1930s (as this newspaper wrote in July 2008 before the storm broke).
The Fed should have opened the floodgates of monetary stimulus. Instead it panicked because oil prices were soaring towards $148 and because the dollar was in freefall. One Brazilian starlet was even refusing to accept dollars, demanding only euros.
Rather than "looking through" the oil shock -- as Bernanke himself had argued that central banks should do, long before as a Princeton professor -- the Fed began to talk tough, effectively tightening monetary policy by 50 basis points along the futures yield curve.
The European Central Bank threw its own petrol bomb onto the fire in July 2008 by raising rates, even though Italy and Germany were already in recession.
By September 2008 the conflagration had started to engulf Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the $5 trillion twin pillars of the US mortgage system. Then it reached Lehman, then AIG, before the Fed acted. There was nothing ineluctable about this. These were unforced policy errors.
Bernanke got religion fast. His academic grounding in the Great Depression of the 1930s alerted him to the disaster ahead. From then he acted with great courage, speed, and foresight.
Quantitative easing was exactly what was needed to break the circuit, and then to offset the violent shock of deleveraging, then later to offset the slower fiscal drag of austerity cuts. It worked well, but not as well as it should have done. Bernanke wasted part of the QE1 effect by buying bonds from the banks, which has no effect on the broad money supply (it boosts the money base, which is another matter).
He stumbled into the right policy with QE2 and QE3, buying bonds from pension funds, insurers, and the like. He was never bold enough to risk direct monetary financing of fiscal policy in the manner of Japan's Takahashi Korekiyo in the 1930s, an approach that would have given QE more traction on the real economy. But that would have been harder to reverse later, and he would have been impeached by the Tea Party Congress if he had dared to try such an experiment.
The damp kindling wood gradually caught fire. The US economy has recovered, even if it is a tepid rebound within a secular depression.
The Bernanke Fed has put jobs above the protection of narrow creditor interests. Its twin mandate of jobs and inflation has proved its value. America's democracy and ruling institutions have weathered another fearsome challenge. The jury is still out on Europe.
So let us celebrate the quiet professor as he steps out of the Marriner Eccles Building and into the instant oblivion that awaits all public officials the moment they lose power. He is one of the great figures of our age. And besides, life is never easy.

Story 76
Most of western Europe is already in outright deflation. So are the Balkans, the Baltic states and the old Habsburg core.
The Continent has left its flank open to an external shock from Asia. There is a high chance that this will occur as China attempts to extricate itself from a $24 trillion credit misadventure by debasing its currency to regain lost competitiveness and bail out its export industry.
The yuan has fallen by nearly 2pc against the dollar since early January, and 4pc against the euro. For all the talk of weaning China off chronic over-investment, Beijing engineered a record $5 trillion of investment in fixed capital last year - up 20pc from the year before, and as much as the US and Europe combined.
This has created a vast overhang of excess manufacturing capacity in the global system. It is coming our way in the form of a slow, powerful, deflationary undercurrent.
Europe's headline price data understate the full deflation risk. Eurostat's HICP index "at constant taxes" - stripping out the one-off effects of austerity - shows that 23 of the EU's 28 countries have seen a fall in prices over the past seven months. "The risk of deflation is definitely before us," said Olivier Blanchard, the International Monetary Fund's chief economist.
By this measure, inflation since June has been running at a rate of -1pc in France, -2pc in Holland, Belgium and Slovenia, -4pc in Italy, Spain and Portugal, -6pc in Greece and -10pc in Cyprus. Sweden and Switzerland are also in deflation.
Germany rolled over in July. The UK still clings to a little inflation - now a precious commodity - but it too turned negative in September.
This is a nightmare for the debt-stricken states of southern Europe, still trapped in a slump with mass unemployment regardless of whether they manage to eke out the odd quarter of miserable growth. With Germany at zero inflation, they have to go into even deeper deflation to claw back lost competitiveness within EMU under "internal devaluations".
This, in turn, plays havoc with debt dynamics through the denominator effect. Their debt loads are rising on a base of flat or contracting nominal GDP. It is a key reason why Italy's public debt has risen from 119pc to 133pc of GDP since 2010 despite achieving a primary budget surplus, or why Portugal's debt jumped from 94pc to 129pc (IMF data).
These countries have an impossible task, damned if they do and damned if they don't. Mr Blanchard said their gains in competitiveness risk being overwhelmed by a rise in the "real value" of their debt. "The danger is that the second effect dominates the first, leading to lower output and further deflation."
There is, of course, no magic line when inflation falls below zero. A recent IMF study said the effects become lethal for economies with high public/private debt loads - mostly over 300pc of GDP in Club Med - even at "lowflation" rates.
The European Central Bank is betting that this is downward lurch in prices is a temporary blip due to lower energy costs, insisting that inflation expectations remain "firmly anchored". The collapse of iron ore and copper prices over recent days - on China jitters - should puncture these illusions.
The ECB's expectations doctrine is in any case a Maginot Line. "Long-term inflation expectations on the eve of three deflationary episodes in Japan were also reassuringly positive," said the IMF. Indeed, they were a lagging indicator and therefore useless.
"One needs to act forcefully before deflation sets in," said the Fund, adding that the Bank of Japan was too slow to cut rates and boost the money base. "In the event, it had to resort to ever-increasing stimulus once deflation set in. Two decades on, that effort is still ongoing."
BoJ governor Yasuo Matsushita said as late as January 1998 that there was "no reason to expect that overall prices will drop sharply and exert deflationary pressure on the entire economy". As a result of this lordly certitude, Japan suffered shattering effects when the East Asia crisis entered its second and more deadly phase that summer.
The ECB's Mario Draghi risks going down in history as Europe's Mr Matsushita, as he continues to insist that EMU inflation today is merely where it was in 2009 (in the post-Lehman mayhem) and therefore benign, and that Euroland is not remotely like Japan. "The ECB has taken decisive action at a very early stage of this crisis,” he said.
The proof is in the monetary pudding, and this shows that EMU is already in worse shape than Japan in early 1998 by a large margin. Private lending is contracting at 2.3pc, the M3 money supply has ground to a halt and EMU-wide unemployment is stuck at a near-record 12pc.
The ECB is by definition ferociously tight. Marcel Fratzscher, head of the German Institute for Economic Research (DIW) in Berlin, is right to berate the bank for betraying its primary duty, demanding €60bn of bond purchases each month before it is too late. "It is high time for the ECB to act. Otherwise Europe risks falling into a dangerous downward spiral," he said.
Euro Intelligence said failure to act would be "an existential disaster for the eurozone" and a "shocking derogation" of the ECB's mandate.
Mr Draghi has bent over backwards to assuage the hard-money monks at the Bundesbank - much to the fury of one ex-ECB governor who told me he had become the "captive" of Right-wing German elites - judging that it would be too risky for the Latin Bloc and their allies to mobilize their majority voting power and force through a reflation policy.
His task has become even more complicated since the German constitutional court ruled last month in thunderous language that the ECB’s bond rescue plan for Italy and Spain (OMT) "exceeds the ECB’s monetary policy mandate, infringes the powers of the Member States, and violates the prohibition of monetary financing of the budget”. It also said the OMT is probably "Ultra Vires", meaning that the German Bundesbank may not take part.
The ruling is not final - and does not prohibit ECB bond purchases as such - but it raises the bar for quantitative easing to a punishingly high level. While the Fed and the Bank of England were able to act instantly once it became clear that QE on a huge scale was imperative, the ECB is paralysed by politics, ideology and judges.
There have been dovish mutterings from ECB members over recent days but any action is likely to be confined (for now) to token gestures such as a negative deposit rate or easier collateral rules for banks, not the €1 trillion blast of QE that is so obviously needed immediately. The rise in the euro to €1.39 against the dollar tells us that markets expect nothing of substance.
Europe is left at the mercy of world events. The Fed is pressing ahead with $10bn of tapering each meeting, slowly forcing up the global price of credit and tightening the vice further for emerging markets. The bank has ignored the pleas for mercy from the developing world - still addicted to dollar liquidity - just as it did in the months before the Asian crisis in 1998. The OECD warned this week that the real impact of Fed tapering has "only just begun" and the effects threaten to ricochet back into Europe through trade and banking stress in emerging markets.
China is tightening as well in what amounts to a G2 monetary squeeze. It has been so successful that shadow banking virtually froze in February, prompting the central bank to step back in consternation at its own handiwork.
Some have a touching faith that the Communist Party knows what it is doing, even though it is the same body responsible for just having blown the most spectacular credit bubble of modern times, more than a match for the pre-Lehman booms in Greece, Spain or Ireland in character and much greater in scale. I prefer the Chinese metaphor of feeling the stones beneath the water, their way of saying trial and error.
China will not collapse because the banking system is an arm of the state, but it will have to cope with the colossal malinvestments left from a hubristic five-year blow-off. Deflation is already stalking the country. Factory gate inflation has dropped to -2pc.
We can be sure that China will seek to pass this deflationary parcel to somebody else, just as the Japanese have already done with their epic devaluation under Abenomics. The package will land in Europe, the one region that lacks a proper central bank and the governing coherence to protect its own interests. The implications for the depression-wracked societies of the Mediterranean are nothing less than calamitous.

Story 77
If you've sometimes felt that all European cities are beginning to look the same, you should spend some time in Naples, which is like nowhere else you have ever been on Earth.
It’s had a pretty bad press over the past few hundred years, starting with a reputation for squalor and prostitution in the 17th Century, and continuing to the present-day, with stories about organised crime, uncollected rubbish mountains and street thefts.
It’s the city, it seems, that everyone – not least other Italians – loves to hate.
The old centre is home to a handful of restaurants that serve the most delicious, and most authentic, pizza
The simple fact is Naples is no more intimidating than any other large city. But its great advantage is it’s ten times more fascinating than most, a mixture of different historical periods that pitch up in one intense, often decrepit, melting pot.
It is also perfectly situated for seeing some of the finest sights that Italy has to offer – Pompeii and Herculaneum, the mighty slopes of Vesuvius, the fabled islands of Naples Bay, and the Amalfi Coast.
Honestly, Naples could be the next Barcelona if only it got its act together. But it never does, which is what makes it unique.
Above all there’s lots to see, as you might expect from a place that only a couple of centuries ago was the second largest city in Europe.
It’s a city of grand architecture fallen on hard times, of superstition cultivated in the shadow of Vesuvius, and of fast-paced people who live every day like it might be their last.
The cathedral in Naples is a good example of this. It’s home to the holy dried blood of the city’s patron saint, Gennaro, which miraculously liquefies three times a year, amid much anticipation and ceremony – because if it doesn’t happen, the city is said to be doomed.
Nearby, you’ll discover the catacombs of San Gennaro, which date back to the 3rd Century.
The catacombs of San Gennaro, located in the northern part of the city, date back to the 3rd Century
The 14th Century writer and poet Boccaccio met his muse Fiammetta at the Gothic church of San Lorenzo Maggiore (history lurks on every corner in Naples), while the adjoining street is crammed with shops selling presepe, or Christmas cribs, and all the ingenious figures that go with them – a peculiarly Neapolitan tradition.
The historic centre is a Unesco heritage site, and with good reason. The towering palaces and narrow streets, and ancient churches and underground passages are unique, and help make Naples probably the most unchanged city centre in Europe. Indeed, the centre follows the street plan of the ancient Greek city, Neapolis.
In Naples, you’re more likely to find an artisan picture-framer than an outlet of Benetton, and a glorious pizzeria than a branch of McDonald’s.
It’s a place where the cult of chance and death is still very much alive in churches such as Santa Maria delle Anime del Purgatorio.
The church’s basement is crammed with shrines to the unknown dead – people still come here to pray despite the practice being banned by the Vatican.
Have a look also at the famous Cappella Sansevero, the brainchild of an 18th Century prince who not only commissioned its incredible sculpture of the Veiled Christ, but also experimented with the bodies in the basement: a man and woman whose capillaries and organs have been preserved (but very little else) are a creepy yet compelling sight.
Naples is perfectly situated for seeing some of Italy's finest sights, including Mount Vesuvius
Unsurprisingly perhaps, Naples isn’t always this weird – Via Toledo is a shopping street that could be situated in any Italian city.
Well, almost. On its far side, the Quartieri Spagnoli is as crowded and atmospheric as anywhere in the city, while above rises the hill of Vomero, which is scaled by various funicular railways.
In Vomero you will find a different Naples, the perfect place to take an early evening stroll while browsing its shops or enjoying an ice cream.
And the views of the Bay are predictably fabulous. I’d say they are best enjoyed from the terrace of the ancient San Martino monastery.
Of course, Naples is a big place, and like any major city it can tire you out if you try to cram too much in.
But in the islands and resorts of the Bay it has perhaps the world’s most glamorous and alluring set of suburbs, which can be reached easily thanks to speedy catamarans and hydrofoils.
For example, you can be in Capri in 45 minutes, and while its designer stores and over-priced cafes might not feel like much of an escape, the island itself is stunning, and has some beautiful, relatively untrafficked corners that aren’t difficult to reach.
The slightly lesser-known islands of Ischia and tiny Procida on the other side of the Bay are equally accessible – and delightful.
Back on the mainland, Sorrento is a wonderful resort almost entirely given over to the pursuit of pleasure. It is just an hour away from Naples by train.
The final reason for coming to Naples is perhaps the most important one: food. More than any other city it is the Neapolitan diet that is responsible for our decades-long notion of Italian food.
Pasta is a staple, especially served with a garlicky tomato sauce, and pizza was invented here. The old centre is home to a handful of unpretentious restaurants that serve the world’s most delicious, and most authentic, pizza.
Meanwhile, the street food – deep-fried rice balls, fried courgette flowers, fried pizzas, and mussels with hot peppers – provides the final delicious ingredient.
And the city’s coffee is, even according to other Italians, the best in the country.
Basically you can eat like a king, for less than almost anywhere else in Italy. And there’s one other thing: Naples does not attract a huge number of tourists, and as such it makes by far the most value-for-money base for seeing the far more touristy stuff beyond, such as the islands and the Amalfi Coast, where hotel prices are among the highest in Italy.
Just get to Naples now – before the city finally gets its act together.

Story 78
As he begins his third term as Lincoln mayor Monday, here are 20 facts you may not know about him.

Story 79
The next Great Recession is in the making. The money supply trends say so. And it is looking more and more like this next Greater Recession is going to be one for the ages...
The money supply, as measured by THE CONTRARIAN TAKE's broad (and preferred) TMS2 metric (TMS for True "Austrian" Money Supply), posted a 14.6% year-over-year increase in February, making this the 39th consecutive month of double digit year-over-year rates of monetary inflation. All told, TMS2 is up a huge 50% over those 39 months. Even more interesting is what those TMS2 metrics were leading up to the housing boom turn credit bust turn Great Recession - 37 consecutive months for a cumulative increase of 50%.
Here's a look at the monetary record through a TMS lens beginning year 2000...
So what's this got to do with the next Great Recession? Isn't this monetary grease what the economy needs to heal and grow?
Well, in stark contrast to what mainstream economists and market analysts proclaim, this is not what the U.S. economy needs to heal and grow. No, all this monetary largesse will do is GUARANTEE the next Great Recession. To Austrians, ALL monetary "booms" - booms founded on the creation of central bank money (Base Money) and bank-issued on-demand deposit liabilities in excess of bank reserves (what Austrians call Uncovered Money Substitutes) must ALWAYS end in economic busts, roughly equal in size and intensity to the preceding monetary boom. By distorting interest rate and price signals and, as a consequence, creating malinvestments that must eventually be liquidated, monetary booms ALWAYS end in economic busts.
So, far from a good thing, to Austrians the booming monetary inflation cycle we currently find ourselves in is pretty scary stuff. Scarier still though is the likelihood that this inflation cycle is far from over!
You see, with excess reserves of nearly $1.6 trillion (courtesy of three plus years of Federal Reserve credit and asset purchase programs) private banks - now sporting improved liquidity and capital ratios, a Federal Reserve still cleansing bank balance sheets of MBS and Agency debt and of course near zero rate funding costs perhaps as far out as 2014 - seem a bit more willing of late to pyramid up those reserves into money and credit; i.e., to create on-demand deposit money out of thin air by making loans and buying assets.
Assuming conservative reserve ratios of 10% on 0n-demand deposit liabilities, starting from a money supply base of $8.4 trillion as measured by TMS2, that suggests a tripling of the money supply. (See this essay for a full discussion).
And if private banks can't muster enough monetary largesse to juice the U.S. economy and payrolls at a level sufficient to suit a deflation wary Chairman Bernanke, you can be assured that there is always the next asset purchase program or some other creative monetary tool lying in the wings ready to give private banks a hand in supposedly spurring economic growth.
In other words, this monetary inflation cycle may still have a lot of gas left. And that means at 39 months and 50% money supply growth and counting, this inflation cycle may end up making the Great Recession look like child's play.
To learn more about the formulation of the True "Austrian" Money Supply, its superiority to mainstream money supply measures and to track its course for the U.S., Eurozone, Japan and U.K. currency blocks click HERE.

Story 80
Steve Keen has a new post up (with a link to a new paper) about Minksyan (Minskyite?) economics, and how people like me get it wrong. Good for him; debates like this are always productive, and I wish domestic responsibilities weren’t keeping me from going to the Berlin conference.
What I can do, however, is offer some brief notes on what puzzles me here, and why, I guess, I’ll never be a true Minskyite in Keen’s sense.
So, first of all, my basic reaction to discussions about What Minsky Really Meant — and, similarly, to discussions about What Keynes Really Meant — is, I Don’t Care. I mean, intellectual history is a fine endeavor. But for working economists the reason to read old books is for insight, not authority; if something Keynes or Minsky said helps crystallize an idea in your mind — and there’s a lot of that in both mens’ writing — that’s really good, but if where you take the idea is very different from what the great man said somewhere else in his book, so what? This is economics, not Talmudic scholarship.
And then the question is, how should one do economics?
I wrote about this a long time ago. In that piece, written around 1991, I laid out some rules for research; for now, let me just focus on the search for simplicity.
I always try to find the simplest representation I can of whatever story I’m trying to tell about the economy. The goal, in particular, is to identify which assumptions are really crucial — and in so doing to catch yourself when you’re making implicit assumptions that can’t stand clear scrutiny.
Keen doesn’t seem to be doing that. His paper contains a number of assertions about what is crucial, without much explanation of why these things are crucial. And I guess I just don’t see it.
In particular, he asserts that putting banks in the story is essential. Now, I’m all for including the banking sector in stories where it’s relevant; but why is it so crucial to a story about debt and leverage?
Keen says that it’s because once you include banks, lending increases the money supply. OK, but why does that matter? He seems to assume that aggregate demand can’t increase unless the money supply rises, but that’s only true if the velocity of money is fixed; so have we suddenly become strict monetarists while I wasn’t looking? In the kind of model Gauti and I use, lending very much can and does increase aggregate demand, so what is the problem?
Keen then goes on to assert that lending is, by definition (at least as I understand it), an addition to aggregate demand. I guess I don’t get that at all. If I decide to cut back on my spending and stash the funds in a bank, which lends them out to someone else, this doesn’t have to represent a net increase in demand. Yes, in some (many) cases lending is associated with higher demand, because resources are being transferred to people with a higher propensity to spend; but Keen seems to be saying something else, and I’m not sure what. I think it has something to do with the notion that creating money = creating demand, but again that isn’t right in any model I understand.
My point is that there seems to be a lot of implicit theorizing going on here — and at least at first glance, the implicit theorizing doesn’t make a lot of sense. I could be wrong, but that’s the whole point of simple models: to lay bare what you’re assuming, and make it clear what, specifically, is driving your conclusions.
I hope someone in Berlin presses Keen on all this.

Story 81
She did not.
Did she know that subs like me have no idea if any of our students have medical conditions? That we are provided no basic rules for addressing behavioral issues? Or even basic rules for teaching?
She did not.
In 28 states, I told her, a principal can hire as a sub anyone with a high-school diploma or a general-equivalency diploma. In many places the person can be as young as 18. Not a single state requires that substitutes hold a teaching degree.
In some places, a substitute teacher’s daily pay is less than the school janitor’s.
And in my two years of subbing, I told Maggie, a principal visited my class only three times.
Before I started to sub — an assignment that always began with a 6:15 a.m. phone call from a district sub-finder, asking if I was available to take an assignment that day — I had never laid eyes on a lesson plan. But then, boy, did I see some doozies! In my “Best of” list, I include the 1,877-word typed script that started with this:
“8:20 — Attendance/Lunch Count/Lunch Money/Base Groups
“Do not use the computer the way we do. Just fill it out on the class list I’ve left and send it down with the messenger to ... the attendance office. If they forgot an assignment, have them bring you a pink slip. They know how to fill it out. I’ll be able to see who has missing work on the Base Groups slips, but will you let me know who takes a pink slip? Table captains should now take the D.O.L. to their table for them to work on.”
Then there was the one that was scrawled like a ransom note on a sheet of notebook paper:
“10 a.m. — math-measurements. 2 — science lab: see lesson plan.”
I combed the teacher’s messy desk for the “lesson plan,” to no avail. Perhaps it awaited me in the science lab? But when we arrived, we found only piles of rocks. I instructed the students to wash and sort them. For 45 minutes.
I’ve been asked to teach analog time-telling, only to find — too late — that the instructional clock was being used by another teacher.
Photo
I’ve had tiny first graders who stubbornly refused to work. I’ve had powerful high-school boys who stubbornly refused to work. In a phys-ed class, I discovered a girl was legally blind only when I tossed her an eraser and it bounced off her face.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story
I’ve been locked out of a school building for 30 minutes with a class of crying third graders. Of course we rang the bell! No one answered because all the teachers were at an end-of-the-year luncheon.
As much as I became frustrated by the lack of training and support, I was most angered by how many days teachers were out of their classrooms. Nationwide, 5.2 percent of teachers are absent on any given day, a rate three times as high as that of professionals outside teaching and more than one and a half times as high as that of teachers in Britain. Teachers in America are most likely to be absent on Fridays, followed by Mondays.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.
This means that children have substitute teachers for nearly a year of their kindergarten-through-12th-grade education. Taxpayers shell out $4 billion a year for subs.
I subbed for many legitimately ill teachers and for many attending educational conferences. But my first assignment was to fill in for a sixth-grade teacher who went to a home-and-garden show. My last was for a first-grade teacher who said she needed a mental health day because her class was so difficult.
I’m not the only one who sees a need for change. A bill before Congress — the Substitute Teaching Improvement Act — aims to make federal money available to school districts to train substitutes. And the Department of Education, recognizing that teacher absences are a problem at chronically failing schools, is proposing that schools be required to report the absences in order to be eligible for federal stimulus money.
But there are other things that teachers and school administrators can easily do now. Teachers, to begin, should provide substitutes with seating charts and, for lower grades, name tags. (It’s tough to manage 25 children without knowing their names.) They should designate one capable student to be the sub helper, to answer questions about classroom procedures and practices. Above all, teachers should recognize that substitutes are not trained in the curriculum, so they need clear and manageable lesson plans.
The best lesson plan I encountered, left by a middle-school social studies teacher, included an activity I could learn in the few minutes before class started; an announcement that explained her absence to the students (it’s the first thing they ask); seating charts for five classes; and period-by-period notes on the students who needed special attention, including a girl with diabetes who used her cellphone to remind her to take insulin and a boy with a brain tumor who was often in pain.
School administrators should provide substitutes with basic training in classroom management, teaching, contacting the office and dealing with medical emergencies. They should check with their subs during the school day. And they should form district-wide advisory committees (comprising the superintendent, principals, teachers and substitutes) to find solutions to problems related to substitutes.
To minimize the need for substitutes, principals should require that teachers call them personally when they’re ill — calling in to a machine increases absences. They should keep track of all teacher absences. And they should hold in-service training sessions for teachers on weekends or during the summer, rather than on school days, or else conduct them in the classroom with the students.
Principals should also try to arrange for other teachers to use their prep time to fill in for absent colleagues. British secondary schools do this — and pay teachers a stipend for the extra work.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story
After my experience substituting, I admire good teachers more than ever. But parents and educators should realize that too many teachers are leaving their children’s education in the hands of unskilled, untrained stand-ins.

Story 82
By Bernard Hickey
Prime Minister John Key has told a talkback audience in Auckland that non-Aucklanders have told him they would like to have more Chinese buyers in their regions to push up their house prices and wealth.
Key told Leighton Smith on NewstalkZB that Aucklanders liked their house prices going up because it made them richer, but they and the Government preferred that they did not go up quite so fast.
"Aucklanders are getting wealthier," Key said, referring to front page newspaper articles in Auckland about house prices.
"I don't want to be unkind to news outlets that run these stories, but the truth is, people are interested. They either own a home, want to buy a home, or have sold a home. It generates interest in their magazines and their newspapers," Key said.
"The point is there is over 500,000 Aucklanders that own a home. They are significantly wealthier. I go around the rest of the country and people say to me 'Can we have a few of those Chinese buyers in Wellington and other parts of New Zealand because actually we want our house prices to go up'," he said.
The comments are the strongest from Key suggesting the Government is comfortable with rising Auckland prices and with the current levels of Auckland house prices, which the OECD, the IMF and Reserve Bank have argued are over-valued and creating risks to financial stability. Finance Minister Bill English has even argued that Auckland's unsustainable house prices created child poverty and income inequality.
Members of the Government have privately said that rising Auckland house prices are good in a political sense for the Government, given home owners who are voters feel richer and happier when they rise. Key's comments are the closest he has made that support those views in public.
Key pointed to recent falls in house prices in Christchurch because of rising housing supply and that the Government was focused on increasing housing supply in Auckland. He said Aucklanders may not welcome a similar trend.
"Let's just take the counter-factual for a moment. Would you want your house price going down?," Key said.
"And what most Aucklanders say to me is 'I'd rather my house price went up, but I'd rather it went up a little more slowly than this'."
Twyford accuses Key of being out of touch
Labour Housing spokesman Phil Twyford said the Prime Minister's comments showed how out of touch he was on Auckland's housing crisis.
“John Key claims Aucklanders want the value of their homes to keep rising. But for most, that paper wealth won’t be realised unless they sell up and move cities," Twyford said.
“Even people who own their own houses are concerned their kids and their grandchildren will never be able to own a home in Auckland," he said.
“The Prime Minister speaks on behalf of those who own property. But the majority of Aucklanders rent. He has a duty to also represent the generation of young New Zealanders who are locked out of the Kiwi dream of homeownership," he said.
“The housing crisis is a disaster for the country; it’s driving up inequality and sucking vast amounts of investment into unproductive real estate speculation. No one wants to see Auckland house prices go bust. But the biggest risk to the Auckland property market is National’s hands off approach to the housing crisis which has allowed a bubble to develop in our biggest city."
“John Key is happy to talk down concerns about the Auckland housing crisis because with the collapse of dairy prices and the Canterbury rebuild coming to an end, the bubble is all that’s left.”
'Cynical calculation'
Twyford said Key's comments were the most revealing he had made.
"It's a pretty cynical political calculation that there are enough home owners who stand to gain from Auckland's housing crisis and skyrocketing house prices that he's willing to throw under the bus the half of people in Auckland who are renters and a generation of young New Zealanders who are locked out of the housing market," he said.
"The conventional wisdom for quite a long time now is that politicians and political parties have more to gain by pandering to home owners, but I think there's been a really significant political change in recent years. Even people who are watching their net worth go up by NZ$500 a day in Auckland if they happen to own a house, they know that the way things are currently, their kids and grandchildren will never own a home in Auckland."
"There is a realisation this is bad for our families, bad for our kids, bad for our communities and bad for New Zealand. The Auckland housing economy that John Key is comfortable about is bad for the whole economy. We're ploughing billions of dollars of capital into unproductive speculation in real estate and watching a generation of young New Zealanders being condemned to being renters and tenants in their own land in the Prime Minister's words."
'Two track housing economy'
Twyford said he had also received feedback from outside Auckland from those who wanted capital gains driven by buyers from China. Key's comments served to emphasise the divergence between Auckland and the rest of New Zealand.
"We've got this two track housing economy in New Zealand. Auckland is utterly out of control with rampant property speculation and an acute shortage of housing, and in other parts of New Zealand house prices are either stagnant, and in many regions declining, and people are facing negative equity because their local economies are going backwards," he said.
The Government needed to build up regional economies, crack down on speculators and unleash a massive house building programme.
"John Key is comfortable to sit there and let this thing unfold because he has made some kind of political calculation that home owners in Auckland are happy to see their prices go through the roof, but it's not real wealth because unless people are willing to move out of Auckland they can never cash that up," he said.
"That's the sort of Ponzi logic of this housing economy that John Key is comfortable with, and that's why you can't blame people under this Government's housing policy for thinking that the only way to get rich in New Zealand is by speculating in residential property."
(Updated with more comments from Phil Twyford.)

Story 83
To ensure this doesn’t happen in the future, please enable Javascript and cookies in your browser.
Is this happening to you frequently? Please report it on our feedback forum.
If you have an ad-blocker enabled you may be blocked from proceeding. Please disable your ad-blocker and refresh.
Reference ID:

Story 84
Paul Abrahamian is an interesting Houseguest for Big Brother 18. He’s loud, he’s obnoxious, he’s Paul. Last night he reminded us all of that when he put an overly elaborate plan in to action all to extract a little bit of information from Bridgette Dunning.
It was late in the night when Paul sat Bridgette down and told her he had unfortunate news. Her closest ally is against her and no one likes her, but if she tells him everything she knows then maybe he can help her.
Paul coordinated with Paulie to divide and conquer with Paulie getting Frank aside inside the house while Paul took Bridgette outside. They wanted to find out from Bridgette, at least in part, what was going on with Nicole and Corey.
Flashback to 3:15 AM BBT 7/27 on your Live Feeds (get the Free Trial) to find Paulie talking with Frank inside while Paul takes Bridgette out to the hammock.
Paul starts things off saying he’s tired of all the bullying that’s been going on and he doesn’t like what Frank has been doing. He tells Bridgette that he has learned she doesn’t want to stay and wants to go home. Paul suggests Paulie is telling HGs this because it’s what Frank allegedly told him.
Bridgette is shocked. She says she definitely wants to stay and she didn’t say that. Paul tells her Frank is actively campaigning against her and the votes have flipped to send her home. He promises this is not an effort to drive a wedge between her and Frank, but cause one of them is already going home. It’s definitely an effort to wedge them apart and get her talking.
Settle in because this conversation goes on for over an hour from start to finish. Paul takes this time to tell Bridgette how much everyone dislikes her and how bad her attitude is and everything wrong with her game play. He’s being a thorough jerk to her nearly bringing Bridgette to tears. Do you remember why he was doing all this? Oh, to find out what Nicole was up to.
Paul may have just spent all that time deconstructing Bridgette’s self-esteem, but hey she’s saving herself right now by having this talk with him, he tells her. Paul will take care of everything, he just needs her to tell him what she knows. (3:50 AM BBT)
At 4:00 AM BBT Bridgette starts to detail how Nicole and Corey are playing both sides. He wants to know more details. She explains that what Frank told Da’Vonne about watching out for Nicole was true and she’s heard details directly from Nicole to support that.
Ten minutes later Bridgette explains Frank has been setting up plans for what either of them should do next week and that was to go after Nicole and Corey before he changed it over Nicole and James. Bridgette is giving Paul everything he wants to hear and more.

Story 85
IT Central Station Logo IT Central Station is revolutionizing the enterprise technology buying process through the power of online product reviews and social networking.
New York-based startup IT Central Station announces the launch of its new free social network for enterprise technology professionals at http://www.itcentralstation.com. IT Central Station is the industry’s first online review site for the software, hardware and services used by Fortune 1000 enterprises.
Enterprises worldwide spend nearly $3 trillion annually on technology products and services. The technology professionals who spend this money base their decisions primarily on information from vendors, consultants and analysts. However, what they really want is access to actual users of the products and services to get unbiased opinions based on their real world experience. IT Central Station enables technology users to speak out and make their opinions heard while enabling technology buyers to tap into this wealth of knowledge to make the best buying decision.
The site has been in private beta since May 2012 and already includes hundreds of reviews of products and services from companies such as CA, Cisco, HP, IBM, Microsoft, Oracle, SAP, VMware, as well as from smaller vendors.
IT Central Station was built for the needs of enterprise technology users. Site features include:

Private social network for the end user community: Prevents vendors from posting reviews of their products or competitor products.
Rigorous user validation: Validates the authenticity of users based on their company email address and cross-references with LinkedIn and other data sources.
User privacy: Promotes candid discussions and recommendations within the community by enabling users to post anonymously.
Professional social graph: Uncovers a user’s professional connections with expertise in products and services of interest.
Over 4,000 enterprise-class products and services from over 1,400 vendors: Includes the largest and most up-to-date catalog of technology products and services—including cloud, SaaS, mobile and Big Data solutions—that are used by enterprises.
“In my personal life I use online review sites such as Yelp, TripAdvisor, and Angie’s List to help me choose what is best for me,” said Russell Rothstein, co-founder and CEO of IT Central Station. “So I was amazed to discover that enterprise technology professionals had no place to go to get online product reviews and connect with real users before making such an important purchase. That’s why we founded IT Central Station–to empower enterprise buyers with access to information and connections they never had before.”
The New B2B Technology Buying Process
The Internet is a disruptive force in the way enterprises make buying decisions. “Tech buyers delay engaging with salespeople until later in the purchase process, “ said Peter Burris VP Research Director, Digital Products at Forrester Research Inc. “Our research shows that tech buyers are using web and community resources to complete nearly 70% of their buying journey before they ever engage with a sales resource.” (Source: Catching Up To Tech Customer Communities, Forrester Research Inc., October 31, 2011). IT Central Station provides the most critical online resources technology professionals need as they start and progress through their buying journey.
Pricing and Revenue Model
IT Central Station is 100% free for end users of technology products. Revenue comes from vendors who sign up to connect with the IT Central Station community of users and buyers. Vendors can gather candid feedback from real users, invite their happy customers to share success stories with the community, and participate in relevant discussions taking place within a high quality community of real users. IT Central Station protects the privacy of its users and has a 100% opt-in policy to prevent unwanted solicitations from vendors.
About IT Central Station | http://www.itcentralstation.com
IT Central Station is revolutionizing the enterprise technology buying process through the power of online product reviews and social networking. Enterprise technology professionals use IT Central Station to access and share unbiased product information and tap into a community of other real users in order to make the best buying decision in the $3 trillion market worldwide for enterprise IT products and services.
IT Central Station was founded in 2011 by entrepreneurs Russell Rothstein and Naftali Marcus, who each have twenty years of experience in the enterprise technology market. Russell Rothstein, who is CEO of the company, was co-founder and CEO of Zettapoint (sold to EMC) and co-founder of Open Sesame (sold to Bowne/RR Donnelley), and holds degrees from Harvard (BA in Computer Science) and MIT (MS and MBA).
###
Contact Information
Russell Rothstein, Co-Founder and CEO
Phone: +1 (646) 328-1944 x33
Email: russell(at)itcentralstation(dot)com
Twitter: @RussRothsteinIT
LinkedIn: http://www.linkedin.com/in/russell
Skype: rrothste
244 5th Avenue, Suite R-230
New York, NY 10001

Story 86
To ensure this doesn’t happen in the future, please enable Javascript and cookies in your browser.
Is this happening to you frequently? Please report it on our feedback forum.
If you have an ad-blocker enabled you may be blocked from proceeding. Please disable your ad-blocker and refresh.
Reference ID:

Story 87
Efe Ejaba, also known as Efe, one of the finalists in the Big Brother Naija is getting more and more celebrities supporting him.
Comedian Bright Okpocha, well known as Basket mouth, and Olamide earlier this week had publicly declared their support for the 23-year old rapper.
Today, Five star music artist Kingsley Chinweike Okonkwo, other wise known as Kcee, took to his social media page to show his support for him.
He went further to ask Nigerians who do not have airtime to vote, to come to his IG page, as he would be giving out free airtime to people to vote for Efe.
“Based on logistics, Na me be the chairman of Efe must carry the money, based on logistics we must vote for Efe.
“So for everyday I go dey dash out recharge cards for all networks on my Instagram and twitter handle, this afternoon.
“Efe must carry the money’ Warri no dey carry last.. Emoney, five star we dey on this one based on logistics Efe must bring the money home… Base on logistics.” He wrote.
Efe Ejaba, known as Efe, one of the finalists in the Big Brother Naija is getting more and more celebrities supporting him.
Comedian Bright Okpocha, well known as Basket mouth, and Olamide earlier this week had publicly declared their support for the 23-year old rapper.
Loading...
Today, Five star music artist Kingsley Chinweike Okonkwo, other wise known as Kcee, took to his social media page to show his support for him.
He went further to ask Nigerians who do not have airtime to vote, to come to his IG page, as he would be giving out free airtime to people to vote for Efe..
“Based on logistics, Na me be the chairman of Efe must carry the money, based on logistics we must vote for Efe.
“So for everyday I go dey dash out recharge cards for all networks on my Instagram and twitter handle, this afternoon.
“Efe must carry the money’ Warri no dey carry last.. Emoney, five star we dey on this one based on logistics Efe must bring the money home… Base on logistics.” He wrote.
His Instagram post Reads:
Base on logistics,Na me be the chairman of Efe must carry the money, base on logistics we must vote for Efe so for everyday I go dey dash out recharge cards for all networks on my Instagram and twitter handle, this afternoon. una know now base on logistics say Efe must carry the money Warri no dey carry last… Emoney, five star we dey on this one base on logistics Efe must bring the money home… Base on logistics #romanticcall #mrromantic @iam_emoney1 @sososoberekon @mrchidozie @skiibii @xbusta @captainbanger #efe

