Story 0
Since 1907, The Westbury Times has faithfully served the areas of Westbury, Carle Place, Salisbury and Old Westbury as a source for local news and community events.

Story 1
A virtual design concept that is being used on the $10 billion East Side Access Project has been recognized for excellence.
The LiRo Group’s Virtual Design, Construction and Operations (VDCO) team was awarded second place in the Infrastructure category of Autodesk’s AEC Excellence Awards for its revolutionary work on the Metropolitan Transportation Authority Capital Construction Division’s (MTACC’s) project.
East Side Access is currently the largest transportation construction undertaking in the United States, and one of the largest and most complex projects ever embarked upon in New York City.
As BIM Manager for the effort since 2012, LiRo VDCO has been providing 4D scheduling, logistics, and constructability coordination to MTACC, which acts as an owner for the project.
The team has successfully implemented BIM into this colossal project to analyze, visualize, and communicate project geometry, data, and workflows. To date, VDCO has modeled the project in its entirety, and is now using the resulting BIM resources to create visualizations, to coordinate and record laser scans for better as-built survey documentation, and to enhance construction tracking and logistics workflows as well as asset management processes.
The VDCO team’s work has revolutionized the way the project’s stakeholders understand this massive undertaking and make decisions on its myriad interrelated components, not to mention how VDCO’s efforts have greatly enhanced the level of collaboration among all parties involved in East Side Access construction.
The massive, nearly $10.2 billion East Side Access project will bring Long Island Rail Road (LIRR) service to eight new train platforms and a new eight-block-long, 350,000 s/f passenger concourse approximately 150 feet beneath Grand Central Terminal.
This marks the first expansion of the LIRR in over 100 years. When complete, East Side Access will serve approximately 162,000 customers a day, saving each of them up to 40 minutes’ time on their commutes, and significantly reducing overcrowding at Penn Station and relevant west-side subway lines.
LiRo, in a joint venture with Jacobs Engineering Group, has been serving MTACC as construction manager for the East Side Access project since 2008. The LiRo Group’s VDCO is serving MTACC under a separate contract to provide BIM and visualization services for East Side Access.
“LiRo recognized the value of BIM in streamlining and accelerating project delivery early on. Our VDCO team has been supporting clients since 2010, and today is one of the leading BIM providers in the United States, in both the public and commercial markets. In addition, LiRo’s BIM team is at the forefront of the global innovation effort as a developer of new visualization and data-management solutions. I am very proud of the 2017 AEC Excellence Award as a recognition of the tremendous value our BIM professionals provide to clients,” said Louis M. Tormenta, P.E., The LiRo Group’s CEO and Vice Chairman.
Lennart Andersson, Director of LiRo VDCO and LiRo’s Senior Associate Vice President, accepted the award before an audience of attendees from around the world at the Autodesk University Conference in Las Vegas, on behalf of the entire VDCO team.
“With over 150 interconnected models and spanning four-and-a-half miles, the East Side Access visualization program has to be one of the largest – if not the largest – integrated BIM projects in the world,” said Andersson.
“Further, by connecting data with geometry, and delivering the BIM system to all project participants, we’ve enabled team members to make better-informed decisions while significantly reducing risk. It has revolutionized how East Side Access is being built. We’re grateful that Autodesk has recognized our progressive work,” he continued.
The scope of work includes the construction of new tunnels under Manhattan; the construction of five massive, 10-story-high ventilation buildings; the refurbishment of existing train tunnels under the East River; and major renovations to Harold Interlocking, an above-ground train yard and interlocking in Queens used 24/7, which happens to be the busiest railway junction in the country (and, with 780 trains per day from Amtrak, LIRR, NJ Transit, and New York & Atlantic Railroad, it is the busiest passenger rail interlocking in North America).
In addition, the project ties into extremely active existing infrastructure and public functions. Work is taking place in multiple locations in Manhattan, Queens, and the Bronx, and, while it encompasses four-and-a-half route miles total (three in Manhattan, one-and-a-half in Queens), it requires more than eight miles of tunneling, including connections to the existing 63rd Street tunnel under the East River in a one-mile dig-and-blasting effort that will remove nearly 400,000 cubic yards of rock.
The Manhattan tunnels were excavated between 80 and 140 feet down, while the Queens tunnels were excavated between the surface and 90 feet down. Work in Queens will also include the construction of a new passenger station in Sunnyside, train storage facilities, 50,000 linear feet of track, and systems components such as signals, communications, power, and security. The scope of the project is so large, it requires 25 construction contracts.
In addition to MTACC, The LiRo Group, and Jacobs, the East Side Access project team includes structural engineer and architect AECOM, project engineer GEC (WSP, STV, and AECOM joint venture), structural engineer and architect B Thayer Associates, tunnel designer Gall Zeidler Consultants, and land surveyor Maser Consulting. The general contractors include Tudor Perini; Schiavone Construction Co., LLC; Michels Corporation; and Yonkers Contracting Company, Inc.
(Visited 1 times, 1 visits today)

Story 2
Updated 5.30pm
Malta's Security Services services have been alerted to possible Russian interference in local affairs, Prime Minister Joseph Muscat said this morning.
The Prime Minister was reacting to a report published on Intelligence Online which said that the UK's MI6 and the US CIA were concerned about "possible interference" in Malta's election process.
The report suggested the Egrant whistleblower was part of a Russian power play.
Dr Muscat said the government had no evidence that the whistleblower, a Russian national known as Maria E., was linked to the Kremlin.
He however added that allied security services had warned their Maltese counterparts to expect retaliation for Malta's decision to refuse to refuel Russian warships heading to Syria back in October 2016, as well as the government's push during its EU Council presidency to accelerate the visa waiver programme for Ukraine.
Attempts to contact Russian ambassador Vladimir Malygin for comment were unsuccessful and staff at the Russian embassy declined to comment when contacted.
Read: Muscat asks inquiring magistrate to investigate Egrant claims
The Intelligence Online report claims that Maria E. shares an apartment with another Russian, which it named as Alex Zaslavsky, and that she now worked for a recently-incorporated firm, MTACC Ltd, which Mr Zaslavsky was involved in.
The online report claims that "MI6 and the CIA are highly concerned by what the Russian couple have been up to in Malta."
It adds that "some officials perceive it as a move to destabilise Malta’s pro-Western Prime Minister that comes from on high in the Kremlin, especially because it has occurred at a time when Muscat has been openly opposed to Moscow."
MTACC belongs to a Russian who gives his address as being in Grunwald, Germany, and an American, whose address according to the Company Registry is in California. A Chilean residing in Malta is given as a director of the company.
The Egrant whistleblower has previously said that she is married to a Greek national, with whom she shares two children.
The Egrant saga came after the Prime Minister's chief of staff Keith Schembri and minister Konrad Mizzi were caught with secret companies in Panama.
'Muscat has lost the plot' - Busuttil
Nationalist Party leader Simon Busuttil dismissed the claims as "totally ridiculous and absurd," saying the Prime Minister had "lost the plot".
"If this was true, the Prime Minister would have called a meeting of the security committee, which I form part of," Dr Busuttil said at a press conference.
Asked if he would be calling for a national security committee meeting, the PN leader said that it was the Prime Minister's responsibility to do so.
The PN leader said the dates mentioned did not line up - "did the Russians plan this a year before their warships were turned away?" - and accused Dr Muscat of self-importance.
"I don't think Vladimir Putin cares if it's him or someone else who runs the country," Dr Busuttil said.
Marlene Farrugia 'not convinced'
Democratic Party leader Marlene Farrugia said she was 'not convinced' by the reports, which she said sounded far-fetched.
She nevertheless said that the national security committee should be convened to discuss the matter.
“Once national security is brought into it, then a meeting should be held,” she said, adding that she would be discussing the claims with her coalition partner Dr Busuttil.

Story 3
Kevin Schembri Orland
Prime Minister Joseph Muscat yesterday said that he has been informed by two security service agencies from allied countries that the Egrant whistleblower story was invented by the Russians as payback for Malta’s decision to refuse entry to a Russian naval refueling tanker taking part in the Syrian conflict.
Revelations made by a whistleblower who worked at Pilatus Bank that Michelle Muscat is the owner of a company named Egrant which was opened in Panama. A magisterial inquiry has been launched, and a Russian whistleblower has come forward on the issue. The whistleblower has repeated her claims in an interview with The Malta Independent on Sunday and later on INDEPTH.
ADVERTISEMENT
Dr Muscat was asked a question by a section of the press, which quoted an article by a website called Intelligence Online. The article read that the whistleblower now works for a recently-incorporated firm, Mtacc Ltd, which belongs to another Russian national, Alex Zaslavsky, “with whom she also shares an apartment.”
It goes on to read that the “MI6 and the CIA are highly concerned by what the Russian couple have been up to in Malta. Some officials perceive it as a move to destabilise Malta’s pro-Western prime minister that comes from on high in the Kremlin, especially because it has occurred at a time when Muscat has been openly opposed to Moscow. Malta, which has held the rotating presidency of the European Union (EU) since January, has refused to allow Russian vessels crossing the Mediterranean to join operations in Syria to stop over and refuel on the island. That stirred Moscow’s fury as it deemed such refuelling vital.”
The article also read that MI6 and the CIA are concerned about possible Russian interference in the election process.
Responding to a question about the issue, Prime Minister Joseph Muscat said: “We were informed by the security services of two other countries that this story was invented after we refused to refuel Russian vessels heading to Syria. Till now we don’t have evidence that the person who invented the story is related to the Russian secret services. It is something the Maltese security services did not come out with, but it was something which security services of allied countries informed us about. We were also informed that the Maltese presidency’s attitude, accelerating discussions to facilitate the visa waiver programme with Ukraine irritated certain people and that there would be some form of payback.”
A number of questions, as a result of the Prime Minister’s statement, have surfaced. Back in late October 2016, government had said that a Russian flotilla that was sailing to Syria would not be refuelled in Malta. It was reported that the government had initially granted permission but withdrew it after the UK and US governments protested.
The Whistleblower has claimed that she arrived in Malta back in December 2015. She has said that she started working as an executive assistant to Seyed Ali Sadr Hasheminejad, the owner of Pilatus Bank, in January 2016. She also says that she was given her termination notice at Pilatus on 29 March 2016. This is around seven months prior to the Russian ship incident, and around 9 months before Malta took over the EU Council Presidency.
The Prime Minister has blamed Daphne Caruana galizia for the “lie,” and has even said that Simon Busuttil knew about it beforehand, while also stating that “the lie” was spread through PN coordination. Yet now by choosing to state, without any evidence as he himself has admitted, that he is “informed” about possible Russian interference now suggests that the story could change or expand.
The Prime Minister also chose to reveal this piece of information, relating to national security, in response to a journalist’s question without consulting the National Security Committee beforehand, and decided to address the issue in further detail while wearing the cap of PL Leader at a PL press conference, rather than at an official press conference called by the Prime Minister to address this particular issue.
Additional reporting by Julian Bonnici and Joanna Demarco

Story 4
Access Denied - Sucuri Website Firewall
If you are the site owner (or you manage this site), please whitelist your IP or if you think this block is an error please open a support ticket and make sure to include the block details (displayed in the box below), so we can assist you in troubleshooting the issue.
Block details:

Story 5
November 2017
Rail News: Passenger Rail
Photo – Metropolitan Transportation Authority/Patrick Cashin
By Julie Sneider, Senior Associate Editor
It had been a long time coming — nearly a hundred years. But at noon on Jan. 1, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) finally opened the station doors for passengers to ride the trains on the sparkling new Second Avenue Subway.
Second Avenue is the first major New York City subway expansion in decades. Trains on the line travel between a new entrance at a renovated 63rd Street station and stop at new stations at 72nd, 86th and 96th streets. Completed in December 2016, the $4.5 billion project is the first of four phases to construct the Second Avenue line — which, when complete, will span a little over 8 miles from 125th Street in Harlem to Hanover Square in lower Manhattan.
MTA officials say the new line is necessary to improve transit system access and reduce overcrowding and delays elsewhere in the system, such as along the congested Lexington Avenue lines.
The new subway has been popular with riders, MTA officials say. When it opened in January, there were 124,000 daily riders — a number that surged to about 155,000 before the end of the month. Since then, ridership has soared to about 180,000 riders per day. As more people have switched to the Second Avenue Subway line, ridership and wait times on the Lexington have dipped. In May, MTA announced plans to add more Q trains this month along the Second Avenue Subway line to alleviate crowding.
Unobstructed views
The subway's new stations were designed and built with passenger comfort in mind, including access for the disabled, MTA officials say. All escalators and elevators have connections to the street — an improvement for New York City subway riders used to staircase-only access to trains. Although the new stations are among the largest underground excavations in North America, their space is bright with vibrant lighting; spacious with high ceilings and column-free design to improve sightlines; and climate-controlled for comfort. A two-tiered mezzanine at each station helps improve the flow of riders and reduces crowding on platforms.
"The ability to see from one end of the station to another is remarkable," says Craig Covil, a principal at Arup who served as project director for the joint venture engineering and design team, AECOM-Arup. "That allows for intuitive way-finding. The signage and lighting are so much better than the typical New York City transit station."
Moreover, the facilities are designed to mitigate potential flooding from storms — a lesson learned from the subway system's devastating damage caused by flooding after Hurricane Sandy struck the East Coast in October 2012.
A lengthy history
The journey to the Second Avenue Subway's New Year's Day opening dates back to 1920, when a Second Avenue line was mentioned in a New York Public Service Commission report that called for the development of a rapid transit system for the city. Subsequent plans to build the line were interrupted by major 20th-century events: the stock market crash of 1929, World War II, the Korean War, and New York City's dire financial straits in the 1970s.
Talks to build the line finally resumed in the mid-1990s. Environmental studies got underway in the early 2000s, and MTA chose the AECOM -Arup joint venture as the designer of record for the project’s preliminary engineering and final design.
By 2004, the Federal Transit Administration issued a record of decision that stated the environmental factors of a proposed subway line under Second Avenue on Manhattan's East Side were addressed. Around that time, it also was determined that the project would be divided into four geographic phases, with the first phase providing service from 96th to 63rd streets as an extension of the Q train.

Second Avenue Subway Construction Timeline • April 2004 — Final environmental impact statement completed
• April 2007 — MTA breaks ground on tunnel work
• May 2010 — 485 ton, 450-foot-long tunnel boring machine launches
• September 2011 — Phase I tunneling work completed
• September 2012 — Controlled drill and blast work within caverns completed
• June 2013 — MTA awards last contract for Phase I
• April 2014 — Track installation begins
• April 2016 — Track installation completed
• July 2016 — All stations connected to permanent power
• August 2016 — Phase I is 96.6 percent completed
• Jan. 1, 2017 — Phase I opens for revenue service Source: MTA Capital Construction
Moving on to construction
It also was in 2004 that Tim Gianfrancesco began working on the Second Avenue Subway project as a member of the engineering group at MTA New York City Transit (NYCT). By 2007, MTA Capital Construction (MTACC) brought on Parsons Brinckerhoff to provide construction management services for the subway project's first phase. Also that year, Gianfrancesco became focused only on the project after he transferred to MTACC, the project's developer. By 2014, he was named MTACC’s deputy vice president and deputy project executive for Second Avenue Phase I.
Since then, Gianfrancesco has been named project executive of the Second Avenue Subway's second phase, which will extend the line north to 125th Street and add new stations at 125th, 116th and 106th streets.
Metropolitan Transportation Authority/ Patrick Cashin
Phase I was built in the middle of the subway line because that's where it could connect to existing service on the Q train at the 63rd Street station, Gianfrancesco says. Although it involved constructing less than 2 miles of track, the project was a monumental feat that required MTACC and the engineering, design and construction teams to tackle enormous challenges.
"We hadn't designed an entire new subway line for decades, so we were embarking on something that was new to the team for a job of this scope and magnitude," Gianfrancesco says.
AECOM-Arup provided engineering and architectural services for the Second Avenue Subway's full length, which would entail 16 miles of tunneling for two-tracks of the 8-mile line and 16 stations. The project’s immense scale and issues related to geology, existing buildings along Second Avenue and the maze of telecommunication and other utility lines created significant challenges from an engineering and design perspective, according to Covil.
Moreover, a comprehensive design approach was necessary to address the many social, economic and environmental issues that are unique to New York City and its distinct neighborhoods, he says.
Establishing standards
Ultimately, the project was divided into the four geographic phases because it was so large.
During the design stage, working groups were formed to coordinate ongoing efforts between the joint venture team and MTA’s operating departments. The groups helped establish criteria and standards for building a new line that would be connected to existing NYCT tracks, stations and communications, signals and power systems, according to Gianfrancesco.
The design also had to address the agency's state-of-good repair needs, he says.
What's more, the entire process needed to be structured in a way that minimized inconveniences to residences and businesses along Second Avenue, one of Manhattan’s busiest streets.
For example, one method used to accommodate such special considerations was to build the 96th Street Station in two phases using the cut-and-cover method. First, a launch box was constructed where crews staged and planned to launch the 485-ton, 450-foot-long tunnel boring machine from between 92nd and 95th streets.
"As soon as we started excavating, we knew we would find a sea of extensive utilities that would have to be replaced, relocated or refreshed so that we could create our work zones," says Gianfrancesco. "We were constantly making corrections and working with engineers to figure out the best way to deal with interferences, while at the same time not delaying the construction to keep the project moving."
As some crews carefully moved, repaired and shored up utilities that provide service to residences and businesses in the area, other crews began constructing a decking system on Second Avenue — first along the avenue’s east side and then along the west side — between 92nd and 99th streets. The work was performed in halves in order to keep four lanes of traffic open on Second Avenue.
"By the time we completed that work, we basically had a fully decked-over bridge on Second Avenue between 92nd and 99th streets so that all traffic could travel on top of the roadway deck," says Gianfrancesco.
Digging through rock, soil
At the location of the 72nd and 86th Street stations, open-cut shafts were created where the tunnel boring machine would be staged to drill the underground caverns. Controlled blasting operations began in November 2009 at 96th Street and were used in the construction of all cavern excavations for the stations. Blasting work wrapped up by 2013.
Metropolitan Transportation Authority/Patrick Cashin
MTACC built muck houses to contain the debris generated by the mining process until the dirt and rock could be hauled away by trucks within scheduled hours so as to minimize the impact on neighborhoods. Ultimately, workers excavated 583,600 cubic yards of rock and 460,300 cubic yards of soil for the subway’s first phase.
Infrastructure projects of any size are likely to hit at least a few unexpected barriers, and the Second Avenue Subway was no exception. One major setback occurred when tunneling operations were scheduled to begin on the eastern tunnel near the 96th Station location. A geotechnical contractor — assigned to check rock and soil conditions in advance to avoid mishaps during tunneling — discovered fractured rock where crews expected to find solid rock.
"We had to shift gears so as not to fall behind schedule," Gianfrancesco explains. "We shifted the tunnel boring machine so that we could start boring on the west tunnel. We needed to freeze the ground in the [east] area where we found the poor rock so that, once the ground was sufficiently frozen, it would mimic solid rock conditions when the tunnel machine passed through."
As crews shifted the tunneling operation to the west side, crews on the east side began the ground-freezing operation. The freezing process, which involved drilling holes and inserting 70-foot-long refrigeration tubes, took several months.
"It was an innovative solution and it worked pretty well," says Gianfrancesco. "We were able to mitigate the challenge without a delay in the schedule."
By the time the tunneling was finished, crews had utilized three methods of construction: tunnel boring, cut-and-cover and mining.
Another challenge for a project that stretched over so many years: meeting expectations of a revolving door of decision-makers at the MTA and city, state and federal levels.
"The political and economic climate was forever changing," says Covil.
As a result, the team had to remain flexible to adapt to evolving circumstances.
Connecting with the public
As the project wore on, MTA officials tried to remain engaged with Second Avenue neighborhoods. In July 2013, the agency opened the Second Avenue Subway Community Information Center (CIC), which served as a “one-stop-shop” of information for those most affected by the first phase of construction.Residents — as well as tourists interested in the Second Avenue Subway’s history and progress — could visit the center for "Transit Talks" and underground tours that provided a first-hand look at the construction.
Lesson learned
Located at 1628 Second Ave., the CIC also was where New Yorkers could file complaints about construction noise, debris, lighting, the impact on garbage pickup and other problems upsetting their daily lives.
For instance, after angry residents complained about crews performing late-night dynamite blasting of underground bedrock, a new schedule was adopted to limit the explosions to certain daytime hours.
"That outreach — in which we brought in the community almost like an integrated team with us on the project — was something we had not done before," says Gianfrancesco. "It was an innovation that has become a gold standard for us moving forward."
Along those lines, the MTACC in late December 2016 awarded a $120 million contract to Parsons Brinckerhoff Inc. (now WSP) and STV Inc. for general engineering and design consultant services for the second phase. Also that month, the agency awarded a $2.3 million contract to AKRF Inc. to provide consulting services for potential changes to the Second Avenue Subway's environmental document.
In April, the agency awarded a $7.3 million contract to a joint venture known as East Harlem Community Collaborators, which will provide community outreach services for the Second Avenue Subway Phase 2. That contract includes grant funding from the Federal Transit Administration.
And in September, MTA held a grand opening for the new CIC on East 125th Street in East Harlem, which will serve neighborhoods affected by the next phase of subway construction.
The timeline and full funding for Phase 2 construction is less clear, however. MTA has allocated $1.7 billion in its 2015-2019 capital program to that phase, which will be built “over several MTA capital programs,” Gianfrancesco says. He doesn’t know when the remaining funding will be allocated, however.
Although Phase 2 isn’t yet set in stone, Gianfrancesco takes pride in the 2-mile line that is finally open and serving the transportation needs of New York City’s residents and visitors.
"For me, the impact that the Second Avenue Subway has had on the community and the transportation network is very rewarding," he says. "There are a lot of projects and tasks that we've done that have been satisfying, but a project of this scope and magnitude was something special."
Email questions or comments to julie.sneider@tradepress.com.

Story 6
Fulton Center, NYC
New York, NY—Fulton Center became the first subway hub in New York to receive a LEED rating. The MTA received the LEED Silver certification for the Fulton Center on Broadway between Fulton and Dey Street in Manhattan’s Financial District.
The Fulton Center was awarded the recognition for its environmentally responsible design; the facility achieves more than 25 percent in energy savings compared to a baseline building of similar type. Half of the energy used at the center comes from renewable sources. Furthermore, the oculus reduces electricity use, while low flow plumbing fixtures reduce water consumption by 40 percent.
“The Fulton Center has been the recipient of a number of awards and honors, but this designation is truly special,” said Metropolitan Transportation Authority Capital Construction (MTACC) President Michael Horodniceanu. “It shows how we married the old with the new to create a state-of-the-art transportation hub, shopping destination and office facility while keeping the environment top of mind.”
The Fulton Center accommodates up to 300,000 daily customers through its nine subway lines. It houses nearly 66,000 square feet of revenue generating retail and commercial space as well as the MTA’s largest digital media program, both managed and operated by Westfield Corp.
The oculus at Fulton Center, NYC
Construction of the facility included the restoration of the 125-year-old Corbin Building. A new 350-foot long pedestrian tunnel constructed under Dey Street between Broadway and Church Street expands intermodal transit options. To ensure accessibility, ten escalators and fifteen Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) compliant elevators have been installed. Moreover, the public restroom facilities include two ADA accessible bathrooms on the concourse and the street level.
The $1.4 billion Fulton Center was funded with $847 million from a special Congressional appropriation granted after September 11, 2001. The funds, known as the Lower Manhattan Recovery Grants, were intended for local transit agencies to repair, replace, and enhance transportation infrastructure in Lower Manhattan. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) funded the project with $423 million, while the MTA provided $130 million in local funds.
Contractors working on the Fulton Center project under the leadership of MTACC Project Executive Uday Durg included Citnalta Construction Corp., Gramercy Group Inc., Skanska USA Civil Northeast, Inc, WDF, Inc, Plaza/Schiavone JV, and Judlau Contracting Inc. Consultants included Arup, Grimshaw, HDR, Page Ayers Cowley Architects, Parsons Brinckerhoff/LendLease JV, and Jamie Carpenter Associates.
Images courtesy of Fulton Center

Story 7
Photo by Jenna Bascom. Stacey Cumberbatch, DCAS; Maria Wilpon, Stantec.
The AEC industry needs to cultivate a pipeline of talent from the next generation - that was the message expressed by a group of highly successful women from the private and public sectors toasted at Professional Women in Construction (PWC)'s December 2015 Holiday Party and Scholarship Program fundraiser.
“What better way to kickoff PWC's newly expanded Scholarship Program than to celebrate five remarkable women, each an inspiring role model and mentor eager to help develop and support the careers of young women who want to enter the construction and design field,” said PWC Executive Director Chelsea LeMar. PWC President and President of Armand Corporation Barbara Armand noted that “PWC is proud to launch our effort by recognizing and honoring a group of dynamic and powerful women who are leaving their imprint on the New York area.” The festive event, complete with food, music and dancing, drew a capacity crowd to the Grand Ballroom of The Yale Club in New York City. Colorful mosaic plaques for the honorees were designed, handcrafted and donated by artist Chelsea Hrynick Browne.
Honoree Stacey Cumberbatch, commissioner, Department of Citywide Administrative Services (DCAS), which oversees the critical resources and support for all City agencies, invited the audience to foster new talent to fill the void of retiring public sector employees. “Come partner with us, we're looking to develop a pipeline, especially with women who remain under-represented in this field,” she said.
PWC board member Maria Wilpon, principal, Stantec, called Cumberbatch an inspiration and noted Mayor DeBlasio's confidence in the commissioner's incredible achievement.
Honoree Christine Flaherty, CCM, associate commissioner, NYC Department of Design and Construction (DDC) and former PWC board member, cheered PWC's new direction and welcomed the next generation noting that during her DDC tenure numerous recent graduates were hired. Asking all to partner, she said, “It's one City, we can't do it without you.”
Steve Pressler, executive vice president, construction management, STV, credited Flaherty as a fantastic industry leader who manages $6 billion for over 500 projects at the DDC.
Honoree Eve Michel, AIA, chief architect/VP planning and development, Metropolitan Transit Authority Capital Construction (MTACC), spoke of her work integrating architecture and design with construction and credited PWC's mentorship. She noted that the Fulton Center project presents a paradigm in public/private partnership and the Penn Access project will link MetroNorth to Penn Station.
Michel was introduced by MTACC Chief of Staff Jeannie Kwon who called her a gem; MTACC Senior Project Manager Justin Schultz who lauded her as an amazing mentor; and Melvin Glickman, retired from the MTACC.
Diannae Ehler, general manager, Bus Terminal and Lincoln Tunnel, Port Authority of New York & New Jersey (PANYNJ), praised the dedicated people at the Port Authority and noted that granting scholarships to women and mentoring young people and talent are close to her heart.
Robert Harvey, PE, senior vice president, Arcadis, noted Ehler's outstanding accomplishments at Newark and LaGuardia Airport, as deputy director of Tunnels, Bridges and Terminals, and in increasing ridership and enhancing the customer experience for the quarter million people who take the Bus Terminal daily, the flagship facility of the Authority.
Honoree Yvonne Lopez-Diaz, PHR, VP, human resources director, HNTB, active with the Goethals and Tappan Zee Bridge projects, stressed her commitment to empowerment and aligning people with corporate business plans. Pointing to author Steve Farber, she said “Today's leaders …enable others to be greater than they are.”
John Seaboldt, vice president, HNTB, cheered Lopez-Diaz's role as the firm's growth champion who ignites the orange spark of HNTB and has helped the New York office grow to become the largest HNTB office nationwide.
The Scholarship Program is being developed by LeMar; Armand; the PWC board; and the PWC Scholarship Committee.
For information on PWC visit www.pwcusa.org or contact pwc@pwcusa.org or 212.486.7745.

Story 8
The MTA's independent engineer warns that the subway construction's delays will have a significant impact on its opening date. View Full Caption MTA Capital Construction/Rehema Trimiew
UPPER EAST SIDE — The Second Avenue Subway won’t open in December if contractors can’t get it together, according to a new report by Kent Haggas, the MTA's independent engineer.
A number of installations and tests should have been completed in June and still haven’t been done, putting the project behind even more than it already was in June.
And with only five months until the planned December opening, these unresolved issues could pose "a significant risk to the project's completion” and mean a later opening date, the report states.
Contractors met only 70 percent of project goals for June, which is less than the 80 percent they were said to have reached in May, according to Haggas.
Much of the delay was in systems testing, the installation of police radios and other communication equipment in the stations, as well as a number of issues at the 72nd Street station, according to the report.
Not installing the communications equipment on time "was the primary cause of the disappointing performance in June," Haggas wrote.
Workers were supposed to have already completed wiring at the 72nd, 86th and 96th street stations for the communication system, but because they didn't, they now have to add more workers and shifts to get back on schedule.
Mitchell Pally, an MTA board member, called out Judlau, the contractor for the 72nd Street station, during an MTACC presentation at a board meeting on Monday.
"Let me get this straight. The stations contractor did not do his job and we are making the systems contractor do it?" he said. “I just want to make sure we’re keeping a financial track of who did what to whom."
âº READ: Crews Rushing to Finish Second Ave. Subway Testing in Half the Time: MTA
âº READ: Cost of Building Second Avenue Subway Is Going Up Again, MTA Says
Scheduled tests on the subway's systems were at a slowdown, too — only 55 percent of the tests were completed by the end of June as opposed to 67 percent in May.
The East 72nd Street station is also facing major issues — the installation and testing of one of the elevators there was set for Sept. 30, but is now set back a month to Oct. 30 because the elevator still has not been delivered.
Other elevators are not on target to be installed on Sept. 1 as originally planned and will be placed instead by Sept. 30 because they haven't been delivered either, the report states.
The testing of these elevators was supposed to be completed by Nov. 30 but that could be delayed, the engineer said.
The MTA has already postponed the scheduled start of operations training for NYC Transit by 30 days to Oct. 1.
Getting back on track means speeding up testing, finishing the installment of communication systems at each station, finishing last-minute changes to stations and system layouts and inspections need to be finalized, according to the engineer.
Construction costs are at $32 million this month, down from $59 million in June, but an average of $46 million needs to be spent each month to meet the December 2016 deadline, the report recommended.
To get back on track, Judlau has ordered more elevator cabs than what is needed to cover any other delays and contractors have agreed to overtime, said Kevin Ortiz, the MTA's spokesman.
"We are monitoring progress on a daily basis," he said.
Construction of the $4.5 billion Second Avenue Subway project began in 2007 with the goal of connecting the Q line to the Lexington/63rd Street station, and to provide service from East 63rd to East 96th streets along Second Avenue.

Story 9
Subway Station Is First To Earn LEED® Silver Rating
The Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) has been awarded LEED® Silver certification for the Fulton Center in Manhattan’s Financial District. The facility is the first subway station to receive a LEED® rating from the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC).
The Fulton Center was designed as a demonstration of an environmentally responsible 21st century rail transit center. It achieved LEED® certification for implementing practical and measurable strategies in sustainable site development, water savings, energy efficiency, materials selection, and indoor environmental quality.
The facility achieves more than 25 percent in energy savings compared to a baseline building of similar type. Half of the energy used at the Fulton Center comes from renewable sources. Additionally, daylighting from the iconic oculus reduces electricity use, while low flow plumbing fixtures reduce water consumption by 40 percent.
“The Fulton Center has been the recipient of a number of awards and honors, but this designation is truly special,” said MTA Capital Construction (MTACC) President Michael Horodniceanu. “It shows how we married the old with the new to create a state of the art transportation hub, shopping destination, and office facility while keeping the environment top of mind.”
Encased in a glass and steel shell, the bright and modern facility dramatically improves the commuter experience and will accommodate up to 300,000 daily riders using the 2, 3, 4 5, A, C, J, Z and R subway lines. Construction of the Fulton Center included restoration of the 125-year-old Corbin Building, which will provide additional public access to the facility. The Fulton Center houses nearly 66,000-square-feet of revenue generating retail and commercial space and the MTA’s largest digital media program, both of which are being managed and operated by Westfield Corp., an international developer and operator of retail properties and a leader in digital sales and sponsorship.
A new 350-foot-long pedestrian tunnel constructed under Dey Street between Broadway and Church Street expands intermodal transit options by offering a connection to the R Subway line, built outside of fare control, and ultimately to PATH trains at the World Trade Center complex.
In order to ensure the new complex is accessible to all users, 10 escalators and 15 American with Disabilities Act (ADA) elevators were installed. The public restroom facilities include two ADA accessible bathrooms on the concourse and the street level.
The $1.4 billion Fulton Center project was funded with $847 million from a special Congressional appropriation granted after September 11, 2001. Known as the Lower Manhattan Recovery Grants, the funds were intended for local transit agencies to repair, replace, and enhance transportation infrastructure in Lower Manhattan. The MTA provided $130 million in local funds. The project also received $423 million from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA), the largest single award for the Federal Transit Administration’s ARRA projects.
Other MTA facilities achieving LEED® status include Mother Clara Hale Bus Depot in Harlem, the Corona Maintenance Shop in Queens, and Metro-North Railroad’s office building at 525 North Broadway in North White Plains.
Related articles across the web

