Story 0
Local customers will receive print home delivery of the Manchester Times. Local means surrounding cities of Manchester. You will also receive full access to Manchestertimes.com as well as full access to the Electronic Edition of the newspaper.
Non-local customers will receive mail delivery of the Manchester Times. Non-local means cities NOT surrounding Manchester. You will also receive full access to the Manchestertimes.com as well as full access to the Electronic Edition of the newspaper.

Story 1
Completing the CAPTCHA proves you are a human and gives you temporary access to the web property.
What can I do to prevent this in the future?
If you are on a personal connection, like at home, you can run an anti-virus scan on your device to make sure it is not infected with malware.
If you are at an office or shared network, you can ask the network administrator to run a scan across the network looking for misconfigured or infected devices.

Story 2
Digitally savvy talent with ‘soft skills’ will be the most in demand next year
As optimism slowly returns to the UAE jobs market, employers are concerned about cash flow management and are struggling to attract and retain talent for 2020, a new study found. On the flip side, technologically savvy employees and those with ‘soft skills’, such as critical thinking and emotional intelligence, will be the most in demand and secure the largest pay raises.
Cash flow management is the top concern for 52 per cent of chief financial officers interviewed in the UAE, and talent attraction and retention came in second with 47 per cent, according to the 2020 Salary Guide from global recruitment consultancy Robert Half.
“Good candidates are always going to be in strong demand, whether that be across multinationals and SMEs,” says Gareth El Mettouri, associate director of Robert Half UAE. “Retaining and attracting the better talent is a top priority with employees providing incentives, such as ongoing training, flexible working, et cetera.”
Graphic by The National
The annual report identifies hiring trends based on several Robert Half surveys, including 75 interviews with CFOs and 200 responses from hiring managers across the UAE. It also documents average salaries, based on placements made by the recruiter and actual starting salaries paid by clients in five sectors: accounting and finance; financial services; technology; human resources and administration; and legal.
Positive factors influencing hiring in the UAE include a perceived return to optimism in the GCC, government initiatives that have increased the ease of doing business for foreigners and an entrepreneurial boom.
“The future is looking bright for the GCC region, as oil prices, retail and infrastructure investments bolster optimism in business leaders,” the report says.
Last week the International Monetary Fund revised the UAE’s gross domestic product growth forecast downwards to 1.6 per cent from 2.8 per cent in line with revisions in global growth figures. However, the projection for 2020 is 2.5 per cent, higher than the 1.7 per cent growth seen in 2018 and the paltry 0.5 per cent growth in 2017.
The fund assumes that the average price of oil will be $61.78 a barrel in 2019 and $57.94 a barrel in 2020. That is again much higher than the prices seen between 2014 and 2016, when it fell below $30.
A series of UAE government initiatives, such as 10-year long-term residency visas, have also helped spur new businesses and encourage foreign investment.
“It has given confidence to employers setting up here. A lot of limitations, a lot of roadblocks are being removed,” says Mr El Mettouri.
Candidates ... are not only moving for increase in salary. They’re moving for stability, they’re moving for opportunity, they’re moving for personal growth development. Gareth El Mettouri, Robert Half
The UAE has also seen significant growth in e-commerce and FinTech start-ups. E-commerce transactions in the UAE are forecast to reach $16 billion (Dh59bn) in 2019 and grow 23 per cent annually between 2018 and 2022, according to a joint study by Dubai Economy and global payments company Visa. The number of FinTech start-ups in the Mena region is expected to multiply to around 250 by 2020 from six in 2005, according to a report by Mena Research Partners.
“The UAE market is starting to pick up. We’re seeing a lot of SMEs and new start-ups and FinTech companies. All these companies are adding headcount,” says Mr El Mettouri.
Here are some of the insights for the UAE jobs market in 2020:
Salaries
Last week Mercer published its annual Total Remuneration Study, forecasting a 4.5 per cent increase in overall base salaries in the UAE in 2020. However, there are a couple of caveats to this forecast. Firstly, the previous report had predicted a 4.8 per cent increase in 2019, but the actual increase was 4.5 per cent. Secondly, the percentage increase is only on the base salary.
“Depending on the pay mix between base salary (which typically varies between 50/50 and 70/30, although there are certainly outliers), the real fixed salary increase for most individuals would vary somewhere between 2.2 per cent and 3 per cent,” says Ted Raffoul, career products leader for the Middle East and North Africa at Mercer.
Ian Giulianotti, executive director of recruitment and executive search at Nadia Global, says the Gulf recruiter found the “absolutely highest base salary rise was 2 per cent” in 2019. “The justification [from employers] was that rents are going down by as much as 20 per cent,” he says.
The salary increase is still higher than inflation, which the latest IMF report estimates at minus 1.5 per cent in 2019 and 1.2 per cent in 2020.
The percentage also depends on the type of company. Nadia Global’s client base reflects the make-up of the UAE market, which is primarily small and medium enterprises. Of the 500 companies included in Mercer’s study, the majority are multinationals and large employers with an average headcount of 520 employees.
Robert Half’s study did not specify salary percentage increases, saying that “although salary increases are being awarded in some large organisations, many employers are struggling to move beyond their existing salary bandings”.
Source: Robert Half
More than two thirds (67 per cent) of senior business leaders (chief financial officers and hiring managers) said they have denied an employee promotion in the past three years, Robert Half found. At the same time, about a third have increased their base offering to help fill a vacant role. For 13 per cent of employers, salary is a barrier to securing the top professionals.
Employers have to pick and choose which jobs warrant a salary increase. Mr El Mettouri says the positions that have seen a pay rise include chief financial officers within industry and commerce; financial planning and analysis roles; compliance and risk roles within banking; chief digital officers within technology; heads of recruitment and learning and development roles within HR and heads of legal and English-Arabic bilingual lawyers within legal.
Hiring strategies
“Although many larger organisations still have hiring freezes in place, there are plenty of opportunities in the growing start-up community, most notably among FinTech companies,” according to the Robert Half report.
Mr El Mettouri says some companies have had hiring freezes in place for “about the last 12 to 18 months, maybe slightly longer”. There are signs, however, that capital expenditure is increasing, which could mean adding head count.
“Within multinationals, we are still seeing roles being replaced when people leave. But we are also starting to see capex spend coming back to these multinationals, so they are starting to open up to hiring again,” he says.
Gareth El Mettouri, associate director of Robert Half UAE, says there are positive signs in the job market, including a return to hiring for some multinationals. Courtesy Robert Half
More local hires
The Mercer report found that the voluntary turnover rate, meaning the percentage of people voluntarily leaving their jobs, increased to 7 per cent in 2019 from around 5 per cent in the last couple of years. Meanwhile, the involuntary turnover rate, the percentage of people being forced to leave their jobs, decreased from 8 per cent in 2016 to 4.5 per cent this year.
These percentages signify an active job market, but also more local hiring. Robert Half and Nadia Global have noticed the same trend. “A lot of our clients are wanting candidates with local experience. We’re not seeing as many clients relocating talent into the market, so that drives movement. We’ve seen it more in the past 12 months,” Mr El Mettouri says.
“Ninety-nine per cent of employers in the GCC will want people who are currently resident in the country that they’re hiring,” Mr Giulianotti concurs.
Digital transformation
As more businesses, such as banks, undergo digital transformation “a lot of clients are now really focusing on the digital and technology skill set of talent when they’re hiring,” says Mr El Mettouri.
Nearly two-thirds (63 per cent) of UAE business leaders said technological understanding is the top skill needed for a digital future, while 52 per cent chose communication skills and 51 per cent technical know-how. Around half said they are planning employee training sessions for new technologies in response to those needs.
Soft skills
Robert Half’s research found that soft skills, such as communication, strategic thinking and adaptability "will rise to prominence in the next few years as workforces change to meet the challenges that technology presents”.
For example, in HR and administration, the soft skills in demand include change management, emotional intelligence, leadership and critical observation.
“This is the first time that we’ve broken out soft skills in our salary guide, because there was such an emphasis on it,” Mr El Mettouri says.
Flexible working
Hiring managers not able to offer a higher salary are attracting top talent by adding on benefits, including flexible working. Candidates at all experience levels are requesting flexible working during the interview process, according to the Robert Half study.
“Flexible working can mean different things to different people. It can mean starting work early, finishing early. For a parent, it can mean finishing at lunchtime, doing a school run and logging back on at home,” says Mr El Mettouri. “We are seeing a lot more employers offering it as a benefit to attract and retain the current talent in the workforce.”
With the competition for talent and concerns over cash flow, employers are having to be more creative. But the good news is that employees are looking for perks beyond salaries.
“Candidates at the moment are not only moving for increase in salary,” says Mr El Mettouri. “They’re moving for stability, they’re moving for opportunity, they’re moving for personal growth development.”

Story 3
Is reporting company earnings so as to smooth them out over time really a blameworthy practice?
Corporate executives apparently don’t think so, as a large survey of them a few years back found an overwhelming preference for smoothing, for a variety of seemingly good reasons. Yet most other observers consider the practice to be deceptive.
However, a new study finds that to a large extent, the answer actually depends on the relative volume of stock and stock options held by the CEO.
Prior research has offered two competing explanations for corporate income smoothing, notes the study, “Managerial Equity Holdings and Income-Smoothing Behavior,” published in the spring issue of the American Accounting Association’s Journal of Management Accounting Research.
One is that managers use it to dampen the volatility of stock performance caused by their own opportunistic, risk-taking behavior.
The other, less nefarious explanation: a desire to help investors better predict future performance by reducing reported earnings volatility caused by transitory items.
The research found that granting stock to a CFO supports the second motivation, while option grants support the first.
Stock grants, the professors write, align managers’ actions with shareholders’ interests by linking their respective wealth. The relationship between past income smoothing and investors’ ability to predict future earnings increases with greater CEO stock holdings, they found.
In contrast, option grants “offer a convex payoff structure where the value of the option to a manager relates positively to the volatility of the [stock price]. Managers, therefore, benefit proportionately more from engaging in risky actions,” says the paper, by Sydney Qing Shu of San Diego State University and Wayne B. Thomas of the University of Oklahoma.
Consistent with managers attempting to hide the excessive risk-taking activities that can lead to high volatility, the professors found, the relationship between income smoothing and future earnings predictability decreases with greater option holdings.
What motivates the desire for earnings to appear smooth rather than volatile? Advantages of a smooth earnings stream cited by executives in prior research include lower costs of equity, higher credit rating, greater assurance among customers and suppliers regarding terms of trade, and anticipation of higher growth prospects among investors.
However, the study results seem likely to add to the concern raised by prior research that option-based compensation induces managerial behavior that’s detrimental to shareholders. Indeed, in recent years the typical executive compensation mix has trended toward more restricted stock and fewer stock options.
The study, which analyzed 17 years’ worth of information on about 1,700 companies drawn from corporate finance and executive compensation databases, measured income smoothing by changes in companies’ net income compared with changes in discretionary accruals.
Discretionary accruals are non-cash accounting items that typically involve some element of uncertainty — for example, future receipts from receivables or estimates of inventory valuations — and thereby lend themselves to manipulation.
The professors found that for the sample as a whole, a pattern of income smoothing in the five years prior to a given year increased the predictability of earnings in the three years subsequent to that focal year.
But when taking into account CEO compensation in focal years, pay packages leaning toward stock grants and those leaning toward option grants yielded opposite results.
Stock holdings move managers to “use discretionary accruals to dampen the fluctuations in reported earnings caused by transitory items to better reveal to investors the firm’s [expected future] performance,” the authors write.
In contrast, as options increase managers use discretionary accruals to mask the volatility of risky operations, the paper says.
Furthermore, that effect increases where CEOs also serve as board chair, where they are relatively new to the job and under pressure to prove themselves, or when their options are out of the money (i.e., they would vest for less than the current price of company shares).
According to Shu, the study results may be of value to investors unsure of what to make of a company’s pattern of smoothly rising earnings over the years. “Check the CEO’s relative holdings of options and stock,” she advises investors. “If the options dominate, proceed with caution.”

Story 4
Chief Executive Officers (CEO) of large European companies are seeing continued growth in their compensation packages – an average CEO bags more than €5 million per year in salary and bonuses. Growing pressure from the public, politicians and shareholders is however changing the remuneration landscape for executives.
In a new report by Willis Towers Watson, the firm’s HR consultants analysed the CEO pay of the largest stock-listed companies in Western and Eastern Europe – companies listed on the STOXX All Europe 100 Index. The data for instance includes the pay of the CEOs of British-Dutch oil and gas giant Shell (Ben van Beurden), the world's largest food and beverage company Nestlé (Ulf Mark Schneider), Belgium-based drink and brewing company AB InBev (Carlos Brito), Swiss healthcare firm Roche (Severin Schwan), UK banking institution HSBC (John Flint), and FMCG and consumer goods player Unilever (Paul Polman). Companies with the lowest market capitalisation built-in in the analysis include Swedbank, Amadeus IT, Essilor, Deutsche Bank and Swiss Re.
The authors found that, on average, a CEO of a STOXX All Europe 100 company is paid €5.8 million in total direct compensation. Of this amount, the base salary represents around €1.5 million, with the remainder gained through bonus payout and more long term grant incentives. Chief Executives in the top quartile however – those responsible for companies with an average revenue of €53 billion and 133,000 employees – are paid €1.7 million more, with the elite group taking in an average of €7.5 million.
Companies that lead the list of top payers are Roche, AB InBev and UBS – all three companies pay their CEO a total direct compensation of over €12 million. Novartis and SAP both pay more than €10 million, while also the CEOs of Volkswagen, Shell, Reckitt Benckiser, Sanofi and British American Tobacco belonging to the best paid figures on the continent. The companies that pay least are Glencore, Swedbank, Orange, ING and Danske Bank.
While looking into patterns across the data set, the researchers found that CEOs leading smaller companies in size and those operating in regulated industries are more likely to be among the bottom quartile. Interestingly, while average CEO pay has trended upwards in recent years, the average total direct compensation level of the bottom 10 CEOs has decreased over the past three years from €2.3 million to €1.99 million in the most recent fiscal year.
The Swiss versus the Scandinavians
From a country perspective, Swiss companies on average pay their leaders the most. This is of course linked to the average standard of living and pay in the country, which is higher vis a vis other European countries. Nordic companies tend to be the lowest payers, which, according to the researchers, is closely linked with the cultural approach in Scandinavia to pay – remuneration differences between executives and operational staff being among the lowest in the world.
Country differences are also visible in average pay growth. In the UK, median total direct compensation dropped by 7%, while in Germany this figure increased significantly. The latter outcome echoes the results of a study by PwC Germany, which concluded that the salary of top CEOs (DAX CEOs) has increased every year since 2014. PwC’s analysis further discovered that DAX CEOs earn nearly twice as much as other board members in the country, and more than double the amount of their colleagues at smaller public listed companies (MDAX organisations). In the Benelux, which spans the Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg, all five CEOs included in the assessment saw their pay-out increase.
The breakdown of CEO compensation packages at STOXX All Europe 100 Index companies is mixed across the continent. CEOs in Switzerland and the UK have the lowest portion of fix base salary. Long term incentives (LTI), contrary to short term incentives (STI), are used most by companies in the UK, followed by their counterparts based in the Benelux and France. In certain regions, such as Spain and Nordics, LTI remains a relatively minor element of remuneration.
The authors highlight that in many countries, companies use deferral schemes as part of their mix. Deferred compensation is an arrangement in which a portion of an employee's income is paid out at a later date after which the income was earned – the main benefit of the arrangement is to ensure that employees only pay tax at the date when they actually receive the income. In Willis Towers Watson’s methodology, deferrals are not included in long term incentives, but in actual bonus payouts, which means that LTI comparisons require deeper analysis. “The majority of Europe's top 100 companies have deferral schemes in place that in addition to or sometimes in absence of LTI plans support a long-term orientation of total pay,” says Sven Slavenburg, who leads Willis Towers Watson’s Executive Compensation practice in Western Europe.
Changing rewards landscape
Looking forward, two trends are identified for CEO compensation in Europe. On the one hand, executive pay is set to continue to rise in line with the improving economy and the growing complexity that comes with holding such a role. As CEO pays are often benchmarked, the situation occurs that when one company raises its payments to the CEO, other companies are in due time expected to follow suit.
On other hand, there is growing awareness on the moral and ethical part of CEO pay, with pressure mounting for a more fair pay policy to be embedded in the payment structures. “Driven by emerging legislation, shareholder activism, demographic shifts and public opinion, the focus on pay fairness continuous to increase,” comments Slavenburg.
One of the developments driving this line of thinking is the so-called Shareholders’ Rights Directive (SRD). The SRD requires companies to explain how they are taking pay across the organisation into account when setting director remuneration, and that Remuneration Committees need to be familiar with broader trends. “The SRD is the key driver influencing Executive Director compensation in forthcoming years. A small number of countries have published implementation drafts, while others are still awaiting further guidance. In the past year we have observed increasing shareholder pressure on exceptionally high pay levels and a further alignment in pay practices across Europe. Alongside this, we see that pay levels for almost every element analysed remained stable. In relation to incentive design, companies are concentrating on reviewing metrics and amending their calibration – with a focus on both weighting and defining payout curves,” says Slavenburg.
The discussion however tends to be more diverse than focusing on CEO pay ratios only, he adds. “It also covers equal pay, minimum wage, gender pay reporting, female representation on boards and a broader inclusion and diversity agenda.”

Story 5
Companies in India are going all out to lure high-potential executives with generous performance-linked payouts as a talent crunch at the top is prompting many of them to remove the ceiling on variable pay. Human resource heads and executive search experts said variable pay is increasingly becoming a game changer in CXO compensation, rising up to 200% of the commitment in cases of exceptional performance.Called “stretch” variable in industry parlance, a higher variable pay, which is no longer restricted to a fixed percentage of the total cost-to-company (CTC), incentivises excellence and also spells reduction in fixed pay, said industry experts.“If you cap variable pay, people don’t stretch themselves and it puts a cap on performance for both the individual and the company,” said S Venkatesh, president, group HR at RPG Enterprises, which has interests in tyres, infrastructure and IT. “This used to be the philosophy for sales people earlier.We have brought the same philosophy to the leadership level, and one can now earn 180% of the variable pay at peak performance.”R Suresh, founder of boutique search and consulting firm INSIST Executive Search, which specialises in CEO and CXO searches, said an increasing number of companies are removing the cap on variable pay as they are trying to structure senior management pay as per the required output. “As total compensation of the top management goes up, companies want to introduce these clauses to make sure payout is for the performance delivered,” he said. The correlation of pay and performance has traditionally been low in India, primarily because the established compensation structures had a high fixed component and a low variable. However, this is changing now, leading to high-risk and high-return opportunities for CEOs and senior management. “You cannot keep increasing fixed salaries,” said Navnit Singh, chairman, Korn/Ferry International. “A lot of CEOs and CXOs are getting minimal fixed pay while the variable component is increasing – partly linked to the individual and partly to the company performance.”Besides, as company sizes in India increase, CEO pay mix is changing in favour of higher variable pay, with the performance-linked portion constituting 30-40% of the total pay on average, according to an earlier survey by human resources consulting firm Aon Hewitt Industry estimates suggest that the variable component in salary (both short-term and long-term incentives) in a few cases could be as high as 55% of the pay mix, a significant shift from five years ago. “Companies are increasingly trying to find ways to look at compensation as a driver of performance culture,” said SV Nathan, chief talent officer, Deloitte India.In the past, organisations sought to attract senior talent with employee stock ownership plan, but ESOP is no longer a big draw and hence they are focusing on performance-linked variable pay, said Nathan. “Organisations are looking at how to make variable pay elastic as giving big increases year-on-year in fixed pay does not make sense,” he said.Traditionally, IT and ITeS companies have been more aggressive with long term incentives as they competed with global rivals for talent. However, companies in other sectors such as manufacturing sector are now getting more aggressive on variable pay, said compensation experts.“Variable pay is a huge motivation at the senior level for people who have to move the organisation engine,” said Prince Augustin, group HR director, Mahindra & Mahindra. “We go up to 170% of the variable pay.”Suresh Bose, director at metals and mining conglomerate Vedanta group, said the idea is to compensate for a job done. “We are seeing more potential leaders in this way who could be a future CXO,” he said.

Story 6
Google's parent company Alphabet shovelled $47.2m into chief legal officer David Drummond and chief financial officer Ruth Porat's pockets in 2018, amid another bumper year of litigation - and a sharp decline in ad revenue growth- for the Mountain View crew.
The 17-year veteran legal exec was given $650k in salary as he ran Alphabet's legal house during a 12-month period which began with brogrammer James Damore pursuing a civil suit against Google over his sacking; saw the corp cop a juicy $1.7bn EU fine; and included an investor suit that named Drummond and senior execs, alleging the company's poor handling of sexual misconduct claims, and privacy breaches, had hurt Google's value.
Damore opted for private arbitration behind closed doors late last year. Meanwhile, Google staffers joined a May Day protest yesterday against what they claim is "retaliation" against those who participated in walkouts last year by staffers upset Google had paid millions in exit deals to male execs accused of sexual harassment.
The investors claim the board breached its fiduciary duty and engaged in what the complaint terms a "culture of concealment".
Everything's just fine at Google's mothership: $1.7bn EU fine, slower growth take their toll READ MORE
Drummond's hefty "pay mix" details were laid bare in a 2019 Notice of Annual Meeting & Proxy Statement filed with America's Securities and Exchange Commission earlier this week.
The board agreed that Drummond and Google and Alphabet CFO and senior veep of four years Ruth Porat would each get equity awards of $46.61m that vest over a four-year period. They will each also receive other compensation worth $29,357 and $19,585 apiece, including $546 spent on Porat's use of aircraft chartered by Alphabet and a miserly $531 for Drummond's.
Alphabet chummily refers to Drummond and Porat as David and Ruth throughout the document - eschewing the formal Mister, Ms and Doctor of, say, IBM staffers.
The filing pays considerable attention to Drummond's work in Alphabet's non-Google "other bets" unit:
"Larry... and the Leadership Development and Compensation Committee considered David’s contributions as a primary advisor to Larry and Sergey on Other Bet strategy, which includes providing guidance on investments, operations, talent strategy, and governance... as well as his role advising Alphabet’s management and Board of Directors as Chief Legal Officer and Secretary.
Other Bets - comprising Access/Fiber, Calico, CapitalG, Chronicle, GV, Verily, Waymo and X – turned over $170m in revenue last quarter, up from $150m. That's $20m more than same quarter a year ago. But, as we noted earlier this week, jotted underneath in red ink is an operating loss of $858m, up from $571m in Q3 2018.
Google vows to take claims of sexual assault, harassment seriously, just like privacy READ MORE
As for the Cheshire-born CFO, Porat, who was given a $70m signing bonus by Google back in March 2015 after Patrick Pichette took off to go backpacking, "Larry, Sundar" and the Committee: "considered the responsibilities of the Alphabet and Google Chief Financial Officer role... and Ruth’s ... leadership of financial operations and allocation of capital across Alphabet and Google."
Alphabet's CFO told investors earlier this week that the growth of the search giant's ad revenue had slowed to 15 per cent - a big drop from the 24 per cent it saw a year ago. Porat signalled that changes to the YouTube algorithm caused lower engagement and ad sales turnover for the firm.
The pair were the only two of the named executive officers who got equity this year. Google CEO Sundar Pichai received a base salary of $650,00, while Larry Page and Sergey Brin continued to receive salaries of $1 each a year, and Eric Schmidt’s salary was "maintained at $1.25m through his transition from Executive Chairman to Technical Advisor".
Google's annual meeting of shareholders will take place on 19 June at a new venue. It's not in the Googleplex as usual, the filing warns, but rather in Alphabet's swanky leased Sunnyvale digs, Moffett Place Event Center, about 8km (5 miles) away on Bordeaux Drive.
If you screw it up and need to take public transport, it'll eat up an hour of your time as the closest station is Lockheed Martin Transit Center - but let's face it, as a stockholder of Class A and/or Class B shares, you're taking a 10-minute drive in a Tesla Model X or possibly choppering in on a helipad.
Check-in starts at 7:30am and after you're checked for cameras and tablets, you'll be served free breakfast, the Chocolate Factory promises. Don't be late. ®
Sponsored: Serverless Computing London - 6-8 Nov 2019

Story 7
Completing the CAPTCHA proves you are a human and gives you temporary access to the web property.
What can I do to prevent this in the future?
If you are on a personal connection, like at home, you can run an anti-virus scan on your device to make sure it is not infected with malware.
If you are at an office or shared network, you can ask the network administrator to run a scan across the network looking for misconfigured or infected devices.

Story 8
Vodacom CEO Shameel Joosub has taken a significant pay cut, according to the company’s remuneration report for the financial year ended 31 March 2019.
Joosub received 23.9% less in the 2019 financial year than he received in 2018, earning significantly less from short-term and long-term incentives.
His total pay decreased from R50.2 million in 2018 to R38.2 million in 2019, despite his guaranteed pay increasing from R10.4 million to R11.3 million.
Joosub’s bonus from short-term incentives was cut down by 21% and his long-term incentive bonus fell by 46.1%.
He received dividends of R5 million, an increase of 4.6% on last year’s R4.8 million.
Vodacom CFO Till Streichert also took a pay cut in 2019, although his total remuneration fell by only 1.3%, mostly attributed to a drop in his short-term incentive bonus.
Below is the pay mix for Vodacom CEO Shameel Joosub and CFO Till Streichert.
Now read: France will block Huawei from using 5G location data

Story 9
CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Health insurance CEO salaries have increased at an annual rate of 4 percent over the last 10 years, higher than the average budgeted employee salary merit increase of 3 percent, according to a new report from BDO USA, LLP. Total direct compensation for CEOs and COOs increased by an average annualized rate of 13 percent during that period, primarily due to long-term incentive plan payouts.
“As insurance premiums continue to rise, so does scrutiny around executive pay levels. Those overseeing executive compensation strategies must be able to justify pay practices to stakeholders, while keeping packages competitive to attract the right leaders,” said Judy Canavan, managing director and leader of BDO’s Compensation Surveys practice.
The 2018/2019 Health Insurance Executive Total Potential Remuneration Trends Report, which will be available in January, examines total potential remuneration trends for 10 of the top executive positions in health insurance organizations. The report analyzes and summarizes data from the last 10 years of the annual Executive Total Potential Remuneration Compensation, Benefits, and Perquisites Survey. This survey provides companies with valuable information about the industry, enabling effective benchmarking of compensation and benefits programs. The 2018 survey results were published in August.
Annual incentive (AI) plans were offered to executives at all companies. Net income remains the top performance measure of AI plans, but benefit cost containment and revenue growth have become more popular fiscal measures since 2013. Short-term incentives have also been emphasized more in executive pay plans in recent years.
“The rebalancing of the pay mix toward short-term incentives may be attributed to uncertainty over the direction of healthcare reform from 2013 to 2016, which led to shorter-term time horizons,” said Canavan.
The report highlights key remuneration trends over the last 10 years, including:
While CEO pay has risen over the last decade, the revenue per dollar of compensation paid has remained steady at $2 million.
The larger companies that participated in the annual survey appear more efficient with regard to the average revenue earned per dollar of CEO pay; it takes a certain level of pay to remunerate the top leadership position, even at a smaller company.
Long-term incentives are common – especially the use of long-term cash plans, since most are privately held companies.
More than 80 percent of companies allow executives to defer salary and bonuses as a way to both save for retirement and reduce their current tax burden.
Supplemental executive retirement plans (SERPs) are offered to executives at 69 percent of companies. The use of defined benefit make-up plans has declined over the past five years (from 86 percent in 2013 to 64 percent in 2018), while defined contribution make-up plans have become more popular.
Executive car programs continue to be offered by more than half the companies while first- or business-class air travel have become more popular executive perquisites.
*Material discussed is meant to provide general information and should not be acted on without professional advice tailored to your firm’s individual needs.
About BDO’s 2018/2019 Health Insurance Executive Total Potential Remuneration Trends Report
The 2018/2019 Health Insurance Executive Total Potential Remuneration Trends Report highlights notable 10-year trends in total potential remuneration for executives, including salary, incentives, benefits, perquisites, supplemental executive retirement plans, and change of control and severance agreements. The data analyzed in the report represents more than 30 companies.
The Trends Report is based on our annual Executive Total Potential RemunerationTM Compensation, Benefits, and Perquisites Survey. The annual survey (the most recent published in August 2018) provides compensation data for 44 executive-level and board positions, gathered from 16 health insurance organizations.
For those interested in learning more about this report or our surveys, please contact Judy Canavan at 215-636-5635 or jcanavan@bdo.com.
About BDO’s Global Employer Services Practice
BDO’s Global Employer Services practice consists of an experienced and dedicated team of professionals who are committed to assisting leadership and boards in developing strategies and compensation programs designed to attract, retain, and reward employee teams. Our services include designing and benchmarking compensation programs, including cash- and equity-based programs, board remuneration, compensation committee development, nonqualified and deferred compensation plans, advice on tax and accounting issues, and other related services. Our services are tailored and scalable and designed to fit the unique needs of public, private, and nonprofit clients of all sizes and across all industries, including multinational Fortune 500 companies.
About BDO
BDO is the brand name for BDO USA, LLP, a U.S. professional services firm providing assurance, tax, and advisory services to a wide range of publicly traded and privately held companies. For more than 100 years, BDO has provided quality service through the active involvement of experienced and committed professionals. The firm serves clients through more than 60 offices and over 550 independent alliance firm locations nationwide. As an independent Member Firm of BDO International Limited, BDO serves multi-national clients through a global network of 73,800 people working out of 1,500 offices across 162 countries.
BDO USA, LLP, a Delaware limited liability partnership, is the U.S. member of BDO International Limited, a UK company limited by guarantee, and forms part of the international BDO network of independent member firms. BDO is the brand name for the BDO network and for each of the BDO Member Firms. For more information please visit: www.bdo.com.

Story 10
In pratica, Mercer ha calcolato per le aziende del campione che il compenso fisso di un amministratore delegato nel 2018 è stato stabile sui livelli dell’anno precedente e va da un minimo di 875 mila euro a un massimo di 1,4 milioni di euro mentre per la parte variabile a breve termine il valore mediano è stimato in circa 545mila euro con piani di incentivazione a lungo termine in un mix di strumenti monetari ed equity.
Per quanto riguarda l’emolumento mediano del presidente esecutivo nel 2018 è risultato in flessione rispetto al 2017 attestandosi oltre 700mila euro mentre l’importo dei compensi dei presidenti non esecutivi risulta in lieve crescita rispetto al 2017 con valori mediani di 456mila euro. L’emolumento per i membri del cda risulta in leggera crescita rispetto al 2017 attestandosi a circa 60mila euro l’anno a persona.
COSTO MEDIO DELLA GOVERNANCE DELLE AZIENDE DEL FTSE MIB Valori in euro. Fonte: Mercer
«Sempre più aziende entrano nel merito del costo della governance, alla
ricerca del giusto bilanciamento tra costi sostenuti ed efficacia del sistema - dice Sara Bottaro di Mercer Italia - . Complessivamente il costo sostenuto dalle aziende FTSE MIB è pari a circa 61 milioni di euro. L’individuazione del più opportuno punto di equilibrio non ha solo a che fare con il quantum, ma implica una riflessione critica su numerosi fattori, quali ad esempio, la struttura dei compensi, il numero di comitati necessari per l'efficace azione del board,
l'articolazione dei processi e dei meccanismi di funzionamento del sistema di governance, le migliori e più opportune competenze rappresentate all'interno del board», conclude Bottaro.

Story 11
Increase Comes Despite Negative TSR in 2018

Performance Goals Cited as One of the Main Say-on-Pay Pressure Points
WASHINGTON, Aug. 20, 2019 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- According to FTI Consulting, Inc. (NYSE: FCN), 2018 REIT executive pay increased 6% over 2017 levels, with CEOs of diversified REITs receiving the highest median increase of 20%. But according to the FTI Consulting 2018-2019 REIT Executive Compensation Trends study , which focuses on the 2018 pay practices at publicly traded REITs, a significant number of REIT CEOs saw their compensation decrease last year, with 33% of the 146 incumbent REIT CEOs receiving a pay reduction.
Conducted by the Real Estate Solutions industry practice at FTI Consulting, the annual study details year-over-year compensation changes and provides insight into recent REIT compensation market and corporate governance trends.
According to Managing Director Katie Gaynor of the Executive Compensation & Corporate Governance practice within FTI Consulting’s Real Estate Solutions industry practice, “Increased shareholder scrutiny on goal setting has resulted in more challenging hurdles. The rigorous goals in many REIT incentive-based compensation programs should result in more variation, both on the upside and downside, in pay year-to-year.”
“However, our study also revealed that REIT executive pay increased despite negative Total Shareholder Returns (‘TSR’) in 2018, a signal that ‘reportable pay’ was more correlated to annual earnings and operational performance and less on one-year TSR,” Ms. Gaynor added.
Highlighting this trend, the median cash bonus payout as a percent of target was 121% of target in 2018 versus 123% in 2017. Less than 6% of REITs used TSR as a cash bonus metric in 2018, compared to more than 20% of REITs in 2014, as REITs continue to link annual payouts to REIT fundamentals and not to short-term swings in stock prices.
However, rigor of performance goals continues to be one of the main say-on-pay pressure points, with proxy advisory firm ISS citing this as an area of concern at 68% of self-managed REITs that received an ‘Against’ voting recommendation. Other key areas of concern from ISS include outsized equity awards, overly discretionary incentive plans and problematic severance-related provisions.
Larry Portal , a Senior Managing Director in the Executive Compensation & Corporate Governance practice, noted, “A pay-for-performance misalignment under the ISS model continues to be the main precursor to negative voting recommendations. Worth noting, 89% of self-managed REITs that received an ‘Against’ vote were cited for pay-for-performance misalignment, while two REITs with a ‘Low’ concern triggered negative recommendations based on severance provisions.”
The FTI Consulting 2018-2019 REIT Executive Compensation Trends study offered these additional key findings regarding executive compensation in 2018:
The pay mix that comprises REIT executive compensation has remained consistent in recent years with LTIs (long-term incentives) comprising the largest portion, followed by cash bonuses.

The use of 100% formulaic plans continues to decrease as REIT boards look to balance quantitative metrics with other operational and strategic priorities that may not be quantifiable, such as the execution of the strategic plan and the achievement of the individual performance goals. In 2018, 60% (versus 58% in 2017) of annual cash incentive plans were formulaic with a subjective component, while only 17% (compared to 20% in 2017) of these plans were entirely formulaic.

Based on CEOs’ annual cash incentive plans, most REITs used between three and five bonus metrics, as companies aimed to balance motivating excessive risk-taking by using too few metrics and focusing management on critical business objectives.

The majority (77%) of REITs that granted performance equity used relative TSR as a metric. However, non-TSR metrics grew more prevalent in 2018, with approximately 43% of REITs using at least one financial/operational metric in their LTI program (up from 37% in 2017). Industrial, office and mortgage REITs were significant users of non-TSR metrics.

In 2019, 19 self-managed REITs received “Against” say-on-pay voting recommendations, up from 15 in 2018, but only two REITs failed say-on-pay, down from three in 2018, in spite of increased pressure from ISS.

The median CEO pay ratio for all REITs was 57:1 in 2018, as compared to 55:1 in 2017. However, REIT industry CEO pay ratio continued to vary greatly by sector last year, with 3:1 for the office sector and 477:1 for the retail sector.
REIT Board Compensation Increased in 2018
According to the 2018-2019 study, 39% of REITs increased board compensation in 2018, similar to the percentage increase from the previous year. However, the median increase was 10%, down from 13% in the previous year. The pay mix continued to be 39% cash and 61% equity, at the median. Equity was almost always delivered in full-value shares awarded under a fixed-dollar value formula, with immediate and one-year vesting periods being the most prevalent.
“We expect that ISS will begin to issue adverse voting recommendations for ‘excessive’ non-employee director pay beginning in the 2020 proxy season. At the same time, we expect board compensation disclosure to look more like a simplified version of executive compensation reporting in response to growing board compensation scrutiny,” said Ms. Gaynor.
2019-2020 REIT Compensation Outlook
“The pressure faced by REIT boards will continue to increase as institutional investors find their own voice and no longer only rely on the voting recommendations of proxy advisors,” explained Mr. Portal. “It has never been more critical for compensation committees to invest the time and resources to thoroughly review each element of compensation and the program in totality to ensure that the views of all stakeholders have been appropriately considered and that this process is effectively communicated to investors.”
Ms. Gaynor added: “All of this comes at a time of significant disruption in many REIT sectors, plus a highly competitive environment for talent at all levels of the organization. For the compensation program to be effective in the face of so many competing priorities, many REITs will need to implement more innovative compensation solutions to achieve desired results.”
About the 2018-2019 REIT Executive Compensation Trends Study
In July 2019, FTI Consulting reviewed and analyzed compensation-related disclosure in the 2019 proxy statements for 165 publicly traded REITs, excluding both micro-cap REITs and externally managed companies whose compensation programs are not directly comparable to the broader REIT market. FTI Consulting generally uses the median (as opposed to the average) as the preferred statistical measure for evaluating compensation data trends. The study has been adjusted to include select hotel companies that have not elected to qualify for REIT status for tax purposes but whose operations are comparable to other hotel REITs.
About the FTI Consulting Real Estate Solutions Industry Practice
FTI Consulting Real Estate Solutions professionals have the industry expertise and experience to help real estate owners, users, investors and lenders better navigate the market’s complexities and manage its inherent risks. As unbiased and independent advisors, FTI Consulting represents leading public and private real estate entities and stakeholders, including REITs, financial institutions, investment banks, opportunity funds, insurance companies, hedge funds, pension advisors and owners/developers, offering real estate consulting services that help align strategy with business goals. The Executive Compensation & Corporate Governance practice at FTI Consulting has served as the trusted advisor to over 100 public and private real estate companies.
About FTI Consulting
FTI Consulting, Inc. is a global business advisory firm dedicated to helping organizations manage change, mitigate risk and resolve disputes: financial, legal, operational, political & regulatory, reputational and transactional. With more than 4,700 employees located in 28 countries, FTI Consulting professionals work closely with clients to anticipate, illuminate and overcome complex business challenges and make the most of opportunities. The Company generated $2.03 billion in revenues during fiscal year 2018. For more information, visit www.fticonsulting.com and connect with us on Twitter (@FTIConsulting), Facebook and LinkedIn.
Investor Contact:
Mollie Hawkes
+1.617.747.1791
mollie.hawkes@fticonsulting.com
Media Contact:
Nina Dietrich
+1.201.493.8944
nina@ninadietrich.com

Story 12
In my 30-plus years as a sales executive and sales leadership consultant, I’ve identified a critical error most sales organizations make: not crafting a sales compensation plan that effectively motivates and rewards performance as it drives bottom-line financial results.
One reason for this persistent problem is that most companies don’t appreciate the uniqueness of the salesperson’s role. Another reason is that most companies simply don’t know how to design an effective plan. This is often the case because the people who are creating the plan have never been paid in a similar manner. It's hard to build what you have never experienced yourself. Let’s take a closer look:
Understanding Why Sales Compensation Is Different
It's important to understand that salespeople do not start a new position expecting or hoping to only earn their base salary. Salespeople sign up for a career, where often 50% or more of their compensation is at risk. Imagine not knowing when you start if you will make 50%, 80%, 100% or even 130% of your expected compensation. Also, imagine what it would be like to be in the only role in the company where everybody knows exactly how you performed for the year. While others don’t know how much money you make, they do know whether you achieved your goal, because reports of performance versus quota are often open for all to see. These factors, along with many others, magnify the need for creating an ideal compensation plan for each sales team member.
Knowing Your Market
To properly motivate and reward sales performance, it is vital to begin with a broad view of your competitive landscape. In some industries, this is relatively simple, as the market is small and the number of competitors is limited. In other industries, however, competitive analysis can get complicated. This is especially true when your competitors span national or international territories, or when the number of competitors is large. Simply put, if you can’t confidently identify the total compensation your market bears by type of sales position, perform an industry benchmarking of sales compensation. This will help you identify not only the levels of compensation necessary to compete but also the most effective types of compensation and the correct pay mix.
Designing Your Sales Compensation Plan To Generate More Revenue
A well-designed sales compensation plan incents or rewards sales activity that supports company goals as well as individual ones. To create such a plan, it is critical to be able to answer these questions:
• "Is our cost of sales appropriate and competitive?"
• "What are the company and team’s business goals?"
• "What balance do I want to create between motivating personal success versus team success?"
• "What impact will each sales role have on the company and team’s success?"
• "How do I want to strike the appropriate balance between pay and performance?"
• "How should our emphasis on different revenue (products, industries, etc.) and profit streams vary?"
Recognizing The Proper Mix of Salary-To-Variable Pay
In most sales organizations, salesperson compensation is a mix of fixed (salary or base) pay and variable (at-risk or incentive) pay. Your market will normally help identify the appropriate mix to drive revenue and minimize employee turnover. In many industries and organizations, however, striking the right balance between base salary and variable sales compensation can be challenging. How do you motivate salespeople with a modest salary while paying enough to attract talented sales performers as you also avoid overpaying poor performers?
If significant sales growth is needed, I recommend that you designate a much larger percentage of compensation on “new business.” If modest growth is expected and client retention is crucial, allocate higher commissions for retained sales. If new products are being introduced or new verticals pursued, establish higher sales commission percentages for those areas.
In my experience, the best salary-to-variable sales compensation pay mix ratio for most organizations in most industries is 50/50. But again, your industry and your sales organization may have unique reasons to deviate from this standard.
Keeping Your Sales Compensation Plan Current
Reviewing your compensation plans annually is a key part in driving desired behaviors. Unfortunately, most companies do not make annual changes, which would mean the performance desired last year is the same this year. It is rare, however, that the same exact goals are desired year after year, so why keep your compensation plan the same every year?
According to the results of 933 completed Sales Xceleration Sales Agility Assessments taken by CEOs of small to midsize businesses, only 30% of companies follow this best practice. If economic factors or marketplace conditions are rapidly changing, it might make sense to update your sales compensation plan more frequently, but once a year is a good rule-of-thumb in most cases.
The Bottom Line
Sales compensation plans are vital to a company’s success. Well-crafted plans establish a clear line between expectations, performance, rewards and company revenue. If your organization struggles to understand or design a sales compensation plan that rewards performance and boosts financial results, consider bringing in an outsourced vice president of sales to establish the right parameters and set effective measures.

Story 13
The rise of High Deductible Health Plans is a big change in patient responsibility, with implications for Ambulatory Surgery Centers (ASCs).
With the ASC market expected to top $40 billion by 2020, how ASCs handle this sea change has implications for healthcare overall.
From increased patient education efforts to best billing practices, ASCs—with their usual speed—must adapt to the shifting payer/provider landscape.
Free Daily Newsletter Like this story? Subscribe to FierceHealthcare! The healthcare sector remains in flux as policy, regulation, technology and trends shape the market. FierceHealthcare subscribers rely on our suite of newsletters as their must-read source for the latest news, analysis and data impacting their world. Sign up today to get healthcare news and updates delivered to your inbox and read on the go. SUBSCRIBE NOW
How Did We Get Here?
Acting on the assumption that HDHPs would stem a rumored over-utilization of healthcare spending, many employers embraced them for the first time in 2006.
RELATED: Health savings accounts and high deductible plans maintain steady enrollment growth
In 2007, 85% of adults with employment-based health coverage were enrolled in a traditional plan, with an average deductible of $379 (adjusted for inflation) for single coverage. Today, only 56.6% have a traditional plan, with 43.4% enrolled in a HDHP. The average HDHP deductible stands at $1,350 today, or more than triple the 2006 figure for a traditional plan.
When patients access healthcare, it’s not likely they have the funds to meet even the lowest deductible before doing some major financial juggling. Wage growth hasn’t followed the increase in insurance premiums, as a study by the Los Angeles Times and Kaiser Family Foundation discovered. Complicating matters, federal data shows that while 61% of adults could cover an unexpected $400 expense, 39% would have to borrow, money, sell something or simply not be able to cover it at all.
The bottom-line impact on ASCs quickly becomes apparent when you examine the patient pay mix. Medicare and Medicaid are growing, but commercial pay still accounts for the majority of ASC payments. The mean percent of gross charges for ASCs, as measured in VMG Health's 2018 Multi-Specialty ASC Benchmarking Study., breaks down as follows:
Commercial 61%
Medicare: 20%
Worker’s comp: 10%
Other: 10%
Medicaid: 7%
Self-pay: 6%
If the 43.4% figure above is applied to the commercial pay percentage from the VMG study, 26% of the average ASC’s commercial payer mix relies on HDHPs. Physicians may have been worried about how they would be paid by the uninsured; now it’s the patient responsibility portion of any HDHP policyholder that’s keeping them up at night.
Here are three areas where ASCs should be making changes to accommodate HDHPs.
Patient Communication and Information
Patients need a solid understanding of their role in paying for their care. But unlike any other consumer purchase process, it’s hard for patients to get a clear picture of what they owe at the time of payment. ASCs—36% never discuss a patient’s ability to pay before delivering services—need to take a greater role in patient education. Proactive communication about co-pays, deductibles and coinsurance well before a patient’s procedure is critical.
Some have moved ahead of the game by directly addressing HDHPs with patients as part of their insurance and billing patient education. They provide clear direction on how patients can work with their insurer to determine current deductible status and related out-of-pocket responsibility.
Scheduling
Many with HDHPs may elect to schedule their surgery early in the year to quickly meet their deductible. Some centers may have already encountered this, but others should prepare for higher than usual patient volumes in the early months of the year.
Best billing practices for HDHPs
HDHPs are intricate cost-sharing agreements that can tax the skills of even the savviest revenue cycle management pro. Some policyholders have Health Savings Accounts—flexible healthcare spending dollars available to patients who set aside a pre-tax portion of their earnings—which can be used towards paying their deductible.
Others don’t.
RELATED: Study: High-deductible health plans aren't making members better healthcare consumers
Still, flexibility is the watchword to successfully navigate billing and payments with HDHPs. Payment plans or flexible financial solutions, like the short-term payment plans offered by one center, are increasingly being used. A tiered campaign of letters and phone calls in the days and weeks leading up to a surgery to collect co-pays and deductibles also smooths the payment process.
HDHPs also up the ante for accurate coding. Now is the time to review billing and coding processes to avoid common coding mishaps that add to time and cost pressures.
HDHPs may be a wrench thrown into the dynamic surgery center environment, but given the "get-it-done" culture of most ASCs, HDHPs aren’t anything they can’t handle.
David Howerton is the CEO of Tennessee-based Simplify ASC, a software development company that provides a fully integrated clinical and business management platform to the ASC industry.

Story 14
Forbidden
You don't have permission to access this resource.
Additionally, a 403 Forbidden error was encountered while trying to use an ErrorDocument to handle the request.

Story 15
No one would blame you for missing the single prized bottle of Mezonte on the crowded shelves of Brooklyn’s acclaimed agave-themed bar Leyenda. But it’s there nestled in among the dozens of bottles of other more well-known mezcals.
Award-winning bartender and the establishment’s co-owner Ivy Mix, first got her hands on a bottle of Mezonte six or seven years ago. Since then Mix has gone through several—but she even saves all of the empties, which now decorate her apartment.
“We had a bottle on the back bar before you could get it here and one out of 1,000 people would be like, ‘whoa, Mezonte,’” says Mix. “Back in the day when you couldn’t import it, it was like a Boy Scout badge.”
The Mezonte brand currently includes three different agave spirits made in the Mexican states of Jalisco and Michoacán: Japo Raicilla, Jalisco Mezcal, and, Mix’s favorite, Tepe Agave Spirit. A single bottle goes for between $150 and $200—and for good reason.
“They’re all really delicious and can be really wacky [in flavor],” says Mix. The palenques where they’re made are “hundreds of years old. I went to one place where they just have these massive pits in the ground that they still use for their fermentation. The fermentation is long, which generally means that you’ll get lots of funk, which is natural. They just let it happen with the heat and the high sugars of the agave.”
It’s these kind of traditional production methods that make Mezonte somewhat of a unicorn for super fans of agave spirits.
Mezonte is actually an NGO owned by Pedro Jiménez, who also runs a tasting room in Guadalajara under the same name and the nearby beloved mezcaleria Pare de Sufrir (translation: “End Your Suffering”), which Mix calls her “favorite bar in the whole wide world, hands down, bar none.”
Jiménez works with small, distillers that use the most traditional of methods and tools for fermentation and distillation. According to Mezonte’s official mission, it “promotes, supports and preserves the production and practices of traditional agave spirits.” To that end, Jiménez directed Viva Mezcal, a documentary released in 2012 that explores the history of mezcal culture in Mexico, as well as the challenges producers currently face.
“Pedro really fights for everything that should be happening in agave spirits,” says Mix. “He has a really big cultural interest in preserving and supporting these spirits and the people who make them, as well as their cultures.”
Over the summer, Mix made the trip to Guadalajara to attend the 10-year anniversary of Pare de Sufrir and celebrate alongside Jiménez. She brought back a bottle of Mezonte Tepe Agave Spirit to add to her personal collection. It’s made from 100-percent Cenizo agave grown along the border of Jalisco and Durango.
“It’s more delicate, more minerally,” says Mix, adding that the spirit is distilled in clay pot stills. “I’ve never seen Tepe production, but everything really is off the grid. They’re doing things their own way and I think that is still rare to find with mezcal production.”
Though Tepe is now her go-to bottle, Mix is an equal opportunity Mezonte drinker—and encourages others to be as well. She contends that the Japo Raicilla, which is made near the sea in Jalisco, is “very intense even for people who like really weird spirits” with flavors that are cheesy, gamey, and even a bit floral.
If you’re curious and able to pay Mix a visit, she currently has the trio of Mezonte spirits behind the bar at Leyenda. “This stuff is so rare that our margins on it are pretty low just because we want people to taste it,” she says. “I love cocktails, don’t get me wrong, but these are totally what you want to drink neat because they’re super delicious.”

Story 16
MUMBAI: A few days ago Infosys announced a pay package of new CEO Salil Parekh lower than that of predecessor Vishal Sikka after criticism of the exorbitant salaries Sikka and other key management members got. The reality, however, is that CEOs still continue to draw top dollars, though companies are getting more cautious by linking a major chunk of the pay mix to performance, experts said.The CEO compensation mix is increasingly changing in favour of variable pay as organisations seek greater accountability for business performance, said human resource and executive compensation professionals.“CEO packages are not coming down. It is contextual and depends on the CEO’s current pay and background,” said Navnit Singh, chairman of Korn/Ferry International in India. “However, performance pay and restricted stock units now form a larger part in the compensation component of CEOs, as also seen in Parekh’s case.”“Pay for performance will continue to be a very important theme going forward. This is being reinforced at most career levels, especially top management and CEO/CXO,” agreed Arvind Usretay, director-rewards at Willis Towers Watson.Shareholders are keen to see a sharp linkage between CEO pay and achievement of identified objectives.“Increasingly, the nomination and remuneration committee is closely involved in setting CEO goals and monitoring the progress against those,” Usretay said.Locally listed Indian companies are placing far more emphasis on annual as well as longterm incentives, compared with multinationals that are listed in India and unlisted companies, according to a recent survey by HR consulting firm Aon Hewitt.In India, the typical pay mix of a CEO of a medium- to large-sized organisation may include 40-70% of variable pay, which itself is a combination of annual and long-term incentives. About five years ago, the level of variable pay was smaller.“The proportion of variable pay may also differ by the stage of business and the ability of the CEO to impact the outcomes. Services sector will likely be aggressive in variable pay while in other industries, where there is a high government influence or regulatory impact, the variable pay proportion may be less. However, on an overall basis, we anticipate that the fixed pay will continue to be under pressure,” said Usretay.CEOs accept compensation offers based on the risk profile of a company—the higher the risk, the stronger the weightage on fixed pay. If it is a stable organisation, there is a lower anchor on fixed pay.“You can judge the maturity of an organisation by their confidence in attracting executives with variable component,” said Debabrat Mishra, a partner at Deloitte At Infosys, Parekh may earn up to Rs 34.45 crore a year if he meets targets and stays on for a full five-year term. He gets a fixed pay of Rs 6.5 crore and a performance-based variable pay of Rs 9.75 crore, the company said.The rest of his salary includes stock compensation in the form of annual equity grant of Rs 3.25 crore, performance equity grant of Rs 13 crore that vests after three fiscal years and a one-time equity grant of Rs 9.75 crore over five years. Parekh’s salary and stock-based compensation is almost half of what Sikka was offered.Vesting depends not just on passage of time but also achievement of milestones such as revenue, profit and market capitalisation, said independent consultant R Suresh, formermanaging director of RGF Executive Search. Higher pay at risk is also useful in driving a sense of ownership and tying a CEO’s earnings to business growth, said experts.“A greater percentage of CEO/CXO pay is being linked to overall company performance and is hence expected to be more outcome driven,” Akhil Bansal, deputy CEO of KPMG in India, had told ET earlier.This trend is prevalent across sectors—services, BFSI and telecom lead the pack while the conventional manufacturing sector is not too far behind.Annually, the ratio of fixed to variable salaries could be as high as 50:50 in sectors such as tech, ecommerce , financial services and consumer. Even manufacturing and infrastructure now have a greater emphasis on the variable component.“Where wealth creation is becoming particularly significant, the variable component is even higher. This is an irreversible trend,” said Atul Vohra, managing partner at Transearch India.However, one school of thought advocates strong grounding in fixed pay so that CEOs can take strong, decisive action irrespective of outcome and get a long-term perspective, said Mishra of Deloitte.

Story 17
John Jordan | October 30, 2019
According to a third quarter report on the office market in Broward County by commercial brokerage firm CBRE, the overall vacancy rate for the region fell 40 basis points from the second quarter and 210 basis points from a year earlier to 9.3% at the end of the third quarter of 2019.

Story 18
Broad-based variable pay concepts and practices have experienced significant transformation over the last two decades. While executives have historically participated in bonus arrangements, the remaining population of workers only became eligible for variable pay in the late 1980s when fewer than half of U.S. companies provided these opportunities more broadly.
Today more than 90% of U.S. companies have broad-based variable pay programs. In the short time broad-based variable pay has been in effect there have been striking changes in funding levels, plan design types and eligibility.
Several factors are responsible for the increased reliance on variable pay for rewarding the broader workforce. These plans are effective in getting employees to pay attention to key company goals and initiatives since part of their compensation is tied to results. Employees think differently and change their behaviors to accomplish activities they think will yield a higher bonus payout.
The key is to make sure that the focus and change in behaviors lead to positive outcomes and don’t undermine other important factors such as safety, margins, and customer service.
Variable pay creates the opportunity to link employees and leaders to aligned objectives which results in stronger teamwork that enhances organizational results. This tighter alignment of employee and leader efforts is also a benefit that shareholders appreciate. Variable pay provides greater flexibility to organizations in managing their compensation costs during volatile business cycles. Unlike base salaries, which are compounding fixed costs, bonuses hit the balance sheet for one year and should only do so when organizational performance results warrant it. Variable pay has also become a major component in organizations efforts to pay for performance.
Plan Funding
One of the most striking changes in compensation over the last two to three decades has been a change in pay mix – primarily attributable to the emergence of broad-based variable pay. Variable pay spending became material enough to track beginning in 1988 when salary increases averaged around 5% and variable pay spending was just under 4%. (See Figure 1) In just four years, variable pay spending overtook salary increase spending and never looked back.
Three recessions later, salary increases are holding steady in the upper 2% range while variable pay spending is at record high levels at just under 13%. This is three times higher than the level of spending when broad-based variable pay was originally introduced in the 1980s.
Aon Hewitt
It is rare to see such a fundamental shift such as this one in compensation. Equally striking is the fact that companies were investing five to 10% of their payroll in total compensation growth (base plus bonus) in the 1980s and are closer to 15% of payroll today. Factor in the rate of inflation, and today’s broad-based workforce has more purchasing power than what employees experienced in the past 20 years.
This change in pay mix allows organizations to re-think their approach to pay for performance as companies are now factoring in individual performance achievement as part of their variable pay programs. The perception is that reward differentiation is more easily attained when allocating a 13% of payroll bonus budget than a 2.8% salary increase budget. This has the advantage of creating greater line of sight for employees through these variable pay arrangements and encourages them to work toward both individual and organizational objectives.
Plan Design Types
The broad-based variable pay design approaches utilized by organizations have also changed dramatically since these plans first appeared in the late 1980s. Understandably, the early plan designs were more focused on organizational measures and rewards -- that made them easier to design and introduce. It was not uncommon for employees to be covered by a cash profit sharing plan, a gainsharing plan or a team award incentive.
Employees were happy to have additional earning opportunity, and they liked the fact that something that was previously only provided to executives was being made available to them. But they commonly expressed frustrations about the fact that they didn’t feel they could influence their bonus outcomes. Leaders were critical about an entitlement mentality and a lack of confidence about the return on their investment.
More recently (see Figure 2), plan designs have shifted in the direction of approaches that have much lower collective measures and instill greater granularity of metrics intended to create stronger line of sight. Business incentives are a popular choice in design due to their ability to measure multiple slices of performance.
Aon Hewitt
These plans make it possible to focus a percentage of measurement on overall company achievement, business unit or function outcomes and individual performance results. They also allow the organization to apply variable weightings of these measures from the top to the bottom of the organization to align with accountabilities and influence on results.
Special recognition awards have been a stable and popular design approach, often supplementing an organization’s broad-based incentive plan (such as a business incentive plan). These plans offer advantages in that they don’t cost the organization much (most companies budget 0.5 to 1.0% of payroll for funding) and are highly valued by employees.
The key success factor for these plans is the immediacy of the award. Employees attach high psychological value to knowing that something they contributed was noticed and appreciated in real time. They are very willing to trade off a higher monetary value for this form of recognition. This is one reason why, with the increasing number of millennials entering the workforce, it is logical to assume this design type will only gain in prominence.
Individual performance plans are also seeing resurgence in popularity primarily due to the likely continued uninspiring salary increase budgets. Companies who do not have or do not desire to have plans that measure aspects of organizational performance favor this design type. It is relatively simple to create (based on individual goals) and execute since this ties into the annual performance review process. The primary hurdle to overcome with this design type is the degree of discretion that exists in determining performance results and how that translates to a bonus payout.
Plan Eligibility
Broad-based variable pay plans have undergone a tremendous change, but more progress is needed. While the number of U.S. companies who have added broad-based variable pay arrangements has grown at an astronomical rate to more than 90%, the depth of participation in these organizations has not progressed as rapidly. Twenty years ago, the median base salary level of the lowest eligible employee in these plans was $49,000; today, that salary level has dropped to $33,000.
This would suggest that variable pay eligibility has been pushed down deeper into organizations. Looking more carefully at different employee segments reveals a huge disparity in the participation levels for salaried nonexempt and nonunion hourly employees.
This trend is disappointing for a number of reasons. It is critical that this segment of the workforce be as aligned as possible with the understanding and pursuit of the organization’s goals and desired results. Having such a large segment of the population disconnected from a collective interest in achievement and rewards could result in sub-optimal performance.
It should also be recognized that the accomplishment of company goals is not possible without the efforts of the entire employee population. Otherwise, there exists a potential for a “have and have not” scenario where only some employees benefit from the efforts of others. In some industries the entry-level workforce is the long-term talent pool for creating future managerial talent. Disenfranchisement of this group could be detrimental.
Closing Thoughts
Broad-based variable pay has burst onto the scene and has dramatically changed the landscape for how organizations approach pay for performance. With companies continuing to face intense competitive pressures, the current trend of minimizing fixed costs will not be reversed and the challenges of providing differentiated rewards through salary increases will be perpetuated. Organizations have been willing, and all indications are they will continue to grow the funding of variable costs since they are contingent on performance.
The ability of these arrangements to capture employee focus and shape behaviors as well as provide the means to assess and reward performance at multiple levels makes them a valued management tool. Balancing the need to be in sync with organizational results and ability to pay with employees’ abilities to influence outcomes will be a key ingredient to the success of these plans. And taking steps to ensure that a meaningful opportunity is available to contributors at all levels of the organization will ensure that productivity, quality and overall achievement are optimized.

Story 19
Da funzione di staff a manager strategico, corre la busta paga del capo delle risorse umane di Cristina Casadei
(ZoonarWWW SHOCK CO)
4' di lettura
Formazione, competenze, motivazione delle persone, compensi, performance. E ancora. Recruiting, retention, uscite, outplacement. I tasti del pianoforte del capo delle risorse umane sono quanto di più sensibile si possa immaginare all’interno di tutte le organizzazioni, che siano piccole o grandi. La musica che suona questo manager deve trascinare in avanti intere organizzazioni. Decine, centinaia, se non migliaia di persone. Spesso, come ci ha mostrato la fase della crisi, con budget in contrazione continua, e tutte le difficoltà che ne conseguono sul clima e sulla motivazione delle persone. Della busta paga degli amministratori delegati sappiamo molto, grazie anche alle relazioni sulle remunerazioni, ma dei manager che devono assicurare alle aziende la presenza delle competenze necessarie, motivare le truppe, decidere chi sale e chi scende non si sa moltissimo e soprattutto, forse anche per la sensibilità del tema, si parla poco.
LA “BUSTA PAGA” DEL CAPO DELLE RISORSE UMANE Livelli retributivi medi. Valori in migliaia di euro (Fonte: elaborazione Il Sole 24 Ore su dati Willis Towers Watson)
La busta paga media
I top delle risorse umane sembra che siano concentrati nei financial services (grandi banche e assicurazioni) dove il loro pay mix è poco distante dal 50-50. Prima di entrare nel merito dei carotaggi, partiamo dalle medie. E allora, in Italia, in media, nelle grandi imprese i manager delle risorse umane guadagnano complessivamente 500mila euro, nelle medie poco più della metà (260mila) e nelle piccole meno di un terzo (160mila). Il medione va preso con le dovute cautele, come spiega la ricostruzione di Willis Towers Watson che ha preso 500 aziende, piccole, medie e grandi e ha analizzato le buste paga del capo hr, a partire dal Global grading system, una metodologia proprietaria che valuta i ruoli aziendali a livello globale su una scala di 25 grade. Sono stati presi in esame i livelli retributivi medi del mercato generale italiano per tre cluster dimensionali.
Il pay mix

Story 20
Human Resources magazine and the HR Bulletin daily email newsletter:
Asia's only regional HR print and digital media brand.
Register for your FREE subscription now »
Much has been discussed about how different pay conditions affect performance. Dr Fermin Diez, Deputy CEO and Group Director, Human Capital and Organisation Development Group, National Council of Social Service, provides evidence-based answers to this age-old question.
Much has been said – both for and against – about using incentives to drive business. Despite this, we know surprisingly little about how different pay models affect company performance.
CEOs, remuneration committees, HR executives and executive compensation consultants have been searching for the Holy Grail of pay-for-performance. And yet, many questions remain unanswered.
For instance: Which type of long-term incentive (LTI) provides the greatest incentive to performance? Which pay mix provides the greatest incentive to performance? Which pay-for-performance model provides the greatest improvement to business results? Are there differences in performance if the incentives provided are team-based vs. individual-based, or if they are provided in combination?
Our study
To provide evidence-based answers to these questions, we created an experiment in which subjects are tasked with running a business for twenty periods. In making each of their 20 choices, subjects can adjust each of four parameters: the price, product mixture, location or promotional strategy.
Subjects were paid under fifteen different pay conditions to determine which of these would make the biggest difference regarding performance; additionally, we observed the willingness of participants to modify their strategy once the game had started.
[This study was conducted in 2016-2017, involving over 500 subjects in several countries including Singapore, Philippines, Thailand, India, South Africa. You can read the full study here.]
The results revealed that differences in pay conditions do not impact performance. However, we did find that, jointly, the team approaches we designed do significantly outperform all the individual approaches jointly.
An analysis of the responses showed that nearly half of all participants stopped seeking for more profitable alternatives when ahead in the game. Perhaps more importantly, even more than 50% “took a risk” when falling behind.
Executive incentive plan design should focus on team incentives, as this approach is clearly superior to incentivise the achievement of business outcomes.
More surprising is the fact that nearly 20% of all participants did both: that is to say, the same person took a risk and was also conservative, depending on where their results were at any point in the game.
These results suggest that being risk-prone or risk-averse can be construed to be circumstantial rather than strictly a personality trait, and it is also not inherent in any of the pay conditions.
Applying the research to address pay-for-performance
Our study provides empirically derived data on the effectiveness of often-used pay schemes, as a means to achieving higher company performance.
One actionable outcome is that target setting has a greater impact on results than plan design. In other words, stretch targets yield better results than average targets.
Another implication is that executive incentive plan design should focus on team incentives, as this approach is clearly superior to incentivise the achievement of business outcomes.
The results also suggest that team incentive plans should be based on shared goals for maximum impact on business performance. How the team incentives are weighed seems less important in this respect.
A final implication of the study is that no amount of tweaking on any of the other elements of pay plan design seems to have any impact on performance.
Thus, practitioners can focus on the elements of design mentioned above and worry less about the rest. These findings are of use to remuneration committees (RemCos), executive pay consultants, CEOs and HR professionals, in the design of incentive programmes.

Story 21
MUMBAI: Indian companies are getting more aggressive on performance-linked pay for CEOs than the local units of their global peers, not only holding the top executives more accountable for business performance, but also offering humungous wealth creation opportunities to those who deliver on promises. talent crunch at the top is driving this shift away from the traditional structure where fixed components accounted for most of the pay, experts said. Companies are going all out to lure executives, who could lead their expanding businesses and steer them into the future, with great offers.According to a recent survey by HR consulting firm Aon Hewitt , locally listed Indian firms are placing far more emphasis on annual as well as long-term incentives, compared with multinationals that are listed in India and unlisted companies. CEO pay mix is changing in favour of higher variable pay as company size increases, with the performance-linked portion constituting 30-40% of the total pay on an average, showed the executive compensation survey conducted during August-December 2016.There has also been a drop in fixed pay increments — to 9.3% in 2016 from 9.7% the previous year, the survey showed.Industry estimates suggest the variable component (including shortterm and long-term incentives) in a few cases could be as high as 50-55% of the pay mix.“While CEOs of Indian companies are responsible for taking the company global, the role of most foreign MNC CEOs is limited to India and South Asia. This gets reflected in the CEO pay structures. Indian companies, going forward, will have higher attribution to long-term incentives,” said Anubhav Gupta, Aon Hewitt’s South Asia head of executive compensation. For large-cap companies, short- and long-term incentives now form 50% to 70% of a professional CEO’s pay.The correlation of pay and performance has traditionally been low in India, primarily because the established compensation structures had a high fixed component and a low variable. This is changing now with high risk and high return opportunities for CEOs.“The variable component of pay is ‘at risk’, which means it is subject to pre-defined performance conditions being met. In the recent past, we have seen as much as 50% of the total compensation being performance-linked variable pay, which is a significant shift from five years ago,” said Pratik Mehta, director, Deloitte India.IT/ITeS companies are observed to be more aggressive on long-term incentive as they compete with global rivals for talent and thus need to be more aligned to global compensation structures, said Shalini Jain, tax partner with people advisory services at EY India.In the traditional manufacturing industry (especially infrastructure, mining, etc.), where intervention of government policies and regulation is quite high, variable component is observed to be on the lower side, she added.It is a win-win for both the organisation and the executive. “Greater emphasis is being placed on variable pay which is also in a way aimed at wealth creation, increasing retention, reducing fixed commitments and driving higher performance orientation,” said Akhil Bansal, deputy CEO, KPMG in India.Companies are getting more innovative when it comes to incentivising the top performers, coming up with newer long-term structures like restricted stock units and performance shares beyond employee stock options.One of the reasons for adding more components to performance-linked incentives is high volatility in share prices, often caused by factors outside the control of the management, which affects the actual stock-based compensation, said Gupta. Also, a recent change in accounting standards — stock options will now be treated as an expense — is prompting the shift.While some companies are moving away from stock options, there are others that are linking vesting of ESOPs to performance than time, experts said.“Just being with the company does not guarantee the options will vest,” said Garima Sharma, vice president, Just Esops.Performance parameters include not only meeting individual goals, but company targets as well. ESOP vesting is now linked with metrics such as growth in earnings per share, shareholder return, or event or milestone in terms of the organisation’s performance.The overall idea is to not really use long-term incentive vehicles as merely retention measures, but also as performance drivers. “With regulatory mandates on compensation disclosures for senior leadership roles, remuneration committees everywhere are steadily working towards meeting shareholder expectations of closely aligning business performance measures and outcomes with the variable pay for the executives,” KPMG’s Bansal said.However, there is also a flip side of high variable component. In the past, large bonuses and stock options have been held responsible for overly risky behaviour and short-term strategies, said EY India’s Jain. Also extrinsic motivation may crowd out intrinsic motivation and innovation. At the same time, measurement of ‘performance’ through external parameters is not always completely objective and may lead to fraud.“Typical share/stock-based performance metrics do not adequately focus on the levers of value creation and may not always contribute to sustained company growth and performance,” said Jain.

Story 22
Auckland Council has underpaid about 17,500 employees since 2010, the latest in a string of public sector pay mix-ups.
Around 17,500 Auckland Council employees have been underpaid in an $18 million pay blunder.
The employees were underpaid as a result of an incorrect application of the Holidays Act.
This led to large-scale payment errors across several types of pay, including annual leave, sick leave, bereavement leave, public holidays, and alternative leave.
Director of people and performance Patricia Reade said the council was doing all it could to ensure the issue was rectified.
READ MORE:
* State payroll blunder may be widespread, hitting private workers too
* Police forced to pay out $33m to staff following major pay bungle
"For Auckland Council, the issues are complex and affect approximately 17,500 current and past employees," Reade said.
Affected employees include those who were employed from 2010, including a wide range and large number of contracts.
Auckland Council is the latest in a string of organisations across New Zealand incorrectly implementing the complex Holidays Act legislation.
"We are certainly not alone in discovering this issue with the Holidays Act," she said.
"Working out exactly what we owed and who we owed it to was a huge and complex undertaking.
"However, we are committed to ensuring we do right by current and previous employees. The next step in the process will be to attempt to contact former employees who are owed backdated payments."
In 2016, following an audit of compliance, Ernst & Young was contracted to perform a comprehensive review of the council's payroll system.
EY estimated liability of $18m.
This included detailed sampling and recalculating a wide range of employee payroll payments and applying this to the employee categories, determined by identifying employee working arrangements across the full population.
The liability and process were audited by Audit NZ during their audit of the 2017 Annual Report.
However, a council spokesman said the provision for this liability was conservative and based on thorough analysis and the completed modelling.
"The provision is an estimation because the council cannot know if all impacted past employees will claim their payments," he said.
Work was underway to reconfigure the payroll system to address the compliance issues. Auckland Council estimated this will be completed late 2018.
The council will contact about 4500 current council employees to advise them of the issue and explain how pay will be rectified. Former employees will be contacted later this year.
Current employees affected will be paid during the week beginning May 21.

Story 23
Abstract
Evoluzione dei meccanismi di governance in tema di remunerazioni (competenze esclusive dell’assemblea su aspetti di rilievo, istituzione di un comitato specializzato in seno all’organo con funzione di supervisione strategica, bilanciamento della remunerazione del presidente con quella del vertice dell’organo con funzione di gestione, ecc.) con impatto anche in termini di modifiche statutarie, modifiche alla struttura della remunerazione (pay mix e cap) e alle modalità di pagamento della componente variabile con limiti e correttivi ex post (malus e claw-back), requisiti specifici per la remunerazione delle reti distributive esterne (agenti e promotori finanziari), attribuzione all’European Banking Authority (EBA) del potere di definire regulatory technical standards (RTS) vincolanti e direttamente applicabili, rappresentano tutti aspetti di novità di portata sicuramente rilevante ma comunque in linea con lo spirito della previgente normativa e con il percorso evolutivo dalla stessa già delineato, o per essere più precisi, auspicato.
Il fattore che accresce il peso delle novità introdotte conferendogli rilevanza strategica è l’innesto delle stesse in uno scenario economico, finanziario e regolamentare in profonda evoluzione, elemento che cambia le prospettive di analisi della tematica e la portata del relativo percorso di adeguamento, percorso che le banche devono delineare in stretta connessione con i cantieri evolutivi già attivati o in corso di avvio su temi di governance, strategici e di controllo, tutti mossi da una matrice comune da ricercare nel rafforzamento della stabilità dell’intermediario e della sua capacità di gestire i rischi.
L’evoluzione del contesto normativo in materia di politiche e prassi di remunerazione ed incentivazione nelle banche e nei gruppi bancari
Il sistema di remunerazione e incentivazione costituisce un elemento chiave del sistema di organizzazione e governo societario di una banca, rappresentando uno dei driver principali attraverso cui è possibile realizzare gli obiettivi degli stakeholder.
La crisi finanziaria ha fatto emergere in modo netto come un sistema di remunerazione e incentivazione basato su logiche che non considerano o non correlano le prestazioni ai rischi assunti, rappresenti una minaccia alla stabilità degli intermediari con ripercussioni sull’intero sistema finanziario.
Il quadro normativo nazionale e internazionale sulle politiche di remunerazione nel settore bancario ha subito una forte evoluzione nel corso dell’ultimo decennio portando a una serie di interventi normativi sulla tematica. Tralasciando quelli meno recenti, i cui principi e regole risultano comunque riflessi nei successivi provvedimenti, è di rilievo analizzare gli aspetti peculiari che caratterizzano le ultime evoluzioni della normativa in tema di politiche e prassi di remunerazione e incentivazione.
Nel corso degli ultimi anni la Banca d’Italia ha rafforzato l’azione di vigilanza sul rispetto della regolamentazione sui compensi, sia attraverso raccomandazioni rivolte alla generalità degli operatori (cfr. comunicazioni della Banca d’Italia del 2 marzo 2012 e del 13 marzo 2013) sia attraverso interventi mirati sulle singole banche. A testimonianza dell’importanza primaria che il tema dei sistemi di remunerazione riveste a livello regolamentare e di supervisione, anche in ambito europeo e internazionale si sono osservate molteplici azioni volte a verificare lo stato di implementazione delle regole in materia di remunerazioni (tra gli altri: EBA, “Survey on the implementation of the CEBS Guidelines on Remuneration Policies and Practices”, aprile 2012; FSB, “Implementing the FSB Principles for Sound Compensation Practices and their Implementation Standards. Progress report”, giugno 2012 e agosto 2013.).
L’esperienza applicativa ha portato la Banca d’Italia, nel dicembre 2013, a sottoporre a consultazione pubblica le modifiche al provvedimento del 30 marzo 2011[1], con l’emanazione in data 18 novembre 2014 delle nuove disposizioni di vigilanza in materia di “Politiche e prassi di remunerazione e incentivazione” per le banche e i gruppi bancari. Le nuove norme, inserite nella Circolare n. 285 del 17/12/2013[2], recepiscono le previsioni contenute nella direttiva europea 2013/36/UE (CRD IV) e gli indirizzi elaborati in ambito internazionale (EBA e FSB).
Di seguito i principali ambiti di novità della nuova disciplina:
Uno degli aspetti più delicati (per le implicazioni che comporta) disciplinati da regulatory technical standards (RTS) è il processo di identificazione del “personale più rilevante”, i cd. material risk taker (MRTs), cioè le categorie di soggetti la cui attività professionale ha o può avere un impatto sostanziale sul profilo di rischio della banca. Per l’identificazione del “personale più rilevante” si applicano infatti le regole definite con Regolamento delegato (UE) del 4 marzo 2014, n. 604[3]. Il processo di identificazione dei risk taker deve consentire alla banca di graduare l’applicazione dell’intera disciplina sulle remunerazioni in funzione dell’effettiva capacità delle singole figure aziendali di incidere sul profilo di rischio della banca.
Gli obiettivi della nuova regolamentazione, molti dei quali dichiarati espressamente dallo stesso regolatore, possono essere sintetizzati come segue:
allineare i sistemi di remunerazione agli obiettivi e valori aziendali, alle strategie di lungo periodo e alle politiche di prudente gestione del rischio;
collegare i sistemi di remunerazione e incentivazione ai risultati aziendali opportunamente corretti per i rischi attuali e prospettici;
assicurare coerenza tra sistemi di remunerazione e livelli di capitale e liquidità;
contenere i costi complessivi delle banche per esigenze patrimoniali e di redditività;
gestire efficacemente i possibili conflitti di interesse;
evitare incentivi distorti che possano indurre a violazioni normative o ad un’eccessiva assunzione di rischi per la banca;
accrescere il grado di trasparenza verso il mercato (disclosure);
rafforzare l’azione di controllo da parte delle autorità di vigilanza;
assicurare la coerenza del sistema di remunerazione e incentivazione con le scelte complessive sugli assetti di governo societario e dei controlli interni.
In linea con il principio di proporzionalità le banche sono tenute ad applicare le nuove disposizioni con modalità coerenti alle loro caratteristiche, dimensioni, rischiosità e complessità operativa.
Gli elementi di correlazione della nuova regolamentazione sulle remunerazioni con altri ambiti tematici oggetto di recente riforma
La necessità della Banca d’Italia di intervenire nuovamente dal punto di vista regolamentare è stata in parte dettata dagli obblighi legati all’appartenenza dell’Italia all’Unione europea (in particolare, al recepimento della Direttiva 2013/36/UE del 26 giugno 2013, cd. CRD IV), ma anche dall’esperienza applicativa maturata e delle caratteristiche peculiari del sistema italiano.
Un altro aspetto non meno rilevante alla base dell’intervento normativo del mese scorso è la necessità di un forte coordinamento con le diposizioni recentemente emanate in materia di sistema dei controlli interni (Circ. Banca d’Italia n. 263/06 – 15° aggiornamento), governo societario (Circ. Banca d’Italia n. 285/13 – 1° aggiornamento), nonché con altri interventi normativi collegati all’entrata in vigore della banking union.
Le nuove disposizioni di vigilanza in tema di remunerazioni si inseriscono pertanto in un contesto regolamentare in radicale mutamento finalizzato alla creazione di un insieme di regole vincolanti e uniformi a livello europeo (Single rulebook), precondizione per il successo del Single Supervisory Mechanism (SSM). L’SSM diventerà infatti uno dei protagonisti principali nel plasmare la trasformazione del settore dei servizi finanziari in Europa. I cambiamenti avranno un impatto rilevante sulle banche dell’eurozona e non solo, e porteranno le banche a ripensare radicalmente ad alcuni aspetti chiave che le caratterizzano, tra cui in primis:
Assetti di Governance;
Modelli di misurazione e gestione dei rischi;
Standard di gestione dei processi creditizi e non solo;
Modalità di interazione con le autorità di vigilanza (BCE vs NCA [ 4] ) in tutte le fasi del processo di supervisione ( Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process , SREP).
Le sfide evolutive dei sistemi di remunerazione e incentivazione e fattori critici di successo
Alla luce dello scenario sopra delineato, la definizione di un modello di compensation efficace ed efficiente passa attraverso una serie di sfide a fronte delle quali vanno focalizzati i relativi key success factor:
Allineamento strategie, remuneration framework, e processo di gestione dei rischi: è necessario confrontare il modello di business e gli obiettivi strategici con le politiche di remunerazione, il Risk Appetite Framework (RAF) e i processi di gestione dei rischi, verificandone la coerenza complessiva;
Risk Appetite Framework (RAF) Cambiamento culturale: va costruita una cultura del rischio a tutti i livelli che sia coerente con il “Risk Appetite” della banca. La sfida è far entrare la cultura del rischio nell’operatività delle funzioni di business (sia a livello centrale che a livello di reti distributive);
Processo di identificazione dei MRTs e poteri delegati: è fondamentale garantire la massima coerenza tra il processo di identificazione dei MRTs e la declinazione dei poteri delegati;
Sistemi retributivi differenziati: va valutata la definizione di un sistema di remunerazione e incentivazione differenziato a seconda del ruolo delle diverse figure aziendali e strutture organizzative, che contempli le diverse tipologie di rischio assunto e la diversa rilevanza del rischio, e che si focalizzi su risultati di lungo periodo;
Incentivi vs disincentivi: il sistema deve basarsi su metriche di misurazione della performance corretta per il rischio, ovvero prevedere disincentivi in caso di assunzione di livelli di rischio superiori ai limiti stabiliti;
Monitoraggio e strumenti di supporto al modello: vanno previsti gli impatti sui sistemi informativi al fine di identificare le soluzioni che consentano di supportare al meglio il monitoraggio dei requisiti definiti nell’ambito del nuovo sistema retributivo. La chiave vincente è la velocità di monitoraggio delle performance risk adjusted;
performance risk adjusted; Disclosure interna ed esterna: va implementato il framework di reporting per fornire adeguata informativa all’Alta Direzione, agli Organi Aziendali, agli Azionisti e alle Autorità di Vigilanza (nazionali e internazionali) in merito alle modalità con le quali il sistema di remunerazione e incentivazione tiene conto dei rischi assunti, dei risultati di lungo termine nonché dei livelli di liquidità e patrimonializzazione. Il vero valore aggiunto è la definizione di un framework di reporting sulle performance risk adjusted.
Un possibile approccio operativo per guidare il delicato percorso di adeguamento ai nuovi standard internazionali
Il passaggio successivo alla focalizzazione dei principi che devono ispirare l’evoluzione del remuneration framework è la definizione dell’approccio operativo per la “messa a terra” dello stesso.
Un possibile percorso per affrontare il cambiamento:
- Definizione linee evolutive del remuneration framework as is:
ambito di applicabilità e soggetti destinatari (organi aziendali, top Management, funzioni aziendali, business unit, agenti e promotori finanziari, ecc.);
governance e processo di definizione, gestione e controllo del sistema di remunerazione e incentivazione;
struttura del sistema: rapporto tra componente fissa e componente variabile, struttura della componente variabile, sistema premiante, ecc.;
metriche per la misurazione/valutazione delle performance risk adjusted e correlazione con strategie e obiettivi di lungo periodo;
risk adjusted reporting all’alta direzione, agli organi aziendali e all’assemblea;
disclosure verso l’esterno;
- Identificazione risk takers (lato sensu):
mappatura e clusterizzazione delle figure professionali per profilo di rischio e ambito di responsabilità;
identificazione dei rischi impattati dall’operatività delle strutture organizzative di riferimento;
identificazione del grado di correlazione tra i rischi e l’ambito di responsabilità delle strutture/figure professionali;
- Definizione remuneration principles/process:
principi, linee guida e regole sottostanti la politica di remunerazione;
processo attraverso il quale la politica di remunerazione è definita, attuata e monitorata (ruoli e responsabilità);
- Definizione e calibrazione obiettivi e metriche di valutazione:
identificazione, nell’ambito del risk appetite framework , delle metriche associabili alle performance;
risk appetite framework declinazione del mix di obiettivi (economico-finanziari e non) e relativi indicatori di performance risk adjusted collegati ai soggetti coinvolti:
- indicatori economico-finanziari: indicatori in grado di cogliere aspetti relativi alla struttura finanziaria e patrimoniale dell’intermediario e di valutare i rischi connessi a tale struttura;
- indicatori non economico-finanziari: indicatori in grado di cogliere aspetti di natura gestionale, organizzativa e di compliance;
simulazione e valutazione di impatto del nuovo sistema di performance management sulla base dei dati storici (identificazione effetti incentivanti, possibili incentivi avversi, ecc.);
- Implementazione remuneration framework target:
revisione/evoluzione dei poteri delegati in ottica risk based;
implementazione degli strumenti di monitoraggio nel continuo;
implementazione del framework di reporting sulle performance risk adjusted.
Conclusioni
Nel nuovo contesto regolamentare le politiche di remunerazione e incentivazione sono considerate una leva strategica fondamentale per la corretta ed efficiente gestione di una banca. Il sistema di remunerazione costituisce infatti una componente strategica del processo di gestione delle risorse umane, rappresentando l’anello di congiunzione tra strategie e risultati. In tal senso emerge in maniera chiara la necessità di:
ripensare il sistema di compensation secondo logiche “risk based” che consentano di tenere in considerazione tutti i rischi rilevanti per l’intermediario e gli elementi sia quantitativi che qualitativi in grado di correlare le perfomance ai rischi assunti (performance risk adjusted), incentivando il conseguimento di risultati duraturi;
inserire il sistema di compensation nel processo di pianificazione strategica di lungo periodo;
gestire il percorso di adeguamento ai nuovi standard tenendo conto delle necessarie interrelazioni del sistema di compensation con i concetti e le logiche introdotte dalle recenti riforme in tema di governance, sistema dei controlli interni e gestione dei rischi (es. risk appetite framework).
I nuovi standard regolamentari in tema di politiche di remunerazione e incentivazione non si ritiene debbano essere considerati un “giro di vite” sui compensi dei managers; il relativo percorso di adeguamento non va considerato come un mero aggiornamento del documento che le formalizza. Rappresentano al contrario un nuovo impulso verso il necessario avvio di un percorso virtuoso che consenta di correlare le logiche classiche di creazione del valore al concetto di “valore sostenibile” inteso come performance e risultati risk adjusted.
Il concetto di valore non è da interpretare come un qualcosa che va misurato a consuntivo ma da perseguire attraverso la creazione di una cultura e consapevolezza dei rischi assunti e assumibili da parte dei soggetti aziendali rilevanti ai fini dell’assunzione delle decisioni. Per ottenere ciò è fondamentale garantire la massima coerenza tra il processo di identificazione dei risk takers e la declinazione dei poteri delegati, perché il percorso di creazione di una vera cultura del rischio va guidato non sperato.
Le banche che riusciranno a cogliere tali opportunità traguarderanno non solo l’allineamento del loro remuneration framework agli standard internazionali ma anche una reale integrazione delle logiche di rischio nei processi decisionali a tutti i livelli. Il percorso è tutt’altro che semplice, ma quantomai necessario.
[1] Nel marzo 2011 la Banca d’Italia aveva emanato le “Disposizioni in materia di politiche e prassi di remunerazione e incentivazione nelle banche e nei gruppi bancari”, recependo le previsioni contenute nella Direttiva 2010/76/UE (cd. CRD III) del 24 novembre 2010 e nelle relative linee guida di attuazione predisposte dal CEBS nel 2010.
[2] Parte Prima, Titolo IV, Capitolo 2.
[3] Regolamento delegato (UE) n. 604, adottato il 4 marzo 2014 ai sensi dell’articolo 94(2) della CRD IV su proposta dell’EBA, che integra la direttiva 2013/36/UE del Parlamento europeo e del Consiglio per quanto riguarda le norme tecniche di regolamentazione relative ai criteri qualitativi e quantitativi adeguati per identificare le categorie di personale le cui attività professionali hanno un impatto sostanziale sul profilo di rischio dell’ente.
[4] National Competent Authorities.

Story 24
Page Content
Variable pay incentives—those goals which, when met, trigger large bonuses—are once again in the news, and the news is not good. Financial services company Wells Fargo is embroiled in scandal following accusations that its aggressive incentive program and dysfunctional culture led front-line bank employees to manipulate customer accounts so they could earn higher incentive payouts.
In December, the firm said it will stop paying bonuses to brokers who sell banking products, following the disclosure that the company's brokers opened 2 million fake bank accounts.
While the Wells Fargo scandal may be unique in its scope, it's not unique for a bonus incentives program—and the management practices behind it—to deviate from its intended purpose at the cost of an organization's reputation.
For compensation program managers, a Wells Fargo-like scandal can be prevented when designing an incentive program, and HR can take steps to ensure that the management and oversight of such a program is rigorous and consistent.
Avoid Design Flaws
The design of an incentive pay plan can include any number of missteps, including putting too much pay "at risk" and relying on poorly thought-out metrics such as targets that are too aggressive.
Pay Mix
"If you put a lot of pay at risk, you have a lot more risk of dysfunctional and unethical behaviors," said Mark Blessington, president of sales management consulting firm Mark Blessington Inc. in Asheville, N.C.
An incentive plan with a mix of, say, 95 percent base pay and 5 percent incentive pay is unlikely to lead to bad behavior "because the additional money to be made by engaging in those behaviors is not worth the risk of getting fired or worse," Blessington noted. "If a problem with incentives is going to occur, it will likely involve positions with much more pay at risk—say, a 50/50 split between base pay and incentives—because there is more to be gained by gaming the system."
Paying attention to the pay mix is particularly important when designing incentives for customer-facing positions. "Companies need to be very alert to any positions that touch the customer and have a high amount of pay at risk," Blessington said. Can the company really justify that amount of pay at risk in those situations? Is the incentive creating a strategic advantage, or is it creating an ethical and financial risk for the company?
Plan Metrics
Employers need to rely on incentive plan measures that are carefully thought out and monitored. For example, a retail store manager might earn an incentive based in part on improving store operating margins. "One way to achieve that is by cutting staff or not delivering appropriate pay to those workers," said Laura Sejen, managing director of talent and rewards with Willis Towers Watson in New York City. "That behavior on the part of store managers could lead to strong bonus payouts in the short term, but it could also damage customer satisfaction" over the longer term if service levels suffer.
[SHRM members-only toolkit: Designing and Managing Incentive Compensation Programs]
Plan Monitoring
Incentives require diligent monitoring, even when they appear to be operating as intended. "There is an old philosophy that focuses on walking around and asking people penetrating questions every once in a while," Blessington said. He suggested having an HR or compensation specialist assigned to those areas of the organization with a great deal of customer contact. "Part of their jobs should be getting soft information on the floor about what is going on and what people are doing," he said.

When it comes to the top performers, managers may not be looking closely at how those employees are achieving their results. If they are doing something unethical and are not questioned about their behavior, they often take that as tacit approval.
In these cases, employees' bad behavior is likely to continue unchecked. If they are promoted on the strength of their results, it creates an even more fertile environment for greater and more widespread dysfunction.
"If checks and balances [to curtail unethical behavior] don't already exist, it is up to HR to change things and identify how the organization is going to monitor incentives" going forward, Blessington said.
Financial modeling can show the likely results and costs of an incentive plan for various performance scenarios. This can be a good first step to identify potential problems.
Beyond that, "it is important to audit the incentive plan design to gauge its effectiveness and what kind of behaviors and outcomes it is driving," Sejen said. "Conduct a periodic review of plan designs to make sure that they are doing what you want them to do and that they are not doing what you don't want them to do."
Good questions to ask include:
What cultural challenges does the organization face regarding employees' pay expectations?


How can employee habits, attitudes and motivation impact the incentive plan, and vice versa?

By continually asking these types of questions and insisting on answers, employers can ensure that pay incentives are working, as intended, to improve individual and organizational performance.
Joanne Sammer is a New Jersey-based business and financial writer.
Related SHRM Online Articles:
Bonus Binge: Variable Pay Outpaces Salary, SHRM Online Compensation, August 2016
Variable Pay: Ready to Make the Leap?, SHRM Online Compensation, June 2016
Private Companies Typically Award an Incentive Pay Mix, SHRM Online Compensation, March 2016




Story 25
Amazon reported a record second-quarter profit of $2.53 billion, or $5.07 per share. The Seattle-based company has generated net income of $4.16 billion in the first half of this year, more than the previous seven quarters combined, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In 2014, Amazon lost $131 million.
The results demonstrated that Chief Executive Officer Jeff Bezos and his management team can finesse a massive global enterprise with about $200 billion in annual sales and more than half a million employees.
Even though second-quarter sales of $52.9 billion came in slightly below estimates of $53.4 billion, investors remain enthused, focusing instead on soaring profit that came in at more than double analysts’ projections.
“We want to see that when there’s a slight slowdown in sales, those profits expand,” said Josh Olson, analyst at Edward Jones & Co. “That’s the strength of this management team. They know when to step up spending and when to pull back. That gives us faith in the long-term story because eventually all of Amazon’s growth opportunities will come to an end.”
Chief Financial Officer Brian Olsavsky said growth of the Amazon Web Services cloud computing division and advertising sales propelled profit. Both businesses are more profitable than Amazon’s main e-commerce operation.
The retail business is also becoming more profitable thanks to job cuts earlier this year and a reorganisation enabled by automation of tasks once handled by people. Amazon uses robots rather than people to shuffle inventory around its warehouses, and algorithms to power inventory decisions once made by white collar workers.
Those changes let Amazon staff up growing departments without hiring lots of new people since it can transfer existing workers from other functions where they’re no longer needed. Amazon even trimmed losses in its international business while funding expansions in India, Australia, the Middle East and Brazil.
For most of Amazon’s existence, Bezos preached almost constant investment in new businesses at the expense of near-term profit. The company got low on cash during its early years and was often the subject of heated debate among investors over whether it would ever generate sustained earnings. Supporters regularly cited the company’s sales growth and said Amazon’s huge scale would eventually pay off.
Amazon’s size certainly helps these days. When the company delivers a package to a customer, it’s likely to pass many other customers’ homes nearby, spreading shipping costs across a larger revenue base. But new businesses have helped too. AWS began to take off about a decade ago and now generates more than half of Amazon’s operating income. Advertising is a newer business, but promises similar benefits.
That all means investors no longer shudder when sales growth falters. In the second quarter, worldwide paid units growth, a key metric of e-commerce momentum, was 17 percent, slowing for the fourth consecutive quarter. Amazon shares rose 3.2 percent in extended trading anyway.
Olsavsky attributed the slowdown to a difficult comparable period a year ago when Amazon lowered the price threshold for free shipping, responding to competitive pressure from Walmart Inc.
One factor that reduces Amazon growth while boosting profit is rising sales from independent merchants posting their own inventory on Amazon’s marketplace. Those sales are more profitable for Amazon since it takes a commission along with fees for warehouse storing, packing and delivery – without the risk of buying inventory.
“We’re seeing a lot more third-party transactions, which is why the revenue missed but the profits are so good,” said RJ Hottovy, an equity analyst at Morningstar Inc.
Amazon’s stock has more than tripled in the past three years, making Bezos the richest person on the planet. It’s the world’s second-most valuable public company now behind Apple Inc., making it one of the front-runners in the race to reach $1 trillion in market value.
Investors have placed tremendous faith in Amazon’s ability to find new customers and squeeze more money from existing users by offering them new products and services. It purchased online pharmacy PillPack last month, which followed its $13.7 billion acquisition of Whole Foods last year to jump start its struggling grocery business. Olsavsky said marketing in Whole Foods is creating new members for Amazon’s Prime subscription. “It’s the fastest we’ve ever seen,” he added.
Amazon’s momentum has been strong enough to sustain Twitter broadsides from US President Donald Trump, who has accused Amazon of freeloading off the US Postal Service and using the Washington Post as a lobbying tool against antitrust criticism. Bezos owns the Washington Post, which frequently publishes hard-hitting investigative pieces about Trump and his administration.
Revenue from Amazon Web Services, its profitable cloud-computing division, jumped 49 percent to $6.1 billion. Growth, which Amazon reports without the impact of currency changes, was 48 percent in the first quarter.
Sales from other businesses – mostly advertising – surged 129 percent to $2.2 billion, just below the growth rate from the first quarter.
Amazon has more than 100 million Prime subscribers who pay yearly or monthly fees in exchange for fast shipping, video and music streaming and digital photo storage. Members spend more than non-members. Subscription services revenue, which is mostly from Prime, soared 55 percent to $3.4 billion. First-quarter growth was 56 percent.
Amazon will capture nearly half of all online spending in the US this year, according to EMarketer Inc. Bezos is trying to convince investors that he can replicate that US dominance overseas. That still takes a lot of spending upfront: Second-quarter operating expenses rose 34 percent to $49.9 billion. That was just below Amazon’s revenue growth rate.

Story 26
Dennis Oland spent triple the amount he earned during the first half of 2011, overspending by an average of $14,000 a month before the bludgeoning death of his multimillionaire father, his murder retrial heard on Tuesday.
But a defence review of Oland's finances showed his overspending was even worse during the same six-month period the year before — approximately $20,000 per month.
The Crown alleges Oland was on the edge financially when he went to visit his father Richard Oland at his Saint John office on the night he was killed and that his deepening debt was a possible motive for murder.
The defence, however, contends Oland's cash flow problems were nothing new and nothing unusual for a financial adviser.
On Tuesday, forensic accountant Eric Johnson took the stand and reviewed his analysis of Oland's financial records. He focused primarily on the period from Jan. 1, 2011, to the day Richard Oland's body was discoverd — July 7, 2011.
The binder, which was several inches thick, had been condensed from a larger volume, Crown prosecutor Derek Weaver advised the court.
"Are you serious?" responded a surprised Justice Terrence Morrison.
Johnson looked at Oland's main chequing account, his Visa, line of credit, investment account and RRSP account.
Dennis Oland has pleaded not guilty to second-degree murder and is being retried by judge alone in New Brunswick Court of Queen's Bench in Saint John. (CBC)
He found the chequing account "rarely had a positive balance that lasted more than a month."
"The balance spiked upward when his pay was deposited, but declined as funds were used to pay bills and other living costs."
A total of $102,835.93 was deposited into the account during those six months and $102,171.58 was withdrawn.
Oland's bank account and credit card activity showed combined spending of $120,972.16 during that period, said Johnson. His pay was only $34,124.02, resulting in a deficit of $86,848.14.
Some of that spending included about $16,000 on trips to Florida and England, Johnson found.
Dennis Oland's secured line of credit remained near its $163,000 limit. On July 7, 2011, the day his father's body was discovered, he owed $163,939.68 on the line of credit. (Court exhibit)
Oland had increased his Visa limit by $7,000 to $27,000 in February 2011, but by July 7, the balance stood at $32,928.53 — more than $5,500 over the limit, he said.
Similarly, Oland had increased his line of credit by $88,000 to $163,000 in March 2011, but it too was overdrawn by more than $900 in July.
Meanwhile, his investment account had been cleaned out and his RRSP account had only $20.13 left.
​Oland, 50, is the last person known to have seen his father alive when he visited him at his uptown office on the evening of July 6, 2011.
Richard Oland, 69, was found dead in his Saint John office on July 7, 2011. (Canadian Yachting Association)
The 69-year-old's body was discovered in the office the next morning, with 45 sharp- and blunt-force injuries to his head, neck and hands. No weapon was ever found.
A jury found the younger Oland guilty of second-degree murder in 2015, but the New Brunswick Court of Appeal overturned his conviction and ordered a new trial, citing an error in the trial judge's instructions to the jury.
Tuesday marked Day 28 of the judge-alone retrial, which began in Saint John Court of Queen's Bench on Nov. 21. The trial is scheduled to resume on Wednesday at 9:30 a.m.
Analysis doesn't reflect 'net worth'
During cross-examination, defence lawyer Michael Lacy pointed out the forensic accountant did not do a net worth analysis of Oland. Johnson confirmed he was not asked to do so by police or the Crown.
As a result, his review of Oland's finances did not take into account any of his assets, the courtroom heard.
Lacy noted, for example, that Johnson found evidence of at least two different sources of rental income, with cheques for $850 and $650 occasionally being deposited into his account. He suggested it would be reasonable to infer there was a corresponding asset. Johnson agreed.
Lacy argued an analysis doesn't give a "true sense of a person's financial position unless you do a balance sheet, correct?"
"Yes," replied Johnson.
Cheque to father after death
His analysis didn't look beyond July 7 either, said Lacy. So while Johnson found Oland bounced a cheque to his father on July 5, the day before he was killed, he missed that the $1,666.67 payment did eventually go through on July 19.
In fact, the full month of July was slightly better than the previous months, ending with a positive balance of $572.68, noted Lacy.
The defence also reviewed Oland's finances for 2009 and 2010, which Johnson agreed showed similar "peaks and valleys" in his banking account to 2011 and maxing out or exceeding of his credit limits.
This chart, submitted into evidence by the defence, showed the spikes and dips seen in Dennis Oland's main CIBC chequing account in 2011 (in blue) also occurred in 2009 (green) and 2010 (red). (Court exhibit)
Between Jan. 1, 2010 and July 7, 2010, his spending outstripped his income by $128,659.58 — about $40,000 more than the six months before his father was killed, Lacy pointed out.
Oland also opted to take a trip to the Caribbean Island of St. Maarten that year, spending about $9,000, he said, implying he wasn't worried about money.
On redirect, the Crown asked Johnson how Oland's debt load between 2009 and 2011 compared.
"It was increasing as time passed," he said.
'A bit nervous' about finances
John Travis, Dennis Oland's former manager for CIBC Wood Gundy in Saint John, testified at the retrial Tuesday. (CBC)
Earlier Tuesday, the court heard Oland was "a bit concerned" about his finances in June 2011 and a "bit nervous" some automatic withdrawals from his account would bounce.
Oland, a financial adviser at CIBC Wood Gundy at the time, had arranged an $8,000-per-month advance on his pay to help him through a two-month "crunch period" and when only $4,000 was deposited, he emailed his manager John Travis to ask him to look into it.
"​It is essential that the correct funds be placed into my bank account today so that I can honor my commitments that are due today," Oland wrote on June 15. They included a $4,230 support payment to his ex-wife and a "$1,650.00 loan payment," he said.
Travis testified he didn't know the details of the loan Oland referred to, but the trial has heard Oland was making monthly interest payments of $1,666.67 to his father for the $500,000 he had provided in 2008-09, when Oland was going through a divorce from his first wife.
During opening statements, Crown prosecutor Jill Knee said, "This loan is an important factor in the accused's financial state leading up to the murder of Richard Oland."
The defence argues ​the $500,000 was an advance on Oland's inheritance and the monthly interest payments were only out of fairness to the other beneficiaries — his two sisters.
$16K advance on pay
In requesting the advance on his pay, Oland had suggested he was on the verge of bringing in significant business to the firm from his father and another client.
"​I had a good chat with Dick [his father] yesterday and the timeline to see some funds flowing this way looks to have firmed up to the August/September time period," he said in an email to Travis on June 1, 2011.
"We are looking at total new assets in the $10- $20m range," he wrote.
"In the meantime, it does look like I am going to struggle with cash for the next few months and as a result I wanted to revisit your offer to assist me to get through this crunch period."
On mobile? Follow our live blog here
Crown prosecutor Derek Weaver asked Travis if CIBC saw "any further funds flow" from Richard Oland between that email and his death.
"Not that I'm aware of," replied Travis.
Oland told Travis he needed at least $7,500 per month for two months to cover his expenses, but the "ideal" amount for him would be $8,500.
Under cross-examination by Oland's defence lawyer Alan Gold, Travis said he had offered to help Oland out in May, but he had declined.
Travis also agreed with Gold that Oland's "book of business" was worth between $200,000 and $300,000 at the time, which was a "considerable asset" for him.

Story 27
Pardon Our Interruption...
As you were browsing www.streetinsider.com something about your browser made us think you were a bot.
If you are interested in www.streetinsider.com content, APIs are available. Please contact us here http://www.streetinsider.com/signup_content.php
To request an unblock, please fill out the form below and we will review it as soon as possible.

Story 28
While early in the second half of the year, it’s already time to begin thinking about sales compensation plans for 2018 (believe it or not).
Before beginning on the 10 steps below, it’s critical that the team understands the C-level goals for the sales organization. Ask:
What products and services are important for the upcoming year?
Do we have the right type of sales talent?
What are our 2018 financial goals?
Once the strategy is set, it’s time to dive in. Follow the 10 best-practices design steps below when designing or updating a sales incentive program to ensure your 2018 plans drive profitable growth for your organization.
Determine First, consider the relevant labor market (and remember the market targeted for talent may be different than the market in which the business competes for customers). Target pay for each role will result in a target total compensation (TTC), which will be the starting value that will flow through the design of the incentive plan. Set "Pay mix" defines the proportion of salary and incentive at target performance, meaning performance to quota. The total of the salary and incentive at target should equal the TTC for the job. Pay mix will vary by job type and is driven by several factors that include sales process characteristics, types of sale and types of customers. For example, a role that is focused on new customer acquisition for mid-sized accounts will likely have more incentive pay as a percentage of TTC (perhaps 50% base salary and 50% target incentive) than a role focused on current customer management for major accounts (perhaps 70% base salary and 30% target incentive). Establish upside potential. "Upside potential" is the incentive pay available to top performers, typically the 90th percentile, and is often determined as a multiple of target incentive. Upside is a critical component to help the organization attract and retain the best talent in its market. Define high performance for the organization, and make sure you differentiate incentive pay -- significantly -- between top performers and average performers. Establish performance "Threshold" refers to the entry point of achievement where the plan begins to pay incentive. Threshold usually represents the minimum acceptable level of performance, below which a rep would not typically stay employed with the organization. Develop measures and priorities. "Performance measures" define the focus areas that are most important for each role. Each measure should represent the most significant pieces of the sales strategy that the role can control. A challenge for many organizations is determining which few of many possible measures should be included in the sales compensation plan and which should simply be core expectations of that job. Set levels and timing. For each measure, the organization must define the level at which that measure will be tracked for the plan. For example, the organization may define a revenue measure for a sales rep at an individual level or a region level. Each measure will also be measured and paid on a certain timeframe, for example monthly or quarterly. Design. "Mechanics" create the connection between performance and pay and can be divided into three types. A rate-based mechanic (or, commission) usually pays a certain percentage of revenue or gross profit, or a certain dollar amount per unit of sale. A quota-based mechanic typically pays a target incentive for reaching a specific quota or goal and may scale its payout above and below that performance level. A link creates a relationship and interdependency between two measures or mechanics. Align the team. A full sales compensation program will include a range of sales, sales support and management roles. To work together as a team, plan designs must interface as a complete system. The program should promote teamwork; seek out points of potential conflict and try to resolve. Set quotas. Quotas are the linchpin between the sales compensation plan and performance. Quotas should be market-based and created with a process that’s well-understood by reps. Over time, quota processes for an organization will usually move from historically based approaches to more market-based approaches as the market and organization become more developed. Institute the governance process. A good governance process is like the constitution of the sales compensation plan. Without a clear approach to governance, the organization will probably create the governing laws throughout the year as it goes, sometimes in a reactive mode.
Operating the program throughout the year will draw from all the strategic connections made, components designed and governance established. From a tactical standpoint, technology may also be leveraged to track performance, administer pay and provide a communications portal for the reps and management.
Continue to evaluate the program throughout the year, drawing upon the dashboard and tools to monitor relationships between pay and performance, attainment of goals and differentiation of high and low performers. Track areas where improvements can be made, and then – before you know it -- get ready to start the process over again.
Mark Donnolo has been a sales effectiveness expert for over 25 years and has worked with companies such as: IBM, AT&T, KPMG, Office Depot, and LexisNexus. He is also the author of "What Your CEO Needs to Know About Sales Compensation."
If you enjoyed this article, join SmartBrief’s e-mail list for our daily newsletter on being a better, smarter leader. We also have more than 200 industry-focused newsletters, all free to subscribe.

Story 29
One of the big challenges for the people leading global sales organizations is figuring out the right way to set pay for salespeople who work in vastly different countries and markets.
Some argue that having a single global plan for each sales role (e.g. the same pay mix, metrics, plan type, and payout curve in every country) is beneficial: “A global plan aligns with the needs of global customers and creates uniformly effective and fair compensation. It provides control over sales incentive spending around the world, and it simplifies plan management and administration.”
Others argue that a single global incentive plan per sales role doesn’t work: “Sales is a local function. Each country has its own market dynamics, business culture, laws, and availability of data for measuring performance. Diversity makes a global sales incentive plan impractical and dangerous.”
When it comes to globalizing sales incentive plan design, companies should tread with caution. Global plan design works only if market dynamics enable similar sales processes and roles around the world, and if countries are reasonably alike in terms of culture, laws, and data availability. Unfortunately, that sort of consistency doesn’t happen.
Consider several examples of differences across countries that can create complications for globalized sales incentive plans.
Market maturity: Salespeople in mature markets focus on protecting business with existing customers, while salespeople in growing markets tend to focus on new customer acquisition.
Salespeople in mature markets focus on protecting business with existing customers, while salespeople in growing markets tend to focus on new customer acquisition. Channel structure: A company might reach some markets with face-to-face selling supplemented by inside sales, and in other regions they sell primarily through distributors.
A company might reach some markets with face-to-face selling supplemented by inside sales, and in other regions they sell primarily through distributors. Business culture: In the United States, for example, the culture often emphasizes individual performance, while in Japan, it stresses teamwork.
In the United States, for example, the culture often emphasizes individual performance, while in Japan, it stresses teamwork. Laws: In countries such as Brazil, Mexico, and India, government regulations prohibit reductions in base pay. In other countries, works councils limit flexibility.
In countries such as Brazil, Mexico, and India, government regulations prohibit reductions in base pay. In other countries, works councils limit flexibility. Data availability: For example, data capturing end-user sales from distributors may be unavailable in some countries, making it impossible to consistently measure revenue at the individual salesperson level.
These issues are typical in global sales forces. Almost always, it is unrealistic to expect that a single incentive plan per sales role can work globally.
But that doesn’t mean you can’t make global investments to enhance the effectiveness of a sales compensation program. Consider three approaches that can work.
Develop Global Guidelines
Global guidelines help countries design incentive plans that fit with local needs but also align with a unified company perspective. For example, a medical device company created the following global guidelines for incentive plans for new business development salespeople.
Pay Level: Use external compensation surveys to determine what the local market pays for similar sales roles and set pay level at the 60 th percentile, balancing the ability to attract strong talent with the need to control costs.
Use external compensation surveys to determine what the local market pays for similar sales roles and set pay level at the 60 percentile, balancing the ability to attract strong talent with the need to control costs. Pay Mix: To determine the proportion of fixed salary vs. variable commission/bonus, use external compensation surveys and match the pay mix to what is typical for similar sales roles in the local market.
To determine the proportion of fixed salary vs. variable commission/bonus, use external compensation surveys and match the pay mix to what is typical for similar sales roles in the local market. Performance Metrics: Pay on revenues (timing determined locally) for individual (not team) performance; pay incentives rarely for management by objective (MBO) achievement (e.g. for competencies or activities), with a maximum allowable payment of 20% of incentives
Pay on revenues (timing determined locally) for individual (not team) performance; pay incentives rarely for management by objective (MBO) achievement (e.g. for competencies or activities), with a maximum allowable payment of 20% of incentives Performance – Payout Relationship: Pay commission with no thresholds (meaning there’s no minimum before payout starts), no caps (limits on earnings), and no decelerators (reduced payout rates as sales increase), as these features may demotivate salespeople.
Within these guidelines, countries had flexibility to control many details of their incentive plan design to fit their local situation. The global guidelines significantly improved the quality and consistency of incentive plan design across countries.
Create Centers of Expertise
Global companies can improve sales incentive plans around the world by establishing global resources (e.g. centers of expertise) to help countries design plans. For example, as part of a global sales force effectiveness initiative, General Electric established resources at global headquarters to:
Develop a consistent set of global frameworks, models, capabilities, and best practices.
Propagate best practices through training and education.
Provide wisdom, experience, and project team members who could help businesses execute the frameworks.
Continually improve the frameworks, models, and approaches.
The initiative helped GE businesses worldwide to assess sales incentive plan effectiveness, improve alignment with pay for performance, evaluate the strength of payout controls, and implement plan change. A project for one business – GE Capital Financing Solutions – reduced the number of plans from 165 to 69, and achieved 90% compliance with global incentive plan guidelines that increased focus on pay for performance and profitability.
Centralize Administration
Incentive plan administration is complex and error-prone. Often, countries don’t do a very good job of it. Provided there is sufficient scale, companies can benefit from centralizing and streamlining incentive plan administration. Benefits include:
Cost savings by eliminating redundant resources (e.g. systems and infrastructure) across countries and utilizing skilled people in lower cost labor markets.
by eliminating redundant resources (e.g. systems and infrastructure) across countries and utilizing skilled people in lower cost labor markets. Increased effectiveness and fewer errors through consistency in data collection and reporting, and the creation and use of operational best practices.
and fewer errors through consistency in data collection and reporting, and the creation and use of operational best practices. Risk mitigation through easier tracking of incentive plan spending and greater visibility into anticipated incentive costs and results by country.
When one financial services company centralized sales incentive plan administration, the streamlining of processes led to an 11% cost reduction. In addition, distrust of the old systems had caused salespeople and managers to spend as much as 10% of their time checking the accuracy of sales data and incentive calculations. With increased sales force confidence in the new system, almost all of the shadow accounting stopped. Sales managers spent more time coaching and salespeople spent more time selling.
In most global sales forces, cross-country diversity makes it inadvisable to have a single global plan. Yet approaches such as global guidelines, centers of expertise, and centralized administration can do much to improve a global sales incentive compensation program.

Story 30
Marlene Satter & BenefitsPRO editors | October 25, 2019
October 29 is the 90th anniversary of the stock market crash. We're not saying a crash is coming, but it's interesting to look at then and now.

Story 31
To ensure this doesn’t happen in the future, please enable Javascript and cookies in your browser.
Is this happening to you frequently? Please report it on our feedback forum.
If you have an ad-blocker enabled you may be blocked from proceeding. Please disable your ad-blocker and refresh.
Reference ID:

Story 32
Wealth, jobs and pay inequality are big political issues this presidential primary season, and they’re bound to become bigger once the parties pick their nominees. In the plethora of plans candidates tout for tackling these problems, one favored tool stands out: the federal tax code.
But trying to legislate corporate behavior and economic fairness — however you define fairness — through the tax system is a lot trickier than it sounds.
Consider the supposed solution to an equality and social-justice issue debated six elections ago — a law designed to limit how much companies could deduct from their taxable income for lush pay packages to high-paid executives.
In 1992, as now, key electoral issues included inequality and the spectacle of American jobs moving overseas — underscored by a gaping disparity between executives making multiple millions and ordinary workers with stagnant wages.
The idea was to give companies a tax incentive to rein in executive pay or just shame them into it. But a new study done for ProPublica and The Washington Post by S&P Global Market Intelligence shows that the law has had little effect. In fact, the titans of American industry and commerce shrugged off the statute and moved to pay top executives way more than the deductibility limit.
Bill Clinton, the not-yet-a-household-name Arkansas governor, proposed limiting deductions for what he called "excessive executive pay" during his first presidential campaign in the early 1990s. The concept had kicked around Washington for several years and was one of the planks that helped him win the Democratic nomination and deny George H.W. Bush a second term. In 1992, Bush had vetoed a budget bill containing a provision to limit how much companies could deduct for high-paid people.
Clinton’s victory and a Democratic Congress resulted in a tax law change that limited companies’ deductions for executives’ compensation to $1 million per executive per year. That’s the amount that Clinton proposed for chief executives in “Putting People First,” a campaign book that he co-authored with Al Gore.
The compensation deduction limit, known to tax techies as Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, was adopted in a 1993 bill that also increased taxes on higher-income Social Security recipients and reduced deductions for business meals.
The legislation, however, was stuffed with loopholes. It covered only companies with publicly traded stock; it applied to only five (and since 2007, four) “named executive officers” who aren’t necessarily the highest-paid; and it exempted “performance-based” compensation, including stock options, and huge bonuses based on easily attained goals, allowing unlimited deductions for them.
Section 162(m) fulfilled a campaign promise. But, in hindsight, it’s clear that it has had little or no influence on corporate behavior. Says Sen. Charles E. Grassley (R-Iowa), a leading congressional tax maven: “Regardless of how you feel about limiting compensation through the tax code, the current law is like a gnat on an elephant in accomplishing its goal. It’s easy to swataway, and that’s exactly what many companies do.”
We decided to see whether that was accurate.
Our study looked at the history of executive compensation for the 40 members of today’s “Nifty Fifty” — the 50 companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index with the highest stock market value — that also reported executive compensation information for 1992, the year before the pay-deductibility limits took effect.
To compare apples to apples, we eliminated the 10 members of the Nifty Fifty, including Facebook and Alphabet (Google’s parent company), that weren’t publicly traded back then or didn’t exist.
In 1992, only 35 percent of the people in our study — executives whose income was reported in companies’ proxy statements — had more than $1 million of income in the categories subject to deductibility limits. (Those are salaries, bonuses and restricted stock that vests over time.) But in 2014, the last year for which corporate salary income is available, the number had risento 95 percent.
(Read our complete methodology.)
Given inflation, it’s no surprise that more top execs would breach the $1 million cap. But the numbers also showed something completely unintuitive.
From 1992 to 2014, compensation per executive in the limited-deductibility categories rose more rapidly — by about 650 percent, to $8.2 million from $1.1 million — than compensation in categories such as stock options and incentive pay that aren’t subject to deductibility limits. The latter rose by about 350 percent, to $4.4 million from $970,000.
The Inexorable Rise of Executive Pay Congress tried to curb soaring pay for corporate executives with a 1993 law capping the tax deduction companies can take for certain types of compensation. The limit, $1 million per top officer, has had little effect. At 40 of today’s biggest companies, compensation subject to the cap has risen almost twice as fast per executive as fully-deductible compensation. See more findings and read our methodology. Company Execs Exceeding Deductibility Limit Compensation Subject to Deductibility Limit * Compensation Not Subject to Deductibility Limit ** 1992 2014 1992 2014 1992 2014 Allergan (Watson Pharma) 0 5 $378,310 $77,420,784 $86,185 $35,529,075 Cisco Systems 0 4 $1,098,836 $75,229,174 $3,417 $10,752,810 Microsoft 0 4 $1,993,236 $51,764,171 $12,943 $59,790 Oracle 1 5 $4,889,006 $119,356,251 $12,206,249 $106,014,052 Apple 2 4 $5,665,633 $114,558,188 $0 $16,864,548 () = Company name in 1992 * Includes salary, bonus and restricted stock awards ** Includes stock options, incentive pay and other Source: Data courtesy of S&P Global Market Intelligence
“That’s powerful,” Steven Balsam, a leading academic expert on executive compensation practices, said when told what our study showed. Balsam is a professor at Temple University’s Fox School of Business who published a 2012 study on the deduction cap for the Economic Policy Institute. “At best, 162(m) has had a marginal effect,” he said. “It hasn’t had a major impact.”
Some of the companies with the most notable increases in compensation subject to the limit include Allergan (to $77.4 million from $378,000), Cisco (to $75.2 million from $1.1 million), Oracle (to $119.4 million from $4.9 million) and Walmart (to $55.4 million from $2.9 million).
What happened? It turns out that losing deductibility isn’t all that big a deal to companies — we estimated the effect of lost deductibility on corporate profits at only about 0.2 percent in 2010 for the companies in Balsam’s study. And there’s no reason to think those numbers have changed much.
(The 0.2 percent figure is based on Balsam’s estimate that the 7,248 companies in his study paid an extra $2.5 billion of federal tax because of lost deductibility in 2010, and on S&P Global Market Intelligence's calculation that the 7,722 firms in its slightly larger database had $1.153 trillion in after-tax profits that year.)
“Decisions on the pay mix are not guided by the deductibility factor,” said Steven Seelig, executive compensation counsel for Willis Towers Watson, a big consulting firm. “Compensation committees are certainly mindful of the tax rules and meet the deductibility rules when they can. But the decision on the pay mix that’s appropriate is guided by their companies’ unique circumstances.”
One of the reasons that the deductibility limit has been so ineffectual is that it was watered down from what was originally proposed.
According to coverage by Tax Notes, which tracked the progress of 162(m) in great detail, the intellectual godfather of the legislation was then-Rep. Martin Sabo, a Minnesota Democrat.
Sabo, who represented Minneapolis and some of its suburbs, said in an interview that his goal had been to reduce economic inequality. “My proposal was trying to send a message,” he said. “This was a sort of symbolic thing because I felt that those at the top should care about the bottom.” He had pushed for deductibility limits in the 1992 tax bill that Bush vetoed.
But what became Section 162(m) a year later wasn’t Sabo’s original concept. “What I proposed was that you couldn’t take a tax deduction if the compensation exceeded 25 times the compensation of the lowest-paid employees,” he said.
That idea began life as the Income Disparities Act of 1991. Because it applied to all employees, not just top officers, the legislation would have had a sweeping impact across corporate America. How did it morph into something that affected only a few executives at publicly traded companies?
“I don’t know,” Sabo said.
A hint of what happened comes from former congressman Tom Downey. The New York Democrat was a member of the House Ways and Means Committee and was involved with Sabo’s 1991 legislation, but he left Congress before 162(m) became law.
“There are all sorts of things I did to try to get rich people to pay more in taxes, and none of it worked,” Downey said. All sorts of people were upset by Sabo’s proposal, Downey said, and major attacks “came from my friends in Hollywood.”
It’s doubtful that anything resembling Sabo’s proposal would have been adopted. What Clinton proposed in “Putting People First” — a $1 million cap — was a simpler and easier sell.
“This is an example of a law that’s so watered down it’s meaningless. It’s still on the books, but it has no value,” said Graef “Bud” Crystal, a compensation consultant and critic of excessive executive pay. “It should be put out of its misery.”
Crystal had a 1991 phone conversation with Clinton about limiting deductions for executive compensation that was widely publicized at the time. Crystal said he told Clinton that the proposal not only wouldn’t hold down executive pay, but would hurt shareholders by increasing the after-tax cost of CEO pay packages.
Crystal said that when people told Clinton that the legislation was so diminished it would have no effect, “he said, ‘Bud Crystal made me do it.’” Actually, Crystal said, “I told him just the opposite.”
What does Clinton think of how ineffectual his legislation has been? That’s a mystery. The former president was campaigning in New Hampshire for his wife, and his spokesman declined to respond to a list of detailed questions.
On the campaign trail these days, Republicans say that eliminating the corporate income tax (Sen. Ted Cruz) or cutting it sharply (Donald Trump) will set off a hiring boom. Democrats say that jacking up tax rates (Sen. Bernie Sanders) or changing capital gains rules (Hillary Clinton) will reduce the advantages that rich people enjoy over the rest of the populace.
It’s impossible to know whether any of these ideas will become law. But based on history, it’s a safe bet that if they do, they are not likely to produce the results their proponents predict.

Story 33
Pardon Our Interruption...
As you were browsing www.streetinsider.com something about your browser made us think you were a bot.
If you are interested in www.streetinsider.com content, APIs are available. Please contact us here http://www.streetinsider.com/signup_content.php
To request an unblock, please fill out the form below and we will review it as soon as possible.

Story 34
To ensure this doesn’t happen in the future, please enable Javascript and cookies in your browser.
Is this happening to you frequently? Please report it on our feedback forum.
If you have an ad-blocker enabled you may be blocked from proceeding. Please disable your ad-blocker and refresh.
Reference ID:

Story 35
The direct drive is essentially a DI box with designs on being a stack, intended first and foremost for live use. Starting with the ¼” input jack you have the option of sending the coloured signal out via a balanced XLR or another ¼” TRS or both. You also have an isolated tuner out and thru-put that sends untouched signal to the aforementioned Tonehenge. On the DI side of things there is an efficient ground lift and polarity switch so you can tune to the PA on the fly, everything you’d expect from the leader of the direct signal pack.
On the right side of the faceplate we stumble upon two modest switches, bright/normal and the three-way amp simulation selector. What Radial have done is mapped out the way an SM57 reacts to signal when it’s squarely in front of a 4x12 half stack, a closed back cabinet and a Fender-esque combo and designed circuitry to match. Here’s where the whole conversation becomes interesting, especially if you’re the one riding faders. One idea of the many offered on the roadmap to be found (and exhausted if you have the time) on the website is to put the Direct Drive at the end of your pedal chain and send clean, thru signal to the amp coupled with the XLR send to you desk. From there, dial in a mixture of stage and direct colours for ultimate tonal control out the front with more than a little bit of character at your disposal. Sounds complicated, but it’s actually a really clever trick that has the potential to turn an average mix into an incredible one.
It’s not an actual difference in tone you’re hearing; it’s essentially the way the circuitry’s harmonics react to the original signal as opposed to a set of ugly roll-offs doing all the work, not unlike changing pickups but without the major surgery. For arguments sake I ran it directly into my amp and the cross section of colours is subtle and satisfying even without doing any of the tricky stuff.
Radial Engineering has positioned itself at the head of the pack of problem solvers for musicians at any stage in their career. The fact that both Kerry King of Slayer and Chick Corea both have their faces on the packaging is testament to the trustworthy and universal nature of their designs. Anywhere there is tone to be chased, anywhere heads are being scratched looking for sonic solutions you bet your bottom dollar these guys have the answer.

Story 36
Compensation for lost pay is becoming a huge burden for companies seeking to attract senior talent, especially since the amount at stake is substantially higher than average salaries as employee stock option plans or ESOPs and bonuses form a big chunk of top executive pay.The quantum of such “loss compensation” or sign-on bonuses is on the rise as the underlying loss has gone up to the extent of several crores, said search industry experts and human resource heads.K Sudarshan, managing partner India at EMA Partners, said he is closing in on a CEO search where the person has bonus and stocks of over $1million (Rs 7.3 crore) that would be compensated by the company that is hiring him.Citing one of his recent hires for the role of CEO of a Rs 1,000-crore consumer company, R Suresh, founder of boutique search and consulting firm INSIST Executive Search, said the company paid him nearly Rs 1 crore towards his annual stocks and variables that he was losing out with his former employer.“The amount of sign-on bonuses has gone up significantly in the past one-two years with the increase in stock and variable component in CXO salaries,” said Sudarshan.Suresh concurred, saying, “Corporates in India are battling loss compensation at the senior level. It could be even higher in case of expat hires which would include a fair assessment of the loss on house, car disposal, brokerage, bonus, etc.”Typically, loss accrues due to performance bonus of the year in which the transition takes place, unvested stock of the current employer and any other retention payment structured by the current employer.Several surveys have revealed that in the past couple of years, Indian companies have been getting more aggressive on performance-linked pay for CEOs than the local units of their global peers, not only holding the top executives more accountable for business performance but also offering sizeable wealth creation opportunities to those who deliver on promises.Industry estimates suggest the variable component (including short-term and long-term incentives) could be as high as 50-55% of the CEO/CXO pay mix.“Sign-on bonuses previously were used as a lure money just to attract talent in the rapid sunrise areas such as IT, consulting and ecommerce over a period of time. Now, the lure has turned into a necessity in several other sectors such as manufacturing, banks, financial services, consumer goods, etc, since there is out-of-pocket loss of compensation involved,” said Suresh.However, HR heads said the quantum of sign-on bonus paid to a senior executive to make up for losses depends on past performance of the professional and how much the company wants to hire the person.“These days good employers do take care of their employees even when they part. However, if required for certain niche profiles at senior levels, we compensate in various manners in the form of variables,” said Suresh Bose, head, group human resources at Vedanta group.“But it definitely depends on performance track record and how much the company wants him/her. There is also a clawback option in case the person leaves in the next two-three years,” he said.The competition for top talent also pushes up the loss compensation. “Best talent will come at a cost. To hire the best guy you have to pay,” said Sudhir Dhar, director-HR, Motilal Oswal Financial Services. He said the amount could go beyond Rs 1 crore at the CXO level depending on the credentials and track record of the person.However, any sign-on payment is subject to proof and due diligence. In most cases the payment is staggered over a period of time.“We keep the potential earning opportunity of the candidate in mind and build it into the new package as far as is realistic,” said S Venkatesh, president-group HR at RPG Enterprises. “For us we look at it as a one-time special payment which is only for any money that might be due to the candidate in the near term such as next three-six months and not beyond that.”At Zensar, he said, the group can negotiate a package with a stock option scheme. “But for the other group companies we try to negotiate a suitable cash-based CTC (cost to company), sometimes on immediate basis,” he said.

Story 37
Salary increases in Asia-Pacific recorded a modest rebound this year for the first time since 2014, according to Willis Towers Watson, a global risk management, brokerage and advisory company.
The average salary increase of 5.7% across 17 markets was one-tenth of a percentage point higher than in 2017, according to the firm's latest Salary Budget Planning Survey Report. The increase in Thailand was 5.2%.
The slight upward trend is expected to continue through 2019 given the region's realistic outlook for business results this year. Sixty percent of surveyed organisations expect their company performance in 2018 to be in line with the previous year's results, the survey showed. Results were based on 3,769 sets of responses from businesses in 21 countries.
On average, 16.8% of the salary increase budget is being allocated to top performers, which represent 12.8% of employees across the region. This implies that for each $1 allocated to an average or below-average performer, $1.44 is allocated to a top performer.
The average annual incentive for 2018 was 1.5 months' base salary. Incentives averaged 1.7 months in Thailand and Vietnam, and were slightly higher in China, Hong Kong, Malaysia and Singapore.
Early projections for 2019 are for salary increases of 0.1 to 0.5 percentage points higher than in 2018. Growth is foreseen in Thailand, China, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia and South Korea. No growth is seen in Australia, Hong Kong, India, New Zealand, the Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan and Vietnam.
Salaries in Thailand are projected to increase by 5.3% in 2019, versus a regional average of 5.9%.
The strong growth in the consumer products industry in Thailand is helping to keep the sector's salary increases ahead of those in other sectors, which closely aligns with the regional trend, according to Willis Towers Watson. On average, consumer products firms offered increases 0.3 points higher than in general industries.
On the other end, salary increases in the insurance industry still lag in Thailand, coming in 0.4 points below the general industry trend.
CREATIVE COMPENSATION
The survey also reveals that 24% of companies in Thailand plan to hire more people in the next 12 months, especially those with technology skills. With post-millennials, also known as "digital natives", starting to play a greater role in Thailand's labour market, employers face new challenges to find ways to attract skilled digital native talent.
Engineering and information technology (IT) are the top two functions where digital skills are in demand locally. Fresh graduates can command a minimum monthly starting salary of 18,000 baht (for IT) or 19,000 baht (for engineering), compared with 15,000 baht for other positions.
"Base pay and incentives have always been fundamental talent attraction and retention levers," said Tony Kantapasara, talent and reward business leader at Willis Towers Watson Thailand, Myanmar and Cambodia. "However, our research and work with clients in Thailand provide evidence that organisations need to think beyond pay. The value of organisational culture, leadership and other non-monetary rewards such as career development and opportunities should not be underplayed.
"Organisations can better formulate their pay mix and reward strategies through insights into the needs of their different workforce segments and the value of their contribution to the overall success of the business.
"For example, baby boomers and post-millennials will certainly have different behavioural drivers and incentive preferences, and having a plan for these variations will drive a more successful talent attraction and retention strategy."

Story 38
Short-term and long-term incentive plan use continues to be on the rise at private, non-publicly traded companies, as well as at nonprofits and government organizations (NGOs). This is according to recent research conducted by Vivient and WorldatWork. The key takeaway? In a tight labor market, smaller companies and organizations use incentive payouts to level the playing field with larger competitors vying for the same top talent.

Indeed, employers at all levels have been increasingly implementing incentive plans while holding the line on base pay. Incentive plans take different forms but are variable pay that must be re-earned by hitting goals and objectives during a given period, typically monthly, quarterly or annually. As noted in my book, Compensation Sense 101, the most frequent short-term incentive [STI] plans include Goal Sharing or Gain Sharing (which are company-wide plans), as well as Manufacturing or Production Plans, Management Plans, Team Plans, Sales Compensation Plans, and Customer Contact Plans.

Properly designed incentive plans can help drive job performance, behaviors and results needed to achieve business objectives. What’s more, if incentive plan goals are tied closely to objectives an individual can truly influence, these goals can help keep employees engaged and motivated to deliver better bottom line results. Incentive plans also can help attract and retain employees. This is especially true, it seems, for executive and management positions.
Annual incentive plans (AIPs) are the most common type of short-term incentives, or STIs. The Vivient/WorldatWork study found that "nearly all private, for-profit companies provide some form of" STIs.

Long-term incentive [LTI] plans, meanwhile, are usually in place for three to five years and are typically designed for senior management or very high-level individual contributors who can strategically and significantly drive business results. Such LTI reward programs typically include Stock Plans and Cash Plans. The study found that "more than half of private companies provide LTIs, with multi-year, cash-based performance awards being the most common vehicles." While use of LTIs is common in private companies, particularly for executives, it remains somewhat rare at NGOs, albeit on the rise – up to 24% prevalence in 2017 versus 16% two years earlier.

Participation in incentive pay programs has also increased regardless of employee classification. The research found that, “at private companies, the prevalence of exempt, salaried employees and nonexempt (salaried or hourly) employees included in AIPs increased in 2017.” However, “the biggest jump occurred for nonexempt employees.” In fact, “about two-thirds of nonexempt employees are eligible for annual incentives, up from half in 2015.”

Likewise, the study indicated that AIP eligibility at NGOs "increased for all organizational levels from manager/supervisor and above." Otherwise, however, "AIP eligibility decreased slightly for exempt employees and remained stable for nonexempt employees."

At the top end of the spectrum, study results show that executives in private for-profit organizations “offer CEOs a median target award of 80% of salary.” In other words, CEOs are incentivized to earn an additional 80% of their base pay value in bonus pay or relative-value compensation. Below the CEO level, this percentage drops significantly. Perhaps not surprisingly, NGOs offer “more modest target awards than for-profit counterparts.” Long-term incentives for executives are roughly equal to annual incentive plans, according to the study.

The research also found that the use of cash-based incentive plans has risen at private companies “because private companies do not have equity that is traded and valued on a stock exchange.” Thus, “cash-based plans are simpler and less expensive to design, operate and administer.” On the flip side, the awarding of real business equity as an incentive dropped since last reported in 2015.

Family-owned businesses, which accounted for nearly one-third of the study sample, largely mirrored other private business entities. One key difference reported in the study findings, however, is that family-owned businesses were more likely to dedicate money toward short-term incentives as a percentage of operating profit rather than long-term incentives: “Family-owned businesses typically provide a pay mix that is heavier on short-term cash compensation” and they “favor performance awards, such as cash plans or performance units, over real equity or phantom equity that requires a company valuation.”

Again, the primary takeaway for private businesses and NGOs is that to remain competitive in a tight labor market and shallow labor pool, incentive plans are essential. Even so, this may only level the playing field; you will still need to find other ways to differentiate your organization if you want to attract, motivate and retain top talent.

Cassandra Faurote is President of Total Reward Solutions.

Story 39
Page Content
HR professionals at small businesses can play a decisive role in ensuring that sales force incentives achieve their aim.
When preparing to put a sales compensation plan in place, "HR people can make a difference by gathering and analyzing information and getting the right team together," said Donya Rose, leader for sales compensation plan design practice at Xactly Corp., an incentive pay consultancy based in San Jose, Calif.
First up, determine whether an incentive-based sales plan makes sense for the organization. "Sales incentive plans cost more to design, communicate and administer than broad-based employee pay plans. They should be used only when conditions are right to create value for the company," Rose said during a presentation at WorldatWork's 2017 Total Rewards Conference in Washington, D.C, where she addressed pay strategies for sales forces with fewer than 100 members.
Sales incentive compensation creates the most value when direct influence over customers' buying decisions is a key part of the sales role, she noted. Within the organization, the productivity of individuals or small sales teams should be:
Reliably measurable.

Directly linked to financial results for the company.

"Delivering sales results should be so important [to the organization] that you are willing to pay incentives to those who produce, even in a year in which the company misses its goals," she said.
The organization should have—and want—people in sales roles who:
Have a tolerance for personal risk.

Are willing to bet on their own ability to be productive.

Are excited by the idea of handsome rewards for outstanding performance.

[SHRM members-only toolkit: Designing Compensation Systems for Sales Professionals]
Establishing Performance Standards
Even when working with outside consultants to put a sales compensation plan in place, HR can play a leading role in devising the sales team's pay structure by establishing goal metrics and target thresholds that are appropriate for the organization, Rose said. Productivity and compensation expectations should be established for each sales role, "accepting that they will change from year to year, and that they may vary somewhat by person."
"Role prominence" is a key factor to consider in determining the appropriate mix of base pay and incentive compensation such as commissions and bonuses. "Prominence is a measure of the degree to which the customer's decision to buy is influenced by the individual seller," Rose noted. When sales reps have high prominence, a greater percentage of their pay should be incentive-based.
Indications of high prominence include a salesperson's initiative and creativity, selling skill, and ability to develop his or her own customer network.
Signs that the sales role has lower prominence: when sales results are achieved through a strong brand image or competitive pricing.
Other factors that affect the pay mix decision would be:
Long sales cycles that don't allow putting significant pay at risk, especially when longer than 9 to 12 months.


that don't allow putting significant pay at risk, especially when longer than 9 to 12 months. Highly specialized and valued skills in the seller, which may command a high base salary in the labor market and limit what can be offered through incentive pay.


which may command a high base salary in the labor market and limit what can be offered through incentive pay. Startup situations, where guaranteed pay may be appropriate as the company (or salesperson) ramps up to expected sales levels.

Keeping Plans on Track

"HR can play a vital role in communicating the new plan and should be prepared to track, report and administer the plan as well," Rose said.
After a plan is in place, "what's needed is testing and modeling for the effects on individuals and on the company's financials overall," she noted. "While the plan is measuring your salespeople, you need to measure the effectiveness of the plan."
Ideally, this should be done more frequently than just once a year; "preferably quarterly at least, to check if you're getting the results you intended," she advised.
Among the plan factors to review:
Motivation:

Do salespeople understand their plans?

Do they see them as fair?

What do they say the plans drive them to do? Is this what you want them doing?

Individual Performance:
Are at least 50 percent of your salespeople at or above target performance and compensation levels?

Are a few people (about 10 percent) earning the fully leveraged incentive or more, and are these the most productive salespeople?

Are fewer than 5 percent earning no incentive?

Plan Objectives:
Are you achieving the results you set out to achieve?

Are you attracting and retaining the sales talent you need?

Have sales roles or key accountabilities changed enough that you need to revise individual compensation plans?

Disgruntled Sales Forces
Another view of sales force challenges shows that only 6 percent of salespeople feel "extremely satisfied" with their compensation plans.
A 2017 Sales Compensation Study by Peak Sales Recruiting, a pay consultancy headquartered in New York City, is based on responses from 600 salespeople with at least two years of sales experience. When asked how they prefer their compensation to be split between guaranteed base pay and incentive payments, the survey showed that:
The split with the highest satisfaction (36 percent) is 60 percent base and 40 percent commission.


The split with the lowest satisfaction is 0 percent base and 100 percent commission.


Compensation plans with uncapped commissions were correlated with higher levels of satisfaction (33 percent) versus capped commissions (14 percent).

Respondents were asked what could be done to improve satisfaction of their current compensation plan. The five most frequent answers were for plans to:
Be fair and achievable.

Be easy to understand.

Offer more bonuses.

Make timely payments.

Include higher base pay.

Participants also were asked to rate their overall satisfaction of their current sales compensation plan. A plurality (44 percent) were "somewhat satisfied" with their compensation plan, while 24 percent were "very satisfied" but just 6 percent were "extremely satisfied." That left 26 percent who were slightly or not at all satisfied.
Top performers (those who achieved 100 percent or more of their quota the previous year) indicated similar levels of satisfaction—30 percent very or extremely satisfied, 45 percent somewhat satisfied, and 25 percent dissatisfied.
"Developing a winning sales compensation plan is critical to attract and retain top talent and is among the most difficult tasks business leaders face," said Eliot Burdett, CEO of Peak Sales Recruiting. "If a salesperson doesn't see opportunities for increased bonuses, promotions or raises after being successful year-after-year, then they are likely to move on to a company that can offer a better compensation plan with more room for growth."
His advice: Offer a plan that pays at or above market compensation and is simple, clear and timely.
"Top-tier talent only works for above-average compensation that matches their skill set, experience level and selling potential," Burdett said. "When targeting these salespeople, executives need to offer premium compensation with simple-to-calculate commissions that have an immediate impact on their income."
Related SHRM Articles:
Keep It Simple for Sales Compensation Success, SHRM Online Compensation, November 2016
Keeping Sales Compensation on the Rails, SHRM Online Compensation, June 2015
Sales Compensation Plans Can Cultivate Growth, SHRM Online Compensation, June 2011
Was this article useful? SHRM offers thousands of tools, templates and other exclusive member benefits, including compliance updates, sample policies, HR expert advice, education discounts, a growing online member community and much more. Join/Renew Now and let SHRM help you work smarter.



Story 40
Pardon Our Interruption...
As you were browsing www.streetinsider.com something about your browser made us think you were a bot.
If you are interested in www.streetinsider.com content, APIs are available. Please contact us here http://www.streetinsider.com/signup_content.php
To request an unblock, please fill out the form below and we will review it as soon as possible.

Story 41
Getty Images
CSL isn’t increasing the base pay or short term incentive of its CEO this year.
Instead, Paul Perreault is getting a 13% increase in his long term incentive target.
The blood products group had a first strike against its remuneration report two years ago.
Paul Perreault, the chief executive of CSL, the blood products and flu vaccine group whose shares have grown by 40% over the last year to more than are $200 each, isn’t getting a rise in his base pay this year.
For the second year in a row, the biotech’s remuneration committee made no increase to Perreault’s fixed reward or short term incentive target.
His take-home pay, a metric created by CSL, was $US7,394,489 for 2018, about 0.2% below the year before.
However, his statutory pay came to $US11,266,445, with 84% of that performance based, up from $US8,180,831 last year.
Last month CSL reported a full year net profit after tax of $US1.729 billion, on a 14.7% lift in sales to $US7.6 billion.
The pay of CEOs at ASX-listed companies is at record highs, mainly because of generous bonuses which keep getting awarded for hitting targets rather than exceptional performance.
However, shareholders are being increasingly vocal at this largess, voting against remuneration reports presented at annual general meetings.
Megan Clark, CSL’s Chair of the Human Resources and Remuneration Committee, says the decision takes into “consideration shareholder feedback and global market positioning”.
The company has decided that the best incentive is longer term.
“Consistent with CSL’s guiding principles for remuneration the Board has decided to rebalance the remuneration pay-mix toward LTI (long term incentive),” says Dr Clark.
Supplied Paul Perreault
“To ensure our CEO has market appropriate incentives and remains aligned with the interests of our shareholders, in 2019 he will receive a 13% increase in his LTI target which is both time and performance hurdled.”
Perreault’s base pay stays at $US1,751,000, his short term incentive target at 120%, with the maximum payout at 180%, and the long term incentive target of 310%.
Directors gave themselves a rise
However, board directors decided, after looking at ASX Top 12 companies, to give themselves a healthy pay rise.
“The increases have been applied to take fees to the median of the peer group and ensure a competitive reward package,” according to the company’s annual report released today.
The Board Chairman fee will increase 11.7% to $782,500 from $700,000 and the base fee for non executive directors by 7.3% to $227,500 from $212,000. The directors get extra pay for serving on committees but there are no change to these.
In 2016, CSL was hit by a first strike at its AGM, with shareholders rejecting the remuneration report.
A spill of the board of directors is triggered if more than a quarter of votes go against the remuneration report for two years in a row.
Last year the remuneration report got through with only 18% voting against.
“Thank you for your constructive feedback over the past year — it is important to us as we embed our new remuneration framework and seek your support for this year’s Report,” says Dr Clark.
“We are committed to ensuring that our senior executives’ interests are aligned with yours. We will adjust our remuneration framework wherever there are opportunities to make it even more effective, aligned to shareholders and to support our global talent in their achievement of CSL’s long-term global business goals.”
Business Insider Emails & Alerts Site highlights each day to your inbox. Email Address Join
Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, and Instagram.

Story 42
Pardon Our Interruption...
As you were browsing www.streetinsider.com something about your browser made us think you were a bot.
If you are interested in www.streetinsider.com content, APIs are available. Please contact us here http://www.streetinsider.com/signup_content.php
To request an unblock, please fill out the form below and we will review it as soon as possible.

Story 43
She was funny. Up, close and personal, she was fairly taller too . She’s laidback and a natural conversationalist.
“Hi everybody, my name is GoodGirl LA, and I’m a Nigerian superstar (laughs). I’m a singer, songwriter and all of that,” she introduced herself.
She was also visibly happy - who wouldn’t? A listening party for her EP held just two days prior. Here, it's like a weight just fell off her back.
She is GoodGirl LA, the afro-fusion princess. According to her, she has been singing since she could talk. She then developed her vocals by mimicking Whitney Houston to improve her notes.
Born Euphemia Ekwuma, while she studied for UTME and WASSCE, she’d do one for the books and then write music. To perfect her skills, she performed at valedictory services.
However, she wasn’t always GoodGirl LA. Before that name, she was ‘Laden.’ But because her friends wanted to stylize ‘Laden,’ they shortened it to ‘L.A' which was too vague. Realizing she has a good heart and that she is a good person, she took the good part of herself, merged it with ‘LA’ and became GoodGirl LA.
According to her, “(Being a GoodGirl) Is never really what it looks like. I don’t really believe in the good and the bad thing. I feel like, just do your thing, man, as long as it makes you happy and it doesn’t hurt someone else.”
LA, the grateful
You might find her on your screen singing her heart out on ‘Faraway,’ ‘Bless Me’ or the new one, ‘Pina.’ Asides her obvious good looks, her voice will probably knock you out. She is one of those acts who sound even better live than they sound in the studio.
When asked how she felt, LA says, “Grateful. I think grateful is the right word. I remember wanting to record an EP. But then, I had to save up money to record one song; pay, mix and master everything.
"So, how do I then get to be found? I feel the time is perfect for what is happening and I’m also very excited about the new things I’m doing to be doing and working on. I’m also ready for what’s next.”
LA, the rebel
Born in Ajegunle, she left the University of Calabar and left home at 19 to pursue a career in music. But then, she was broke. At a point, GoodGirl LA ran a courier-esque service in Lagos to raise money. Other times, she would rally around friends. A few times, her parents chipped in.
GoodGirl LA talks about ‘La Confidential,’ leaving school, upbringing, ‘pretty privilege’ and new music. (Pulse Nigeria)
She jokes that, “I had to pay for ‘Faraway’ (her 2018 single) four times. Shout-out to SynX… When I didn’t have money, I’d buy food.” At this time, she had a dream and she was willing to do everything reasonably possible to get her sound out - she did.
As of today, ‘Faraway’ and ‘Bless Me’ have a combined 445,000 views on YouTube. Looking back, the Cross River State native tells Pulse that she’s surprised at some of the decisions she made just to make the dream work. “I didn’t want to wait till I was 28 or 30 when people will be telling me I’m too old to wear bum shot (laughs),” she says.
When she left the University of Calabar, she left her property in school and had to waybill them to Lagos. On getting home, her Dad was adamant that she had to go back to school but her mom, a natural alto was supportive. She says, “African Parents can be funny. They thought I needed them till I started sending money home (Laughs).”
LA Confidential EP
“LA Confidential EP was me just wanting to bare out myself and talk about different things that have happened to me. You know, you can’t really tell what someone is thinking (unless they tell you)… So, I wanted to just give people a feel of what’s inside my head… when it comes to love, hustle and a lot of things. And literally, that’s like every girl’s story.
“’LA Confidential’ is like me just giving out confidential information about stuff that has happened to me… And then the EP is eight different songs on like eight different sounds - nothing sounds like the other. I feel like I wanted to show - and portray - myself in different lights.
“It’s like (I’m telling people that) I’ve shown what I can do. So, from here on, the sound will change and grow bigger, stronger and unpredictable… However, I still feel like I’ve not dropped it yet. I’m still waiting for September 6 (when ‘LA Confidential EP’ hits all platforms) to know that it’s time to actually bring the real heat,” the singer says.
GoodGirl LA talks about ‘La Confidential,’ leaving school, upbringing, ‘pretty privilege’ and new music. (Pulse Nigeria)
After she got signed to The Zone Agency, the Osagie Osarenz-run management agency in the final quarter of 2018, talk commenced about an album. To LA, this represented synergy because she had been trying to get music out for years and even had - LA Confidential - a tentative title for it.
Of the songs that were recorded, 15 were chosen and those were chopped down to eight for the EP. Recording commenced in December, 2018 and ended in April, 2018. According to her, the creative process was organic.
Some songs were recorded in her living room and others in a hotel room. The inspiration for ‘Bless Me’ came on a toilet seat. And finally, she got to work with Leriq.
However, the EP is only a precursor to an album that is already in the works could drop later this year or early next year - depending on fan response to LA Confidential.
LA and the emotions
On LA Confidential EP, emotions and the authentic nature of those emotions took centre stage. Each song told a relatable story.
While discussing that, LA says, “To have a story is one thing. To incorporate them into the right melody is another thing. That ability has always been a part of me and my mom noticed it first when I was watching ‘The Lion King’ and I ended up doing it inadvertently. I guess that’s what you call the gift of music.”
She proceeded further to say that sometimes, the sound brings the story out of you. However, some of the emotional scenarios she sings about are not her personal experiences. Some are hypothetical and some are other peoples’ experiences.
On which is harder, she says, “It depends. You will be surprised that even your own story can be hard to tell.”
LA on Nigerian music
GoodGirl LA talks about ‘La Confidential,’ leaving school, upbringing, ‘pretty privilege’ and new music. (Pulse Nigeria)
“The funny thing is I never see it as lamba. I don’t see it as making lamba or this. I just see it as music. I listen to everything and I enjoy everything. I already have lamba music made y’all, so what are we going to do? That style of music came out of the street and the struggle and came out of love… That music came from how our country is.
“I grew up in Nigeria - I’m a Lagos girl. I was born in Ajegunle… It’s Nigerian music to me. The music I made on ‘LA Confidential EP’ is Nigerian music. The music in my hard drive is Nigerian music. The music everyone else makes is Nigerian music. The zanku is obviously Nigerian music,” she says.
In a country with a perpetual need for vision, LA is a breath of fresh air.
LA on pretty privilege and the downsides of being pretty
Pretty privilege is simply the tendency of beautiful people to get easier treatment than others. The idea of pretty privilege is either downplayed or denied. Instead, LA attacks talks about the downsides of being pretty.
She says, “Sometimes being pretty and looking bougie in the Nigerian industry could be a minus. You come through and they feel like you’re not up and going as the guy. Sometimes, I work in the studio till 6 or 7 pm and people are surprised because it’s not what they expect of girls… But I feel that stereotype is gone. It’s 2019, guys. Even in the womb, they say I kicked like a boy… (Laughs).
“Sometimes you go to a show on the mainland and they’re like ‘Hey, fine girl!’ Do you know how it’s like to live with that? Sometimes, It feels already like a minus… But sometimes, I really like the shock and the surprise of when I get into the studio looking like this and then I open my mouth and sound another way… I think pretty privilege is not a thing.
"You always still have to earn it and work. It has to be good and as a matter of fact, you have to be twice better than the boy…”
LA also disagrees that there’s male domination. She feels that while men need to inspire and include more women, sometimes, women have to be there to be included. On a final note, the 22-year-old says that we should support more women.
When asked whether she feels she’s on course in her career, she says, “God doesn’t make mistakes.”
This means she feels she is right on time. Two days after this chat, she released 'Pina.' For now, LA Confidential EP is out on Boomplay. You can get it HERE.
You can watch the interview below;

Story 44
Pardon Our Interruption...
As you were browsing www.streetinsider.com something about your browser made us think you were a bot.
If you are interested in www.streetinsider.com content, APIs are available. Please contact us here http://www.streetinsider.com/signup_content.php
To request an unblock, please fill out the form below and we will review it as soon as possible.

Story 45
PHILADELPHIA--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS), the leading data research platform and business intelligence tool for corporate, academic and government institutions worldwide, is pleased to announce the addition of ISS Incentive Lab data, covering compensation for 2,400+ US and European companies. A part of the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, WRDS provides global corporations, universities and regulatory agencies the thought leadership, data access and insights needed to enable impactful research.
“WRDS is pleased to add ISS Incentive Lab to our other suite of ISS data offerings,” said Robert Zarazowski, Managing Director of WRDS. “Executive compensation is an important and complex research area in an increasingly global landscape, and WRDS is proud to expand its support for researchers who examine how compensation structures impact firm performance.”
ISS Incentive Lab is the 6th ISS dataset added to WRDS. Current datasets include: Governance, Directors, Voting Results, Shareholder Proposals, and Voting Analytics with N-PX Data.
Due to regulatory requirements, investor pressure, accounting changes, and public scrutiny, performance-based pay has become a driving factor in total executive compensation and ISS Incentive Lab allows researchers to conduct cutting edge compensation research to understand and properly value compensation and explore its impact.
“As the leading source for institutional investors and governance practitioners seeking data on managerial incentives and detailed components of performance-based pay, ISS Analytics is pleased to now make available its robust data sets to academics through the WRDS platform,” said Roy Saliba, Global Head of Compensation Products at Institutional Shareholder Services. “With extensive and unrivalled coverage, WRDS subscribers will now have access to compensation data and analytics needed to support academic research initiatives.”
Academic researchers can use ISS Incentive Lab to find 335,000+ individual grants covering 25,000+ fiscal years.
Features include:
PAY MIX —Cash Equity, Short-term/Long- term, Time/Performance
—Cash Equity, Short-term/Long- term, Time/Performance PERFORMANCE AWARD DATA Metrics: Type (financial and non-financial), Weights, Relationships Goals: Threshold, Target, Maximum Payout Structures: Vesting, Leverage, Holding Requirements
UNIQUE DATASETS INCLUDING Peer Groups: compensation and performance peers Stock Ownership Guidelines Compensation Consultants
ALL TABULAR DISCLOSURES INCLUDING Summary Compensation Table Grants of Plan-Based Awards Outstanding Equity At Fiscal Year End Stock Vesting and Option Exercises

Recent Research with ISS Incentive Lab
Performance-Vesting Provisions in Executive Compensation, J. Bettis (Arizona State University), J. Bizjak (Texas Christian University), J. Coles (University of Utah; Arizona State University), S. Kalpathy (Texas Christian University)
Internal versus External Earnings per Share Goals and CEO Incentives, C. Armstrong, C. Ittner (University of Pennsylvania), J. Chau (The Chinese University of Hong Kong), J. Xiao (University of Rochester)
Performance Vesting Provisions and Executive Incentives, J. Core, H. Packard (Massachusetts Institute of Technology)
Along with continually adding new data to the platform, WRDS is a leader in enabling impactful research. Through a first-of-its-kind partnership with SSRN, WRDS is elevating the visibility of universities and researchers working across an array of fields. The WRDS Research Paper Series is a searchable repository of all papers submitted to SSRN that cite WRDS in their work, which will increase researcher visibility, increase their Eigenfactor® score, and build a specialized research base that will advance shared knowledge. In addition, the three organizations have launched the WRDS-SSRN Innovation Award™ to honor emerging business schools. Learn more about how WRDS is driving impact >>.
ABOUT ISS
Institutional Shareholder Services Inc. (ISS) is the world’s leading provider of corporate governance and responsible investment (RI) solutions for asset owners, asset managers, hedge funds, and asset service providers. ISS’ solutions include: objective governance research and recommendations; RI data, analytics, and research; end-to-end proxy voting and distribution solutions; turnkey securities class-action claims management; and reliable global governance data and modeling tools.
Institutional clients turn to ISS to apply their corporate governance views, identify environmental, social and governance risk, and manage their complete proxy voting needs on a global basis. ISS is a global company with approximately 900 employees spread across 18 offices in 12 countries. ISS covers approximately 40,000 meetings in 117 countries yearly, delivering proxy research and vote recommendations while working closely with clients to execute more than 8.5 million ballots representing 3.8 trillion shares. ISS’ RI research covers more than 20,000 companies across the globe. Our flexible coverage universe expands correspondingly with our clients’ holdings. ISS analysts have unique expertise and insight on the governance and RI landscape, local market voting practices and regulatory requirements, along with expertise in varied fields such as law, M&A, compensation, and analytics.
ABOUT WRDS
Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) provides the leading business intelligence, data analytics, and financial research platform to global institutions—enabling comprehensive thought leadership, historical analysis, and insight into the latest innovations in academic research.
WRDS provides researchers with one location to access over 250 terabytes of data across multiple disciplines including Accounting, Banking, Economics, ESG, Finance, Healthcare, Insurance, Marketing, and Statistics. Flexible data delivery options include a powerful web query method that reduces research time, the WRDS Cloud for executing research and strategy development, and the WRDS client server using PCSAS, Matlab, and R. Our Analytics team, doctoral-level support and rigorous data review and validation give clients the confidence to tailor research within complex databases and create a wide range of reliable data models.
An award-winning data research platform for over 50,000 commercial, academic, and government users in 30+ countries, WRDS is the global gold standard in data management and research—all backed by the credibility and leadership of the Wharton School.
ABOUT THE WHARTON SCHOOL
Founded in 1881 as the first collegiate business school, the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania is recognized globally for intellectual leadership and ongoing innovation across every major discipline of business education. With a broad global community and one of the most published business school faculties, Wharton creates economic and social value around the world. The Wharton School has 5,000 undergraduate, MBA, executive MBA, and doctoral students; more than 9,000 participants in executive education programs annually and a powerful alumni network of 95,000 graduates.

Story 46
The CD&A is a required part of a public company’s annual proxy statement. Its stated purpose is to give shareholders material information about a company’s compensation objectives and policies for the named executive officers (NEOs). It also provides perspective for investors about the compensation numbers and narrative that follow. As such, the CD&A’s real purpose is to explain the “compensation numbers.” As everyone knows, this has become increasingly important in the last few years, primarily due to the mandatory “say on pay” shareholder vote on executive compensation. While the vote is not binding, it can get very embarrassing if shareholders do not approve executive compensation practices and policies.
We believe the CD&A provides an excellent opportunity to educate shareholders about the company’s business strategy and to highlight how stated compensation practices best support the company’s goals.
So this year, let your CD&A tell your story by using some of these helpful tips:
Year in Review – explain the decisions made during the year and the resulting payouts, if any; describe the context for decision making;
– explain the decisions made during the year and the resulting payouts, if any; describe the context for decision making; Business Strategy — describe strategy and how compensation practices support it;
— describe strategy and how compensation practices support it; Executive Summary — include succinct “summary” of good governance and best practice policies upfront and early in the document;
Charts & Graphs — use lots of these to illustrate elements of pay, mix of pay, variable vs. fixed, and to chart performance against goals;
— use lots of these to illustrate elements of pay, mix of pay, variable vs. fixed, and to chart performance against goals; Simple Direct languag e — use simple plain English and write from the investor’s perspective; assume your reader knows nothing about executive compensation;
e — use simple plain English and write from the investor’s perspective; assume your reader knows nothing about executive compensation; Financial Performance – ensure the company’s performance story frames the discussion of executive compensation; don’t keep the reader guessing how performance impacts executive pay – show them how through a chart or graph; and
– ensure the company’s performance story frames the discussion of executive compensation; don’t keep the reader guessing how performance impacts executive pay – show them how through a chart or graph; and Realized or Realizable pay – consider using if appropriate (e.g., if TSR or say –on- pay support are low)
Finally, keep it short (but be thorough) so that shareholders and proxy advisory firms may easily understand how your compensation programs support your business strategy.

Story 47
Massimiliano Volpe 9 aprile 2015 - 09:53
MILANO (Finanza.com)
private banking
politiche retributive degli istituti di credito
comparto del private banking in Italia
Marco Morelli,
amministratore delegato di Mercer Italia
la vita del private banker può essere ricca di soddisfazioni economiche
dati rilevati da Mercer
32mila euro
guadagna da 62 a 96 mila euro
parte variabile, che può arrivare fino al 100%
In questo contesto, come è possibile puntare ad un aumento di stipendio?
L'articolo è tratto dal numero di marzo del mensile F - Risparmio & Investimenti
Anche nel settore delsono finiti i tempi delle vacche grasse quando, per ottenere un aumento di stipendio, era sufficiente avere in tasca la proposta di una società concorrente. Complice la crisi e le disposizioni delle autorità di vigilanza leche operano in Italia sono diventate ora molto più rigide che in passato. Come spesso accade nel settore della finanza le novità sono introdotte per rispettare la normativa di settore. In questo caso si tratta delle disposizioni della Banca d’Italia che ha fissato un tetto alle retribuzioni dei manager bancari con un ratio 1: 1 (retribuzione variabile verso retribuzione fissa) per evitare che gli istituti siano esposti a rischi eccessivi e per stabilizzare i risultati aziendali nel tempo. Novità che inevitabilmente hanno coinvolto anche il«Dal 2008 le banche hanno fatto molti progressi nella strutturazione del pay mix per tenere in adeguata considerazione il bilanciamento rischi/risultati, così come adottando scelte maggiormente adeguate ad un orizzonte temporale pluriennale» precisa. «Il peso relativo della retribuzione fissa è lievemente aumentato nel mondo dei servizi finanziari - prosegue Morelli - tuttavia meno di quanto era stato previsto a seguito delle indicazioni dell’Autorità Bancaria Europea e alle normative emesse sui cap e su ratio della retribuzione variabile». Limiti stringenti che a scendere coinvolgono tutta la catena dei dipendenti.Nonostante i nuovi vincoli. Soprattutto per i profili senior, con anni di esperienza e quindi con un robusto portafoglio clienti. Secondo i, che prendono in considerazione la retribuzione fissa di un panel di istituti attivi nel nostro Paese, lo stipendio del private banker junior, che svolge l'attività da meno di tre anni è in media di circa. II professionista senior nea seconda delle responsabilità. A questi compensi deve essere aggiunta anche ladi quella fissa.Come si vede, la forbice è molto ampia e, quindi, l'avere la busta paga più o meno gonfia dipende dal volume di masse gestite. Se le banche sono disposte a dare molto ai migliori del settore, chiedono però l'assoluta fedeltà. Infatti i frequenti cambi di casacca per i private banker non sono ben visti e pertanto il professionista deve lavorare nella stessa azienda per un certo numero di anni.Secondo Morelli le possibilità per i banker di incrementare la propria retribuzione sono vincolate a tre fattori: il primo è legato alla possibilità di garantire risultati commerciali sostenibili nel corso del tempo, il secondo è legato alle capacità di coprire ruoli di crescente responsabilità e il terzo è legato alle competenze tecniche e di business. Ma come vengono riconosciute le competenze dei professionisti? Tutti gli istituti di credito hanno adottato un sistema di gestione delle risorse umane, che insieme alla direzione del business, è in grado di cogliere appieno le caratteristiche del personale. Per i private banker italiani si tratta quindi di adattarsi al nuovo contesto e lavorare con passione.

Story 48
Pardon Our Interruption...
As you were browsing www.streetinsider.com something about your browser made us think you were a bot.
If you are interested in www.streetinsider.com content, APIs are available. Please contact us here http://www.streetinsider.com/signup_content.php
To request an unblock, please fill out the form below and we will review it as soon as possible.

Story 49
110 companies offering healthcare RCM services
Revenue cycle management is essential to any business's strategy. These processes are only growing in importance in healthcare as every dollar is expected to stretch further than before. Here are 110 companies that provide revenue cycle management solutions specific to the healthcare industry.
3M Health Information Systems (Salt Lake City). 3M Health Information Systems offers a number of RCM products and services. The company's 3M Ambulatory Revenue Management Software is designed to reduce compliance risks and achieve maximum reimbursement in the outpatient setting. The company also offers the 3M APCfinder with medical necessity validation, which focuses on CMS' Outpatient Prospective Payment System. The solution allows users to apply medical necessity at the point of coding. After considering the sale of the Health Information Systems branch of its business, 3M decided to hold onto the unit.
Accretive Health (Chicago). Accretive Health offers revenue cycle management services, physician advisory services and value-based managed services. Operating together, Accretive Health partners with hospitals and health systems to reduce administrative costs, enabling providers to focus on their core mission: delivering high quality care. The company's revenue cycle management services portfolio includes creating a distinctive operating partnership model, aligning financial relationships and providing propriety technology and data science.
Acustream (Lafayette, Colo.). Acustream's proprietary RevBuilder enterprise solution uses both client hospital billing and/orprofessional billing data, facility specific rules (FSR's) and predictive analytics to find reimbursable "never billed" charges. Not a collections tool, RevBuilder finds dollars in the data that were missed for any number of reasons. The business model is 100 percent contingency-based.
Adreima (Downers Grove, Ill.). Adreima has solutions that address the front, middle and backend of the revenue cycle process. The company's services include eligibility, medical prior authorization review, charge description master, charge capture, receivables management, clinical denials and appeals, clinical audit support and post payment recovery.
AdvantEdge Healthcare Solutions (Lombard, Ill.). AdvantEdge Healthcare Solutions is a medical billing and practice management company. The company offers revenue cycle management and business management solutions to hospitals, hospital-based physicians, office-based physicians, behavioral health providers and surgery centers. AdvantEdge's portfolio includes medical coding and billing, revenue optimization, informatics, compliance and more.
The Advisory Board Company (Washington, D.C.). The Advisory Board Company is a global research, technology and consulting firm that provides performance improvement services for healthcare and higher education. The company's revenue cycle services include denial and bad debt management, documentation optimization and more. The Advisory Board Company partners with more than 230,000 leaders at 5,200 organizations.
AGS Health (New York). AGS Health offers medical billing, coding and business analytics services. The company includes more than 2,500 employees in the United States and India. AGS Health manages approximately $1.1 billion in receivables each year.
Allscripts (Chicago). Health IT vendor Allscripts offers an analytics toolset geared toward revenue cycle challenges. The company has a 99 percent net collections rate, 98 percent first pass clean claims rates and a 5 percent average increase in collections. Allscripts Revenue Suite and Services offers pre-claim solutions, claims submission, inbound processing, A/R management and more.
Alvarez & Marsal (New York). Alvarez & Marsal is a global consulting firm with headquarters not only in New York, but also London, Sao Paulo and Hong Kong. Amongst its many services, the company offers revenue cycle optimization and financial services to the healthcare industry. Guy Sansone, based in New York, is the head of the company's healthcare industry group.
AmkaiSolutions (New York). AmkaiSolutions is a software company that caters to the ambulatory surgery center, surgical hospital and specialty practice industries. The company offers an EMR, billing software and more. The company's product AmkaiEnterprise is designed to reduce operating costs, enhance analytics capabilities and improve quality of care.
Anthelio Healthcare Solutions (Dallas). The company offers IT services, EHR and optimization services and its Pyramid HALO RCM services. Anthelio acquired RCM company Pyramid Healthcare Solutions in July 2015 to expand its revenue cycle offerings. The company's RCM portfolio includes HIM outsourcing and optimization, medical coding, coding audit and education, revenue assessment and analytics, patient financial services, clinical documentation improvement, transcription and voice recognition, ICD-10 support and more.
athenahealth (Watertown, Mass.). athenahealth offers cloud-based services from electronic health records and population health management to patient care coordination and revenue cycle management. The company's revenue cycle tool is athenaCollector. Each quarter, the company submits approximately 27 million claims, and 94 percent of these claims are resolved on first submission.
Availity (Jacksonville, Fla.). Availity caters to physician practices, hospitals, health plans and vendors. The company's revenue cycle solutions address patient access issues, as well as the full spectrum of revenue cycle functions. The company also offers add-on modules that range from advanced claims editing and comparative analytics to self-pay eligibility verification and workers' compensation.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch (Charlotte, N.C.). Bank of America Merrill Lynch offers a number of healthcare solutions including revenue cycle solutions, employee benefits integration, profit enhancement, streamlining operations and more. In addition to financial solutions, Bank of America Merrill Lynch offers mergers and acquisitions services and transaction services.
BESLER Consulting (Princeton, N.J.). BESLER has provided financial and operational consulting to the healthcare industry since 1986. The firm offers transfer DRG revenue recovery and software solutions, coding and compliance, readmissions analytics tools, comprehensive revenue cycle assessment and more.
BillingParadise (Diamond Bar, Calif.). Outsourcing medical billing operations is complex and lead to a temporary dip in revenue and productivity. 100+ medical practices Based in California know better."BillingParadise" is a medical billing company based in California brings 20+ years of experience and best practices to the table. We help make your financial operations more cost-effective, efficient and profitable. Whether it is cash acceleration or reducing cycle times, we have you covered.
Bolder Healthcare Solutions (Louisville, Ky.). Bolder Healthcare Solutions has a number of revenue cycle management services. The company's Avectus Healthcare Solutions resolves third-party liability claims for the hospital and trauma center market. Bolder's ROI Companies is a full suite of RCM services for hospitals. The company's portfolio also includes Bolder Anesthesia Management, Bolder Billing Services and Bolder Outreach Solutions.
The Camden Group (El Segundo, Calif.). The Camden Group is a national healthcare business advisory firm. Services include financial advisement, clinical integration, business planning, operations improvement and more. In the realm of financial advisement, the firm offers payer contracting support and value-based payment modeling, amongst other services.
Cardon Outreach (The Woodlands, Texas). Cardon Outreach manages $10 billion in accounts on an annual basis. The company provides eligibility services, accounts receivable services, disability solutions and services to increase revenue recovery of patient self-pay. Cardon also has technology solutions including its integrated proprietary technology platform MPOWER.
CareCloud (Miami). CareCloud aims to offer an all-in-one RCM solution, which encompasses claims submission, payment posting, payer follow-up and patient billing. In addition to RCM services, CareCloud offers practice management, EHR, patient engagement, mobile app and healthcare analytics services.
Cerner (Kansas City, Mo.). Cerner is the world’s largest publicly traded health information technology company providing leading-edge solutions and services for health care organizations worldwide. In addition to its core revenue management solutions, the company provides billing and coding services including charge processing, A/R follow up, eligibility checking, denials management, cash posting, self-pay and early out as well as full business office management for acute and ambulatory venues.
Change Healthcare (Nashville, Tenn.). Change Healthcare, formerly Emdeon, focuses solely on revenue cycle management and clinical information exchange solutions. The company serves providers, payers and pharmacy service providers. Emdeon's network includes 340,000 providers; 1,200 government and private payers; 5,000 hospitals; 105,000 dentists; 60,000 pharmacies and 600 vendors.
Citadel Outsource Group (Hendersonville, Tenn.). Citadel Outsource Group is an outsourced business office financial services company. The company's revenue cycle services include billing, claims resolution, denial management, discrepancy management, business office management, interim revenue cycle consulting, cash posting, revenue cycle assessment and more.
Citi's Money2 for Health (New York). Money2 for Health focuses on the patient payment process function of the revenue cycle. This service from Citi Group allows patients to pay healthcare bills easily by linking to checking accounts, health savings accounts and flexible spending accounts. The platform was launched in 2013 in partnership with Aetna and Parallon, a subsidiary of HCA.
The Claro Group (Chicago). The Claro Group, a healthcare consulting firm, has a RCM unit. The firm's solutions address admissions, cash collections, A/R days and more. The Claro Group focuses on hospital clients ranging from academic medical centers to community hospitals.
Coker Group (Alpharetta, Ga.). Coker Group, a national healthcare advisory firm, offers a wide range of services from accountable care organization preparation to executive search capabilities. The firm also offers healthcare-specific revenue cycle support including revenue cycle staffing, pay mix analysis, national benchmarking, processes review and more.
Conifer Health Solutions (Frisco, Texas). Conifer, a subsidiary of Tenet Healthcare, has more than 13,000 employees and processes more than $26 billion in net revenue each year. The company, which has 20 service locations through the country, caters to hospitals and health systems, physician groups and employers. Conifer offers revenue cycle management services such as scheduling, eligibility and enrollment, denials prevention, patient financial services and revenue cycle operations management to both the hospital and physician markets.
Connance (Waltham, Mass.). Connace is a healthcare predictive analytics platform. The company's platform aims to eliminate 20 percent to 30 percent of the work associated with revenue cycle management. Services the platform can provide include vendor performance, self-pay segmentation, claims optimization, revenue optimization and more.
Convergent (Atlanta). Convergent is a process outsourcing, revenue cycle and receivables management company with 14 locations in North America. The company's revenue cycle management offerings include patient access services, third party reimbursement services, self-pay services and bad debt services.
The Corridor Group (Overland Park, Kan.). The Corridor Group has served more than 2,000 clients, including hospitals and health systems, since 1989. The company offers consulting services, regulatory compliance support, ICD-10 solutions and more. In January, the company acquired revenue cycle management company Healthcare Management Solutions, which expands the company's revenue cycle management services portfolio.
Craneware (Atlanta). Craneware offers patient access, charge capture and pricing, coding integrity, revenue recovery and retention, professional services and ICD-10 solutions. The company's automated revenue cycle solution was named No. 1 for the 2015/2016 Best in KLAS Awards: Software and Services. Additionally, the company's Chargemaster Toolkit ranked first in the "revenue cycle — chargemaster management" category.
Crowe Horwath (Chicago). Crowe Horwath is a public account, consulting and technology firm serving multiple industries. The firm's healthcare division offers finance, revenue cycle, reimbursement, tax, risk and compliance, audit and mergers and acquisitions services. Crow Horwath's revenue cycle management program includes credit balance management, denials management, observations services and outpatient charge capture.
Dell (Round Rock, Texas). Dell Healthcare Solutions serves hospitals, health systems, physician practices and health plans. The company provides business process outsourcing, including revenue cycle management. Dell can take on coding, remittance processing, accounts receivable follow-up and denial analysis for its clients.
drchrono (Mountain View, Calif.). drchrono offers a number of services include an EHR, medical billing and a platform for patients to view their health record. The company's revenue cycle solutions include Apollo and Apollo+. Apollo allows drchrono EHR users to manage billing from the EHR, while Apollo+ gives users access to the company's fully managed billing services.
Experian Health (Austin, Texas). Experian is a global information services company with a focus on data and analytics. The company's revenue cycle services can automate up to 80 percent of processes. Its services suite includes patient access, claims, contract management and collections products.
FTI Consulting (Chicago). FTI Consulting serves multiple industries, including healthcare. The consulting firm's revenue cycle division offers a wide range of services including benchmarking, cash flow performance improvement, managed care contracting, denial management improvement and more.
G4 HealthSystems (Tulsa, Okla.). G4 HealthSystems provides healthcare technology solutions for claims billing and management, audit appeals and management, denial management, work flow, patient statements, patient estimates, payer tracking, clearinghouse services, eligibility verification and more. More than half the company's clients, 51 percent, are hospitals. Forty-seven percent of its clients are physicians and 2 percent are specialty clients. The company has had 100 percent client retention for three-plus years.
GeBBS Healthcare Solutions (Marina del Rey, Calif.). GeBBS offers HIM solutions, insurance billing services, patient access solutions and end-to-end RCM solutions. The company has a number of technology platforms supporting its services. Technology includes the enterprise-wide coding solution iCode, coding compliance platform iCode Assurance, business process management tool iP2P and EOB to ERA conversion tool iERA.
GE Healthcare (Little Chalfont, United Kingdom). GE Healthcare, a subsidiary of General Electric, offers a wide range of services including revenue cycle management. GE Healthcare provides software solutions for full revenue cycle management support, billing support, analytics and more. The company's RCM software systems include Centricity Business, Centricity Group Management, Centricity Practice Solution and Centricity EDI.
Greenway Health (Carrolton, Ga.). Greenway offers a wide array of solutions for the healthcare industry, including revenue cycle management. The Greenway suite of RCM solutions includes claims management, secondary claim filing, denial management and more. The company's clients have a more than 99 percent claims acceptance rate and an average decrease of 31 percent in A/R days.
Halley Consulting Group (Westerville, Ohio). Halley Consulting Group offers consulting services exclusively to the healthcare industry. The group's revenue cycle division offers services including the creation of a revenue cycle management work group, documentation improvement, best practice education, transitioning central billing to central processing, establishing accountability standards and more.
Harmony Healthcare (Tampa, Fla.). Harmony provides revenue cycle management staffing, coding support, HIM leadership, ICD-10 support, HIM offshore services and more. The company offers temporary, temporary-to-permanent and permanent staffing solutions. Harmony has worked with a number of healthcare providers including Ascension Healthcare based in St. Louis, John's Hopkins based in Baltimore, Yale-New Haven (Conn) Hospital and more.
Hayes Management Consulting (Newton Center, Mass.). Hayes Management Consulting focuses on partnering with healthcare organizations to streamline operations, improve revenue cycle management and enhance technology. The company's revenue cycle consulting services include assessment, optimization and interim management.
Healthcare Business Insights (Milwaukee). Healthcare Business Insight's core focuses are revenue cycle, supply chain, cost and quality and information technology. HBI's Revenue Cycle Academy addresses each element of revenue cycle management. The academy is designed to be a collection of best practice resources to support healthcare revenue cycle leaders.
Healthcare Resource Group (Spokane Valley, Wash.). HRG focuses on providing the healthcare industry a full suite of revenue cycle management services. Services include business office outsourcing, revenue cycle department management, consulting and staffing.
HGS (Lisle, Ill.). HGS has a wide range of services including claims benefit management, medical cost management, revenue cycle management and more. The company's revenue cycle offerings include patient access support, patient financial services and health information management, as well as technologies designed to support various RCM functions. HGS manages more than $6.9 billion in client accounts receivables. The company has processed more than 60 million claims for hospitals, physicians and other clients.
Human Arc (Cleveland). Human Arc, founded in 1984, provides hospitals and health plans with revenue cycle services with a focus on eligibility determination and program enrollment. The company offers a number of technology services, such as its business-wide information management system COMPASS or its IQualify web-based tools designed for hospital patient financial counselors.
Huron Consulting Group (Chicago). Huron Consulting Group offers a specific healthcare revenue cycle solution. The solution aims to provide an annual 3 percent to 6 percent increase in revenue. Bruce Lemon serves as the managing director of the group's revenue cycle service. Huron's healthcare division also offers Epic implementation and optimization services.
IMMI (Las Vegas). IMMI has been offering billing and collections services for more than 20 years. The company days has just 8 percent A/R days more than 90. In addition to its billing and collections offerings, IMMI has consulting, credentialing, financial services and scheduling services.
Impact Advisors (Naperville, Ill.). Impact Advisors is a healthcare consulting firm offering expertise in a broad range of areas, including strategic IT planning, clinical optimization, meaningful use, revenue cycle management and more. The company's RCM optimization services include patient access, charge services, case management, health information management and patient financial services. In the 2015/2016 Best in KLAS rankings, Impact Advisors was named the Best in KLAS Overall IT Services Firm and the top firm in the IT Advisory Services market segment.
Intermedix (Fort Lauderdale, Fla.). Intermedix is a technology and analytics company serving the healthcare, business and government sectors. Under the umbrella of its healthcare offerings, the company provides EMS revenue cycle management services. Additionally, the company offers RCM services for hospitalists, anesthesiologists and primary care providers. Intermedix handles coding and billing services for more than 12,000 providers.
Jacobus Consulting (Irvine, Calif.). Jacobus Consulting bases its revenue cycle management services on the core areas of patient access, case management, revenue integrity/charge capture, health information management and business office performance improvement. The consulting group also offers interim leadership for revenue cycle leadership roles.
KeyBank (Cleveland). KeyBank's healthcare solutions are utilized by more than 10,000 healthcare organizations. The bank's KeyPatient POS is designed to streamline collections, reduce bad debt, decrease days in accounts receivable and more. KeyBank also offers a payment management solution design to track financial performance and overall improve revenue cycle management processes.
Kraft Healthcare Consulting (Nashville, Tenn.). Kraft Healthcare Consulting, a part of KraftCPAs, includes reimbursement and operations insight, coding and compliance support and advisory services. Within these categories the consulting firm targets revenue cycle management, coding and documentation, ICD-10 preparation, underpayment recovery and more.
Leidos (Reston, Va.). Leidos focuses on national security, engineering and health. The company employs 19,000 people worldwide. Leidos Health's revenue cycle solutions are designed for assessment and optimization. The company focuses on patient access, revenue integrity and patient financial services. Leidos Health also lends support in the form of interim leadership, initiative support and project management.
McKesson (San Francisco). McKesson offers healthcare providers revenue cycle management optimizations services, as well as several products. The company's service portfolio includes access management improvement, healthcare consumerism support, cash collection acceleration and payer performance improvement. McKesson's revenue cycle management product portfolio includes solutions for medical billing and revenue cycle management, the McKesson Performance Analytics system, McKesson Intelligent Coding and Paragon Hospital Information System.
MedAssets (Alpharetta, Ga.). MedAssets has solutions driven toward reducing the cost of care, enhancing efficiency, aligning clinical delivery and improving revenue performance. The company's revenue cycle management solutions are driven to reduce total cost by approximately 10 percent and increase net revenue by up to 5 percent. MedAssets provides revenue performance improvement consulting for all RCM processes, as well as ICD-10 readiness services. In January, Pamplona Capital finalized its $2.75 billion acquisition of MedAssets, the largest health IT M&A transaction initiated in 2015.
MedAssist Healthcare Solutions (Louisville, Ky.). MedAssist is a patient engagement company focused on revenue cycle solutions. The company services more than 700 hospitals and health systems. MedAssist's revenue cycle solutions include several patient access technologies, such as a patient bill estimator, and several business office services, such as denial management and tracking.
MedeAnalytics (Emeryville, Calif.). MedeAnalytics' services are tailored for both healthcare providers and health plans. The company's revenue cycle offerings aim to accelerate cash flow, limit bad debt and denials, automate collections workflow, evaluate service line profitability and streamline monthly reserves. MedeAnalytics also offers ICD-10 and patient access solutions.
MedHelp (Baltimore). MedHelp offers several revenue cycle management services including professional fee billing, physician billing and credentialing services. The company specializes in emergency department MCO denial appeals. Additionally, the company developed an internal scrubbing program that allows for expanded medical coding review and scrubbing.
MediRevv (Coralville, Iowa). MediRevv specializes in helping hospitals, health systems, academic medical centers and physician groups improve their cash flow and grow their revenue. The company offers self pay and insurance extended business office services, coding and denials management services and more. The company has clients such as Bon Secours Health System, based in Richmond, Va., and Dignity Health, based in San Francisco.
MEDITECH (Westwood, Mass.). Health IT vendor MEDITECH's revenue cycle management solution offers automated claim tracking, denial management, integrated charge capture and more. The solution offers support for centralized and decentralized billing. MEDITECH's RCM offering is designed to provide integration between hospital and office settings and to consolidate all revenue cycle functions.
MedSynergies (Irving, Texas). MedSynergies, acquired by Optum last year, offers healthcare providers financial and operational insight and support. The company's product MSIGHT helps providers streamline revenue cycle processes from appointment scheduling all the way through to patient check out.
Meridian Medical Management (Windsor, Conn.). Meridian Medical Management services more than 40,000 healthcare providers each year and processes more than $5 billion in revenue for medical practices. The company was acquired by GE Healthcare in 2005, but reestablished as a private entity. The company provides medical billing services on a number of different platforms, such as Allscripts, eClinicalWorks, GE Centricity, NextGen EPM and VertexDr. Additionally, Meridian Medical Management will operate on the Epic platform for its academic medical center clients.
MiraMed Global Services (Lombard, Ill.). MiraMed began as a small practice management company in 1979 and grew into a large-scale healthcare business process outsourcing provider. The company offers hospitals and physicians patient services, billing services and reimbursement solutions, as well as practice management and consulting options.
National Medical Billing Services (Grover, Mo.). NMBS is a revenue cycle outsourcing company catering specifically to the ambulatory surgery center market. The company offers a full suite of revenue cycle solutions including complete outsourcing, coding, coding and billing audits and managed care contracting.
Navicure (Duluth, Ga.). Navicure's portfolio includes cloud-based healthcare claims management and patient payment solutions. The company has several product lines tailored for specific RCM functions. Naviure ClaimFlow includes solutions for eligibility verification, coding, claims management, remittance management and denials and appeals management. All of the company's solutions are backed by its 3-Ring Client Service, which guarantees a service representative will answer each client call in three rings or less.
Navigant Cymetrix (Irvine, Calif.). Navigant Cymetrix, a fully-owned subsidiary of Navigant Consulting, was formed this year by the consolidation of Alleviant, Cymetrix and legacy RCM businesses. Navigant Cymetrix provides comprehensive RCM services, consulting services, eligibility and financial counseling, self-pay services, clinical documentation integrity, coding support and auditing, payment processing, accounts receivable management and more.
NaviNet (Boston). NaviNet is a healthcare communications network designed to facilitate payer and provider collaboration. NaviNet has more than 40 health plan partners and 420,000 active users. NaviNet's revenue cycle resource focuses on determining patients' out-of-pocket costs. The group's Payment Estimator allows providers to verify eligibility and providers an accurate estimate of a patient's financial responsibility.
Nearterm (Houston). Nearterm offers interim management, healthcare executive search capabilities, project staffing and revenue cycle consulting. The company's core RCM offering is Nearterm 360°. The solution incorporates health information management, consulting, permanent executive search and temporary staffing.
NextGen Healthcare (Horsham, Penn.). NextGen Healthcare offers ambulatory solutions, population health management, interoperability solutions, consulting solutions, revenue cycle management and more. The company's revenue cycle division offers consulting and outsourcing for physician billing, collections and claims. NextGen Healthcare's revenue cycle management services are driven by technology and proprietary solutions.
Nordic (Madison, Wis.). Nordic is a healthcare consulting company offering implementation solutions, optimization tools and Epic services. Among its many advisory options, the company offers RCM services. The company focuses on creating revenue cycle efficiencies to maximize charge capture, decrease days in A/R, improve staff productivity and streamline the entire process.
NueMD (Marietta, Ga.). NueMD offers a cloud-based platform that offers healthcare providers practice management services, an EHR and medical billing services. NuedMD's medical billing software and EHR work together to decrease outstanding claims, provide customized reposts and more. The company's practice management services aim to reduce patient cancellations and boost claims acceptance.
Ontario Systems (Muncie, Ind.). Ontario Systems is a software and services company focused on the healthcare industry. The company's product Artiva Healthcare is designed to enhance providers' patient accounting system. The company also offers Revenue Performance Optimization, a portfolio of consulting services.
Optum 360 (Eden Prairie, Minn.). Optum 360 is a patient-focused revenue cycle management service provider for hospitals and physicians. Services include revenue cycle management consulting, health IT and systems, medical coding and documentation, claims and reimbursement, denial management and recovery, financial compliance, ICD-10 readiness and more.
Parallon (Franklin, Tenn.). Parallon offers revenue cycle management insight and customized solutions. The company, which employs 14,500 plus people, is partnered with more than 700 facilities and 6,000 physician practices. Parallon offers full-service revenue cycle outsourcing, consulting, payment compliance, collections, physician billing, extended business office services and more.
Patientco (Atlanta). Patientco focuses directly on the revenue cycle portion involving the patient. The company provides a cloud-based, online platform that automates the entire patient payment process. The system is designed up automate up to 80 percent of patient payment tasks, including payment reconciliation and automatically posting files to health information and practice management systems.
Physicians Group Management (Lyndhurst, N.J.). PGM, founded in 1981, offers physician billing services, facility billing services and EMR solutions. The company offers billing solutions specifically tailored to a number of different specialties including allergy and immunology, anesthesiology, cardiology, chiropractic, dermatology, emergency medicine, gastroenterology, mental health, nephrology, oncology, orthopedics, pain management, primary care and urology.
PNC Healthcare (Chicago). PNC Healthcare, a division of PNC Bank, offers healthcare providers a number of revenue cycle management resources. PNC Healthcare's products range from claims submission services and electronic remittance to a patient estimator and denial challenger.
Precyse (Wayne, Pa.). Precyse's solutions include health information management, medical coding and computer assisted coding, clinical documentation improvement, medical transcription, ICD-10 education and more. That company's services have been used by more than 4,000 healthcare facilities and providers across the country.
Prism Healthcare Partners (Chicago). Prism offers financial, operational and clinical performance improvement services to hospitals, health systems and academic medical centers. The company's revenue cycle solutions hone in on identifying any inefficiencies and boosting net revenues. Prism's solutions include registration, insurance verification, financial counseling, charge capture, coding, collections, managed care contracting, clinical documentation and more.
PwC (New York). PricewaterhouseCoopers, a large business intelligence consulting firm, has consulting services for a wide range of areas, such as strategy, operations, risk and finance. PwC's revenue cycle services are offered through its financial management branch. Its core offering is its Virtual Business Office, which serves as an extension of clients' physician business office. The VBO offers third-party aged accounts receivable remediation, insurance verification, claims volume management, customer service support and more.
Quadax (Middleburg Heights, Ohio). Quadax has revenue cycle solutions customized for hospitals, physician practices, vendors and laboratories. The company's line of solutions aims to increase cash flow, maximize productivity and reduce paper processing dependency. Quadax specializes in electronic transaction management, emergency department business services and laboratory revenue cycle management.
Quorum Health Resources (Brentwood, Tenn.). QHR, founded in 1977, offers a number of brands including QHR Management Services, QHR Consulting Services, Quorum Purchasing Advantage and The QHR Learning Institute. The company's revenue cycle solution focuses on providing cash flow solutions from coding and billing to patient access and customer service.
Recondo Technology (Greenwood Village, Colo.). Recondo Technology aims to connect providers, patients and payers with cloud-based revenue cycle management solutions. Recondo's patient access services included integrated payer authorization, accurate patient estimation, analytics-driven denial avoidance and more. The company's business office portfolio includes automated claims workflow, claims status data, denial management, claims submission and more.
Regent Revenue Cycle Management (Westchester, Ill.). Regent RCM is an independent division of ambulatory surgery center management and development company Regent Surgical Health. The company offers billers and collectors with an average of more than 17 years of revenue cycle management each. The company offers a number of automated services including insurance verification, electronic claims processing, electronic payer payments and patient remittance posting, digitally stored contracts, outsourced patient statement generation and report formatting.
RelayHealth (Emeryville, Calif.). RelayHealth, owned by McKesson, offers analytics-driven revenue cycle management solutions. The company's products include RelayAnalytics Acuity, RelayAnalytics Pulse and RelayAnalytics Spectrum. The Acuity product focuses on providing data to support decisions in areas ranging from ICD-10 compliance to reimbursement. The Pulse product helps create meaningful benchmarks. The Spectrum product is an iPad application designed to allow mobile access to data.
RSM US LLP (Chicago). RSM US offers advisory services to several industries, including healthcare. The firm's revenue cycle services suite includes research and management reports, supporting analytics, performance indicator summaries, executive presentations to leadership and more.
re|solution (Louisville, Colo.). re|solution offers services for the full range of revenue cycle processes. Services include a revenue improvement program, cash acceleration, days in accounts receivable reduction, interim staffing, business office insourcing and coding and compliance services.
RevClaims (Jackson, Miss.). RevClaims focuses on injury claims billing. The company partners with providers to increase claims recovery related to workers' compensation, automobile accidents and catastrophic injuries. The company works with hospitals, health systems and trauma centers.
RevenueXL (Cupterino, Calif.). RevenueXL is a healthcare solutions and EMR company focused on small- to mid-sized practices. The company not only provides EMR and EHR solutions, but also medical transcription, coding compliance and document indexing. RevenueXL's medical billing portfolio also includes billing software options, billing services, coding services, insurance follow up and denial management.
RevSpring (Wixom, Mich.). RevSpring focuses on customized revenue cycle solutions. The company offers business process outsourcing. RevSpring applies data analytics, patient centered communications and more to improve providers' revenue cycle processes.
Rycan (Minneapolis). Rycan, recently acquired by Healthland, is a healthcare revenue cycle software company. Rycan's solutions address revenue cycle issues including patient liability, eligibility verification, claim submission, remittance management, denial management, contract management, reporting and data mining and more.
SCI Solutions (Campbell, Calif.). SCI Solutions provides business process software for more than 550 hospitals, imaging centers, physician practices and post-acute care providers. SCI Solutions offers the Provider Network Manager that is designed to boost outpatient volumes, referrals and revenues. The company also offers a scheduling platform and client performance optimization services.
SourceMed (Birmingham, AL). SourceMed solutions capture, exchange and analyze data that that enable outpatient facilities to optimize revenue, increase operational efficiency and
improve compliance. The company’s integrated software, analytics, revenue cycle management and professional services are used by more than 35,000 healthcare professionals in over 6,500 ambulatory surgery centers, specialty hospitals and rehabilitation therapy clinics nationwide. SourceMed’s team of certified coders, billers and collectors ensures that claims are continually worked so that customers realize earned revenue more quickly and stay compliant with changing regulations. Actionable data, pulled directly from SourceMed billing software, highlights revenue cycle trends and identifies immediate opportunities to strengthen financial and operational outcomes.
Specialty Billing Solutions (Lakewood, Colorado). Specialty Billing Solutions, a wholly owned subsidiary of ASC management company PINNACLE III, provides coding, claims submission, denial management and patient financial services for ambulatory surgery centers. The company’s team includes certified professional coders, experienced billing & collection professionals and is 100 percent United States-based. The company performs “forensic collections” on new client accounts with existing A/R to capture proper reimbursement for old claims. ASCs making the switch to Specialty Billing Solutions have realized increases in net revenue per case of at least 10 percent.
The SSI Group (Mobile, Ala.). SSI focuses on claims management technology and electronic data interchange platforms. The company's financial performance service options include denial management, audit management, contract management, analytics and SSI Medibis. Medibis is a solution designed for the ambulatory surgery center market. SSI's claims management service portfolio includes billing, claims status and the Cerner HIS Solution.
SymMetric Revenue Solutions (Fort Meyers, Fla.). SyMetric Revenue Solutions offers a diverse services suite ranging from revenue cycle management and physician practice management to real-time reporting and value-based medicine. The company's revenue cycle options include emergency department coding and billing, hospitalist coding and billing, urgent care coding and billing, documentation improvement, auditing, collections and more.
TD Bank (Toronto, Ontario). TD Bank's healthcare and not-for-profit banking group offers liquidity solutions and financing solutions in addition to revenue cycle management. TD Healthcare Remittance Management offers a comprehensive solution for healthcare revenue cycle management processes.
Trace by The White Stone Group (Knoxville, Tenn.). Trace is a communication management solution designed to support scheduling, coordination and reimbursement functions. The system offers revenue protection, enhanced communication, compliance support and operational performance enhancement.
TransUnion (Chicago). TransUnion provides solutions for several industries including healthcare. The company's revenue cycle solutions serve both hospitals and physician practices. TransUnion's revenue cycle management services and technologies focus on patient access, reimbursement and data breaches.
Transworld Systems (Santa Rosa, Calif.). Transworld Systems' revenue cycle solution MDeverywhere aims to streamline hospital and physician practice revenue cycle management processes. The MDeverywhere system includes practice management software, a claim expert, a contract expert and business services. The system decreases denials up to 90 percent.
TruBridge (Mobile, Ala.). TruBridge is a business and IT services consulting company focused on rural and community hospitals. The company's revenue cycle management services include accounts receivable management, private pay collections, insurance follow-up, contract management, statement processing, online bill pay and medical coding.
United Collection Bureau (Toledo, Ohio). UCB, founded in 1959, provides revenue cycle services to more than 400 healthcare providers. UCB's revenue cycle solutions include pre-registration services, eligibility assistance, presumptive charity, pay analytics, self-pay collections, insurance follow-up and bad debt recovery.
VisiQuate (Santa Rosa, Calif.). VisQuate offers a number of products including an enterprise performance management platform, visual operating system, business analytics engine, knowledge distribution engine, business rules management and data integration studio. In 2014, VisiQuate partnered with Ovation Revenue Cycle Services to offer its healthcare clients a combination of revenue cycle software and services.
VitalWare (Yakima, Wash.). VitalWare offers RCM services and tools powered by cloud-based technologies, identifying and simplifying challenges in an ever changing and regulated industry. The company offers best in class documentation, coding, billing and auditing services for a powerful user experience. VitalWare's products include VitalCDI, iDocuMint, VitalCoder, VitalCDM, VitalCharges and VitalAuditor.
VHC (Oakbrook Terrace, Ill.). Vaughn Holland Consulting focuses on revenue cycle consulting. The firm's services include revenue recovery, Medicare underpayments, software solutions, health information management solutions, revenue cycle consulting and more.
Xtend Healthcare (Hendersonville, Tenn.). Xtend Healthcare focuses on financial performance improvement. The company aims to improve revenue cycle functions, offers staff extension and IT assets and focuses on bottom line improvements. The company's revenue cycle management solutions include on-site accelerated recovery, extended business office services, automated follow-up, consultation, HIM consulting, coding services, ICD-10 education and self-pay services.
ZirMed (Louisville, Ky.). ZirMed, founded in 1999, provides services to more than 8,000 healthcare organizations and nearly 300,000 providers. The company's key service offerings are patient access, charge integrity claims and accounts receivable management, cost and utilization, population risk management and patient engagement.
Zotec Partners (Carmel, Ind.). Zotec is a specialty-driven company with a focus on anesthesiology, emergency medicine, pathology and radiology. The company's medical billing services include customized billing protocols, contract variance, integrated imaging, a patient portal, automated appeals and more.
Bolder Healthcare Solutions (Louisville, Ky.). Bolder Healthcare Solutions has a number of revenue cycle management services. The company's Avectus Healthcare Solutions resolves third-party liability claims for the hospital and trauma center market. Bolder's ROI Companies is a full suite of RCM services for hospitals. The company's portfolio also includes Bolder Anesthesia Management, Bolder Billing Services and Bolder Outreach Solutions.
© Copyright ASC COMMUNICATIONS 2019. Interested in LINKING to or REPRINTING this content? View our policies by clicking here.

Story 50
It’s unmistakable that the IPO market is heating up. According to IPO Monitor, the number of IPOs increased in 2010, up threefold from 2009, and there’s no slowing in sight.
I recently attended a board meeting for a company that just IPOed. The Compensation Committee was having its first post-IPO meeting, and not surprisingly, had more questions than answers. These questions ranged from compensation strategy and design to the nuts and bolts of good governance processes.
Having assisted a number of companies through IPOs, I’ve learned some lessons about what challenges companies face when transitioning through IPOs and what are the most successful strategies in dealing with these challenges. Here’s my “top ten” list of what I’ve seen works best:
10. Cash compensation will become more important in the pay mix – Venture-backed IPO executives often will be paid less than the market in salary and bonus, since cash was scarce prior the IPO and equity was counted on to “carry the day.” As a result, companies, ideally before they get to the IPO, should conduct a competitive pay analysis and take steps to correct inequities. This competitive look also provides an excellent platform for discussing and establishing a pay positioning strategy post-IPO.
9. Go ahead – fix internal inequities before the IPO – Companies should assess where everyone is in the pecking order in terms of ownership and equity position before the IPO. It’s easier to at least partially even up internal inequities before the IPO happens because the valuations are lower and topping up executives is not as costly or visible as after the IPO.
8. Don’t expect to fix the “inequities in equity” after the IPO – It’s simple math. The “haves” are those who came into the company prior to the IPO, and the “have-nots” are the ones who came in afterwards. Most executives understand that those who were there prior to the IPO took more risk, and therefore, deserve to be rewarded for that risk, and the company can’t possibly afford to put all executives on equal footing in this regard.
7. Don’t think in terms of reloads post-IPO – Those who made it big on the IPO can’t expect to replicate that experience post-IPO. With one of my IPO clients, the CEO expected to be “topped up” after taking money off the table post-IPO. My view was that the “top up” was not warranted as it would have led to overcompensation. Compensation Committees should not fall into the trap of thinking that they need to “reload” executives as a result of equity liquidations following an IPO.
6. Plan for declining burn rates and overhang – A burn rate is the percentage of shares that a company uses annually for incentive grants. Overhang is the percentage of shares that are outstanding and available for incentives. In other words, overhang is a “sharing ratio” or percentage of the company that shareholders are sharing with employees. The fact of the matter is that both burn rates and overhang are higher for pre-IPO than post-IPO companies. Overhang comes down as employees exercise their options and take gains off the table following the IPO. So, IPO companies need to carefully budget their equity usage and manage to a declining burn rate and overhang over time.
5. Consider pay structures to be your friend – High growth IPO companies often eschew anything that is perceived to constrain creativity. But establishing a pay structure (i.e., setting salary ranges, target bonus opportunities as a percent of salary, and equity grant ranges) is one of the keys to scaling the business. If there is no structure, then everything is an ad hoc negotiation, which is sure to lead to pay inequities (and discontent).
4. Expect to redesign the short-term and long-term incentive plans – In my experience, venture-backed companies typically focus on bookings and revenue for bonus purposes, and private-equity-backed companies tend to focus on EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization). In addition, publicly-traded stock post-IPO is a different sort of incentive vehicle than one pre-IPO, having virtually no liquidity. These issues almost always prompt a relook at the short- and long-term incentive plans as part of the IPO.
3. Aggressively manage talent – sooner rather than later – Some executives will take to the post-IPO environment like a duck takes to water. Others will remain on land. It’s extremely important to determine which executives will succeed in the public environment. As a result, a deliberate executive assessment process, and pay actions that are consistent with these assessments, are critically important before the IPO.
2. More growth requires increased differentiation – In the early days, almost everyone is a star, or they don’t survive in a start-up or high-change environment. As the company grows, it gets increasingly populated by value maintainers that surround the value creators. As a result, it becomes increasingly important to identify the value creators and pay them at a premium. This helps the organization allocate resources more efficiently, and also helps fill talent gaps more quickly.
1. Good governance is always in vogue – New IPO companies can get caught flat-footed if they are not prepared for the new governance environment. For example, some legal advisors still encourage IPO companies to put evergreen share authorizations into their equity plans. But shareholders strongly dislike evergreens, so why establish them in the first place? My view is that it is best to establish good governance processes, preferably before the IPO happens, so that no one has to break bad habits later on.
If your company is planning an IPO this year, congratulations. My experience is that the best time to ask questions (and get answers) is before the IPO happens, not after. Also, it is helpful to obtain the best professional compensation advice from those who are experts, not from investment bankers or legal advisors. The good news is that it’s easy to avoid mistakes before they happen. You just have to know what they are.
_______
Robin A. Ferracone is the Executive Chair of Farient Advisors, LLC, an independent executive compensation and performance advisory firm which helps clients make performance-enhancing, defensible decisions that are in the best interests of their shareholders. Robin Ferracone is the author of a recently published book entitled Fair Pay, Fair Play: Aligning Executive Performance and Pay, which explores how companies can achieve better performance and pay alignment. Robin can be contacted at robin.ferracone@farient.com.

Story 51
Siamo entusiasti di annunciare che i risultati del nostro trimestre natalizio hanno generato il più alto fatturato trimestrale di sempre per Apple, infrangendo diversi altri record. Abbiamo venduto il maggior numero di iPhone rispetto al passato e abbiamo battuto tutti i record di fatturato precedenti per iPhone, Servizi, Mac e Apple Watch.
Così Tim Cook ha presentato a Cupertino un fatturato trimestrale record: 78,4 miliardi di dollari – circa 72,5 miliardi di euro - (vs i 75,4 miliardi registrati nel Q1 del 2016).
Un goal segnato grazie al lancio di iPhone 7, che nella versione Plus ha segnato un incremento del 55% sulle unità vendute.
Con un fatturato così quanto guadagna la classe dirigente di Apple?
Il compenso annuale complessivo della classe dirigente si compone di una parte fissa (stipendio annuo) e di una variabile, che comprende incentivi in denaro ed azioni a seconda delle performance e del raggiungimento degli obiettivi.
Nel dettaglio, nel 2016 questi sono stati gli stipendi complessivi dell'Executive Team:
• Apple CEO Tim Cook: $8,747,719
• Apple CFO Luca Maestri: $22,803,569
• Apple retail chief Angela Ahrendts: $22,902,892
• Apple services chief Eddy Cue: $22,807,544
• Apple hardware engineering chief Dan Riccio: $22,807,544
• Apple general counsel Bruce Sewell: $22,807,544
Un altro criterio chiave nel determinare la retribuzione totale è la comparazione diretta con i compensi delle altre società del settore che competeno con Apple per i migliori talenti.
LEGGI ANCHE: Il significato del logo Tesla, spiegato da Elon Musk
Quali sono le aziende che Apple considera "proprie pari"?
Il comitato per la remunerazione stila ogni anno l'elenco delle società che potrebbero contendersi con Apple il capitale umano, ossia i migliori talenti in circolazione.
La lista si compone sia di "società pari"che operano nelle industrie tecnologiche, media, internet e di servizi (tutte rigorosamente autonome, basate negli USA e quotate in borsa), che di un secondo gruppo di società iconiche e/o leader di categoria che necessitano di capitale umano altamente qualificato per continuare nella loro crescita.
Andiamo a scoprire nel dettaglio le società che Apple considera proprie pari in questa battaglia per l'acquisizione dei migliori talenti.
Le industrie tecnologiche con cui concorre Apple per il capitale umano
Nella lista figurano IBM, Microsoft, Hewlett-Packard, Intel, EMC, Cisco System, Oracle, Qualcomm.
Grande assente Samsung (sede principale a Seul, Corea del Sud), che negli USA detiene 29% delle quote di mercato degli smartphone, subito dietro ad Apple con il 31%.
Le industrie che ricercano i migliori talenti dei media
"Chiunque controlla i media, controlla le menti", diceva già Jim Morrison. Ed anche per Cupertino è fondamentale aggiudicarsi i migliori talenti delle industria media e intrattenimento. Chi sono le aziende con cui competere? Google, Facebook, The Walt Disney Company, 20th Century Fox, Time Warner Cable, CBS, Viacom, Comcast e DIRECTV.
Anche quai due grandi assenti, i primi rivali di Apple per quel che concerne lo streaming: Netflix (USA) e Spotify (Stoccolma, Svezia). C'è da chiedersi: il capitale umano delle une non ha veramente nessun appeal per le altre?
I grandi retailer digitali e le compagnie telefoniche
Nella lista di "società pari" non potevano mancare i due grandi colossi del retail digitale: Amazon ed eBay.
Curiosa la presenza delle compagnie telefoniche AT&T e Verizon, che per chi non ricordasse 10 anni fa al lancio di iPhone furono le uniche due società con sim abilitata per l'utilizzo del melafonino nel mercato USA, solo successivamente il telefono venne messo in vendita con la sim sbloccata dai contratti telefonici.
E poi ci sono gli altri big, diversi ma comunque in competizione per le migliori risorse umane
Poi ci sono loro, il gruppo secondario di pari, fatto di leader di mercato che hanno tutte le intenzioni di aggiudicarsi i migliori talenti per proseguire la loro vorticosa crescita: 3M, American Express, Boing, Coca-Cola, General Electric, Johnson & Johnson, PepsiCo, Procter & Gamble.
Cosa ci riserveranno nel 2017 i grandi talenti Apple?
I rumors sono molti, dall'iPhone 8, celebrativo del decennale del melafonino, all'eyewear intelligente (mercato non facile, il progetto Google Glass pare sia stato ufficialmente archiviato nel 2016).
Non ci resta che scoprirlo nei prossimi mesi!

Story 52


This crawler or robot has been disallowed from visting our site.
If you feel this has been in error, please contact our webmaster
Disallowed Crawler User Agents:

