Story 0
The Malta Financial Services Authority (“MFSA”) has become aware of an entity by the name of Bitcoin Future. This entity appears to present the same deceitful characteristics as another entity, Bitcoin Revolution, against which the MFSA has already issued public warnings on 25 January 2019 and on 29 August 2019.
ADVERTISEMENT
Such entities have been constantly resurfacing on the internet as adverts, and are operating under various names. These fake adverts claim to provide a “Way to build your life better” and a “Unique opportunity for Maltese”, and are currently operating through the following internet addresses: https://bit.ly/2IS0YeT and https://bit.ly/2IOE7ks.
Bitcoin Future is promoting itself by means of fake news articles which misuse images of local personalities and images of local government institutions. The fake articles are advertised on various social media platforms and falsely claim to be linked to these individuals.
Bitcoin Future is NOT a Maltese registered Company, NEITHER is the entity operating under the transitory provision in terms of Article 62 of the Virtual Financial Assets Act (Cap 590 of the Laws of Malta) NOR is it authorised to provide any financial services in or from Malta.
Furthermore, information available to the MFSA suggests that Bitcoin Future is likely to be an international “get-rich-quick” cryptocurrency scam. The public should therefore refrain from undertaking any business or transactions with the entity operating under the abovementioned names.
The MFSA strongly advises investors and consumers of financial services that prior to making any investment or entering into any financial services transaction they should make sure that the entity with whom the investment or transaction is being made is authorised to provide such services by the MFSA or another financial services regulatory authority as applicable.
A list of entities licensed by the MFSA can be viewed on the official website of the MFSA at https://www.mfsa.mt/financial-services-register/ .
For more information on cryptocurrency scams please refer to the Scam Detection Guidelines issued by the MFSA at https://www.mfsa.mt/consumers/scams-warnings/typical-scams/. If you are a victim of a cryptocurrency scam or any other type of financial scam or think you might be dealing with an unauthorised entity, first of all stop all transactions with the company and contact the Authority at https://www.mfsa.mt/about-us/contact/ as soon as a suspicion arises.

Story 1
GO, Malta’s first quad play provider, has selected Linxa’s wholesale management platform, to enhance and optimise its Voice business. The platform enables GO to automate its processes end-to-end while benefiting from increased visibility, insights and intelligence across its operations. GO gains an easy to use, yet powerful solution for efficiently managing pricing, routing, monitoring and invoicing to optimise performance.

The platform enables GO to optimise routing plans reflecting costs, quality and commercial agreements, and real-time visibility into live traffic, performance and profitability data. It can make faster and more precise decisions about its Voice business, taking into account multiple criteria such as cost, quality, bi-lateral and contractual commitments.

“With our Linxa Connect Solution, GO is able to enhance how it manages the Voice piece of its quad play offering while delivering greater performance for users. It takes the complexity out of Voice with increased automation and a really easy to use interface,” said Kunal Dave, VP - Global Sales at Linxa. “Our work with GO shows that we have the scalability to serve local, and international wholesale carriers and automate how quad players manage their voice businesses.”

GO provides true fibre-powered infrastructure that connects its end users with mobile, fixed line, internet, and TV services. It also provides cloud, data networking, business IP, and managed services. GO is the only Maltese operator that fully owns and supplies fibre to the home, connects all its mobile base stations with fibre and owns two redundant submarine cables, connecting Malta to the world.

“As the leading quad player in Malta, optimising our Voice services is essential if we are to deliver the best possible experience for our customers, particularly for the inbound roamers that connect to GO’s state of the art mobile network. Such optimisation also translates into greater efficiencies in our operations. Linxa understood our goals, and worked closely with us every step of the way to deliver a solution that really captures all our requirements to provide faster, smarter and user-centric services,” said Patrick Gatt Senior Manager for Wholesale and International services at GO. “It was able to deploy its platform on time and on budget allowing us to experience an immediate positive impact on our operations,” he continued.

Linxa’s wholesale management platform, has already been deployed by Deutsche Telekom Global Carrier, Digital Wholesale Solutions and Rebtel recently to accelerate growth and reduce operational costs of their Voice businesses. It enables Voice, SMS and OTT players to make faster decisions, offer a higher quality of service, and benefit from greater cost-efficiency.


About Linxa

Linxa deliver software platforms designed for growing profitability and simplifying the complex Telecoms market. Linxa solutions enable telecom companies to move faster to capture new revenue and drive efficiency in their operations. Linxa offers all the tools and support to efficiently manage pricing, routing, monitoring and invoicing, along with high performance Switching, SBC, Number Portability, Trading Network, and Blockchain Gateway products. This enables Service Providers to focus on their core business while optimising routing and making real-time decisions based on price and quality, reducing fraud and disputes, that simplify operations and accelerate growth.

www.linxa.com

About GO

GO is Malta’s leading communications services company. As the first quad play provider in Malta we provide mobile, fixed line, internet and TV services to more than 500,000 customers. We also provide unrivalled services to the Maltese business community, including Cloud Services, data networking solutions, business IP services, and managed services.

For more information, please visit www.go.com.mt
View more of the latest press releases from across the industry or post your company's news.

Story 2
GO Malta deploys Linxa’s wholesale management platform
29 October 2019 | Natalie Bannerman
GO, Malta’s first quad play telecoms provider, has chosen Linxa’s wholesale management platform to optimise its voice business.
The platform enables GO to automate its processes end-to-end while gaining increased visibility, insights and intelligence across its network. GO also benefits from an easy to use solution to effectively manage pricing, routing, monitoring and invoicing to optimise performance.
“With our Linxa Connect Solution, GO is able to enhance how it manages the Voice piece of its quad play offering while delivering greater performance for users. It takes the complexity out of Voice with increased automation and a really easy to use interface,” said Kunal Dave, VP - Global Sales at Linxa. “Our work with GO shows that we have the scalability to serve local, and international wholesale carriers and automate how quad players manage their voice businesses.”
In addition, the platform allows GO to optimise routing plans reflecting costs, quality and commercial agreements as well as real-time visibility into live traffic, performance and profitability data. As a result, GO can make faster and more precise decisions about its voice business.
“As the leading quad player in Malta, optimising our Voice services is essential if we are to deliver the best possible experience for our customers, particularly for the inbound roamers that connect to GO’s state of the art mobile network. Such optimisation also translates into greater efficiencies in our operations. Linxa understood our goals, and worked closely with us every step of the way to deliver a solution that really captures all our requirements to provide faster, smarter and user-centric services,” said Patrick Gatt, senior manager for wholesale and international services at GO. “It was able to deploy its platform on time and on budget allowing us to experience an immediate positive impact on our operations,” he continued.
Rebtel, Deutsche Telekom Global Carrier and Digital Wholesale Solutions have already deployed Linxa’s wholesale management platform.

Story 3
Social innovators are being invited to visit the newly launched Koiné Platform (www.koine.me/en) and join the ever-growing network of professionals, organisations and innovation hubs.
Launched by the EU Interreg project Enisie within the margins of the Malta Innovation Summit 2019, the innovation platform was created to serve as a bridge between all the realities in the Mediterranean area operating in the fields of Innovation and Social Innovation.
ADVERTISEMENT
Available in English and Italian, the Enisie innovation platform will serve as a hub for the community of innovators where they can sell or buy products and services, expand their network, find new opportunities, exchange expertise and best practices with different types of stakeholders. Registration is free of charge and open to individual professionals, organisations, companies and innovation spaces who can avail themselves to a myriad of online resources including experimental innovations services, social innovation best practices and innovation tools.
Ing. Joseph P. Sammut, chairman and founder of the Malta Life Sciences Park, said: "The innovation platform was designed to support and promote a stable system of networking, encourage the exchange of services and good practices and stimulate cross-border synergies in the EU-Mediterranean region. Besides providing a potential basis for business growth, a key component of this project is to accelerate social innovation in crucial areas such as food, digital health and sustainable tourism."
The Koiné platform is therefore one of the enablers for communities to stimulate, stir and disrupt businesses with opportunities for innovative services and products, eventually contributing to the shift from business with profit to business with purpose as described at the Malta Innovation Summit by Diana Spiteri - IURIS Business Solutions and Ing. Joseph P. Sammut - Malta Life Sciences Park.
The project Enisie Enabling network-based innovation through services and institutional engagement is supported by the European Union's Programme Interreg V-A Italia Malta 2014-2020.
For further information and registration visit www.koine.me/en or contact one of the project partners.

Story 4
Social Innovators are being invited to visit the newly- launched Koiné Platform (www.koine.me/en) and join the ever-growing network of professionals, organisations and innovation hubs.
Launched by the EU Interreg project ENISIE within the margins of the Malta Innovation Summit 2019, the innovation platform was created to serve as a bridge between all the realities in the Mediterranean area operating in the fields of innovation and social innovation.
Available in English and Italian, the ENISIE innovation platform will serve as a hub for the community of innovators where they can sell or buy products and services, expand their network, find new opportunities, exchange expertise and best practices with different types of stakeholders. Registration is free of charge and open to individual professionals, organisations, companies and innovation spaces who can avail themselves to a myriad of online resources including experimental innovations services, social innovation best practices and innovation tools.
“The innovation platform was designed to support and promote a stable system of networking, encourage the exchange of services and good practices and stimulate cross-border synergies in the EU-Mediterranean region,” Ing. Joseph P. Sammut, chairman and founder of the Malta Life Sciences Park, said.
“Besides providing a potential basis for business growth, a key component of this project is to accelerate social innovation in crucial areas such as food, digital health and sustainable tourism,” he added.
The Koiné platform is therefore one of the enablers for communities to stimulate, stir and disrupt businesses with opportunities for innovative services and products, eventually contributing to the shift from business with profit to business with purpose.
The project ENISIE ‘Enabling Network-based Innovation through Services and Institutional Engagement’ is supported by the European Union’s programme INTERREG V-A Italia Malta 2014-2020.

Story 5
A 35-year-old Swedish mother of five has been convicted in Sweden to a six-year prison sentence after being arrested in Spain after she fled there from Malta.
She was convicted on charges of sexual assault on two of her underage daughters, aged 14 and eight, as well as for the production and distribution underage pornography of the two children.
ADVERTISEMENT
Investigations into the heinous crimes began last year when the Swedish police discovered several women using underage children from their family environment to produce paedophilic content over the internet.
Two Swedes had been arrested at the time but another, a mother of five, who was described as being a pornographic actress herself by the Spanish police yesterday, appeared to have gone on the run.
Swedish investigators, with the help of Europol, determined that the woman had left Sweden, with at least four of her five children, all of them minors, and had fled to Malta.
It is not known how long she had stayed in Malta with her children or if any pornographic material of her underage children had been produced or sold while she was here.
It is known that investigators tracked her down to Malta and then on to Benalmádena, Spain where she was arrested. The Spanish Civil Guard tracked her and her children down and found in her possession paedophile material with at least two of her daughters that had been sold by the mother on the internet.
The Spanish police said that next to the children's toys were the sex toys that the mother also sold online, José Luis Caramé, Lieutenant of the Cybercrime Department in Benalmádena said yesterday.
Spanish authorities said they had also found 20 videos ready to sell, on which her children could be seen being “touched”.
The operation, code-named Kasino, led to the arrest of a total of six people, all of Swedish nationality, on accusations of the production and distribution of sexual abuse material involving minors.
Five of these people were arrested by the Swedish Police (three men and two women), and the fifth, who had first fled to Malta, was arrested by the Spanish Civil Guard in Benalmádena, in Málaga.
The children, through the collaboration of the Spanish and Swedish social services, were transferred back to Sweden where they were placed with different host families.

Story 6
An online gaming company has announced that it will close its Malta studio and move to another EU member state, making some 30 of its employees redundant.
Yggdrasil, which provides gaming content for online casinos, blamed a lack of human resources for its decision to consolidate its studio operation in Poland.
It will retain a much-reduced presence of less than 20 people in Malta, where the company, which describes itself as “one of the industry’s most respected and acclaimed suppliers” has been operating since 2013.
A spokesman for the gaming supplier said “the regretful decision was based on the fact that Malta has not been an optimal location for a fully-fledged end-to-end studio as the company has been relying on relocating talent instead of recruiting local talent”.
He said that it was part of the company’s strategy to “consolidate our game development efforts around our very successful studios in Krakow and Stockholm for all disciplines required in a complete game development studio, including client development, game server development, math design and other areas”.
It comes a month after two Malta-based online betting companies announced nearly 100 redundancies as part of major restructuring.
The Stars Group, part of the TSG Interactive Gaming Europe Ltd, with offices in St Julian’s since 2017, informed about 80 of its local staff it will not need their services any longer.
It is not feasible any longer to rely on foreign imported human resources
The move came after a sharp fall in the company’s turnover.
Days later another gaming company, Multilotto, also based in St Julian’s, made some 15 employees – half its workforce – redundant in an unexpected move.
Industry sources said that while the online gaming sector remains a strong contributor to the Maltese economy, there are signs of “fatigue” and “lack of attractiveness” in the current economic state of the island.
“The industry has been sending out messages to the regulator and the government in general, that there is a lack of human resources and that it is not feasible any longer to rely on foreign imported human resources.”
Representatives from the gaming industry have also repeatedly warned that Malta’s high cost of living, particularly regarding rent rates, has affected competitiveness.
During the past years, Malta has relied heavily on the gaming and financial services industries to sustain its economic growth.
The two industries are highly dependable on foreign staff which has resulted in a significant increase in the numbers living and working on the island.
Latest figures show that the gaming industry presence is currently worth some €1.2 billion or 12 per cent of GDP.
Ivan.Camilleri@timesofmalta.com

Story 7
Apart from the story we carry on our front page, that cryptocurrency exchange Bittrex has announced that it is moving headquarters from the "Blockchain Island" Malta to Liechtenstein, this has not been a good week for the Maltese economy.
The Times reported earlier that an online gaming company has announced that it will close its Malta studio and move to another EU member state, making some 30 of its employees redundant.
Yggdrasil, which provides gaming content for online casinos, the report said, blamed a lack of human resources in Malta for its decision to consolidate its studio operation in Poland.
ADVERTISEMENT
It will retain a much-reduced presence of less than 20 people in Malta, where the company, which describes itself as "one of the industry's most respected and acclaimed suppliers" has been operating since 2013.
A spokesman for the gaming supplier told the paper "the regretful decision was based on the fact that Malta has not been an optimal location for a fully-fledged end-to-end studio as the company has been relying on relocating talent instead of recruiting local talent".
Just a few weeks before that, two Malta-based online betting companies announced nearly 100 redundancies as part of major restructuring.
The Stars Group, part of the TSG Interactive Gaming Europe Ltd, with offices in St Julian's since 2017, informed about 80 of its local staff it will not need their services any longer.
The move came after a sharp fall in the company's turnover.
Days later another gaming company, Multilotto, also based in St Julian's, made some 15 employees - half its workforce - redundant in an unexpected move.
Latest figures show that the gaming industry presence is currently worth some €1.2 billion or 12 per cent of GDP.
One must understand that, compared to other sectors of the economy, it is very simple for an online gaming company to move out: all it takes is to close the laptops and head to the airport.
Industry sources told the paper that while the online gaming sector remains a strong contributor to the Maltese economy, there are signs of "fatigue" and "lack of attractiveness" in the current economic state of the island.
"The industry has been sending out messages to the regulator and the government in general, that there is a lack of human resources and that it is not feasible any longer to rely on foreign imported human resources."
Representatives from the gaming industry have also repeatedly warned that Malta's high cost of living, particularly regarding rent rates, has affected competitiveness.
One must not forget the dollar correspondence problem, and the Satabank and Pilatus banks' forced closures. All this has been exacerbated by the irreparable bad reputation that Malta 'enjoys'.
These exorbitant rental fees together with this massive third world immigration is killing the goose that has being laying the golden egg.

Story 8
To some, Malta-native Paula Pandolfino may seem like a walking contradiction: bitcoiner and banker.
After personally investing in bitcoin in 2016, she’s now co-founder of the upcoming Founders Bank in Malta, scheduled to open in 2020.
“Crypto will take over the world, and we need full banking services,” she told CoinDesk. “We want to be that pillar of banking for the ecosystem to support how it gets done. If anything, [we’re learning] how to wean off traditional banking and getting crypto to be that platform.”
Pandolfino said the bank raised $10 million so far and is looking to raise $30 million more in the near future. The bank’s leading investors include the crypto exchange Binance (also based in Malta), the hedge fund Polychain Capital and the Czech firm Carduus Asset Management.
Polychain president Joe Eagan told CoinDesk the investment was inspired by personal experience since his fund struggled to find banking partners in 2016. Today more institutions – from Silvergate Bank in California to Metropolitan Bank in New York to WEG Bank AG in Germany – serve the crypto industry. But Eagan said there’s still a dearth of providers open to crypto projects.
“Many of our portfolio projects, we’ve seen, still have difficulty accessing banking partners,” he said, adding:
“We need to bring in new users beyond the original users of bitcoin. And to do that we need to institutionalize the rails and structures of our space, adding services like institutional custody and banking support.”
In a press statement, Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao said his company will be one of the bank’s first clients as soon as it opens. Indeed, Pandolfino said that while her team is waiting for its European Union banking license, they are busy learning from their investors precisely what products and services the sector might need.
“Having Binance as a seed investor,” Pandolfino said, “has allowed us to build everything knowing what the pain points are for complex organizations within the crypto space and how to solve those problems.”
All of this poses the question of which bank shareholder will be the first to transition from crypto entrepreneur to bank chairman. For now, Pandolfino said European regulators are requiring board members have over a decade of experience in traditional finance.
“It seems to me like there will be some overlap between traditional banks and decentralized finance as the space continues to grow,” Eagan said.
Lessons learned
And yet, the road toward launching a crypto bank has been paved with challenges.
Originally, Founders Bank planned to raise capital with equity tokens. That plan was quickly shelved in order to avoid complications during the licensing process.
Pandolfino said the bank might explore compliant ways to work with tokens in the more distant future. After all, she was one of the advisors who contributed to Malta’s Virtual Financial Assets legislation. That process took more than a year. But it eventually created a European gateway, as Pandolfino put it, for compliant innovation in the crypto space.
“Our secret sauce is centered around building a know-your-customer, anti-money-laundering platform which is fintech-focused,” she said, describing Founders Bank.
TokenPay founder Derek Capo, whose startup is a WEG Bank AG shareholder, told CoinDesk he still believes his German bank will have first-mover advantage when it comes to serving European crypto companies.
“Today, [WEG Bank AG] is already operating and has corporate crypto clients with plans for business-to-customer services,” Capo said. “Things always take longer than expected.”
But Eagan said there are still too few crypto-friendly banks to worry about any single player dominating the regional market.
“We are proponents of regulation which will make our industry more successful in the long run,” Eagan said, adding:
“There is still more banking that will be needed as our space continues to grow and institutionalize.”
UPDATE (Oct. 2, 14:15 UTC): This article has been updated to remove mentions of Dr. Abdalla Kablan, current director of the Malta Stock Exchange, who was approached by the Founders Bank project but declined to join the bank’s board.
Paula Pandolfino image via Founders Bank

Story 9
Merill SICAV p.l.c. has reached €100 million in assets under management as a new sub-fund, the Merill Strategic Balanced Fund (USD), with seed money of $10 million was launched.
As the investment manager of Merill funds, Jesmond Mizzi Financial Advisors Ltd has achieved another milestone in the history of the company. This target was set by Mr. Jesmond Mizzi, in April of 2018, who stated that it was the company's aim to hit this figure within the next eighteen months. On the 4th October 2019 Merill SICAV p.l.c. launched a new sub-fund, Merill Strategic Balanced Fund USD 'Accumulator' Share Class. This newly launched USD denominated sub-fund aims to invest predominantly in US assets, however, is not restricted to being exposed to this geographical region. The objective of the sub-fund is to achieve long term growth from a diversified portfolio of investments. The majority of the sub-fund's investment will be dollar denominated, but the investment manager is permitted to enter into other currencies if opportunities arise. That being said the investment manager will be able to make use of derivatives in order to reduce the sub-fund's credit, currency or even interest rate risks.
ADVERTISEMENT
Merill SICAV p.l.c. launched its first sub-fund in 2016, the Merill Total Return Income Fund with an initial seed capital of €15 million. Two additional sub-funds were later launched in 2017, the Merill Global Equity Income Fund and the Merill High Income Fund, as well as a Sterling Hedged Share Class of the latter sub-fund which was launched in March 2019. Merill funds witnessed steady growth throughout the years and the full range of four sub-funds now boast total assets under management exceeding €100 million.
Jesmond Mizzi, Managing Director of Jesmond Mizzi Financial Advisors said 'We are really pleased to have achieved this milestone in just over three years. As we continue to actively manage Merill SICAV p.l.c. to see it grow and flourish, we constantly seek to explore new avenues of diversification which is key for us. We are once again extending our product range to enable both our existing and prospective clients to diversify their investment portfolios on an international level.'
Earlier this year Merill Total Return Income Fund achieved a four star rating from Morningstar Inc. This sub-fund continued to perform strongly and ranked first quartile in 2017, 2018 and year-to-date, as at the end of September. This rating helps investors assess this fund's track record compared to other similar funds. Referring to this positive four star rating from Morningstar Inc., Jesmond Mizzi added 'We believe in doing what is right to safeguard the interest of our investors. Trust is what drives our business and our growth over the years is evidence of the faith that investors have placed in our Company.'
Merill SICAV plc is incorporated and licensed as an open-ended Collective Investment Scheme, registered in Malta, qualifying as a Maltese UCITS in terms of the UCITS Directive with effect from the 16th October 2015. The value of the investment and the income are not guaranteed and may go down as well as up. Investments should be based upon the details contained in the Prospectus and Key Investor Information Documents (KIID's), which may be obtained in English language and free of charge from Jesmond Mizzi Financial Advisors Limited (JMFA) of 67, Level 3, South Street Valletta, VLT1105, Malta, licenced to conduct investment services business under the Investment Services Act. JMFA and Merill SICAV plc are regulated by the Malta Financial Services Authority of Mdina Road, Zone 1, Central Business District, Birkirkara CBD 1010.

Story 10
Aircraft maintenance firm Lufthansa Technik is to invest €25 million in additional facilities in Malta, Economy Minister Chris Cardona has told parliament.
He said an agreement was signed with Malta Industrial Parks on Wednesday.
This investment will further consolidate the future of aviation services in Malta and create high-quality jobs, the minister said during the Budget debate.
Lufthansa Technik Malta last year was licensed by the German Federal Aviation Office (LBA) to carry out work on Airbus A350-900 aircraft.
Two out of six base maintenance lines at its facility were outfitted to accommodate the A350-900 with an investment of over €3.2 million to cover the first C-Checks.
The company also handles A320, A330/340 aircraft.
It is planning to build a new hangar at its Hal Farruġ facility where it will be able to work on four aircraft simultaneously. The hangar is aimed for completion in 2021.
In his remarks in parliament, Dr Cardona also announced that Malta Enterprise has approved 26 medical cannabis projects having a total value of €153 and creating almost 1,000 new jobs.

Story 11
Cork airport has alleviated the financial institution vacation blues this morning by means of announcing five new routes to their Winter Timetable.
Ryanair’s new twice-weekly route to Katowice, Poland commences on October 31, and the airline’s four new summer 2019 services from cork to Alicante, Budapest, Malta and Pozna? have additionally been prolonged into the winter season.
Further Ryanair services from Cork airport this wintry weather season consist of its 12 months-round flights to Gdansk, Wroclaw, Malaga, Tenerife, Ianzarote, Gran Canaria, Liverpool, London Gatwick, London Luton and London stansted.
Aer Lingus’ winter agenda at Cork airport consists of its year-spherical offerings to Birmingham, Bristol, Glasgow, Edinburgh, Malaga, Ianzarote, Lisbon, Amsterdam, Paris, London Heathrow and Manchester.
The airline will even perform iciness-best offerings to Gran Canaria, Munich and Tenerife.
Commenting at the iciness schedule, handling director at cork airport, Niall Maccarthy stated:
They're extremely joyful to kick off the 2019/2020 wintry weather time table at cork airport with passenger numbers expected to upward push by means of 5% over the wintry weather duration.
With over 50 routes on provide from Cork airport this year, passengers have even extra choice when it comes to journey, with airways also serving key European hub airports that join passengers to even in addition destinations around the globe."
Over the coming months, passengers can also avail of Flybe’s year-round provider to Cardiff, even as topflight and Tui will perform a iciness-handiest service to Salzburg.
Passenger numbers forecasted to journey through the airport for the duration of the winter season from October 27, 2019 to march 31, 2020 are forecasted to be up 5% over the equal length last one year.

Story 12
Malta-based, pan-European merchant acquirer acquiring.com have set a launch date for their complete payment solution as part of TRU//ST Payments Group.
Face-to-face payments will be added to their existing e-commerce payment services on offer to the Maltese market as part of their new omnichannel solution.
The event will take place today at the Corinthia Palace Hotel in Malta and will be attended by key merchants, partners and industry innovators.
Speakers for this event include Daniel Holden, Group CEO, Maurizio Mamo from 4Sight Group, as well as a senior representative from a major card scheme. The key-note speaker for this event will be Marcel Mizzi from the GRTU.
acquiring.com has grown exponentially since setting up shop in Malta eight years ago. Licensed by the MFSA and enjoying full membership with Visa and Mastercard, it today operates from a 2,000-square-metre prime office space at Ewropa Business Centre in Birkirkara, employing more than 60 technically skilled people.
acquiring.com’s cutting-edge POS terminals harness cloud technology to bring a new dimension of speed, simplicity and security to customers’ face-to-face transactions, and this launch marks an exciting new chapter for the business.
The focus of the event will be centred on the presentation of the TRU//ST brand’s POS offering and the importance of communities for business success.
“We are now able to offer a complete omnichannel payment solution, including point-of-sale, ecommerce, Moto and pay-by-link, meaning that we are an all-in-one package for any merchant looking to accept payments from diverse customers,” Steve Grech, CEO of acquiring.com said.
“We want to ensure that every merchant can offer security, speed and simplicity at the checkout,” Holden added.

Story 13
Employee wellbeing took centre stage in the stand set up by Atlas Healthcare during the Foundation for Human Resources Development annual conference, held recently.
'Let's talk about wellbeing' was the theme of the stand, said Atlas Healthcare Manager, Claudine Gauci.
She added: "The FHRD annual conference is a great event to promote our benefits and this year we focused on the benefits of Global Employee Assistance Programmes provided by AXA ICAS International. EAPs can be an important tool for the HR manager of any organisation, as they support corporate wellness programmes by enhancing the wellbeing of employees."
ADVERTISEMENT
"The services provided by ICAS include an unlimited 24/7 personal support line with direct access to psychologists, local face-to-face counselling, local legal and financial helplines and support for HR and line managers. Most importantly, confidentiality is guaranteed," added Ms Gauci.
EAP programmes are known for a number of benefits, including reduction in absenteeism, staff turnover and healthcare costs. They help employees and their family members cope with both personal and work issues and increase productivity, engagement and return on investment for your business. All counselling is provided by masters' level clinicians.
For further information on ICAS services for your company, visit atlas.com.mt/icas
During the month of October, Atlas Group employees are dressing down to promote mental health awareness and are also sporting mental health badges all month long to project the importance of mental health in all aspects of life. In addition, a talk for all employees on mindfulness was organized as part of the programme of activities.

Story 14
BBC’s world affairs editor has said he deliberately avoided meeting Prime Minister Joseph Muscat during a recent visit to Malta. John Simpson was invited to Malta by financial services firm EY to give a talk about the future of news at its annual attractiveness event last week. However, he faced flak for accepting the invitation, with The Guardian’s media editor Jim Waterson noting that event also featured Muscat.
BBC World Affairs editor John Simpson deletes tweet about his (paid?) speech on “future of news” at event featuring prime minister of Malta. Same PM who is suing dead journalist Daphne Caruana Galizia for libel, while frustrating inquiry into her death: https://t.co/caOmeQw7sN pic.twitter.com/zWW7Bul35Q — Jim Waterson (@jimwaterson) October 25, 2019
“The same Prime Minister who is suing dead journalist Daphne Caruana Galizia for libel, while frustrating inquiry into her death,” Waterson tweeted, while noting the Simpson had deleted a previous tweet in which he hailed Malta as a “delightful island”. Caruana Galizia’s son Matthew Caruana Galizia also weighed in. “How clueless do you have to be? Even if Malta were perfect his tweet is really patronising,” he said.
I was in Malta to give talk about the future of news. I deliberately avoided meeting the Maltese PM & discussed Daphne Caruana Galizia’s murder with the UK High Commissioner and senior Maltese journalists. No whitewash of disturbing Maltese govt reaction to murder – OK? — John Simpson (@JohnSimpsonNews) October 27, 2019

Story 15
Updated 12.40pm, adds PN statement
Banking giant HSBC is to close eight branches in Malta, it announced on Thursday.
The branches that will close by the end of the year are at Birżebbuġa, Cospicua, Fgura, Ħamrun, Marsascala, St Julian’s and St Paul's Bay.
Balzan branch will also close and be combined into a new 'flagship branch' in Qormi, the bank said in a statement.
The bank did not say how many staff would be affected but that it would be offering voluntary redundancy schemes.
HSBC Malta's CEO Andrew Beane said:"No employee is going to be asked to do anything they don’t want to."
In an announcement on the Malta Stock Exchange, the bank said it was part of a strategic plan to "focus on digital banking services" and "to modernise its branch network".
'Digital banking'
The bank said it would maintain a self-service ATM and deposit machines in any locality where a branch would close.
This would enable it to maximise the opportunities from the rapidly changing way customers are using banks, building on the investment it has undertaken in digital capabilities this year.
These would be complemented with the creation of a new flagship branch, the development of new wealth management centres, and more flexible access to a range of self-service solutions delivered through a more cost-effective operating model.
HSBC's Ħamrun branch is one of eight to close across the country. Photo: Matthew Mirabelli
These actions, the bank said, were aimed to help mitigate the long-term impact of negative interest rates on the bank’s profitability in Malta.
The changes to the stores would now include:
a new flagship branch within its principal office in Qormi.
four new wealth management centres at Birkirkara, Mosta, Paola and Swieqi branches, providing extended access to specialist advisors, affording customers more flexibility and convenience.
investment in its principal branches in Valletta, Mosta, Paola, Sliema and Victoria, with a wider range of services, more parking and extended opening hours subject to consultation with the Malta Union of Bank Employees.
It said it would continue to operate full-service branches in Birkirkara, Gżira, Swieqi, Rabat, Żejtun and Żurrieq and invest in customer service centres in Mellieħa, Żabbar, Żebbuġ and San Ġwann.
'Voluntary redundancies'
Branch banking, the bank said, would continue to be a critical part to its service offering for the long term.
However, what branches did for their customers and how and when they did it was changing.
“The bank expects, subject to union agreement, a reduction in roles within the organisation on a voluntary basis," it said.
“The restructuring costs to deliver these changes would be booked in the 2019 financial results but as the programme was voluntary, the amount would depend on the number of applications.”
It said it would make a further company announcement in due course.
Government welcomes 'proactive action'
Parliamentary Secretary for Financial Services Silvio Schembri welcomed HSBC’s 'proactive' action to adapting to new trends within the digital scenario which complimented the government’s policies in the sector.
He said that the government took note of the changes and hoped the communities directly affected by the closure of branches would be consulted.
Mr Schembri hoped the process to open basic bank accounts would be hastened and simplified.
Something 'very wrong' in banking sector
The Nationalist Party said the banking sector in Malta was hitting the news for all the wrong reasons: branch closures, remote gaming account closures, suspension of licenses, closure of banks because of money laundering irregularities and loss of correspondent banking.
It said in a statement that something was clearly "very wrong" on the banking front.
Prime Minister Joseph Muscat inherited a flourishing financial services sector, replete with top professionals, an all-encompassing legal regime, a strong regulatory arm and an excellent reputation, it said.
His government had destroyed the sector's very foundations, it said.
However, former Labour leader Alfred Sant said it vindicated his party's opposition back in 1999 to HSBC's acquisition of Mid-Med bank for €191 million (Lm82 million).
"How right we were almost 20 years ago to contest the selling off of Mid-Med bank by the PN government for cheap to HSBC," he said.
"The latter has creamed the Malta market, small as it is, leaving the burden of financing new developments to BOV.
"Now HSBC cuts services (prepares to leave?) as part of its response to its low profitability worldwide!"

Story 16
Alfred Sant MEP
It is in this country’s interest for Europe to be stable, at peace and enjoying economic growth. There is little we can do, on our own, to reach such aims. Yet it always pays to back those forces and alliances between European nations which come closest to adopt them.
The manoeuvre must try to blend political with economic, social and cultural calculations. With time, it has become an increasingly complicated game.
ADVERTISEMENT
For it has become harder to evaluate which of the factors at play are most relevant. As it happens, the other country players have progressively fractured from the inside, not least among them the larger ones. Italy, Germany, Spain as well as France, despite all outward appearances, find themselves unable to sustain internally and externally a given political direction that is definite, strongly stated and coherent.
An old hand whom I admire for his political analyses told me: The priority for Europe is again becoming that of stability.
***
Banks
The EU needs to pay more attention to the situation of its banks. They are not doing as well as they should.
The point has long been made that medium to small sized banks are being badly affected by ever widening eurozone regulations drafted to ensure that the disaster of the years 2008 – 2010 does not recur. Reforms being introduced are all necessary but they have been placing onerous burdens on bank managements. These are having to reduce services and to sideline proposals that cover new borrowings and useful investments.
On top of this, regulatory burdens have increased due to the aim, which is unquestionable, to cut the incidence of bank manipulations that allow criminal funds to get laundered.
The problem though is that in Europe, banks still constitute the main channel by which investment funds are mobilised – unlike the US. In the latter, stock markets carry the bulk of transactions in investment funds.
If European banks remain pressurised as they have been up to now, the prospects for more investment projects n Europe will stay uncertain.
It’s the classic situation, so the claim goes, that – the road to hell is always paved with good intentions.
***
People one remembers
As the month of November approaches, it is difficult for someone of my age... but others too... not to remember those who have departed. Unfortunately as years go by, such friends become more numerous.
At first, I thought I should list them here. But better not. Perhaps, though they have gone, they are still with us, and we do not see.
Or perhaps, better say that we do see: For those who have departed have, in their way, remained with us. Every time we mention or remember them, or argue against what they said or stood for... we are not just remembering them... We are also giving them a new lease of life.
The process of remembrance keeps them alive. Which is what makes early November such a fascinating time of the year.

Story 17
SOFIA (Bulgaria), October 30 (SeeNews) - Bulgarian brokerage Elana Trading is planning to start offering its services in Ireland, the UK, Cyprus and Malta, according to a notice by Bulgaria's Financial Supervision Commission (FSC).
Elana Trading intends to offer its services on those markets without setting up local branches, the financial regulator said in a statement on Tuesday.
The FSC has notified its peers in the four countries about the company's intentions, the regulator said.

Story 18
The decriminalisation of prostitutes and the criminalisation of those who buy sex must be top of government’s agenda, a coalition argued in its response to a public consultation about proposed changes to Malta’s prostitution laws. Strip clubs, which the coalition described as establishments that sell women, should close down, or face heavy regulation, which in effect would severely limit their ability to operate. Exit services, which refer to a comprehensive range of legal, health, financial, educational and social services, for those in prostitution must also be set up, with the hopes of allowing sex workers to build a life outside it. “All three policies MUST be included in the legislation and implemented as a ‘package’. Decriminalising those who are prostituted for example, without making the buying sex a criminal offence, would open up the sex industry and increase trafficking,” the group said. The public consultation document clearly states that prostitutes themselves should be decriminalised and their criminal records wiped clean. However, it leaves open what should happen to their clients.
The document (HTP-Reform-Joint-Submission-27.10.2019-FINAL-FINAL-1) was drafted by a multi-disciplinary coalition of academics, lawyers, and people who work directly with prostituted and trafficked persons (full list below). Endorsed by five international and thirty-five local organisations, President Emeritus Marie Louise Coleiro Preca is one notable signatory. The issue has split opinion with some arguing that prostitutes should be free to choose their own line of work without interference. However, the coalition said that the reality of prostitution is far different from proponents arguing that its free choice for people looking to earn good money. “It is millions of psychologically unwell, physically trapped and injured women – nearly all of whom want to leave, but cannot find a way out,” the document reads. To add weight to its argument, the coalition said that countries where prostitution has been decriminalised, like Germany and New Zealand, have only seen an increase in human trafficking; whereas others who have followed the Nordic Model and criminalised buyers, like Sweden, have yielded significant results.

Story 19
A judge has revoked a garnishee order issued against an Air Malta employee over the missed chartered flights to and from Denmark last summer, where children from various football nurseries were participating in a tournament.
The matter had made the headlines in July when hundreds of footballers from the nurseries of Pieta, Ħamrun and Birkirkara who were due to participate in the Dana Cup in Denmark were stranded in Malta and Denmark.
Air Malta had operated relief flights and the entire contingent was able to participate in the tournament and fly back to Malta.
It resulted that Air Malta operations controller Joffrey Mallia, who acted as the broker for the outbound and inbound flights – neither of which was operated by Air Malta – has a private company, Flight Support Services. He operated this charter flight using the VLM flight operator. The first group had left Malta a day late, missing the tournament’s opening ceremony.
A few days later, another group of children, parents, teachers and football coaches, were stranded at the Malta International Airport after flights they had booked through Mr Mallia were cancelled again. Mr Mallia had said that the VLM flight operator had cancelled the flight from Aalborg Denmark to Malta, and had offered no alternative.
On this occasion too, Air Malta stepped in and operated the flights.
Air Malta had suspended Mr Mallia while the company investigated whether he had breached any internal regulations by acting as a broker.
Mr Mallia, who is still suspended, had told Times of Malta that Air Malta was fully aware he had been offering the flight brokering services, so much so that the outbound flight had been booked through the national carrier.
Following the incidents, representatives from the three football nurseries had successfully filed an application for a garnishee order against Mr Mallia and his wife over the €160,000 in damages they claimed to have suffered as a result of the cancelled flights.
The application had been filed by Frankie Ciantar on behalf of the Pietà Hotspurs FC Academy; Noel Debattista on behalf of the Ħamrun Spartans Nursery and Jonathan Barbara, on behalf of the Birkirkara FC Youth Academy.
All had said they were filing the case on behalf of the minors who were due to fly as well as the adults who were accompanying them.
But Mr Mallia and his wife Sarah fought back, filing a separate application for the court to revoke the order it had issued.
In his decision, Mr Justice Grazio Mercieca upheld Mr Mallia’s argument that the people who requested the garnishee order on behalf of the football nurseries, the children and their parents could not do that according to law as they were not their juridical representatives.
Moreover, the Pietà and Ħamrun nurseries were not even registered in accordance with the Sports Act and they did not have a distinct juridical personality.
Mr Justice Mercieca, therefore, ruled that only Mr Ciantar’s request was valid according to law as Mr Debattista had not pursued the legal avenue.
On the €160,000 claim of damages suffered, the court said there was absolutely no explanation on how the figure was calculated and neither was there any explanation on how much Mr Ciantar himself was claiming in damages.
Mr Justice Mercieca also ordered Mr Debattista to pay Mr Mallia €1,164.69 in view of the fact that the garnishee order was not followed up by a court case. He also ordered Mr Debattista and Mr Ciantar to pay the court expenses.
Lawyers Keith Borg and Maryrose Micallef appeared for the Mallias.

Story 20
The brutal beating of a young man by bouncers on a night out in Paceville, Malta’s clubbing hub, has rightly shocked the nation, with the sight of a defenceless man’s head being stomped sparking outrage.
Unfortunately, it won’t stop people from going with locals and tourists alike ready to head to one of the many neon-coated clubs in the area.
In view of this, Lovin Malta thought it would be a great time to remind both people going and bouncers (unfortunately), what they can or cannot do:
For anyone heading to Paceville this weekend or the near future, here are some essential things you should know:
Can a bouncer refuse your entry?
A bouncer can deny you the right to enter whatever club only if you’re known to have caused some sort of disturbance either there or anywhere else, refused to produce your ID, if you’re showing signs of violent behaviour, and if you’re too drunk.
Needless to say, they can kick you out for the same reason.
Can a bouncer detain you?
If you’re in the club and show any sign of violent behaviour or harassing someone, the bouncer does have the right to detain you, but only once they’ve notified the police and only until the officer arrives.
Can a bouncer hit you?
When it comes to physical force, the law treats it as a measure of last resort. A bouncer can only use “minimum force” when a person fails to comply with repeated non-violent means.
Some bouncers in Malta often need little provocation, so please do yourself a favour and keep quiet and make your way out.
Who can be a bouncer?
Unlike the unlicensed man charged with the recent brutal beating, a bouncer is meant to have served a minimum of five years of service with either the police, the prison services, or as a private guard.
To acquire the license, each person must undergo a training course that aims to teach them how to “address difficult situations, insofar as possible without recourse to physical restraint” and “exercise minimum use of force in situations where the use of force is absolutely necessary”.
Unfortunately, despite the legislation, many bouncers in Paceville operate without a license. Much like last weekend’s horrific incident, six bouncers who beat up two men in 2017 where all without a license.
However, a court ruled that them all wearing black and standing outside the entrance of a club did not mean one could presume they were bouncers.
READ NEXT: Paceville Bouncer Who Brutally Beat Youth Unconscious Pleads Not Guilty

Story 21
Scores of gaming and other ‘high risk’ businesses are being cut loose by Bank of Valletta, following instructions by the European Central Bank to “de-risk”.
The de-risking exercise began earlier this month, with the bank sending out letters to several corporate account holders informing them that they were no longer in a position to offer them banking services.
The companies have been given two months to make alternative arrangements before their accounts are closed.
“No extensions will be granted to this deadline,” the letters, seen by Times of Malta, read.
Why is BOV shutting down accounts?
Industry sources said BOV had singled out companies that exposed the bank more than the ECB was willing to accept.
De-risking is the practice of financial institutions exiting relationships with, and closing the accounts of, clients perceived to be “high risk”.
Rather than manage these risky clients, financial institutions opt to end the relationship altogether, consequently minimizing their own risk exposure.
A bank can deem a client a risk if it considers its likelihood of defaulting on its commitments unacceptable.
An extract from a letter sent out by BOV. Companies have been given two months to 'seek alternative banking arrangements'.
Contacted on Friday, BOV chief executive Mario Mallia told Times of Malta that the bank had come up with a new “risk profile”, in agreement with the ECB, which lays out how much risk the bank should operate under.
De-risking was ultimately healthy for the bank, he said.
Which companies are affected?
Industry insiders said BOV had targeted dozens of gaming companies that were not registered by the Malta Gaming Authority (MGA).
“These are deemed particularly risky as they have very high exposure but are not vetted by local regulators,” one senior source in the industry said.
Around 20 other companies that do have an MGA licence have also received similar termination letters from BOV.
A number of gaming affiliate companies, and agents of the controversial cash-for-passports scheme are also set for BOV’s chopping block, industry sources said.
It is understood many of these companies have relationships with other banks and would “survive” the closure, but the reality was tougher for those without another bank.
What do stakeholders say about the situation?
The CEO of one company that has been told his account will be closed said: “We have been clients of BOV's for years without any issue. Then we received this letter.”
The bank’s de-risking also means that it will be difficult for new companies seeking to open up shop in Malta to get hold of an account, and sources in the government said foreign direct investors were being discreetly directed to other banks on the island.
“This just looks bad for business. We appreciate that this had to happen from BOV’s point of view, but it is also problematic when we present Malta as a pro-business jurisdiction,” a government source admitted.
Back in June, The Sunday Times of Malta reported the contents of a leaked letter from the financial services watchdog that raised “serious concerns” about BOV’s operational and managerial processes, giving it a week to agree to implement a hefty overhaul including a de-risking plan.
Shortly after that report, the bank had said it was taking action to meet the reforms laid down by the ECB.
The letter had followed a review of the bank by the ECB back in March which had flagged around a dozen cases of “operational risk” at Malta’s biggest bank, four of which were deemed “critical”, Times of Malta was informed.
Meanwhile, sources said the criteria under which account closures were being undertaken remained unclear.
The timing of BOV’s move also spared no blushes for some of the island’s financial services bigwigs.
One admitted to being “ambushed” by investors and operators during this week’s Delta Summit, a conference that has grouped technology innovators from across the world.

Story 22
Most of the €40,000 spent by Infrastructure Malta to organise the inauguration of two flyovers in Marsa by the Prime Minster last month went to a company that organises most of the Labour Party’s mass events.
Details given in Parliament by Transport Minister Ian Borg, following questions by Nationalist MP Karol Aquilina, shows that Formac Malta Ltd was commissioned to supply equipment for a total of €37,412.
It provided a billboard, built a makeshift platform, and supplied sound, lighting, TV cameras and related equipment for the launch.
The stage-building company was also asked to provide translation services, as included among the guests were the Turkish owners of the company awarded the €50 million contract to construct the flyovers.
Elia Caterers was tasked with providing the catering and beverages to the government’s invitees for an after-party event.
All procurement made by Infrastructure Malta for the inauguration was made through the use of direct orders without any sort of competitive process.
Dr Borg justified holding the party for the inauguration of two of the seven flyovers by saying this was “a historic” event.
Relatively unknown among local companies involved in the organisation of events, Formac Malta was registered in 2013.
Research conducted by Times of Malta shows that its mother company is TEC Ltd, the main organiser of all Labour Party mass activities since 2013.
Company has dominated the publicly funded mass events industry since Labour was returned to power
According to the Malta Business Registry, TEC Ltd and its owner, Carmelo Magro, hold all the shares in Formac Malta. TEC and Formac Ltd operate from the same premises in Qormi and are audited by the same auditors – Nexia BT.
TEC Ltd and its related subsidiaries have dominated the publicly funded mass events industry on the island since Labour was returned to power in 2013.
They supplied Labour with most of the equipment it needed for its multi-million euro electoral campaigns, from tents to massive stages.
They have also been the recipients of tens of direct orders from the Office of the Prime Minister and other government entities worth several millions more in value. In fact, TEC Ltd features prominently in all the long lists of direct orders dished out by government ministries for various services.
The company was also heavily involved in the procurement of services required to host European Union summits and other major events, from those held during Malta’s six-month rotating EU presidency to the hosting of the Commonwealth summit.
Only last June, Mr Magro’s company was the only one participating in an “accelerated procedure” tender – a procedure normally used for unplanned and sudden events – for the organisation of an EU mini-summit for southern European leaders. The event cost taxpayers €1.5 million for a four-hour meeting.
Before the 2013 election, Mr Magro had hit the headlines with ‘scandalous’ claims that then Finance Minister, Tonio Fenech, had not paid his company for renovation works at his home.
It later emerged that Mr Fenech did not owe any money to Mr Magro or his company.

Story 23
The departure of the UK from the EU could present business opportunities for Malta, but according to the man tasked with drumming up financial sector investment, poaching British-based companies might not be the best approach.
Kenneth Farrugia is the outgoing chairman of Finance Malta, the public-private partnership meant to help attract financial operators to the island.
He told Times of Malta that he was no “Brexit vulture” and that he believes there is a better way to capitalise on the UK’s planned departure from the union, than trying to get companies to move here lock, stock and barrel.
A co-location model, he says, might be a better fit.
RELATED STORIES London insists UK leaving EU on October 31, despite delay request
“We are not here to play the vulture game, like some other jurisdictions are doing – [trying to bring over entire companies]. So we said we’ll put solutions on the table to allow UK operators to sustain their operations in Europe, without having to go through the unpleasant experience of moving their whole outfit to a new country,” he said.
Moving an entire operation from the UK to a place like Malta, can be traumatic, and might just not work.
An operator currently based in London, for instance, might find it very difficult to move key staff.
“If you are an operator with human resources of certain intellectual capability, who have family there, their children in schools, and a certain lifestyle – trying to relocate that completely to another jurisdiction is a nightmare, and you might run the risk of brain drain because some employees will just not want to move,” he said.
So what is Malta offering instead? According to Mr Farrugia, the island is pitching the idea that UK operators can use the services of an existing outfit in Malta to front their business requirements into Europe – something often referred to as ‘passporting’.
UK Brexit Secretary Stephen Barclay shakes hands with Prime Minister Joseph Muscat during a visit to Malta on October 8. Photo: DOI
Mr Farrugia is coy about the way the approach is going, saying only “a number” of companies in the insurance and asset management space have “started looking at Malta”.
The ‘Brexodus’ hasn’t really materialised
“But, the ‘Brexodus’, as they are calling it, hasn’t really materialised,” he adds, saying many UK companies were holding on to see what comes out of Brexit.
Another thing Malta has going for it, Mr Farrugia said, is that it is part of the Commonwealth and has a long-standing relationship with the UK.
Trying to relocate that completely to another jurisdiction is a nightmare
This could give Malta an advantage over other countries trying to coax practitioners away from London.
As Mr Farrugia sees it, the UK’s financial operators are classed into four main groups.
There are those that already have a presence in large European jurisdictions, such as Germany, France and, perhaps, Luxembourg and who, therefore, don’t need to move.
Then there are operators in the UK who only service the British market and are agnostic over whether Brexit happens or not. There is also a third group, who chose the UK for its depth when it comes to financial services. These are largely servicing other markets such as Asia and the US.
The final group is made up of small and medium businesses, and like Goldilocks’ porridge, Mr Farrugia believes this one is “just right” for Malta. “These are operators who don’t have a footprint in Europe but need one. They can either change market away from Europe to somewhere else, which is a huge headache, or else take-up Malta’s offer of colocation, this is our pitch,” he said.
It’s been a turbulent couple of months for Malta as a financial jurisdiction.
Between the publication of a damning report by the Council of Europe’s anti-money laundering experts, and troubles facing the island’s banks, how attractive is Malta looking to foreign operators?
Mr Farrugia says the country is experiencing some “growing pains”. Malta, he says, is “going through a process”, from the way banks are having to reduce their risk exposure, to the way regulators are having to take a tougher stand on money laundering,
Recently, Finance Malta held an event in collaboration with The New York Times on family businesses where Mr Farrugia says he gave his “spiel on what Malta has to offer”.
For those wondering how Finance Malta differs from the role of Malta Enterprise, Mr Farrugia says that while ME focuses on non-financial sector, FM is geared exclusively towards financial sector operators. There is some overlap, and the two do collaborate, but the two entities have distinct roles, he says.
Finance Malta is mainly focused on attracting asset management firms, insurance brokers, Fintech and banking operators, and “the new kid on the block”; Blockchain and virtual assets.

Story 24
Euro zone economic sentiment deteriorated in October for a second straight month, data showed on Wednesday, as pessimism in industry spread to services and consumers in a bad sign for the bloc’s growth prospects.
The European Commission said its main indicator for economic sentiment in the 19-country currency bloc fell to 100.8 points in October from 101.7 a month earlier and 103.1 in August.
The fall was bigger than market consensus of 101.1 points in October, and brought the indicator to its lowest point since January 2015.
Pessimism in industry worsened to well below the long-term average, as the export-driven sector feels the impact of global trade wars.
In October the gloom spread also to the much larger services sector and to consumers in a sign of possible spillover from the crisis in manufacturing.
That could have negative fallouts on the euro zone’s economic growth that has already been slowing this year mostly because of weakening production.
Economists polled by Reuters already forecast euro zone economic growth will drop to 0.1% in the third quarter from 0.2% in the previous one. The EU statistics agency Eurostat will release official estimates on Thursday.
Sentiment in services, which account for two-thirds of the euro zone economy, was positive in September despite the overall pessimism, but eased to 9.0 points in October from 9.5 the month before. This is the lowest level since June 2015.
The mood turned sour also among consumers, triggering a drop also in sentiment in the retail sector, where sentiment fell into negative territory for the first time since July.
Consumers in October expected higher prices in the coming months, which could partly explain their worsening sentiment.
That would be positive news for the European Central Bank which is struggling to raise inflation closer to its target of nearly 2%.
However, selling price expectations among industry and services managers remained largely unchanged.
In a separate release, the Commission said the business climate indicator, which points to the phase of the business cycle, rose to -0.19 points in October from -0.23 a month earlier, against market forecasts that it would have dropped further in negative territory to -0.24.
source: Reuters

Story 25
The HSBC branch in St Julian’s has been put up for sale, less than a fortnight after the bank announced eight branches will shut down by the end of the year.
The decision to sell a prime site property raised eyebrows and took many by surprise as it was refurbished just at the beginning of the year, sources within the bank told Times of Malta.
Plans for the bank to downsize its presence in Malta were divulged on October 10, through an announcement on the Malta Stock Exchange.
The move, which comprised closing down branches in Birżebbuġa, Balzan, Cospicua, Fgura, Ħamrun, Marsascala, St Julian’s and St Paul’s Bay, was justified on the grounds that the bank was focusing on “digital services” while modernising its branch network.
In the case of St Julian’s, the bank announced its intention to sell the property through a request for proposals published by Frank Salt Real Estate in a newspaper advert last Sunday.
Located in St George’s Road, corner with Triq il-Qaliet, the building has a footprint of 250 square metres “in a prime location overlooking Spinola Palace and Gardens, just one minute walk from Spinola Bay and Portomaso Marina”.
Moreover, the property is being advertised as a “superb site” for a landmark building.
The call closes on Friday.
Asked for the reason why HSBC wanted to close down and sell the branch, just months after refurbishing it, a bank spokesman said this was in line with the recently announced strategic plan to align “the bank’s high level of service with customer banking patterns” which, he said, were increasingly shifting towards digital solutions.
However, the spokesman declined to comment when asked if HSBC intended to sell the other seven branches it plans to close down.
Meanwhile, a number of HSBC ATMs around the island have been recently removed. The matter was flagged to Times of Malta by several customers who discovered that cash machines in Iklin, Fleur-de-Lys and Birkirkara (close to the St Helen’s parish church) were no longer there.
While HSBC declined to say if any other ATMs would be removed, the spokesman said customers should periodically check on the bank’s website to find the closest machine.
He added that ATM locations were identified on the basis of a continuous review aimed to optimise services in response to customer usage trends. The bank had, in fact, recently installed a new ATM in Siġġiewi.
The spokesman reiterated the bank’s “commitment” to have an ATM and deposit machines in those localities where branches were being closed.
The recent decision to close down branches prompted criticism from bank customers, particularly the elderly, who still rely heavily on traditional services such as cashiers, rather than modern means like ATMs.
The Nationalist Party expressed concern that the closures were testament to the fact that something was “very wrong” in the local banking sector.
The comment was made in the wake of the revocation of Pilatus Bank licence and the takeover of Satabank by the regulator over breaches to money laundering laws.
In the case of HSBC, the recent announcement also rekindled the controversy over the decision by the PN-led government in 1999, to privatise Mid-Med Bank.
The Labour Party had criticised the deal on grounds that Mid-Med had been sold to HSBC at “a pittance”.

Story 26
In August 2018, the Malta Stock Exchange (MSE), through its subsidiary MSX plc, signed memorandums of understanding with two of the world’s leading crypto exchanges, Binance and OKEx.
The digital asset trading platform jointly owned and operated by the MSE and OKEx will be named OKMSX and is currently in the process of seeking regulatory approval from the Malta Financial Services Authority (MFSA). It is our hope that OKMSX will be licensed during the last quarter of this year.
This is a very exciting time for our country and the MSE, considering Malta is well on its way to becoming a leader in the blockchain and digital asset space. Dozens of blockchain companies have been set up in Malta over the last year, including Efforce, a company specialising in energy efficiency and co-founded by the legendary Steve Wozniak, co-founder of Apple.
The MSE is one of a handful of stock exchanges to move full force into the digitisation of traditional assets such as stocks, bonds, real estate, commodities and many other assets.
Showing immutable recorded ownership on a distributed ledger is the cornerstone of what blockchain is all about. Many mundane and time-consuming tasks, such as the payment of interest and dividends, proxy voting, beneficial ownership confirmation and many post-trader activities can be eliminated and simultaneously allow for real-time settlement.
Imagine selling shares and having the proceeds of the sale credited to your bank account only hours later, as opposed to the current three to five days.
The MSE is endeavouring to be a trailblazer in embracing blockchain technology. Although first mover bragging rights goes to the Gibraltar Stock Exchange (GSX), which last April announced regulatory approval to trade security tokens, the MSE hopes to not be far behind.
SDX, owned by Six Swiss, is currently testing its blockchain technology and hopes to be operational by the fourth quarter of 2020. Although most of the large global stock exchanges such as Nasdaq, Deutsche Bourse and the London Stock Exchange are developing, or have developed and tested digital assets trading platforms, none are operational.
Imagine selling shares and having the proceeds of the sale credited to your bank account only hours later, as opposed to the current three to five days
The MSE’s digital asset arm OKMSX will be modelled on the Prospects MTF ecosystem. Prospects MTF is a trading platform managed and regulated by the MSE and is aimed at helping small and medium-sized companies (SMEs) raise up to €8 million in capital.
OKMSX-admitted companies, like the Prospects MTF, will be required to utilise the services of a corporate adviser whose role is to not only assist in the application process but is also responsible for ongoing supervision. The corporate adviser should ensure that OKMSX-admitted companies are fulfilling their regulatory obligations and adhering to corporate governance best practices.
OKMSX will also utilise the MSE’s central securities depository (CSD). The OKMSX CSD will not allow individual account holders, only member broker nominee accounts. The Ethereum blockchain protocol will be used, and all security tokens will be held in hot and cold wallets. Initially, settlement will be possible only in fiat currencies.
The MSE has been chosen to host one of two prestigious conferences held annually by the World Federation of Exchanges (WFE). For the first time in the WFE’s 57-year history, Malta has been selected to host the WFE 37th Annual Clearing and Derivatives Conference, which will take place between March 27 and 29, 2020. A good portion of the conference’s programme will revolve around discussions relating to blockchain and its ramifications for stock and derivative exchanges.
Indeed, I believe one reason Malta was chosen to host this event was due to the leadership the MSE and our country have taken to promote blockchain and digital assets. Malta’s introduction of the Virtual Financial Assets Act last year, comprising three separate bills regulating virtual assets, was ground-breaking legislation which has cemented Malta’s name as the ‘Blockchain Island’.
Not only are we excited about the upcoming OKMSX project, but other collaborations are also bearing fruit. The MSE recently signed an agreement, offering CSD services to A Better Exchange (ABE), a digital asset securities exchange operating in 33 countries. We are also hosting a number of Fintech start-ups via our MSX Fintech Accelerator programme at our main premises in Valletta.
The MSE is proud to be doing its part to promote Malta as a leader in digital asset innovation. It anticipates and looks forward to many more blockchain and digital asset collaborations in the coming years.
Joseph Portelli is chairman of Malta Stock Exchange.

Story 27
The announcement by HSBC Bank Malta plc issued two weeks’ ago regarding the closure of a number of branches and the intention to launch a new voluntary retirement scheme caused quite an uproar across the media.
HSBC Malta’s CEO Andrew Beane was interviewed by various sections of the press immediately following the announcement and he was very clear that these actions were necessary as part of a change in the bank’s business model. Beane explained that it was purely a local strategic decision. This therefore implies that it is not based on the news across the international media earlier that week in which it was indicated that HSBC Holdings plans to reduce its global workforce by circa 10,000 employees.
Beane also explained that the plan for HSBC Malta is to increase its focus on digital banking services and to modernise its branch network in response to the increased digital usage by its customer base.
Incidentally, a few days before the HSBC Malta announcement, the European Central Bank published its Single Supervisory Mechanism (SSM) risk map for 2020. The SSM risk map which is published annually shows the key risk drivers affecting the euro area banking system over a two- to three-year horizon along the dimensions of probability and impact. The report published by the ECB clearly indicates that the “Risk Map highlights only the key risk drivers and does not provide an exhaustive list of all risks faced by supervised banks”.
Compared to the risk assessments of previous years, one can note that a ‘new’ risk was included at the top right of the heatmap (high impact − high probability) called ‘business model sustainability’.
The report states that: “Compared with last year, risks related to euro area economic conditions have increased. The economic cycle is maturing and the global outlook has deteriorated, partly on account of prolonged uncertainties such as the rising threat of protectionism. This, together with the prolonged period of low interest rates that is expected to continue, adds to concerns about the subdued profitability of euro area banks and the sustainability of their business models. More intense scrutiny of money laundering cases also increases the risk of losses owing to misconduct”.
The report further explains that business model sustainability is an area of focus as significant institutions (SIs) in the euro area continue to struggle with low profitability. While a bank’s ability to generate income is hampered by the prolonged low interest rate environment, concurrently “expenses have remained stable on aggregate, as cost-saving efforts have been partly offset by factors such as rising salaries, the need for IT investments and improvements in risk management”.
The ECB report also states that “over half of banks currently generate a return on equity (ROE) which is below their estimated cost of equity. As a result, the market valuation of most listed euro area SIs remains low and price-to-book ratios have, on average, remained below one since the financial crisis”.
The ECB projects that bank profitability levels will slowly recover as from 2021.
“However, there are significant downside risks associated with such a scenario: the macro-financial environment has worsened in the period since these projections were prepared, and banks may have not fully incorporated the effects of competition into their estimates, in particular in those segments where many banks expect to grow”.
Banks need to continue to adjust their business models to bring them on toa sustainable footing
The report also explains that “while digitalisation can improve cost-efficiency in the medium term and enable banks to offer new products and services, it challenges banks to rethink their business models and strategies. It also requires banks to make short-term investments in order to adjust the way they operate and interact with clients”.
In conclusion, the ECB states that “banks need to continue to adjust their business models to bring them on to a sustainable footing, and the risks of falling short of sustainable profitability remain significant”.
In the light of what was stated by the ECB regarding the risks to the sustainability of a bank’s business model, one could possibly now appreciate further the background to the recent announcement by HSBC Malta. In fact, in one of the interviews given to the media, HSBC Malta’s CEO explained that the board’s responsibility is to adopt the right business model to ensure “the bank’s success in the long-term”.
He also mentioned that with the renewed action by the ECB to reduce interest rates further into negative territory which are being borne by the shareholders, the bank needs to manage its costs more effectively. Beane also confirmed that the bank has no intention to impose negative interest rates on its personal customers. HSBC Malta, however, had already introduced a ‘high balance’ fee for its corporate customers in order to partially offset the negative impact from the current interest rate environment.
At the beginning of last month, I had written an article on the recent performance of the six core domestic banks in Malta, namely APS Bank plc, Bank of Valletta plc, BNF Bank plc, HSBC Bank Malta plc, Lombard Bank Malta plc and MeDirect Bank (Malta) plc. Although the table published with that article portrayed only the figures and KPI’s for the last annual financial year, when looking at a longer-term trend, it was evident how all banks naturally generated a lower return on equity compared to that several years ago as a result of the ongoing very challenging environment for banks due to the ever-increasing regulation and the unfavourable interest rate scenario. Moreover, the cost-to-income ratios for most of the banks also increased considerably both as a result of the pressure on core income streams and the investments required to adhere to additional regulatory measures including money laundering and terrorist financing (ML/TF) apart from cybercrime and IT risk controls.
One of the priorities for banks across the eurozone is, therefore, to identify means to reduce the cost-to-income ratio to ensure that their business model remains sustainable in the long term as a result of the ‘low for longer’ negative interest rate environment which threatens the traditional intermediation model of financial institutions (paying savers for their deposits and charging borrowers a bit more for taking their payment risk).
Last week, the international credit rating agency FitchRatings announced that it revised Bank of Valletta’s outlook to ‘negative’ from ‘stable’ but it confirmed the bank’s Long-Term Issuer Default Rating (IDR) at ‘BBB’. In its summary of its rating action, the agency noted that “ongoing risk and IT strengthening measures at the bank will result in a period of weaker profitability... and medium-term recovery can be challenging in a low-interest rate environment”. This is also in line with the findings highlighted by the ECB report.
Moreover, the day after the report by FitchRatings, in an article published in the local media, BOV’s CEO Mario Mallia explained in great detail the rationale behind BOV’s de-risking strategy which is seeking to address both financial and reputational risks as well as the measures being taken. He stated that “BOV is returning to its roots, shedding peripheral high-risk business that developed over the years to focus on its core competence of plain, vanilla banking”.
The CEO also rightly indicated that “the BOV of the future will be a smaller but a more robust, lower risk and stable institution for the benefit of all its stakeholders”. Mallia concluded by stating that “in a future article, I will delve deeper into BOV’s strategy for the future, including the review of its network of distribution channels”.
BOV shareholders and the market in general, therefore, await this future media intervention to understand the extent of the “review of the bank’s distribution channels”. Incidentally, in my article last week which was published on the same day as that of the CEO of BOV, I explained once again the importance of investor relations. In my view, any decisions already taken by BOV should be immediately communicated via a company announcement on the MSE as is required by the Listing Rules and investors must not wait to hear about strategic decisions via a future media article.
Rizzo, Farrugia & Co. (Stockbrokers) Ltd, ‘Rizzo Farrugia’, is a member of the Malta Stock Exchange and licensed by the Malta Financial Services Authority. This report has been prepared in accordance with legal requirements. It has not been disclosed to the company/s herein mentioned before its publication. It is based on public information only and is published solely for informational purposes and is not to be construed as a solicitation or an offer to buy or sell any securities or related financial instruments. The author and other relevant persons may not trade in the securities to which this report relates (other than executing unsolicited client orders) until such time as the recipients of this report have had a reasonable opportunity to act thereon. Rizzo Farrugia, its directors, the author of this report, other employees or Rizzo Farrugia on behalf of its clients, have holdings in the securities herein mentioned and may at any time make purchases and/or sales in them as principal or agent, and may also have other business relationships with the company/s. Stock markets are volatile and subject to fluctuations which cannot be reasonably foreseen. Past performance is not necessarily indicative of future results. Neither Rizzo Farrugia, nor any of its directors or employees accept any liability for any loss or damage arising out of the use of all or any part thereof and no representation or warranty is provided in respect of the reliability of the information contained in this report.
© 2019 Rizzo, Farrugia & Co. (Stockbrokers) Ltd. All rights reserved.

Story 28
On 31 July the US Federal Reserve System reduced interest rates for the first time in more than a decade due to concern over global growth and uncertainty in the trade. The last time this happened was in 2008 during the financial crisis. The corporate tax rate has been reduced from 35 per cent (Malta's current rate) to 21 per cent and deductions in personal tax rates were also announced.
While the dollar has strengthened as a result of this rate cut, the Euro is under immense pressure. The day after the cut in the US dollar interest rate, the European common currency fell to its lowest level in 26 months.
ADVERTISEMENT
After the dramatic fall of the Euro, investors waited with bated breath for the European Central Bank - under Mario Draghi - to further loosen monetary policy in the Eurozone, especially if this helps revive the economic downturn. At that time, further reductions were expected before the end of Draghi's term on the 31st of this month.²
However, in anticipation of the departing ECB chief, who is proving to be a source of resistance - especially with regard to bond purchases and the introduction of graduated interest rates. Although there was agreement on continued quantitative easing of monetary policy, the majority supported the reduction in deposit rates. Many saw the purchase of debt as an emergency tool only.
It would seem that at the end of his term of office, which was marked by low interest rates, Draghi wants to dig deep into the ECB's toolkit.
Experts see the weak economy in the Eurozone and the low inflation rate as a reason to improve the monetary cornucopia. This money flow is supposed to support the financial markets: an impetus is the usual cure, but what about the state of the main economic motor in Europe?
We notice that Germany's Federal Minister for Economic Affairs Peter Altmaier stated that, after years of strong growth in Germany, there is currently a weak economy, although the country is not in recession. Reduced economic growth is contemplated for the entire year of 2019: according to media reports, the German government is only expecting growth of about 0.5 per cent.
The main reason for this is lower exports. Dwindling exports and the slowdown in economic growth are mainly caused by trade disputes between the US and China, as was the case last week when Donald Trump imposed new tariffs on China and Europe.
Politicians in Germany are uncertain regarding the best way to resolve the current economic downturn. For example, the call for help from BASF, a chemical giant based in Ludwigshafen (Rhineland-Palatinate) for a new boost generated a great response from government. The Social Democrats are resolute in their quest for more business-friendly and ecological reforms, stating that, currently, labour law measures and tax relief would not be enough.
The Green Party, which is particularly committed to environmental protection, see as a goal above everything else the continuation of the structured transition to clean energy. After all, the increase in the cost of CO² emissions is an important incentive for innovation, especially in order to further promote hydrogen as an energy carrier.
One of the leading parties in Germany, the Christian Democratic Union, sees as a solution the reform of the austerity measures put in place in 2008 to combat the financial and economic crisis. This included short-time working supported with on-the-job training. Certainly, in view of the digital revolution, the training of employees has to be strengthened.
Another remedy is to encourage more companies to invest in Germany. These measures should ideally be tax neutral. In this context, Union fraction chief Brinkhaus wants to promote the start-up sector to speed up its development.
Without any doubt, Germany's economy is on the decline; the federal government could help it by targeted measures, but it does not really do so. Accordingly, one is critical of the forecast for the coming year.
Back to Malta, which will record the largest economic growth of the 28 EU Member States in 2019 and probably in 2020, as projected by the European Commission. Real Economic Growth is expected to be 5.3 per cent in 2019 and the nominal economic growth is expected to be 6.6 per cent.
The EU Commission has reported that economic growth is based on a change of economic direction based on international services. As a country without resources, the services sector plays an important role for Malta when it comes to GDP growth. Economic development is principally driven by service exports such as I-gaming, and finance, tourism, banking and insurance business. And we should not forget the growth in aviation services and the nascent Blockchain sector.
The manufacturing industry has, by comparison, fallen to the second most important sector, especially regarding electrical and pharmaceutical products, refined petroleum and circuits. While net exports were the main growth driver in 2016-2017, domestic demand was set to become the most important growth contributor in 2018 and this continues this year.
One notes that private consumption in particular has grown considerably on the back of high employment growth and higher disposable income. While there is no harm in the explosion of domestic demand, the need to expand exports cannot be ignored.
The advent of EU membership and changing the currency from the Maltese Lira to the Euro in 2008 enabled Malta to attract a large amount of direct foreign investment in the IT, telecommunications and financial services sectors. Foreign investors, on the other hand, benefit from the favourable fiscal legislation on foreign investment, interest subsidies and grants for new recruitment.
Likewise, investors receive generous support from Malta Enterprise. Online gaming and fund and real estate administration especially are growing in favour by foreign investors partly due to Brexit. Malta thus benefits sustainably from the European internal market and its related regulations. The Malta Budget for 2020 stated that exports are expected to rise by a modest 1.6 per cent (barely compensating for inflation) while imports are forecast to grow by two per cent.
In conclusion, the general economic weakness of the European economy has had a delayed effect on Malta's performance. The 2020 budget statement augurs that Malta's economic performance seems set for a stable, albeit reduced, growth. This is thanks to the strong multiplier effect of a burgeoning domestic market but we cannot rest on our laurels. Competition is tough (Malta fell two notches in the global scale) and the way ahead ought to be a likely reduction in fiscal drag.
Anna Guth is an Economic Analyst at PKF

Story 29
6000+ to attend Europe’s premier event for blockchain, AI, and emerging tech
Malta AI & Blockchain Summit will be Europe’s largest event for the blockchain, AI, and emerging tech sectors, it was today confirmed by events company SiGMA Group – the team behind the forward-looking business technology expo. More than 6000 are expected to attend the show, taking place on 7th and 8th November at the Intercontinental Hotel in St Julian’s, Malta.
Many delegates will likely be attending the various conferences and workshops at AIBC Summit, which have always been extremely popular. Headline topics will include the Future of Fintech, Business and Emerging Tech, Innovation, and of course, Regulation. Leading the discussions will be Joseph Muscat (Malta Prime Minister), Silvio Schembri (Malta Financial Services, Digital Economy and Innovation), Anthony Pompliano, AKON, Ian Balina, Matt Greenspan, Yorick Wilks, David Orban, Miko Matsumura, Grace Rachman, Tim Draper, Virgil Griffith, and Alfio Bardolla.
In addition to this enviable schedule of engaging content, the AI Start-up pitch will highlight 10 of the best Start-ups at the conference (there will be 100 or more in the Start-up village). Each of these 10 companies will pitch their concepts and services to a panel of judges, with one set to win a business-supporting package for the year.
The AIBC Awards on 7th November will be a glittering celebration of the best of the best in the worlds of AI, blockchain, tokenization, robotics, IoT, and more. A charity event will wrap up the evening, with the intention of raising a 5 figure sum for the SiGMA Foundation’s global activities to help those in need.
Finally, this year’s show also adds glitz and glamour to the proceedings, courtesy of Grammy Awards-winning artist Akon, who will be delivering a keynote on the main stage about his West African AKOIN project, as well as performing at the extravagant closing night on Friday 8th November.
Eman Pulis, CEO & founder of SiGMA Group and AIBC Summit, said, “We’re so excited to bring this third edition of AIBC Summit to fruition in November.
Alongside the latest government initiatives to further establish Malta as Europe’s leading hub for technology, our wider Malta Week activity will develop the synergy between the blockchain and medical cannabis sectors, offering a profitable new direction for smart DLT investors. It’s set to be a busy but successful week for everyone!”

Story 30
A Maltese man has died after having been found unconscious in a prison cell at Corradino Prisons.
The Correctional Services Agency said the man was found unconscious on Saturday evening. He was immediately assisted by prison officers and taken to hospital, but he passed away on Sunday.
The statement did not say anything about the circumstances of the death.
The agency said a magisterial inquiry is underway, as well as an internal investigation.
The shadow minister for home affairs, Beppe Fenech Adami, said this was the third death at the prisons within a few months. He demanded an explanation of what has been going on.

Story 31
Lufthansa Technik Malta has started to carry out technical services on the Airbus A350. A first aircraft, an Airbus A350-1000 from an undisclosed customer, received a cabin modification in September. The first A350-900 is expected to arrive in the next weeks for a C-check. So far, three international carriers, amongst them Air Mauritius, have signed MRO (maintenance, repair & overhaul) contracts for the A350 family with Lufthansa Technik Malta.
The start of modification and overhaul services at Lufthansa Technik Malta further strengthens Lufthansa Technik's position as the leading MRO services provider for this aircraft type in Europe, but also in Asia. More than 100 airplanes from different customers already receive comprehensive technical support for components, auxiliary power units, airframe related components, engines and other parts of the aircraft.
Marcus Motschenbacher, chief executive officer of Lufthansa Technik Malta, said, "Our intensive preparations for the arrival of the A350 have been very successful. The first aircraft was re-delivered as planned. We are now looking forward to execute the first C-checks for this aircraft type and feel very well positioned to provide long-term technical support for the entire A350 family. Our facility has become the latest member of the global Lufthansa Technik A350 services network, adding new capabilities for this aircraft type to the whole group."
Lufthansa Technik Malta has undertaken thorough preparations in infrastructure investment and staff qualification to be able to carry out overhaul work on the A350 family. The German Federal Aviation Office (LBA) certification for the A350-1000 was achieved in Aug. 2019. This certification complements the approval for overhaul work on the Airbus A350-900, attained in 2018. Lufthansa Technik Malta is among the first providers of this sort of MRO work anywhere in the world.

Story 32
BOV is inching closer to finding a solution to its US dollar correspondent banking woes, with one source saying the bank was confident it had a solution for processing incoming dollar payments, but not outgoing ones.
A spokesman for the bank confirmed that discussions are still ongoing, but the bank was not in a position to give any updates when questioned by the Times of Malta.
BOV confirmed in June that its last provider of US dollar transactions was pulling out by the end of the year.
Correspondent banks help domestic banks access foreign financial markets and conduct transactions in other countries, particularly in dollars.
In a separate company announcement, the bank said its efforts to find an alternative US dollar clearing arrangement have progressed.
The bank has since embarked on an aggressive de-risking campaign in its efforts to secure a relationship with another institution offering US dollar transaction clearing services.
Correspondent banks across the globe have becomes increasingly more risk averse, and will often shy away from servicing banks in small jurisdictions with a concentration of high-risk clients.
BOV has approached a number of smaller banks in the US about a possible correspondent relationship.
The bank said in its company announcement that the progress towards securing such correspondent banking services had progressed, despite the challenges that smaller jurisdictions like Malta face, since they lack the critical mass to attract larger players.
“A number of options were evaluated and the work required to establish new alternative correspondent banking arrangements is progressing well. The Bank shall become a direct SEPA participant on 19th November 2019”, the bank said.
Deutsche Bank, which used to provide correspondent banking services to BOV up until 2017, this month confirmed it will be ditching all correspondent banking ties with Malta.
Deutsche Bank has come under intense regulatory scrutiny across the globe over its processing of dirty money, some of which came about as a result of its correspondent banking relationships.
A Deutsche Bank official told the European Parliament in February that the bank had sharply scaled back its role as a correspondent bank.
In parallel with these Deutsche Bank scandals, Malta has, over the past few years in particular, gained a reputation as a high-risk jurisdiction.
A spokesman for Deutsche Bank had told Times of Malta that Deutsche Bank reviews its correspondent banking relationships on a regular basis.
He said the bank factors into consideration, among other things, the cost aspects of a potential correspondent banking relationship and the bank’s overall country coverage strategy.

Story 33
If he owned a yellow bus, Dillon Spiteri once thought, it would be his path to riches. He never did get that bus. But he now owns a successful cab company – Bonju Rides.
Another local company with big plans is any.cab, as it attempts to go international with its technology next year. And there are several other similar firms now plying the roads: hicabs, MedAsia Cabs, IGO Malta and Txgo, for instance.
The daddy of them all is, of course, eCabs. Founded nine years ago by brothers Matthew and Andrew Bezzina, it is the longest established and has the largest fleet of owned cars.
Then there’s Cool-Pool, launched in July and unlike other companies, it offers vehicle pooling and sharing.
Finally, there’s Bolt, formerly Taxify – the company other operators love to hate.
There’s an app for that
What all these companies have in common is that they provide a cab via a website and mobile app. They would not exist if not for the internet and smartphones.
‘Transportation network companies’ and ‘mobility service pro-viders’ are the trendy terms to describe these outfits.
Most local MSPs don’t think of themselves as cab or taxi companies at all, but as IT ones and in any.cab’s case as a “search engine for cabs”.
The relative ease with which booking app technology can be applied has resulted in MSPs mushrooming on the islands.
With some 290 white taxis on our roads, according to official data, plus a considerable number of chauffeur-driven cars operated by car rental companies, you would think the market was adequately covered without all these new cab services sprouting seemingly every couple of months.
Indeed, the chauffeur-driven car companies are concerned at the level of competition.
“And it’s not just in summer when there’s enough business for us all,” a driver explains, “but it’s year-round competition”.
Survival of the fittest
Yet, in the last 21 months, four of these providers have stopped their service.
Findadrive was the first to close shop in early 2018; the Ukrainian-owned Uper launched last September had an extremely short life and today its mobile app is used by William’s Garage as WillCabs.
More recently, Greenr Cabs folded and sold all its vehicles. Greenr was unique in that its entire fleet consisted of Nissan Leaf electric cars. And at the end of August, Biz Cab called it a day.
Running a cab company, even an MSP, is not a license to print money, as some have discovered the hard way.
Most MSPs do not own any vehicles – these are owned by the drivers themselves who may have more than one or by garages who may have a fleet – but as Mr Spiteri explains: “Bonju is an IT company that gets the work from a client and supplies it to a driver.”
When he set up the company last January, Mr Spiteri bought an application: “That’s all I needed”. These apps normally come in two flavours. One is for the public, used to book a ride, and the second is for drivers to manage their bookings, income and dues to the operator. In this case, they’re Bonju Ride and Bonju Drive.
Today, Bonju has more than 150 drivers on its books and some 85 cars, and it “does over 700 trips a day”.
For its services, Bonju takes a 10 per cent commission from its drivers.
any.cab, meanwhile, opened for business in October 2018 after a four-year development period, says its founder Kurt Chetcuti.
Unlike the others, and except for eCabs, its application was not bought but was written by Mr Chetcuti himself.
Name your price
“The model is different and not based on fixed pricing like other companies,” says Mr Chetcuti.
“It’s based on haggling. If you want to go from A to B you set a price of, say, €20. One of our partners will see your request and will offer a price. Another partner may go lower or higher, you get to choose,” he explains. “It’s haggling on a mobile phone.”
“This simple process ensures that the passenger has access to the real market price at all times. Apart from choosing a price and a company, the passenger can base his choice on a car type and driver gender.”
Like Bonju, any.cab makes its money from commissions earned. At the moment it has 65 suppliers enrolled in its system.
However, since spring, Mr Chetcuti has “tweaked the model and began focusing on pre-booked airport transfers”.
“The airport is a gold mine and you can charge a better rate,” he says.
Exporting the models
Mr Chetcuti now wants to take his “airport model abroad” and is in discussions with parties interested in licensing his application in Dublin, Manchester and Liverpool. And he’s confident Dublin airport will become the first any.cab licensee by next summer.
eCabs, meanwhile, also uses its homegrown application to run its operations and it, too, intends to license its technology internationally from 2020.
eCabs was set up in 2010 with two cars. “Eighty per cent of trips begin and end in St Julian’s,” says CEO Matthew Bezzina, “so being based here is pertinent, and helps reduce dead miles and idle time”.
Today the company owns a fleet of 220 vehicles – both cars and minivans – and has some 700 employees. “The beauty of a centralised system is that you can utilise the vehicles on a 24/7 basis seven days a week.”
When Mr Bezzina and his brother founded eCabs their aim was “to create a service that was more customer-centric and with technology as its heart”.
The biggest challenge at the time, he explains, was cultural. “The industry had a stigma, but now the public’s perception has changed. And today more people want and aspire to work in this industry.”
Cost of operating a call centre is much higher than running an App
eCabs, Mr Bezzina continues “has transformed itself from a transport company to a technology one; we are building beautiful solutions designed for the realities and needs of the Maltese market”.
And it seems to be paying off: the company gets “hundreds of calls and performs thousands of trips a day”, booked via its mobile app, website and phone.
“Our technology was built around diversification and financial and operational sustainability, that leads to the internationalisation of our platform.
“eCabs intends to penetrate and sell its technology in secondary and tertiary cities.”
The company will avoid large cities with millions of inhabitants but focus on those European towns with populations ranging from 70,000 to 100,000. “There’s no reason why technologies sourced in Malta cannot work overseas.”
Meantime, why are there pricing differences when a journey is booked via an app or a phone call?
“We want to move to a dynamic pricing policy that is fair for all stakeholders,” answers Mr Bezzina.
“The cost of operating a call centre is much higher than running an app. It takes two to three minutes to process a call through a call centre, but a split second to process a booking from an app.”
There are normally about a dozen people manning phones at eCabs’ call centre at any one time, and obviously there’s a cost involved in that. “We are providing you with a service and you must expect to pay a bit extra for it.”
There are apps for customers and separate apps for drivers
A new culture
There is no doubt, he adds, that eCabs “kickedstarted the ‘revolution’ and made the cab industry culturally acceptable in Malta”.
Up to that point, there were few alternatives available apart from white taxis and chauffeur-driven cars from rental companies.
Today taking a cab is becoming part and parcel of daily life, just as smartphones are, but other alternatives have presented themselves – Bolt and Cool-Pool.
Critics of Bolt say that as long as you own a car with ‘Y’ registration plates, hold a Transport Malta taxi driver tag, carry insurance and are VAT registered you can become one of their drivers.
Standards, the critics claim, are low and drivers not vetted sufficiently before signing up. However, with 500,000 drivers worldwide who use the Bolt Driver app and more than 25 million customers, they’re certainly doing something right.
Bolt – Taxify until last March – was set up in 2013 by then 19-year old Markus Villig in his native Tallin, Estonia. It was the first MSP in the world to enable its clients to pay for their rides via mobile carrier billing, such as ApplePay and GooglePay.
Bolt was introduced in Malta in early 2017 and today has around 700 ‘independent contractors’ registered as drivers. It also delivers food – the former through its cab app and the latter via Bolt Food.
The reason why most other companies dislike it is because they see it as undercutting them. It has no doubt gained traction in the local market with its lower prices.
Driver commissions
Explaining its pricing strategy Villig says Bolt goes “into markets where ride-sharing is already a proven concept… we come in and we improve on that by having just cheaper commissions and giving more back to the riders and drivers”.
Bolt charges its drivers between 15 and 16.5 per cent commission.
Asked if this affects the company’s bottom line, Villig argued: “We see that in the long term, actually, this makes more sense. If we take lower commissions… we can actually have happier drivers which leads to better service and in the long term, it will hopefully lead to a bigger network as well”.
On the Maltese islands, its network is certainly ambitious. According to the RideGuru website, Bolt cabbies can pick you up from Gozo’s Xewkija Heliport, the seaplane base at Mġarr and from Comino airport – none of which are known to exist, at least as yet.
Ride sharing
Until the beginning of summer, you would book ‘your’ cab, essentially a car, to take you to your destination. Since July you also have the option of sharing a ride.
“For instance, you book a ride to Valletta,” explains Cool-Pool’s CEO Laura Jasenaite, “and on the way, it may pick up other passengers going in the same direction.
“In this way, we can offer a better price,” says the only woman to run a ‘transportation network company’ on the islands.
Cool-Pool is owned by the Debono Group – local agents of Toyota and Lexus.
Ms Jasenaite says there’s a trend were people are now moving away from owned vehicles and looking at other options, such as leasing and car-pooling. “Ownership”, she says “is not sustainable in the long run”.
Yet the level of car ownership is very high on the islands, with 75 per cent of trips performed by private vehicles carrying an average of 1.25 persons per car on each journey.
This creates needless congestion, and the “scope of Cool-Pool is for people to share their ride with fellow travellers heading in the same direction”.
Initially intended for commuters and covering 36 square kilometres area of the island – from Mosta to Pembroke, across to Valletta and extending to Qormi – passengers book their ride on the Cool-Pool app, choose when and where they want to be picked up and dropped off and it costs just €4.95. If one needs a ride to the hospital, and back home, the trip will only cost €3.95.
Apps for ‘mobile service providers’ – some have already called it quits
“Not only does this save passengers money, but it also helps save the environment.”
And the public appears to have responded: in the first five weeks of operations, there were 14,000 downloads of its app. By early October Cool-Pool was performing between 500 and 600 trips a day.
Cool-Pool uses the ViaVan platform for its app, a joint venture between Mercedes-Benz and the New York-based Van sharing service. It began operations with 25 vehicles that it owns and 80 drivers, and is now looking at expanding its network and increasing its fleet.
“It will take time for people’s mindset to change and get used to pool riding,” says Ms Jasenaite, but she is confident it will eventually happen.
Indeed, more people are using cabs and alternate modes of transport than ever before. There will be more casualties along the way, but the industry will tweak and refine itself, it will continue to grow, and usage looks set to become as commonplace to us as our smartphones.
How much would it cost you to book a ride, by app, from Mosta Rotunda to Malta International Airport?

Story 34
Regulations are shifting, placing new demands on banks, insurers, fintechs, iGaming companies and regulators to create thriving financial and gaming markets that are both safe and innovative. Collaboration between regulators and other players in the financial services and gaming ecosystem is key for not only ensuring healthy markets but also regulatory compliance.
A part of fostering collaboration includes getting regulators, fintechs, gaming operators and financial institutions together to discuss their viewpoints and regulatory difficulties – which is what the Institute of Directors Malta Branch (IoD) is doing at its next Business Breakfast on Thursday at EY Malta starting at 7.30am as part of the IoD’s 08:59 Club Series.
The October 31 IoD Business Breakfast will bring together representatives from the spectrum of financial services with the Financial Intelligence Analysis Unit (FIAU), Malta Financial Services Authority (MFSA) and Malta Gaming Authority (MGA) to explore challenges in regulatory processes, particularly regarding directors, boards, AML and corporate governance.
Following a keynote by MFSA CEO Joseph Cuschieri, a panel moderated by former HSBC Malta CEO Mark Watkinson will comprise MGA chair Marlene Seychell, FIAU director Kenneth Farrugia and Dr Cuschieri to discuss a range of topics impacting regulators, operators, directors and boards.
As the regulatory landscape is rapidly changing, fintechs themselves are looking to smart, technology-driven solutions to assist in compliance. Tech like AI and data-analytics are coming along, with the potential to shift compliance from a burden to a competitive advantage, which will be one of the topics discussed at this seminal IoD event, ‘Meet the Regulators’.
This ‘Meet the Regulators’ event will also provide a platform to assess and discuss the differences in roles and responsibilities for CEO and chair.
Dr Cuschieri is responsible for the overall management and performance of the MFSA, as well as for strategy development and implementation, including reforms, in the financial services sector. He was formerly chairman and CEO at the Malta Gaming Authority.
Ms Seychell is non-executive chairman of the Malta Gaming Authority, leading the fight against money-laundering, as well as safeguarding Malta’s reputation as an international iGaming hub. She is a former director of Malta Enterprise and has held a number of non-executive director positions on plcs including with Calamatta Cuschieri Finance plc, among others.
Mr Farrugia, FIAU director, is a member of the Malta Institute of Accountants (MIA) and a committee member within the Malta Forum of Internal Auditors (MFIA).
Mr Watkinson, who is an IoD advisory board and executive committee member, said: “From my very positive experience over many years of cooperation with regulators from different jurisdictions around the world, IoD Malta places a high value on the upcoming ‘Meet the Regulators’ event. Dialogue and learning about policy and regulatory developments can help cultivate common goals and build shared purpose. There will be an opportunity for all attendees to ask questions, personally at the event.”
Registration for this IoD 08:59 Club event is available at: mtc@iodmalta.com or by calling 7990 6252.

Story 35
Melita Limited has further strengthened its position as Malta’s leading provider of TV services, with subscriber numbers now surpassing 100,000, equivalent to around 60 per cent market share. This milestone follows statistics published by the Malta Communications Authority which showed Melita as the fastest growing mobile operator in Malta.
Simon Poljask, TV and fixed services manager at Melita Limited, said: “Melita continues to grow its business across multiple segments as our significant investments in our people, technology, and content continue to bear fruit. As TV customer viewing behaviour and expectations change and despite competition, including from illegal IPTV services, Melita continues to offer excellent picture quality, with a mixture of content and flexibility which is clearly appreciated by viewers.”
Melita customers have a choice of TV offerings, including Europe’s best premium sports package, delivered through eight HD channels on TSN, and high quality entertainment content through the highest number of channels. These also include some exclusive channels such as Top Crime, BBC Earth HD and Family Movies HD. Recognising the importance of the local production industry, Melita has also invested in the screening rights for Maltese series such as Simpatiċi, Strada Stretta, Division 7, Aenigma and Rajt ma Rajtx. L-Avukat Gawdenz Bilocca will be added to this line-up soon, further growing the content which is exclusive to Melita available on demand with NexTV.
All Melita TV customers now have High Definition (HD) set-top boxes; over half of Melita’s customers have access to Melita’s flagship TV through the latest generation, interactive NexTV decoder. NexTV has seven-day catch-up and allows viewers to record and rewind their favourite programmes. It is also possible to watch up to four different programmes from four different devices at any one time, both inside and outside the home. Melita TV, is available as part of Melita’s Flexi Bundle offering which starts from €32.99 a month including fibre powered internet, telephone and Melita WiFi. Flexi bundles including mobile are also available, giving customers additional benefits.

Story 36
Professionals like gynaecologists and psychotherapists are unclear about their legal, moral and ethical obligations when seeing clients who are considering having an abortion or who have had one, according to a sex and relationship counsellor.
Matthew Bartolo, who is also the founder of Willingness, a team of professionals providing counselling services, shared some of the questions which have left professionals in a dilemma:
For example, if they are seeing a couple where the man wants his partner to go through with the pregnancy while the woman does not, what are the professional’s legal obligations? Does the man have a right on his parenthood? Can the father report/sue the professional?
Around 400 Maltese are believed to seek an abortion abroad each year, which means that while it is illegal in Malta, women are still undergoing the procedure overseas.
“Our obligations change according to whether a woman has had an abortion in Liverpool or hypothetically in Malta. One is legal and one isn’t, so of course clarity is needed because if a woman thinks that she’s going to be reported, she won’t look for help,” Mr Bartolo said.
From a professional’s point of view, there is apprehension of the legal repercussions, Mr Bartolo underlined. Some are also unclear on the rights of the partner in the matter, he added.
Strong personal views further complicate the issue, with pro-life professionals unsure of the way their own morals come into play when providing therapy to those who have undergone an abortion.
Andrea Dibben, chairperson of the Women’s Rights Foundation, explained that fear of prosecution and being judged holds women back from seeking a gynaecologist or therapist, even if they have had an abortion in a country where it is legal.
“I get a lot of calls from women who had an abortion asking whether they know of a gynaecologist or therapist who will be okay with seeing them,” she said.
A seminar to be held by Willingness on October 10 will involve a panel of experienced professionals, including Matthew Xuereb, a representative of the Attorney General, and criminal lawyer Ezekiel Psaila, who will move beyond the pro-choice versus pro-life debate to address these kinds of queries.
I get a lot of calls from women who had an abortion asking whether they know of a gynaecologist or therapist who will be OK with seeing them
The discussion is devised to provide professionals with a legal spectrum of rights, obligations and the extent of expression to their clients in consideration of their ethical and moral beliefs on the topic, explained Dr Psaila.
What are the professional’s rights and obligations when working with someone who mentioned planning to have an abortion?
Ezekiel Psaila: During the course of his duties, a professional is neither obliged nor imposed on to divulge such information to the third-party authorities, such as the executive police.
A professional such as a psychotherapist who is working with someone who mentioned planning an abortion, has an obligation not to direct the client but to create a safe environment where the client can understand what they themselves want.
He is entrusted by professional secrecy to provide therapy for the patient and to secure a safe environment holistically for him or her.
If the professional is morally convinced that the patient will be harming himself or those around him, then the professional is obliged to take all medical precautions within his power and to secure that patient’s safety.
The law sets no explicit obligation whereby the professional is obliged to divulge information that has been entrusted to him/her from a patient under professional secrecy and within such person’s professional conduct.
Are professionals legally and ethically responsible for a crime if they support their client throughout the process of them going abroad to get an abortion?
Ezekiel Psaila: Yes, such support would amount to complicity. Legally, a person shall be deemed to have supported an abortion if he/she either commands, instigates, procures, in any way aids, incites or strengthens the determination of their client. According to the law, the professional would have to face the same punishment as their client undergoing the abortion.
As regards ethics, the legal professional cannot act on ethical beliefs which, when advised to their clients, are contrary to law. The discussion on October 10 will address this precisely. What are the boundaries at which moral and ethical expressions could meet with the legal repercussions.
What if an abortion is done locally? Is the professional obliged to report the doctor or person performing the abortion?
Ezekiel Psaila: No and here’s why: Let’s take a step back. If a commoner in the street sees another person committing a criminal offence that is not against a minor or vulnerable person, or a crime against the State, such a person, even with a phone in his hand, is not obliged to report to the police, and is not criminally liable for not doing so.
In this context, if a patient in therapy decides to put forth information regarding a doctor performing an abortion, it is the patient who should report the doctor committing the crime not the professional.
What if the professional is pro-life and asked to support a client who wants to terminate their pregnancy?
Matthew Bartolo: During therapy, the professional’s job is not to direct the client but to create a safe environment where the client can understand what they themselves want.
We are aware that we all have biases and personal experiences that shape these same biases. If we try to impose or push our clients towards a direction, or a choice, this might harm them as they are separate individuals living in a different culture with a different history.
What if a 15-year-old girl discloses that her parents are forcing her to abort?
Matthew Bartolo: Whether it comes to abortion or any other situation where a minor is not being treated correctly by their parents, it is important to contact child protection services and seek support for the minor.
Regardless of the situation presented, the client is the child. Therefore, while there needs to be parental consent in therapy for minors, the client is still the main focus and is the one requiring support from the professional.
In the case of abortion, it is illegal to perform an abortion in Malta, and therefore, in this case, the mother would be forcing the minor to commit a crime, which further adds to the need to involve child protection services and report the mother to the police.

Story 37
A Russian-Israeli businessman facing fraud charges to the tune of millions in the US, was granted the right to vote after filing a false declaration on the same day he bought a Maltese passport, Opposition MP Karol Aquilina told Parliament.
Speaking during the Budget estimates for the Office of the Prime Minister, the Nationalist MP outlined five cases, which he said, where evidence of the “fake due diligence”, which state agency Identity Malta was adopting when screening passport scheme applications.
“The cash-for-passports scheme is getting our country into trouble and is delivering one blow after another to Malta’s reputation,” he said.
Dr Aquilina noted that the consequences were the result of the government not heeding the advice of the Opposition, the European Parliament and the European Commission.
In his address, the PN MP said the most “scandalous” of these five cases was that of 61-year-old Russian businessman Anatoly Hurgin who is also an Israeli national.
Dr Aquilina noted the businessman who acquired a Maltese passport in 2015, owned various companies specialising in telephone hacking technology used by governments for espionage missions.
“In May 2016, Mr Hurgin had boasted that with a few millions and a single telephone number, he could spy on telephone calls and messages over any individual,” Dr Aquilina said.
The Opposition MP said that a few weeks ago, Mr Hurgin and his Russian business partner were arrested in the US and are now facing charges of fraud, trafficking and money laundering.
The arrest sparked an investigation by the Israeli Defence Ministry into breaches of international and Israeli security and export laws.
It transpires that at the same time when Mr Hurgin was in the process of buying a Maltese passport he was defrauding the shareholders of Cambridge Capital Acquisition Corporation $15 million, and caused losses of $60 million, he said.
Such a crime was committed by abusively merging his own company with another name also bearing the name of Cambridge Capital Acquisition, for which the company owned by the Israeli businessman pocketed $19 million.
Dr Aquilina backed his claims, by tabling a 41-page document containing the list of charges filed in the US.
“How is it possible that Identity Malta discovered none of this, when it has been insisting that it shares information with security services of other countries and makes use of the services of international firms specialising in due diligence,?” the MP questioned.
In Malta for less than 20 days
However, there was a much bigger scandal in the manner in which he was granted the right to vote by the Maltese authorities, he added.
“On the same day he was granted Maltese citizenship, the Labour government abusively and by stealth, gave him, his wife and their two children the right to vote,” he said.
Dr Aquilina said this was done on the strength of a “false declaration” he also tabled in Parliament. He noted that by law in order to be given such right, one had to reside in Malta for 180 days in the preceding 18-month period before the publication of the next electoral register.
“It transpires that Mr Hurgin had only been in Malta for less than 20 days,” he said, while giving a detailed breakdown of his various short stays during the period under review.
Had there been a serious government, this would have been enough to revoke his Maltese citizenship, he remarked.
Instead, Mr Hurgin was given a preferential treatment in view of the fact that his area of specialisation is espionage, Dr Aquilina said.
The Opposition MP also referred to four other foreign nationals – Boris Mints, Liu Zhongtian, Pavel Melnikov and Mustafa Abdel Wadood - who had been deemed fit to acquire a Maltese passport, only to face serious charges of money laundering and fraud and evasion abroad a few years later.
Scheme is serious - Farrugia
In her reaction, Parliamentary Secretary Julia Farrugia said the government could not revoke the citizenship of any persons being charged abroad, until there is a guilty verdict. She said the citizenship scheme was a serious one, and that action would be taken once there is enough proof of wrongdoing.
Dr Farrugia noted that an inquiry was under way in connection with suspicions there were 19 persons had acquired Maltese citizenship through a marriage of convenience. Three of these cases, were the result of somebody acquiring a Maltese passport, she added.
She also accused Dr Aquilina of leaking documents from the electoral commission.
While noting the PN’s position on this scheme was consistently shifting from being in favour to against, she questioned how the government would make up for the loss of millions in revenue, if the sale of passports would be stopped.
“Will a PN government resort to tax hikes?” she questioned.

Story 38
The Malta Financial Services Authority said today it has become aware of an entity by the name of GWM Group Holdings which has an internet presence at https://gwmholdings.com. This website is using the details of an MFSA licenced company GWM Asset Management Limited. Fraudsters are using the details and website contents of this genuine company in an effort to deceive the public.
ADVERTISEMENT
The Authority would like to inform the public that https://gwmholdings.com is NOT a Maltese registered company NOR is it authorised to provide any financial services in or from Malta. Additionally https://gwmholdings.com has NO association with GWM Asset Management Limited.
The website https://gwmholdings.com therefore appears to be a clone of the website of the legitimate entity and the public should therefore refrain from undertaking any business or transactions with the false entity.
The MFSA would like to remind consumers of financial services not to enter into any financial services transaction unless they have ascertained that the entity with whom the transaction is being made is authorised to provide such services by the MFSA or another reputable financial services regulator. A list of entities licensed by the MFSA can be viewed on the official website of the Authority at https://www.mfsa.mt/financial-services-register/.
For more information on clone companies please refer to the Scam Detection Guidelines issued by the MFSA at https://www.mfsa.mt/consumers/scams-warnings/typical-scams/. If you are a victim of a scam or think you might be dealing with an unauthorised entity or any other type of financial scam, first of all stop all transactions with the company and contact the MFSA at https://www.mfsa.mt/about-us/contact/ as soon as a suspicion arises.

Story 39
Tourism Minister Konrad Mizzi warned Air Malta pilots on Thursday that they will have to “embrace change,” insisting that the national airline will not tolerate demands which it deems “unsustainable.”
Dr Mizzi, speaking in Parliament during the Budget debate, was referring to demands by pilots for guarantees of a golden handshake of up to €700,000 even if the airline folds.
This sort of guarantees could not be given, Dr Mizzi said, as, apart from constituting illegal state aid, they would be unfair to all other Maltese workers.
All stakeholders needed to understand that the status quo in Air Malta prior to the 2013 election could not be maintained, as it had cost the Maltese taxpayer €250 million in government subsidy, he said.
Last month, Dr Mizzi had warned pilots that, should they fail to cooperate with government efforts to reform Air Malta, investment and new opportunities including a planned New York direct route would be directed towards government-owned Malta Med Air or towards other airlines instead of towards Air Malta.
In his remarks on Thursday, Dr Mizzi said that 19 new direct routes had been introduced by the national airline during 2019, demonstrating that Air Malta was a “pillar” of the tourism industry which the government would continue to nurture.
He said that Air Malta’s operations would be fully fine-tuned in nine months’ time, and that the government’s goal thereof would be to see the national airline become the “airline of the Mediterranean” which could also have direct routes to the United States, India, and Canada.
Dr Mizzi said that a strategic plan for Malta International Airport and the surrounding area would be drawn up in order to make the airport more efficient and an economic hub. The plans included a new €18 million air traffic control centre, a €3 million investment to improve the Dingli radar and improvements to the secondary radar.
Plans for the airport area could include a site for the development and testing of drones, whose use was expected to grow in the near future.
Air Malta’s engineering department was also working towards offering its services to other airlines in a move which would require “changes in work practices.” It is expected to have its first clients shortly.
In his speech Dr Mizzi also underscored a need for Malta to have a modern convention centre and said this project could be carried out by the government, the private sector, or jointly.

Story 40
When professional dancer Chakib Zidi landed in Malta in August 2017 as part of a European tour, he had no idea he would not be able to leave.
The 29-year-old is gay, something that is deemed illegal in his home country of Tunisia and is punishable by up to three years in jail.
He is among an undisclosed number of people seeking asylum under Malta’s Refugees Act based on fears their sexuality would result in degrading treatment or punishment in their country of origin.
“While I was working in Malta two years ago, I received an urgent message from my sister and lawyer via Facebook that my house in the Medina area of Tunis was being raided by the police,” he said.
“They also told me that my coffee shop was being searched. The police were looking for proof that I was gay. If I return, I could be arrested or forced to undergo a gay ‘test’ which involves an anal probe. So, I’ve had to seek asylum here in Malta.”
Since then, Chakib has been trying to find out if he will receive international protection.
He and his partner, theatre director Mohamad Ali ‘Dali’ Agrebi, who is also from Tunisia, live in Fgura with their dog Bobby. They are among a growing group of asylum seekers who are choosing to live openly gay.
“We are very happy here but are still living in a kind of limbo,” continues Chakib.
“Dali got his visa six months ago, but I am still waiting to receive international protection. This means I can’t travel, get a driver’s licence or even open a bank account. I feel a bit trapped as I can’t visit my family or friends. It also holds me back when it comes to accepting work abroad as a dancer or choreographer as I can’t leave.”
While Malta ranks first place in the International Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans and Intersex Association (ILGA) index as Europe’s best country for LGBTQ+ law and policy, life is more difficult if you are a migrant or refugee.
According to the latest information from the European Fundamental Rights Agency, many gay people who are discriminated against for their ethnic origin or religion don’t bother reporting violence or hate speech.
“I am gay. This is who I am,” says Chakib.
“Yes, I wish I was born heterosexual but there is nothing I can do about that. It’s not my fault. I feel betrayed by my country but all I can do is hope that I can get official status soon so that I can move forward with my life.”
In Tunisia, human rights campaigners have called for an end to the criminalisation of same-sex conduct and forced anal examinations, but so far nothing has changed.
I wish I was born heterosexual but there is nothing I can do about that
Despite this, Chakib and Dali feel they are among the lucky members of Malta’s migrant and asylum-seeking gay community. For this reason, they are working closely with Malta’s LGBTIQ Rights Movement (MGRM) in Mosta to help those struggling.
“It has shocked me to hear what some people have gone through since arriving in Malta,” says Chakib.
“One man – who was living in Ħal Far – says he felt very threatened there. He had no idea it was legal to be gay here and thought it only happened in places like the US. When he came out with us to places like Paceville, he couldn’t believe the bouncers allowed him into clubs when he was with us, because when he tried before he was turned away as he was black.
“We took him with us to gay events such as Pride and Lollipop and he was so happy.”
Dali, 26, says there is not enough help for vulnerable gay people who end up in Malta.
“We hope to set up a space just for migrants and plan to meet so people can be informed about the rights and laws they have here, as well as sexual and mental health services because they vary from country to country,” he said.
Alex Caruana, who works as a Community Outreach Officer, also at MGRM, agrees with Dali.
He says that some gay migrants face the double challenge of not being accepted because of the colour of their skin and sexuality.
“Often a person’s experience depends on the social-economic class they fall into, within Malta.
“For example, if you are in the arts community you might be OK. But if you are a gay, poor, black man working on a construction site, you are probably going to have a harder time,” he said.
Trying to find out exactly how many people are seeking asylum in Malta because they are gay is difficult – but this is something Dali feels also needs to change.
“It’s so hard to get the numbers and, when we ask, we are told it’s confidential. But if we knew more facts, I think it would be easier for us to know who we should reach out to and help,” he said.

Story 41
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson finally has the election he has been pushing for but it is a gamble, with experts warning of one of the most unpredictable polls in years.
The UK is set to go to the polls on December 12, after Johnson won his fourth bid to go to the polls and the Opposition's preferred date of December 9 was rejected.
Johnson is currently hamstrung by his lack of a majority in the House of Commons, but hopes to win enough seats to force through his Brexit plan - and stay in office.
If he fails, opposition parties are likely to form a coalition that could yet seek to thwart Britain's EU exit.
How could it affect Brexit?
Britain's prolonged and painful exit from the European Union will inevitably loom large, with Brexit now set for January 31 - just weeks after polling day.
Conservative leader Johnson has agreed exit terms with Brussels but was unable to get them through parliament in time to keep the original Brexit deadline of October 31.
He will campaign on a promise to "get Brexit done", calling for a majority to press through his deal and ensure no more delays.
The main opposition Labour party, however, has promised to negotiate its own divorce deal with the EU and put that to a referendum, with an option to reverse Brexit.
The smaller Scottish National Party (SNP) also wants a second referendum, while the Liberal Democrats have gone a step further, vowing to revoke Britain's request to leave the EU without even a public vote.
What is the risk for Johnson?
The election - the third since 2015 - will be the first test of public opinion for Johnson, who took office in July after winning a Tory leadership contest involving only party members.
His Conservatives are currently leading opinion polls, and if this continues, should win a majority of MPs.
Polls suggest Johnson's tough talk on Brexit has won back crucial eurosceptic voters who had defected to Nigel Farage's UK Independence Party (UKIP) - before Farage himself moved on.
Video: AFP
But Johnson now risks a backlash over his failure to keep his "do or die" pledge to leave the EU on October 31 - and Farage is waiting in the wings with his new Brexit Party.
Johnson's vision of Brexit also risks losing him seats because of more pro-European voters in the south of England and in Scotland.
Many Tories are still haunted by the 2017 election, when the then prime minister Theresa May was predicted to win big but actually lost seats.
"This is the wing and a prayer election," said Rob Ford, a political expert at the University of Manchester.
What can Labour do?
Leftist leader Jeremy Corbyn surprised his critics with a strong performance in 2017, which switched the debate from Brexit to the lack of funding for public services.
But many of his own MPs disagree with his socialist views and resisted the coming election, fearing a heavy defeat.
Labour's position on Brexit has also confused many voters. It says it will strike a new exit deal and hold a new referendum - but does not say how it would campaign.
John Curtice, a polling expert at the University of Strathclyde, said it would take a "miracle" for Labour to win.
"It's not a choice between Johnson and Corbyn, other than that Corbyn would be the leader of a minority government," he said.
"But we could be talking about a deeply minority Labour administration that is wholly beholden to the SNP and Liberal Democrats" who want a new Brexit vote.
What do voters want?
Polling research suggests voters identify themselves increasingly along pro- or anti-Brexit lines - and are polarised on that subject.
But a recent British Election Study also found that voting intentions are highly volatile.
Between the 2010 and 2015 elections, 43 percent of voters switched parties. Between 2015 and 2017, the figure was 33 percent.
"Vote-switching is exceptionally high and largely unprecedented in post-war era. This means things can change," said Matthew Goodwin, professor of politics at the University of Kent.
What about the weather?
The last time an election was held in December in Britain was in 1923. The Conservatives won the most seats but Labour and the Liberals had enough seats to produce a hung parliament.
Ramsay MacDonald went on to form Britain's first Labour government with Liberal support.
Bad weather risks a lower turnout - but may have more impact in changing the debate.
One of Labour's most successful campaign promises through the years has been to better fund the state-run National Health Service - which is prone to winter crises

Story 42
A multi-disciplinary coalition endorsed by 38 entities presented a joint submission to the government’s human trafficking and prostitution consultation process, with proposals to make buying sex a criminal offence and offering high quality exit services for people caught up in prostitution.
The coalition’s document strongly urged the government to adopt three primary pillars in restructuring prostitution and trafficking laws, namely; to shift the focus of criminal action from the sex worker to the sex buyer and to actively support sex workers in leaving the trade and help them to build a life outside of it. It also urged the government to clamp down on so-called gentlemen’s clubs.
The document refers to ‘exit services’, which refer to a host of comprehensive legal, health, financial, educational and social services, which can be set up with the intention of allowing sex workers to find a life outside of prostitution.
It was presented to Parliamentary Secretary Julia Farrrugia Portelli in light of the government’s public consultation on the proposed reform for the legislation on prostitution and human trafficking.
“All three policies must be included in the legislation and implemented as a ‘package’. Decriminalising those who are prostituted for example, without making the buying sex a criminal offence, would open up the sex industry and increase trafficking,” the group said during a news conference in Valletta.
In their submission, the coalition argues that the reality of prostitution is miles apart from the scenario in which proponents argue that prostitutes should be free to choose a line of work with potential to earn them good money.
The majority, they say, are victims of dysfunctional families groomed for such a life from a very young age. Additionally, the submission holds that vulnerable people are regularly exploited by traffickers and pimps for sex work.
“The reality of prostitution is not 42 million ‘happy hookers’ making a free choice and earning good money. It is millions of psychologically unwell, physically trapped and injured women – nearly all of whom want to leave but cannot find a way out,” the document reads.
Strip clubs should close and professional parlours should be made distinct
The coalition also proposed that strip clubs should be shut down or face heavy regulation that would effectively restrict their ability to operate.
Gentlemen’s clubs, which the document describes as establishments that sell women, should have more stringent requirements on advertising and entry requirements, and highly trained or special members of the police force with the skills to monitor the industry should regularly visit and monitor the venues in order for them to continue to operate.
With respect to massage parlours, the coalition proposes a license that would certify that the establishment is legitimate and not a front for criminal activity.
Law should favour the vulnerable – Opposition
In a statement, the Nationalist Party said it would be fully endorsing the submission made by entities and organisations that represented Maltese women.
Deputy Speaker Claudette Buttigieg said she was satisfied that women and the organisation which represented them felt empowered to lead this national agenda.
“Prostitution is intrinsically tied to human trafficking and while amending the law we have to be sure that we will not be causing the further abuse of people in vulnerable positions,” Ms Buttigieg said.
MP Claudio Grech said the PN’s position was clear that society should do away with prejudice and craft laws that protect the vulnerable.
The submission was endorsed by the following signatories: President Emeritus Marie Louise Coleiro Preca, Dr Anna Borg, Ms Helen Burrows, Dr Angele Deguara, Dr Lara Dimitrijevic, Ms Francesca Fenech Conti, Ms Marietherese Gatt, Ms Romina Gatt Lopez, Dr Anna Vella, Association for Equality (A4E), Attard Ladies Cultural Club (ALCC), Azzjoni Kattolika Maltija (AKM), Caritas, Dar Hosea, Dar Merhba Bik, Department of Gender Studies (UOM). Department of Social Policy and Social Work (UOM), emPOWer Platform, Faculty of Theology (UOM), Ghaqda Studenti tat-Teologija, Good Shepherd Sisters, Justice and Peace Commission, Local Councils’ Association, Malta Confederation of Women’s Organisations (MCWO), Malta Medical Students Association (MMSA), Malta Midwives Association (MMA), Men Against Violence (MAV), Girl Guides (MGG), Saint Jeanne Antide Foundation (SJAF), Solidarity Overseas Service (SOS) Malta, University Chaplaincy, Victim Support Malta (VSM), Women’s Rights Foundation, Coalition Abolition Prostitution (CAP) International, Coalition Against Trafficking in Women (CATW), European Network of Migrant Women (ENOMW), European Women’s Lobby (EWL) and Survivors of Prostitution Abuse Calling for Enlightenment (SPACE) International.

Story 43
Lands Authority CEO James Piscopo has been appointed chairman of ARMS Ltd, the State company responsible for utility bills.
Sources said the new post will see the former Labour Party CEO’s income increasing by some €20,000 a year.
As CEO of the Lands Authority, recruited by the government in 2018, Mr Piscopo already receives a handsome financial package, worth over €80,000 a year.
Since the last elections in 2017, Mr Piscopo, one of Prime Minister Joseph Muscat’s closest political allies, has been appointed to serve on other government boards, including Enemalta and Projects Malta, a company entrusted with the running of public private partnerships under the political stewardship of Tourism Minister Konrad Mizzi.
Asked to state how much he earns in total as a result of his various government appointments and different roles, Mr Psicopo did not reply to Times of Malta by the time of writing.
The interests of the water company on the board are now under-represented
Government sources said that the recent appointment of Mr Piscopo did not go down well with certain members of the ARMS board who represent the Water Services Corporation.
Automated Revenue Management Services Ltd (ARMS) is co-owned by Enemalta and Water Services Corporation through an equal shareholding.
According to the sources, the directors representing the WSC objected vehemently to the appointment of an Enemalta board member as chairman of ARMS.
They argued that the interests of the water company on the board would now be under-represented, the sources said.
The same sources said that it was ARMS CEO Silvio Scerri, a former chief officer at Transport Malta, who insisted on the appointment of Mr Piscopo.
Mr Scerri was made chief officer at Transport Malta when Mr Piscopo was its chairman between 2013 and 2018.
He left the post soon after Mr Piscopo’s departure.
Recently, Mr Piscopo was given more powers at the Lands Authority after the board was directed by the government to delegate most of its functions to the CEO’s office.
Despite resistance, particularly from chairman Lino Farrugia Sacco, Mr Piscopo got his way.
The Nationalist Party opposed the move, arguing that it was against the concentration of power and lack of transparency.
In 2018, Times of Malta revealed that following his appointment as CEO of the Lands Authority, Mr Piscopo had failed to declare his potential business interests with clients of the Authority.
It was only after questions submitted by this newspaper that the board was informed about his then connection to the shareholders of the Fortina Group.
The Lands Authority board had taken note of the situation but decided not to take any action.

Story 44
Air Malta is planning to raise the number of passengers it carries in winter by 10 per cent to 70,000, Tourism Minister Konrad Mizzi and airline chairman Charles Mangion said on Sunday.
They said the airline will operate 25 routes during the winter - Amsterdam, Berlin, Brussels, Cairo, Catania, Casablanca, Dusseldorf, Frankfurt, Lisbon, London Gatwick, London Heathrow, Lyon, Kiev, Milan, Moscow, Munich, Palermo, Paris Charles De Gaulle, Paris Orly, Prague, Rome, Tel Aviv, Tunis, Vienna and Zurich.
Ten destinations will be served with daily or multiple daily frequencies,
primarily to major European hub airports.
Lyon, Prague and Cairo, already part of the summer schedule, have been added to the winter network. There will be three flights a week from Lyon and twice weekly from Prague.
Flight frequency is being increased to other destinations, notably London Heathrow and Gatwick, Brussels and Palermo.
The purpose, he said, is to improve connectivity to airports where potential tourists can link-up from medium and long-haul destinations such as Japan, China, South Korea, Australia, the US and Canada.
Dr Mangion said he looked forward to concluding talks on a collective agreement with pilots. Much progress had been achieved in talks with the pilots’ union, he said. He said he had written to all the pilots personally and was appealing to the union for talks to finally conclude the process.
Dr Mizzi said harmonious industrial relations would enable the airline to embark on its next challenge of embarking on medium to long-haul services.
He said, however, that the airline could not guarantee jobs in the way the pilots’ union wanted, because that would breach EU law and it would also be unfair on other employees.

Story 45
The Pentagon said Friday it is awarding a $10 billion cloud computing contract to Microsoft, following a highly scrutinized bidding process which Amazon had been favored to win.
The 10-year contract for the Joint Enterprise Defense Infrastructure program, better known as JEDI, ultimately will see all military branches sharing information in a system boosted by artificial intelligence.
"The National Defense Strategy dictates that we must improve the speed and effectiveness with which we develop and deploy modernized technical capabilities to our women and men in uniform," Defense Department Chief Information Officer Dana Deasy said in a release.
"This award is an important step in execution of the Digital Modernization Strategy."
Amazon was considered the lead contender to provide technology for JEDI, with its Amazon Web Services dominating the cloud computing arena and the company already providing classified servers for other government outfits including the CIA.
But the Pentagon earlier this year delayed awarding the hefty contract, saying the process would be reviewed by newly appointed Defense Secretary Mark Esper.
Esper was selected by US President Donald Trump, who has lashed out at Amazon and company founder Jeff Bezos, who owns The Washington Post.
In July, Trump said he had heard "complaining from different companies like Microsoft and Oracle and IBM" over the JEDI bidding process.
"We're going to take a look at it. We'll take a very strong look at it," he said, raising concerns among observers that the process would be improperly influenced.
Amazon said late Friday it was "surprised about this conclusion."
"AWS is the clear leader in cloud computing, and a detailed assessment purely on the comparative offerings clearly lead to a different conclusion," the company said in a statement.
Microsoft did not immediately respond to a request for comment from AFP.
Necessary evil?
The contract has caused controversy over whether internet giants who say they want to make the world better should be involved in the defence industry.
JEDI critics have likened it to the nefarious "Skynet" computing overlord in Terminator films.
Microsoft was Amazon's only rival in the final bidding for the winner-take-all contract, despite employees urging it to drop out.
"Many Microsoft employees don't believe that what we build should be used for waging war," company staffers wrote in an anonymous op-ed posted a year ago on Medium, which said it had verified the authenticity of the piece.
"The contract is massive in scope and shrouded in secrecy, which makes it nearly impossible to know what we as workers would be building."
Microsoft has defended its interest in military contracts, saying at one point, "All of us who live in this country depend on its strong defense."
Amazon chief Bezos had also defended the company's bid, saying it was important to support US defense efforts, even if it is unpopular.
Cloud cash
Wedbush analyst Dan Ives expected Amazon, and perhaps others, to challenge the Pentagon contract decision in court but still saw it giving a major lift to Microsoft's cloud business in a market where $1 trillion is expected to be spent in the coming decade.
"This is a game changer deal for Microsoft to win as this will have a ripple effect for the company's cloud business for years to come," he said.
"While the current political landscape further complicated this high stakes bake-off with JEDI, both Microsoft and Amazon among others will have much to gain over the coming years in these cloud sweepstakes."
Microsoft this week reported that quarterly profits rose 21 percent on the back of its thriving cloud computing business which has become a core focus for the US technology giant.
The tactic is a major switch from the way the Redmond-based company built its empire selling packaged software to computer users.
Amazon, one of the world's most valuable companies, has expanded from its origins in e-commerce to cloud services, streaming media, artificial intelligence and other ventures.
Amazon Web Services accounted for nearly $9 billion in revenue in the recently-ended quarter, with growth in the cloud computing unit up 35 percent from a year ago.

Story 46
Following a mass riot at the Ħal Far open accommodation centre on October 20, over 100 of the migrants have been sentenced to six weeks in prison at the Corradino Correctional Facility (CCF).
Reliable sources have reported gross and humiliating mistreatment of the migrants on their arrival at Corradino last week. They were allegedly ordered to strip off their clothes in the central courtyard, then “hosed down with a hose-pipe like animals,” as well as being physically manhandled by the Special Response Team using batons.
Although the Correctional Services Agency of Corradino has strongly denied the allegations of maltreatment, it is noteworthy that the Chief Operations Officer, Randolph Spiteri, later qualified this by stating that there was “no use of force other than the minimum required to control and restrain” [the prisoners].
The migrants have since been locked up in the notorious Division 6 building of the prison. It is the section of the Correctional Facility designed for prisoners to be left in solitary confinement and is commonly known as the place where inmates are sent to be punished (tal-kastig). One source described it as “a punitive and not a corrective division”.
Division 6, a 177-year-old Victorian, recently modernised remnant of the original prison – which was previously condemned by the Council of Europe’s Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Inhumane and Degrading Treatment or Punishment – has 24 cells. The division normally holds no more than 30 to 40 prisoners. Each cell, with one bed, is now holding at least five times that number.
A foundation that works closely with prisoners, Mid-Dlam Għad-Dawl, which has done outstanding work at Corradino over several years, has expressed concern that the detention of an additional 107 prisoners would overwhelm the prison, which is already operating at overcapacity. The CCF “is housing over double the number of people it was designed to accommodate”.
The riot and the reports of the humiliating conditions under which those who have been sentenced to imprisonment for their part in it serve to cast yet another shadow over Malta’s treatment of black immigrants. Minister for Home Affairs and National Security, Michael Farrugia, has already conceded, through clenched teeth, in the face of widespread outcry by the public and NGOs who work closely with migrants, that an investigation into the affair will be conducted.
Minister Farrugia has to shoulder political responsibility for what has happened – even if many people misguidedly condone the heavy-handedness of the operation to control the riot and shamelessly welcome the grim conditions under which those sentenced are being held at Corradino.
The source of the cause of the riot must be exposed. Were the conditions at Ħal Far such a tinderbox that it only took a reaction to “three drunk migrants” to spark a serious riot? Every prisoner at Corradino – which is meant to be a ‘correctional’ facility not a punitive one – should be treated with dignity. Are the claims of humiliating mistreatment of these particular prisoners justified? Was there a racial element to this?
The fundamental issue is that, as a country which has been exposed to black immigration for 17 years, Malta cannot any longer delude itself into refusing to confront the acute social problems that mass immigration presents. What happened at Ħal Far is a wake-up call which must be heeded. The inquiry must also address this.

Story 47
A financial services company was ordered to pay over €100,000 in compensation after it mis-sold complex investment products to under-qualified investors, an Appeals Cout ruled.
Global Capital Financial Management Ltd failed to meet the legitimate expectations of investors who it enticed with the prospect of a “secure” investment.
The court’s judgements concerned appeals filed against nine decisions delivered by the Financial Services Arbiter, which had found that Global Capital had not provided appropriate and suitable advice to its clients.
ADVERTISEMENT
All nine cases revolved around complex investments. Complainants had all invested money they earned through blue-collar jobs. Four of the cases concerned pensioned couples and another two involved elderly siblings.
Other investors included a part-time waiter who was 17 years old at the time of investing; a night watchman and maintenance worker attracted by the company's adverts; and a man who had just sold his car-spraying business and was looking to invest proceeds.
One of the couples explained how a GlobalCapital representative had gone to their home in 2007 and urged them to invest a sum, telling them the “capital was guaranteed”.
Two years later, they filed a complaint with the financial regulator after they were told that the investment was not doing well.
The court of appeal rejected GlobalCapital’s argument that the actions were time-barred in eight of the nine cases.
It also refuted the company’s argument that the investments had gone sour because of the 2008 financial crisis.
Financial service providers had to properly assess the suitability of investment products for investors and could not just rely on brochures intended to maximise sales, the court said.
A general disclaimer warning investors that investments' value "can go down as well as up" and that "past performance is not a guide to the future" was generic and did not provide specific information about the level of risk the particular investments in question carried, the court said.
The Court concluded that Global Capital had to compensate investors in all eight cases which were not time-barred, as well as pay interest to cover loss of earnings in the ensuing years, in some cases as far back as 2008.
It also condemned Global Capital to shoulder full costs in six of the cases and 9/10ths of costs in the other two cases.
Amounts of compensation vary from one case to the other and will have to be recalculated by the financial arbiter in two of the cases.
Lawyer Stefano Filletti represented clients in five of the cases.
GlobalCapital says compensation claims originated under previous ownership
Referring to the judgements, Global Capital plc on Friday evening said that, “without entering into the merits of each decision, which is dependent on the particular circumstances of each case, the Company expresses regret for any hardship experienced by those investors.
“The Company stresses that these cases related to a period between 2004-2009 when the Group was under different ownership and management.”
Since its majority shareholding was acquired by Investar plc in 2016, GlobalCapital says it has completely restructured its corporate governance structure to ensure there can be no repeat of such instances.

Story 48
Nearly one in every three people over 65 is obese, official EU data has revealed, making Malta’s older generation among the heaviest in Europe.
In the rest of the EU, the average rate is one in five, according to a report on ageing in Europe by the EU’s statistics arm, Eurostat.
The report says that in Malta, more than 30% of those aged between 65 and 74 were obese in 2017, the year under review. The statistics office considers persons ‘obese’ if their body mass index (their body mass in kilograms divided by the square of their height in metres) is of 30 or more.
Malta’s rate, it emerged, is among the highest in Europe, with only Latvia, Estonia and Hungary registering higher numbers.
While the rate was found to have decreased slightly among the over 75s, a quarter of these were still found to be obese. According to the data, a quarter of those older than 75 were found to have BMIs of over 30 in 2017.
Acknowledging the phenomenon, the Eurostat researchers noted that “the likelihood that somebody is obese increases with age” with about one fifth of Europeans aged between 65 and 74 having a BMI of over 30, up from 14.9% of adults under 65.
Apart from shedding light on the older generations, the data also confirms that problems with excessive weight are impacting people of all ages as a quarter of adults over 16 were also found to be obese.
The health authorities in Malta have grappled with the problem for years, with studies focusing on children conducted in the past few years showing that a whopping 40% were either obese or overweight. According to these studies, young girls are the most susceptible to having excessive weight, with 15% of seven-year-olds being obese.
Reacting to the data, Superintendent of Public Health Charmaine Gauci told Times of Malta that, unfortunately, the group under review come from a generation that “missed out completely” on awareness campaigns that focus on the importance of healthy diets.
“We tend to focus on children because they have a better chance of learning to lead a healthy life. At the same time, we also want to help adults and the elderly change their habits,” Dr Gauci said.
She explained that while help for children can easily be provided in schools, it is not always as straightforward to provide older people with assistance.
To help those over 65 with weight problems, the health authorities provide support services at community level, something which has proved popular with the elderly who take the opportunity to socialise.
“We do get a lot of elderly people joining our sessions because they want to meet others. But that’s still good. Old people, especially those living alone, are more likely to fall into the temptation of not cooking and eating junk food so it’s very important they feel part of something as that too can change their eating habits,” Dr Gauci said.
Looking ahead, the health authorities plan to publish guidelines specifically designed to help the elderly opt for healthier options, portion control and other measures to tackle excessive weight. Similar guidelines designed for children and adults published in recent years have proved useful, she said.
Recently appointed Commissioner for the Elderly Mary Vella said that the problem with obesity was a “global” one impacting countries all over the world.
Yet, while the problem persists, the Commissioner is confident it is being addressed because there is more awareness of the issue and people are more willing to seek help.
On whether the elderly were willing to change their lifestyle or if it was too late for them to change their ways, Dr Vella said services and assistance on offer today made it much easier for people to come forward, so even the elderly were finding it easier to seek the help they required.

Story 49
Deutsche Bank will reportedly stop offering correspondent banking services to local financial institutions in Malta.
According to the Times of Malta, the German lender will stop the service in all currencies by the end of this year.
There was no official announcement from Deutsche Bank or Malta authorities on the decision.

However, it was conveyed to all the partner banks in a meeting held earlier this month, the report added.
Correspondent banks assist local lenders in accessing foreign financial markets and carry out cross-border transactions in foreign countries. These transactions are carried out primarily in US dollars.
Therefore, the decision by Deutsche Bank is likely to impair partner Maltese banks’ capabilities to conduct dollar-denominated transactions.
However, most of the impacted banks will have a second correspondent bank to conduct such operations, a source familiar with the matter told the publication.
The Deutsche Bank move comes after Malta was sharply criticised by the Council of Europe’s anti-money laundering body for failing to take adequate measures to prevent financial crime.
Recently, Deutsche Bank significantly scaled back its operations as a correspondent bank following money laundering allegations generating from such activities.
Earlier this year, the German lender initiated a massive restructuring of its business to revive market value and share prices. The plan included axing thousands of jobs and is expected to cost the company around €7.4bn.

Story 50
Attorney General William Barr has been looking into the Maltese professor Joseph Mifsud, whose discussion with Trump campaign adviser George Papadopoulos helped set off the FBI investigation of possible coordination between the Trump campaign and Russia in 2016. It was Mifsud who told Papadopoulos about the “dirt” the Russians had on Hillary Clinton in the form of “thousands of emails,” a tip Papadopoulos blurted out to an Australian diplomat in an indiscretion that reached the FBI and started the ball rolling.
Barr’s interest is all part of a broader effort pushed obsessively by President Donald Trump in an effort to prove, at least in the public mind, that he was the victim of a conspiracy in 2016 rather than the beneficiary of one. Trump’s pressure on the recently elected government in Ukraine to promote this line features in the impeachment proceedings against him.
But that has only led his administration and supporters to push harder the notion of a sinister “deep state” conspiracy to derail his presidential campaign. Where the pressure on Ukraine was partly the work of Trump lawyer Rudolph Giuliani operating outside official channels, Attorney General Barr’s probe is now a criminal investigation into the origins of the counterintelligence probe into Trump’s Moscow connections.
And Professor Mifsud is right in the middle of it.
The teams led by Special Counsel Robert Mueller and the FBI reported that Mifsud, who disappeared from public view in late 2017, received his information about the Clinton emails through highly placed members of the Russian government, and ex-FBI Director James Comey, fired by Trump, even said that Mifsud was a Russian agent.
Barr and his boys are operating on a different theory—that Mifsud was part of a setup by the CIA and FBI to smear Trump. Pursuing this theory, Barr even went abroad recently to talk with Italian and British intelligence officials about Mifsud, who taught at universities in both Britain and Italy.
But Mifsud’s deep, long-standing connections with Russian President Vladimir Putin’s foreign-policy establishment and the highly favorable views he has expressed publicly about Russia’s role in global affairs show just how far Barr has barked up the wrong tree.
THE PROFESSOR
Josef Mifsud, born in Malta in 1960, earned a doctorate in early-childhood education from Queen’s University, Belfast, in 1995. He had a stint at the Maltese Ministry of Foreign Affairs and did some teaching in Slovenia and the University of Stirling in Scotland before becoming the director of the so-called London Academy of Diplomacy in 2012. As columnist Nick Cohen pointed out in The Guardian, it resembled “just the type of front organization an espionage agency would establish.” And when the academy shut down after the Russia scandal erupted in the United States, it was as if "it were an intelligence asset whose cover had been blown."
Mifsud, who briefly employed the Italian wife of Papadopoulos when he was affiliated with a socialist group in the European Union, was by all accounts terrific at networking. After beginning frequent trips to Russia in 2010, he was soon hobnobbing with Kremlin-linked Russians as an expert on international diplomacy, despite his lack of credentials in that field. In 2012 his academy formed a collaboration with Moscow State University, where Mifsud became a regular visitor. And in May 2014, he was received personally by the Russian ambassador to London, Alexander Yakovenko—an unusual honor for someone of Mifsud’s minor stature—to discuss the lofty subject of “Russian-British cooperation in the sphere of international relations, diplomacy, science and education.”
One of Mifsud’s key Russian contacts was Ivan Timofeyev, a young mover and shaker in the Russian foreign-policy establishment, whose résumé includes more than 80 published articles on international affairs.
THE WUNDERKIND
Timofeyev is an associate professor at the Moscow State Institute for International Affairs (MGIMO), a well-known feeder school for the Russian foreign ministry and the Foreign Intelligence Service (SVR), where he received his doctorate in 2006. Timofeyev is also program director for the Russian Council on International Affairs (RIAC), a think tank whose board of trustees is headed by Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov.
Unconvincingly, Lavrov denied in October 2017 that he was acquainted with Timofeyev after news broke of the FBI indictment of George Papadopoulos for lying under oath. Timofeyev was discussed in the Papadopoulos’ plea deal only as “a Russian national connected to the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs,” but a ministry spokesperson said it learned this was Timofeyev from its embassy in the Washington, and the Mueller Report cites his activities explicitly (his named transliterated as Timofeev).
The prolific wunderkind Timofeyev, whom Misfud referred to as a “dear friend” in a communication with Papadopoulos, also heads the research program at the Valdai Discussion Club, a Kremlin-supported organization that hosts high-profile gatherings, often attended by Putin, of Russian and international elites.
In April 2016, right before Mifsud told Papadopoulos about the Russian dirt on Clinton, Timofeyev hosted a discussion on global stabilization and oil markets in which Mifsud participated, along with his Swiss-German lawyer Stephen Roh, who would later be questioned aggressively by the FBI.
“ Mifsud's comments not only echoed the Kremlin line; they also reflected what Trump was starting to say in defense of the Putin regime. ”
In May 2016, Timofeyev interviewed Mifsud at the Valdai Club about global energy markets. But a more important conversation had occurred behind the scenes: Mifsud had connected Papadopoulos with Timofeyev and the two were laying the groundwork, via Skype and email, for a possible meeting between the Trump campaign and the Russian government.
That same month, Mifsud had a long interview with the Zinoviev Club, a research arm of Russia Today (the Kremlin-controlled media outlet), about resuming a “productive dialogue” between Russia and Europe. Sounding like he had graduated with honors from a KGB disinformation school, Mifsud claimed that Russia was needed in Syria: “Everyone agrees now that the Russian intervention in Syria helped, not worsened, the situation. Whether Assad will remain in power or not is another question, but the fact that there was someone who took the first step to face the situation and not hide it under the carpet helped.”
Mifsud went on to lament that “we see an openly anti-Russian, demonizing Russia view of Western media… we cannot demonize governments, countries, individuals, and then expect a working relationship with them…What I cannot understand is the fact that people trying to build bridges and facilitate dialogue become targets for all this. This should never happen.” He also observed: “Today the EU needs Russia as a strong partner in order to exchange information and to resolve problems in the sphere of cyber threats... of course, the work of security services, special services and the exchange of information with these services are becoming critically important.”
Mifsud’s comments not only echoed the Kremlin line; they also reflected what Trump was starting to say in defense of the Putin regime.
THE LAWYER
Mifsud’s lawyer Roh, who was detained for questioning by the FBI at JFK Airport in October 2017, has labeled the claims that Mifsud was acting on behalf of the Russians “defamatory.” In a self-published 2018 book, The Faking of Russia-gate: The Papadopoulos Case, an Investigative Analysis, which includes an interview with Mifsud, Roh posited that Mifsud was used as a pawn by Western intelligence services,
But considering Roh’s background, his views can be seen as dezinformatsiya: Roh, who is married to a Russian woman with her own connections and speaks fluent Russian, owns numerous energy consultancies as well as a law firm with offices in major cities, including Moscow. He was also a “visiting fellow” at Mifsud’s strange Diplomatic Academy. One of Roh’s companies, ISL Energy, has published studies in which he, Mifsud, and Timofeyev—the academic superstar—are contributors.
In 2011, Roh formed a business partnership with a Russian entrepreneur named Gleb Ageev, who owns a financial company called Finrusinvest, which earns a huge revenue from contracts with Russian oil companies. From 2007 to 2014, Ageev directed administrative affairs for the now-defunct Federal Agency for the Development of the State Border (Rosgranitsa), which worked closely with the FSB’s powerful Border Service.
Roh does not hide his sympathies for the Putin regime. According to BuzzFeed, just after the March 2018 poisonings with the nerve agent Novichok of Sergei Skripal and his daughter in Salisbury, England, Roh changed the name of one of his British companies, Inverhold Ltd., to No Vichok Ltd. When asked why he made the change, Roh told BuzzFeed in an email that the Salisbury attack was a conspiracy by Western intelligence services.
Roh is an investor in Rome’s Link Campus University, where Western diplomats and retired intelligence officials frequently lecture and Mifsud worked for over a decade.
THE EX FOREIGN MINISTER
The president of Link, former Italian Foreign Minister Vincenzo Scotti, a Christian Democrat, recently told The New York Times that Mifsud “was a loudmouth know-nothing,” although he acknowledged that Mifsud helped negotiate a partnership between Link and a Moscow university. And, according to Roh, as cited by the Epoch Times (not necessarily a reliable source) Scotti and Mifsud went to Russia together in October 2016 as part of a Link delegation that was formalizing a cooperation agreement with Moscow State University.
Ex-Minister Scotti was drawn further into the Mifsud scandal last April when Papadopoulos, who has claimed that Mifsud was an Italian intelligence asset used by the CIA, tweeted: “Some disturbing and enlightening news coming out of Italy. Vincenzo Scotti, the former Italian foreign minister, who was one of the intermediaries to Mifsud—has been outed as the guy who ‘forced’ Mifsud to introduce me to imaginary Russians and set me up. This is huge.” (Papadopoulos has also accused then-Prime Minister Matteo Renzi of orchestrating the trap allegedly set by Mifsud as a favor to President Barack Obama. Renzi is suing Papadopoulos for defamation in an Italian criminal court over that allegation.)
Scotti said in an email to The Washington Post that he had not been contacted by Barr or his associates: “Absolutely no—nobody, no authority, be it American or Italian, got in touch with us, not even indirectly, on the topic.” Perhaps Barr has chosen to ignore this angle on the advice of the Trump camp, Rudy Giuliani in particular, who has suggested publicly that Mifsud was part of a CIA plot.
It should be clear to Attorney General Barr that Mifsud was no CIA asset, but rather part of a cabal, including Roh and Timofeyev, that spreads pro-Kremlin propaganda under the guise of academia and acts as a conduit between the Kremlin and Western policy wonks who are sympathetic to the Putin regime.
In pursuing his CIA-FBI conspiracy theory, Barr is entering a complicated maze of secret and not-so-secret relationships that characterize Russia’s efforts to undermine Western democracies. If Barr were wise, he would back off.

Story 51
Updated 9.30am
A brief thunderstorm on Tuesday morning briefly knocked out the emergency hotline 112 system, Home Affairs Ministry said.
The damage was caused by a lightning strike but workers restored services after a couple of hours.
The storm came hours after a thunderstorm accompanied by strong gusts of wind - a squall - on Monday afternoon felled trees and caused road flooding in some localities.
According to the Met Office more storms are set to hit Malta and Gozo throughout the week.

Story 52
Fast growth Malta online casino operator Videoslots has announced that it will open a’ Managed Trading Services (MTS)’ sportsbook property operated by Betradar.
Updating the market, Videoslots seeks to diversify its product portfolio by announcing that at the’ beginning of next year’ it will release its online sportsbook.
New vertical videoslots will be led by Martin Calleja as Head of Sportsbook – a specialist in risk management who joined the company at the beginning of the year.
Calleja commented: “The sports betting market is bigger than ever, and we can’t wait to get started. With Betradar’s support, we aim to build a tailor-made and diverse product for our customers.
“We already have a wealth of loyal players who are sure to benefit from this partnership as it will help us guarantee the best possible service.”
As a new betting incumbent, Videoslots states that it will’ maintain its own trading strategy’ while using Betradar’s trading and risk management services experience to resolve wagering demands.
Videoslots, which has been operating since 2011, is considered one of the leading online casino operators. For its customer services, value-added deals and scope of games (+ 3,600), it has earned player and industry accolades.
Backing Videoslots goals for sportsbooks, Paolo Personeni, Betradar Managing Director, added: “In Videoslots, we have a partner that has a long-term vision for growth and energy to embrace new technology.
“Videoslots will benefit from our leading risk management expertise while still having full access, visibility and transparency across their entire sportsbook functionality.
“The partnership will see our traders work collaboratively with their trading team to maximise efficiencies and help deliver solid margins and returns for a healthy sportsbook.”

Story 53
DC Aviation group has announced it will participate in the first-ever Malta Aviation Conference and Expo (MACE).
The event which DC Aviation Group are founding members of, will be held between October 30 and November 01, 2019, in the Grand Hotel Excelsior Malta in Floriana.
MACE will bring together several parties interested in the aviation industry to discuss further collaboration and cooperation, the event is expected to attract over 130 aviation representative which will further bolster Malta’s thriving aviation industry and will be among the largest conferences ever taking place in Malta.
Stanley Bugeja, managing director of DC Aviation Malta, said, “MACE is an event created by the industry for the industry and we are extremely proud to be founding members. The conference will provide the perfect platform for aviation professionals and companies to network, promote their services and discuss innovations, opportunities and challenges facing the industry. We look forward to welcoming all delegates to the event.”

Story 54
Only 11.5% of people with childcare responsibilities in Malta used childcare services in 2018, the lowest percentage in the European Union.
Malta is preceded by Romania (16%), Spain (17%), the United Kingdom (18%), Croatia (20%), Ireland, Italy and Cyprus (all 22%).
In contrast, in Hungary (60%) and Denmark (59%), more than half the population with childcare responsibilities used childcare services.
They were followed by Latvia and Slovenia (both 48%), Luxembourg (44%) and Portugal (43%), Sweden (42%) and Lithuania (41%).
According to Eurostat, the statistical arm of the European Union, the most frequently reported reasons for not using childcare services were “own arrangements or arrangements with partner” (47% of those who reported not using childcare services), “children take care of themselves” (18%) and “informal support” (15%).
In 22 EU states, “having own arrangements or arrangements with partner” was the most frequently reported reason for not using childcare services, with the highest shares in Latvia (74%), Austria and Slovakia (both 65%), and Hungary (64%).
In the remaining six EU states, “children take care of themselves” was the most frequently reported reason: Finland (63%), Denmark (55%), Estonia and Sweden (both 52%), Slovenia (46%) and Luxembourg (28%).
In the EU, 27% of employed people with childcare responsibilities adapted their work to facilitate childcare. These changes included “reduction of working time” (10% of employed people with childcare responsibilities), “change of job or employer” or “family leave” (3% each), “any change to increase income” (2%), “less demanding tasks in job” (1%) or other changes (10%).
Additionally, 28% of people with childcare responsibilities reported using childcare services for all children, with a higher share reported by the employed (31%) compared with the unemployed (19%) and inactive (14%). C
Correspondingly, 72% of people with childcare responsibilities reported not using childcare services for all or some of their children.
Ireland recorded the highest share of people reporting childcare responsibilities, combined or not with care for incapacitated relatives (42% of population aged 18 to 64), ahead of Sweden and Luxembourg (both 35%), Estonia and France (both 34%).
In contrast, the lowest shares were recorded in Bulgaria (24%), followed by Germany (26%), Croatia, Greece and Austria (all 27%).
Across the EU states, the share of employed persons having adapted their work to facilitate childcare responsibilities varied considerably; ranging from 7% in Romania, 9% in Slovakia and 10% in Croatia to 50% in the Netherlands and 54% in Sweden.
Eurostat said among the 308 million people aged 18 to 64 in the EU in 2018, just over one third (34%), or 106 million people, reported care responsibilities.
These involved caring for their own or a partner’s children under 15 years of age (89 million people, or 29%), incapacitated relatives (13 million, 4%), or both children and incapacitated relatives (4 million, 1%).
Caring for children included having children in the household or taking care of children outside the household.
More women than men (37% women, 32% men) reported care responsibilities across all categories of care in 2018: care responsibility for own or partner’s children (30%, 28%), for incapacitated relatives (5%; 3%), and both (2%; 1%).

Story 55
Health and social care for older adults are essential parts of Malta’s welfare policy. Life expectancy in Malta is among the highest in Europe and today over 20 per cent of the local population has passed the standard retirement age.
While every effort is made to help older adults to continue to live in their own homes and enjoy their independence, many will at some stage need full-time care in a retirement home because of increased morbidity. It is a matter of fact that in the past few decades, not enough investment has been made to provide residential homes for the elderly in the public sector.
Successive administrations have relied on the private sector to provide such facilities. Retired homes for the elderly managed by private companies have cropped up in various parts of the island as demand for such care is steadily increasing. It is time for social policymakers to define standards of care to be provided in both private and public care homes.
The Social Care Standards Authority and the Commissioner for the Elderly have just signed a memorandum of understanding committing to collaboration between the two entities to ensure the elderly enjoy the highest standards. If this agreement leads to guaranteeing the residents of retirement homes a level of service that they deserve, it will be a step in underpinning respect for older adults.
Elderly care today is more advanced and complicated than in the past. Much of the care and treatment once provided in hospitals are now given in residential homes, which makes it essential to have efficient multi-professional teams capable of working with older adults and their families. The training of such professionals should be a top priority for our health and educational authorities as well as for private entrepreneurs providing residential home services. The status of qualified carers needs to be upgraded by granting them decent working conditions and pay.
Older people living in residential homes should be allowed to discuss their needs and preferences, including the people they wish to be involved in their care. This standard implies that the elderly will be treated with dignity and privacy, particularly during communication, physical examination and activities of daily living.
Older people in residential homes need to have their cognitive status assessed and documented primarily because of the rise in the incidence of dementia. Older people with a confirmed or suspected diagnosis of dementia or depression should be provided with a higher level of care. Unfortunately, cases of abuse or neglect by care workers are more common in such circumstances.
While private businesses providing residential care facilities do so for a profit, the maximisation of returns on investment should never be achieved at the cost of the lowering of care standards. The proposed standards should lay down that older persons in residential homes are cared for by knowledgeable and skilled staff, with care provided at a safe staffing level.
The provision of care for older adults, whether they are still living in their own homes or residential homes, is a big challenge for the future.
Defining the standards is just the first step in ensuring the level of care service providers should guarantee to the elderly living in residential homes is not just adequate but among the best when benchmarked with that adopted by advanced European countries.

Story 56
US Attorney General Bill Barr flew to Italy to hear the secret tapes of a Maltese professor who helped kickstart the probe into alleged Russian interference in the 2016 US election, according to a report.
Mr Barr and investigator John Durham flew to Italy after asking the secret service to hand over any information they had on Professor Joseph Mifsud, the Daily Beast reported.
They suspected the former University of Malta professor was an Italian or British-run spy.
While in Rome last week, they heard a taped deposition from Prof. Mifsud explaining why he was in danger and saw Italian records showing had had applied for police protection.
The Mueller Report, first published in April, revealed how investigators spoke to Prof. Mifsud at a Washington Hotel lobby in February 2017.
He reportedly told the Trump campaign in April 2016 that Russia had “dirt” on then candidate Hillary Clinton in the form of “thousands of e-mails”.
Prof. Mifsud was working at Rome's Link Campus University until 2017, when Trump campaign adviser George Papadopoulos was jailed for lying to the FBI.
Mr Papadopoulos's allegation that several "spies" had been sent to entrap him gained currency in Trump's White House.
Prof. Mifsud dropped off the radar, but the Italian daily Corriere della Sera said he was holed up in an apartment owned by a company with ties to Link Campus until May 2018.
Link Campus has close relations with both the intelligence services community and Italy's anti-establishment Five Star Movement (M5S), part of the ruling coalition, the newspaper said.
Mr Barr and investigator John Durham "warned" spy chief Gennaro Vecchione that the US is concerned the ties between Link and leading M5S figures - including Foreign Minister Luigi Di Maio - could affect Italy's willingness to cooperate, the La Repubblica daily said.
Italy's Parliament will launch an investigation into the meetings between Mr Barr and the secret services, the Corriere and Messaggero reported, saying his repeated calls for information looked like "an attempt to pressure Italy".
In an interview with La Repubblica, Prof. Mifsud previously denied having anything to do with the Kremlin.
The CNN reported in 2017 that Prof. Mifsud was no longer turning up for work at the private university in Rome where he lectured.
In September last year, a judgement issued by a Sicilian court revealed that Italian police had tried and failed to track him down to serve him notice of court action filed against him by the University Consortium of Agrigento, where he once served as president.
Palermo’s court of auditors found him guilty of receiving overpayments and ordered him to pay back more than €49,000 to the University consortium.
Prof. Mifsud’s name surfaced again on Wednesday following media reports that Italy’s prime minister Giuseppe Conte gave permission for a top US official to meet Rome's intelligence services as part of Trump-lead efforts to discredit claims he has ties with Russia.
Mr Conte approved two meetings Mr Barr held with Mr Vecchione, according to the Corriere.
Mr Barr has reportedly had multiple contacts with officials and spies in Australia, Britain and Italy in a bid to investigate a probe which concluded that Russia tried to swing the 2016 election in US President Donald Trump's favour.
He first travelled to Rome in August to gather information the White House hopes will undermine the probe, Italian media said.
He returned on Friday again to meet Mr Vecchione, the head of the Department of Information for Security (DIS), just ahead of US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo's trip to Italy's capital.
Mr Mueller's probe led to the conviction of several of Trump's top aides for obstruction and lying to investigators.
But ahead of the 2020 election Trump has painted the investigation and its findings as a "deep state" conspiracy, pointing to conservative media reports as evidence and urging the Justice Department to launch counter-investigations.

Story 57
An MP has called for a medic or trained personnel to be placed in every school in Malta after a parent was told not to send her allergic child to class in Sliema.
“Parents deserve peace of mind when their children are in school. But the problem here isn’t the teachers. A teacher isn’t a doctor, and I have faith that no one expects them to be a doctor either,” Rosianne Cutajar said today.
“It’s 2019 and I think the time has come for each school to have a medic or someone prepared for any emergency that could happen,” she said.

Story 58
Services on a number of frequently used bus routes are being increased as from Sunday.
Transport Malta said a popular route in the south is that from Żabbar to Valletta passing through Fgura and Paolo. An additional trip every hour is being introduced between 6 and 8am.
Another important route is the 212, which links Buġibba/Qawra to Sliema/St Julian’s through Baħar iċ-Ċagħaq and Pembroke. An hourly trip is being added between 5.30 and 9am and 3 and 6pm.
Route X1A, aimed to facilitate transport to university for Gozitan students, is also being embellished with an additional two trips between 4 and 5.15pm from Mondays to Thursdays. These trips are already available on Fridays and will continue to be so.
Trips on route 310 in Gozo, between Marsalforn and Victoria, are also being increased.
Transport Malta said that Route 64 is to be extended to include Mrieħel’s Central Business District as from November 3.
The additions are being made to encourage more people to opt for public transport over their personal cars, reducing traffic through the use of more sustainable means of transport.

Story 59
A local software company has been named Malta’s best in digital technology for the second year in a row by the European Business Awards.
Casasoft will represent Malta at the European Business Awards in Poland on December 3 and 4 after being named the national winner for the digital technology award. It is the second consecutive time the company has won the national award.
Now in their 12th year, the European Business Awards are one of the world’s largest business competitions. Last year, more than 110,000 businesses from 34 countries took part.
Casasoft develop custom software and enterprise solutions for businesses, web applications and websites, as well as offer system integration and migration services and technical consultancy.
This year, CasaSoft were chosen from 2,753 businesses named as ‘Ones to Watch’ in a list of business excellence published in July and were selected as a National Winner by a panel of independent judges including business leaders, politicians and academics.
They were joined as winners of the IT category by local blockchain-based company KnowMeNow.
Casasoft managing director Mark Cassar said the company was delighted by the repeat success.
"We are super proud of our team’s work to be, once again, recognised by such a prestigious awarding organisation," he said.
Adrian Tripp, CEO of the European Business Awards said: "This is a significant achievement and CasaSoft is an outstanding leader in their field".
National award winners
Marine research - AquaBioTech Group Aquaculture
Marketing - BRND WGN
IT Technology - CasaSoft Ltd.
IT Technology - KnowMeNow
Services - Ozo Group of Companies Ltd
Financial Services - QGen Group Ltd
Construction/Property - QLZH Group
Information and communication - RS2 Software p.l.c.
Financial Services - STM Malta

Story 60
One of the pillars of the Social Care Standards Authority is the ongoing dialogue between entities who provide a social welfare service in Malta and the authority, whose role is to regulate the providers of these services and ensure that the standards in place are achieved by all.
The Social Care Standard Authority officially took over the licensing and monitoring of homes for older persons from the Health Care Standards Directorate within the Department for Health Regulations earlier this year, last January.
Under the authority’s regulations, not only do the service providers need to apply to get a licence for every service they offer, but they are also required to constantly adhere to the standards set – a practice which is ensured through constant inspections by the Authority on site.
There are currently 39 homes for older people that are licensed by the Social Care Standards Authority, with 4,301 beds collectively.
The authority is taking the relationship with service providers a step further in its mission to regulate social care in Malta through dialogue and collaboration.
The United Nations declared October 1 the International Day of Older Persons.
Therefore, we felt it was only right that, on October 3, the Collaborative Platform for Residential Services for Older Persons took off at the Social Care Standards Authority’s offices in Santa Venera in preparation for the Strategic Vision for 2020-2027.
The Social Care Standards Authority cannot close itself in a bubble and work from within its delicate walls
This first meeting gathered representatives of service providers of residences for older persons to discuss the social regulatory standards in this sector. The meeting created a dialogue that will improve the quality of the service for the older persons who make use of them. During the meeting, the service providers had the time to network and share best practice with each other and were presented with the new standards and regulations for the sector.
These meetings will take place quarterly over a year.
They are intended to grant more powers to service providers and the authority to plan for future decisions, support better social policy planning for the benefit of the people making use of the services, share information on good practices to set higher standards and increasing communication flow between all parties involved.
The collaborative meetings with service providers will not be our only contact with external entities throughout this process.
The authority will also be conducting various interviews with stakeholders, mostly with managers of residential homes and professionals working with older persons and in the interest of their welfare, where the main areas of the social regulatory standards will be explored in further detail.
These efforts will allow the authority to paint a clearer picture of the services offered at residential homes for older persons, their operational procedures, and the challenges they face on a daily basis.
The authority is also planning to set up the Service User Advisory Group, a second collaborative platform with service users to build a better picture of the current reality, problems which can occur, and solutions.
No man is an island, an adage which is holds true even for our authority.
In order to make sure that the best social welfare services are offered to the public, the authority cannot close itself in a bubble and work from within its delicate walls.
We strive to interact with the public, hear their concerns and process their feedback to improve their quality of life.
This also means that we want to work with the ones providing the services to build a strong dialogue both between the service providers and the authority, as well as building strong bridges between the service providers themselves to share information and better their services.
Anyone who wishes to get in touch with the authority regarding feedback on any social welfare service may send us an email on feedback.scsa@gov.mt or call us on 2549 4345.
Matthew Vella is chief executive officer, Social Care Standards Authority.

Story 61
Credorax, the smart payments provider and licensed bank for cross-border eCommerce and omni-channel payments, has announced partnerships with WeChat, Alibaba and UnionPay, making it one of the first acquirers to offer European merchants the ability to support payments from all three top Chinese mobile payment methods.
Between 2000 and 2018, the number of overseas trips taken by Chinese tourists increased from 10.5 million to a massive 149.7 million, and 11 per cent of Chinese tourists travelled to Europe in 2018, a 5.1 per cent increase from 2017.
A recent survey by Nielsen also found that Chinese tourists spent on average €6,026 per person abroad in 2018 – this is expected to rise to €6,706 in 2019, with nearly two thirds (65 per cent) using a mobile payment while overseas.
This trio of partnerships will enable European merchants working with Credorax to sell products and services to customers in China, as well as the growing number of Chinese tourists visiting Europe – an opportunity which cannot be underestimated.
Moshe Selfin, chief operations and technology officer, Credorax, said: “There is no doubt that reaching Chinese consumers both within China and abroad has huge potential for merchants that want to grow their businesses. The key to accomplishing this will be to meet Chinese consumers wherever they are, offering them familiar payment methods that are easy and convenient. We’re excited to offer this capability to our merchants, which is sure to boost customer engagement and overall sales activity.”
Kelly Yuan, country manager, Greater China, Credorax, said: “Mobile plays a critical role in nearly every facet of daily life in China. Chinese consumers use apps like WeChat, Alipay and UnionPay Quick Pass to shop, order food, pay bills, send money to friends, buy tickets, order taxis and so much more. And when Chinese tourists go on holiday, they stay engaged with these platforms and want to keep paying with them, wherever they are in the world.”

Story 62
A budget airline has axed flights from Aberdeen to a popular holiday destination.
The Aberdeen to Malta route was launched by Ryanair flying out of Aberdeen International Aiport for the first time last year.
But the airline has carried out a review of its services and has now confirmed the service will no longer be available from the end of this month.
Ryanair said it had taken account of route performance and market demand.
Other routes operated by Ryanair from the Granite City to destinations such as Alicante, Malaga and Faro will continue to run.
It will be a blow to holidaymakers across the region and Gordon MP Colin Clark described it as a “retrograde” step.
He said: “Airlines should be looking to add direct routes in the north-east. At a time when Heathrow is expanding, regional airports such as Aberdeen have the chance to thrive, as opportunities to connect the world increase.
“I will be in contact with the airport management to see what can be done to ensure Aberdeen airport makes the most of this opportunity in 2020.”
Andrew Martin, vice chairman for the Aberdeen Hotel Association, said he hoped more flights would be available in the future.
He said: “It is always sad to see a route cancellation from Aberdeen.”
Keep up to date with the latest news with The Evening Express newsletter
A spokesman for Aberdeen International Airport said: “We are disappointed that Ryanair’s Aberdeen-Malta route will not be returning for summer 2020. Our team works tirelessly to maintain existing routes and attract new ones, however, route-planning decisions are ultimately the responsibility of airlines.
“While it’s sad to see the Malta route go, in the past few months we’ve increased capacity to Amsterdam and added new routes to Norway, Brussels, and domestic connections to Newcastle, Newquay and Norwich.”
A spokeswoman for Ryanair said work was under way to finalise its 2020 schedule to Faro but confirmed there would be no more flights to Malta.
She said: “I can confirm that the Aberdeen to Malta route will not operate in summer 2020, as we continually review each of our 2,100 routes and put together a schedule based on many factors including base availability, historical route performance and market demand.”

Story 63
The Malta Financial Services Authority (“MFSA”) has become aware of an entity by the name of AHB Consulting which has an internet presence at http://www2.ahbconsultancy.com/ and claims to have a physical presence at Lyons Range, Bisazza Street, Sliema, Malta. The entity purports to provide, amongst others, company formation services, and asset protections (Trusts and Foundations) in Malta.
The MFSA wishes to inform the public, in Malta and abroad, that AHB Consulting is NOT a Maltese registered Company NOR licensed or otherwise authorised by the MFSA to provide any corporate services or any financial services which are required to be licensed or otherwise authorised under Maltese law.
The MFSA would like to remind consumers of financial and/or corporate services not to enter into any financial services transaction unless they have ascertained that the entity with whom the transaction is being made is authorised to provide such services by the MFSA or another reputable financial services regulator. Investors should also be extra cautious when being approached with offers of financial services via unconventional channels such as telephone calls or social media.
A list of entities licensed by the MFSA can be viewed on the official website of the MFSA at https://www.mfsa.mt/financial-services-register/.

Story 64
Minister for Finance Edward Scicluna and parliamentary secretary for Financial Services, Digital Economy and Innovation Silvio Schembri met with Dr Felix Hufeld, president and Dr Elisabeth Roegele, deputy president of the German Financial Services Regulator, BaFin.
Both sides discussed the initiatives being taken by both countries in their stride to combat money-laundering activities and how the European Union can best strengthen its institutions to address the cross-border nature of this issue.
ADVERTISEMENT
The meeting was also attended by high officials of the MFSA, including the chairperson Prof. John Mamo and CEO Joseph Cuschieri.

Story 65
Adds details from Minister's statement in Parliament and Adrian Delia's comments at 6.44pm
The police have arrested the ringleaders of Sunday night's riot at Ħal Far open centre, Home Affairs Minister Michael Farrugia said on Monday.
Some 300 migrants took part in the riot sparked by a row over a drunk man being banned from entering the centre known as 'Tent Village', he said.
Around 50 police officers wearing riot gear raided the centre on Monday and searched the various sections for weapons. One officer came out carrying a large kitchen knife.
Women could be heard screaming and crying from inside the centre, which houses migrants hoping to gain asylum in the EU.
Dr Farrugia said 107 people were arrested and driven away after the raid. He said the police will arraign people in court when they feel they have enough evidence. A magisterial inquiry was also under way.
Riot police enter Hal Far 'tent village', which was damaged in a riot on Sunday night. Video: Jonathan Borg
There was substantial damage to buildings and containers in the facility and five cars were burnt out.
Dr Farrugia said the government will be compensating for this damage.
A police officer emerges from the open centre carrying a knife. Photo: Jonathan Borg
Before Monday's police raid, an official from the Detention Services arrived at the site, which is managed by the Agency for the Welfare of Asylum Seekers and was heard offering migrants cigarettes in exchange for information.
Around 40 migrants are driven away in a police van. Video: Jonathan Borg
Meanwhile, at the start of his reply to the Budget presented last week, Opposition leader Adrian Delia criticised the government's statement about the riot.
“I was very disappointed on government’s statement which said absolutely nothing. This is the same government which spends €40,000 on a flyover, but then issues a scant statement on such a matter of national interest," he said.
"Saying that only 300 out of 1,200 took part is not the way how to address such incident. 1,200 is the size of a small Maltese village," he said, adding that action must be taken to ensure that it does not happen again.
Dr Delia thanked the members of disciplined forces who were called to quell the unrest at the tent city.
As for the meetings with the employees' representatives, he said that it seems that the minister has only became aware of certain issues now. "This is not the way these things should be tackled," he said.

Story 66
The European Commission presented its Digital Taxation Package and proposed new rules to ensure that digital business activities are taxed in a fair and growth-friendly way in the EU. The measures would make the EU a global leader in designing tax laws fit for the modern economy and the digital age. Essentially, the Digital Taxation Package consists of the following digital service taxation proposals:
1. The proposal for a Council directive laying down rules relating to the corporate taxation of a significant digital presence.
Digital technologies bring many benefits to society and, from a tax perspective, they create opportunities for tax administrations and offer solutions to reduce administrative burdens, facilitate collaboration between tax authorities, as well as addressing tax evasion. However, digitalisation is also putting pressure on the international taxation system, as business models change.
Policymakers are currently struggling to find solutions which can ensure a fair and effective taxation as the digital transformation of the economy accelerates, and the existing corporate taxation rules are outdated to catch such evolution. The application of the current corporate tax rules to the digital economy has led to a misalignment between the place where the profits are taxed and the place where value is created.
In particular, the current rules no longer fit the present context where online trading across borders with no physical presence has been facilitated, where businesses largely rely on hard-to-value intangible assets, and where user generated content and data collection have become core activities for the value creation of digital businesses.
This proposal aims at addressing the issues raised by the digital economy by setting out a comprehensive solution within the existing member states’ corporate tax systems. It provides a common system for taxing digital activities in the EU which properly takes into account the features of the digital economy. Moreover, the proposal aims at addressing the issues raised by the digital economy by setting out a comprehensive solution within the existing member states’ corporate tax systems. It provides a common system for taxing digital activities in the EU which properly takes into account the features of the digital economy.
An important consideration is laid down in Article 3 of the proposed directive which defines “digital services” as follows:
“Services which are delivered over the internet or an electronic network and the nature of which renders their supply essentially automated and involving minimal human intervention, and impossible to ensure in the absence of information technology, including in particular the supply of digitised products generally, including software and changes to or upgrades of software and services providing or supporting a business or personal presence on an electronic network such as a website or a webpage.”
Article 4 of the proposed directive goes on to delineate the features of significant digital presence. A “significant digital presence” shall be considered to exist in a member state in a tax period if the business carried on through it consists wholly or partly of the supply of digital services through a digital interface and one or more of the following conditions is met with respect to the supply of those services by the entity carrying on that business, taken together with the supply of any such services through a digital interface by each of that entity’s associated enterprises in aggregate:
a) The proportion of total revenues obtained in that tax period and resulting from the supply of those digital services to users located in that member state in that tax period exceeds €7 million;
b) The number of users of one or more of those digital services who are located in that member state in that tax period exceeds 100,000;
c) The number of business contracts for the supply of any such digital service that are concluded in that tax period by users located in that member state exceeds 3,000.
The concept of a significant digital presence is intended to establish a taxable nexus in a jurisdiction. Therefore, it should be regarded as an addition to the existing permanent establishment concept. The proposed rules for establishing a taxable nexus of a digital business in a member state are based on revenues from supplying digital services, the number of users of digital services or the number of contracts for a digital service. These criteria are proxies for determining the ‘digital footprint’ of a business in a jurisdiction based on certain indicators of economic activity.
2. Proposal for a Council directive on the common system of a digital services tax on revenues resulting from the provision of certain digital services.
This proposal sets out the common system of a tax on the revenues derived from the supply of certain digital services by taxable persons (hereinafter ‘Digital Services Tax’ or ‘DST’). The specific objective of this proposal is to put forward a measure that targets the revenues stemming from the supply of certain digital services and that is easy to implement and helps to level the playing field in the interim period until a comprehensive solution is in place.
DST is a tax with a targeted scope, levied on the revenues resulting from the supply of certain digital services characterised by user value creation.
Policymakers are struggling to find solutions which can ensure a fair and effective taxation as the digital transformation of the economy accelerates
The services falling within the scope of DST are those where the participation of a user in a digital activity constitutes an essential input for the business carrying out that activity and which enable that business to obtain revenues therefrom. In other words, the business models captured by this directive are those which would not be able to exist in their current form without user involvement.
3. The way forward.
As a result of these discussions the European Commission considers that all aspects of the draft directives have been examined and all possibilities to make progress at a technical level have been explored. The text enjoys broad support from large number of delegations. However, a number of concerns continue to be raised. A number of delegations continue to have fundamental objections as a whole, irrespective of the technical adaptations made to the text.
Ultimately, even though the Council cannot reach an agreement on EU digital services tax, the Council took note of the progress achieved in the negotiations on the digital services tax, since the issue was last discussed at the Council meeting in December 2018, on the basis of a new compromise text setting out a scope limited to digital advertising services.
In parallel, the Council presidency will conduct work on the EU position in international discussions on digital tax, in particular in view of OECD’s report on the issue, due by mid-2020.
Franklin Cachia is senior manager tax and regulated industries at CSB Group.

Story 67
An author and former BBC journalist has accused the Maltese government of a “dark” attempt to intimidate after it engaged a UK law firm known for its aggressive approach to fend off questions in connection with a book probing Daphne Caruana Galizia’s murder.
John Sweeney is one of the co-authors of the book Murder on the Malta Express, being published on Monday.
Questions sent to the Prime Minister, his wife and other top officials by one of the authors ahead of the book release garnered a letter from the law firm in return.
One online profile of the law firm states that a letter from Carter-Ruck “is something that every editor has learnt to fear”.
The former BBC Newsnight reporter, who referred to Prime Minister Joseph Muscat as the “artful dodger of Europe” in an interview with him last year, said such letters by law firms like Carter-Ruck had a chilling effect on democracy.
“It is one of the most expensive law firms in London. Taxpayers are paying Carter-Ruck to try stop this book. Why wasn’t a Maltese firm used? What are they hiding?” Mr Sweeney questioned.
Why wasn’t a Maltese firm used? What are they hiding?
Blogger and co-author of the book Manuel Delia sent out questions individually to Dr Muscat, his wife Michelle, his chief of staff Keith Schembri and ministers Konrad Mizzi and Chris Cardona in connection with the book last month.
Among the questions put to Dr Muscat was a request to react to the suggestion that either he or his government had prior knowledge of the assassination plot, carried out in October 2017.
The security services have in the past strenuously denied having any prior intelligence about the bomb plot.
Instead of receiving a direct reply to the queries, Mr Delia instead received a letter from Carter-Ruck, informing him that they had been instructed “by the government of Malta” in connection with the requests for comment sent out.
The letter complained about the short time frame given to answer the “highly defamatory” points raised in the questions sent to the five individuals. Although Michelle Muscat is not a member of government, Carter-Ruck said in the letter that it was also replying on behalf of the Prime Minister’s wife.
A spokesman for the Prime Minister’s Office justified engaging Carter-Ruck on behalf of the government as a whole reply to questions sent by The Sunday Times of Malta.
“An international law firm was engaged since Manuel Delia stated he was ‘writing a book with a group of international journalists’, therefore in an international context.
“Moreover, ‘the international journalists’ sent a series of questions loaded with innuendo aimed to discredit the government in general. The government has a duty to protect the integrity of the country from manipulative and defamatory allegations especially when these are made systematically,” the spokesman said in reply.
As part of the letter sent to Mr Delia, Carter-Ruck noted how the matters raised were the subject of ongoing court proceedings or investigations in Malta or have already been the subject of a magisterial investigation as in the case of secret company Egrant.
The law firm assured that its client [the government] is engaging with the Council of Europe about the public inquiry into Ms Caruana Galizia’s death.
Since the Carter-Ruck letter was sent, a public inquiry has been set up but the terms of reference and members on the board have been disputed.
Among its rich list of past clients, Carter-Ruck has represented FIFA and the British Labour Party.

Story 68
Polls will open at 6:30 a.m. for the General Election on Tuesday, Nov. 5, at all of the 13 voting precincts in Morgan County. They will remain open until 7:30 p.m. that evening.
During the 13 hours the polls are open, voters will have a chance to vote for two candidates for school board seeking the two seats up for re-election. Mary Pat Hanson and Rick Rose are running unopposed for re-election to the Board of Education. As reported in last week’s edition of The Herald, JR Wilson has withdrawn from the race, and any votes cast for him will not be counted, according to the Morgan County Board of Elections.

Story 69
LONDON, Oct. 22, 2019 /PRNewswire/ -- Fiorano Software, a leading Enterprise Middleware, API Management and Banking Solutions Specialist, announced today that Izola Bank, Malta has chosen Fiorano to deliver PSD2 Compliance and Open Banking capabilities. Fiorano PSD2 Accelerator will be fast-tracking Izola Bank's PSD2 Compliance while allowing it to focus on its strategic goals and growth through innovative new services.
Gordon Briffa, Head of ICT, Izola Bank, says, "We evaluated a considerable number of vendors to partner for the PSD2 solution deployment and managed to find only one that was extremely knowledgeable and offered a hands-on approach. That was Fiorano with PSD2 Accelerator. They are assisting us in every step of the way with the local regulators and their assistance in understanding the regulation is essential in driving the project successfully."
Izola bank chose the Fiorano PSD2 Accelerator, a single, pre-integrated technology stack, for its capability to deliver ASPSP interfaces while addressing technical considerations for Access to Account, Strong Customer Authentication, Common and Secure Channels of Communication, TPP Identity and Regulatory Checking. It stands out by combining multiple components required by banks into a single technology stack. By eliminating multiple products, installations and integration points, Fiorano will be substantially reducing implementation time, cost and uncertainty risks related to PSD2 at Izola bank.
About Izola Bank: - Established in 1994, Izola Bank provides internet banking to customers in Belgium, France and Malta. It has invested heavily in its IT and e-business infrastructure to ensure every transaction is reliable and secure. It offers online services for fast financing solutions and online savings. Its customers commend it for reliable, efficient and personal service.
About Fiorano Software: - Fiorano, a Silicon Valley based USA (California) Corporation, is a trusted provider of digital business backplane and enterprise integration middleware, high performance messaging and peer-to-peer distributed systems, API management and banking solutions, since 1995. Fiorano operates through its worldwide offices and a global network of technology partners and value-added resellers. Global companies including NASA, AT&T Wireless, Federal Bank, Bank of Kigali, Commercial Bank of Africa, Canadia Bank and the NHS have deployed Fiorano to drive innovation through open, standards-based, event-driven, real-time solutions yielding unprecedented productivity.
Contact:
Sumit Kuhite
+1-650-326-1136
mediarelations@fiorano.com
SOURCE Fiorano Software

Story 70
HSBC announced on Thursday that eight branches will be closed as part of a shift to digital banking. HSBC Malta CEO Andrew Beane gave Jacob Borg an overview of the reasoning behind these changes.
Redundancies will be voluntary
Closures reflect changes in customers' lifestyle
Discussion under way with bankers' union
HSBC announced this morning that it is closing down [eight] branches. Is this part of an orderly retreat from the island?
Actually what we announced is a future-focussed change to our business model. It is really important to understand why.
There are profound changes to the way customers are living their lives and using banks. The numbers are quite incredible. Globally, we are seeing that 80 per cent of bank transactions are done digitally, 40 per cent are on mobile devices.
These trends are coming to Malta fast. We are seeing a 60 per cent increase every year in digital usage. We are seeing traditional cash and cheque volumes are going down 10 per cent each year. So like any service business, you need to organise around what your customers are doing.
These are profound changes and we need to change our business model. Yes we are changing our branches, but also we just launched our new mobile app…
We do not want to be a digital only bank. That is not our future vision. I think the successful banks of the future will have great digital, but they will also have great branches, so that you can do those simple day-to-day things on your app.
When you have a meaningful moment in life, like you want to buy a house, you want some advice or you have an issue you can walk in and talk to someone you trust.
So it’s about balancing the model to respond to those changes that we are seeing. We are really following what our customers are doing.
HSBC CEO Andrew Beane. Video: Matthew Mirabelli.
Are you saying HSBC is committed to Malta?
Well I think one of the things people should look at is we have announced the launch of a flagship branch which will open in the first quarter of next year in Qormi, which I think will be really exciting.
We are going to put in some of the best of HSBC’s global solutions. There’s also some super experience we can put in the branch. This will be our largest branch in the country. We have already started works for the opening process, so there will be lots of new stuff, as well as things that we are changing.
So is that a yes?
Well I can only talk about the actions we are taking. You can see we are making investments as well as making changes. So this is a programme about meeting the future needs of customers.
You seem very non-committal about HSBC’s future in Malta…
We never make long-dated strategic statements. What we look at is the needs of our customers. We make choices to best serve them. What I can say to them is the actions we are taking. We have launched a new mobile app, we just launched a new internet banking.
We are planting 20,000 trees across the country as part of the launch process. We have a new branch here in Qormi. Four new wealth management centres. We are going to re-configure our offering. Our branches today close too early.
Our customers’ lifestyles aren’t always well suited to the hours that we are open. Like many business we have to modernise and change.
Have these closures been long in the offing? Was it part of a plan?
I think it would be wrong to over-emphasise branch closures as the only thing that is happening here.
The digital investment is as significant if not more significant than those actions in terms of the investments that are required.
Again 60 per cent increase year-on-year, that’s what customers are doing. We have to organise around it.
Of course from time-to-time we have to look at our branch network. I think we are going to have fewer branches but better ones. That are more flexible, with more people, with more services that open more house, and with improved accessibility.
Many of the branches that are going to be closed down are in less economically affluent areas. Is this part of a strategy where you are going to move away from offering services to the ordinary man in the street?
It is absolutely not! We want to be a bank that serves all society. We look very closely at the distribution of our branches to make sure that people have got convenient access.
We are going to have 40 ATMs beyond our physical branch locations, so that’s 56 locations where people can access HSBC.
The vast majority of our customers are ordinary people, using ordinary services. We have opened more than 5,000 customer accounts this year, so we are welcoming many new customers to HSBC, not just affluent customers.
Again, this proves the same point. 95 per cent of them have chosen to apply online. Whilst I don’t think all of banking is suddenly going to go digital, it is a reality that customers lives are changing, and changing quickly. We have to change with them.
What’s your target for the voluntary redundancy scheme? How many jobs are you hoping to cut?
Well a couple of key points to this. The first is we greatly respect the view of the Malta Union of Bank Employees. Because of the stock market confidentiality obligations, we can only start proper consultations with them today.
The details of the programme are not yet finalised. We are not going to disclose a number at this point, both for that and also I really emphasise the 'v' for voluntary.
No employee is going to be asked to do anything they don’t want to.
This will be a choice that people can make. For those who would prefer to stay with HSBC, even if they are at a part of the bank that is changing, they will be exciting new opportunities elsewhere in the business.
How will that work? If there isn’t enough uptake for the voluntary redundancy scheme, you won’t really be cutting that many costs.
I think we will find that people will consider the scheme attractive. We have seen that in the past and have no reason to believe it will be different this time.
Equally, it will be wrong of me to guide on something where as you rightly say, the outcome is uncertain.
It is important that I stress the voluntary word. It is for our employees to choose. I think will help us re-organise the business and make it better for customers in the long-term.
Have you had an initial reaction from the bankers’ union?
We have only just started talking to them. We will continue that process over the coming days. We have a good relationship with them.
We deeply respect their views. We will take that into consideration as we finalise the programme and we will be happy to provide more detail.
I think the right and professional thing to do is to talk to them and factor their views into our plans.
What about the staff? It must be very demoralising for anyone working at those branches.
Clearly it’s a shock if there’s a change and we understand that. We have done our best to tell our employees first thing this morning. Under the stock market obligations, it prevents us from briefing people before we have told the stock market.
The senior leadership team are out in those branches today with our employees, explaining the change to them. Again, change is part of business. I would stress that where we are making changes, as they affect individuals that work for us, they are voluntary.
So if an individual works in a branch that is closing and they would prefer to stay with HSBC, which we hope a number will choose to do, there are many exciting opportunities elsewhere in the bank. We will work with them to find that new opportunity for them.
Was this a decision taken by HSBC Malta, or is it part of a global strategy?
It is a local strategic decision. It has been carefully considered by the board. One of the board’s job is to look at what the right business model for the bank’s success in the long-term.
The factors we have had to think about most significantly are the profound changes in customer behaviour. There is also a reality that interest rates across the EU have become negative.
They are negative 0.5 per cent and that means when we take deposits from customers, we don’t charge personal customers negative interest rates and we have no intention to.
The shareholders are bearing the cost of that. It is an economic reality that in negative interest rates it is less profitable to run a bank, so we have to manage our costs carefully.
Last year the impression was given that the difficult de-risking period was over. The impression was that there was finally going to be stability and now this comes as a bolt out of the blue. When are things going to settle down at HSBC?
Well the risk management programme has been a great success. We are stepping forward with confidence. This is not about re-trenching. This is about stepping forward to meet the needs of customers as they change.
I have been very committed strategically that we put Mata’s leading digital services into HSBC. I believe our app will be the best in the country, that customers will love it.
Growth in banking in the future will look different. I think if you as a business do not have the courage and conviction to respond to that, ultimately your customers, your colleagues and your shareholders suffer in the long-term.
Is the Maltese banking sector in trouble? We’ve had several high profile bank closures, lots of scandals. Where do you see it going?
Well I can only talk about HSBC. Clearly in today’s world, meeting the rules and regulations of the banking sector is essential.
I have spoken publicly before that it is imperative that the whole sector does that. Clearly, there is more work to do.
Today, HSBC reports about 85 per cent of all suspicious transactions in the domestic banking sector. Clearly, that proportion needs to go down as work is done more broadly to raise standards.
For us, having made that change through the hard work of my colleagues and the understanding of our customers, we are now stepping into the future.
It is like building a strong house. Once you have strong foundations, you can build great things on top of it. That’s what today’s change is about.
How has the government reacted to this news?
Obviously we have briefed the government. We welcome their perspective and will continue to discuss with them in the coming days exactly what I’ve explained to you this morning, that this really reflects changes in the way customers are living their lifestyles.
As I say, I download The Times each morning onto my Ipad, which is different to what I would have probably done 10 years ago.
We have the highest social media penetration in Europe here in Malta. We need to organise banking in a similar way.

Story 71
23.10.2019 - 08:17 UTC
Lauda (OE, Vienna) will expand its presence in Palma de Mallorca with first flights from the Spanish island to non-German speaking destinations planned in the Summer 2020 season, Routes Online has reported.
The Austrian subsidiary of Ryanair (FR, Dublin Int'l) will launch its own services from Palma de Mallorca to Klagenfurt in Austria and Knock in Ireland, both operated 2x weekly from March 31, 2020. In addition, the carrier will also operate select flights of its parent airline from Palma to multiple destinations in Europe.
According to the ch-aviation schedules module, Lauda currently operates from its Palma base to nine destinations in Germany and two in Austria.
The Austrian carrier will continue to operate all flights from Mallorca using A320 narrowbodies. Besides Palma, Lauda currently has bases at Düsseldorf Int'l, Stuttgart Manfred Rommel, and Vienna airports.
Separately, AviationNetOnline has reported that Lauda will relocate its Crew Control and Operations centre from Vienna to Dublin as its function will be merged with Ryanair's centre. The carrier...

Story 72
MOSCOW – The line for selfies with Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao seemed endless, even though it was the second photo op of the night.
The cryptocurrency exchange mogul, known as CZ, had already taken photos with Russian fans before the meetup started, and he kept smiling at cameras and shaking hands for half an hour after it ended.
It was CZ’s first visit to Russia, and the turnout showed his popularity with the local crypto scene. The concert hall of the Radisson hotel in central Moscow could hardly fit the roughly 700 people registered for the Oct. 21 event.
The warm feelings were mutual.
“We are always looking for partners in any community, especially in Russia,” CZ told CoinDesk before his talk. “Russia is our key market, one of the most active markets in the global blockchain space.”
When asked on stage who will have the most influence on crypto in the near future, he mentioned Russia’s president Vladimir Putin, drawing laughs from the audience. It was a winking reference to the indecisiveness of Russian regulators.
“In America, the regulators are very distributed, and China is not going to move any time soon,” CZ told the crowd. “There is a potential bill in Russia that may pass very soon, and it will be a good thing for the industry.” (The bill in question is currently dormant in the Russian Parliament.)
Russian expansion
Over the past year, Malta-based Binance, among the world’s largest crypto exchanges, has been expanding aggressively around the world.
It’s opened fiat-to-crypto exchanges in four jurisdictions: Uganda, Jersey, Singapore, and the U.S. last month.
The exchange also launched a fiat on-ramp for the Nigerian currency niara (NGN) and most recently announced that Russian ruble deposits are coming.
But that’s just the start of Binance’s plans for Russia, where CZ told CoinDesk he wants to open an office.
“There is a very strong programmer talent [here],” he said. “On this trip, it is very clear to me that we should look into the developers’ office, not the commercial office, not just yet.”
Further, Binance is looking to bring its stablecoin project, Venus, to Russia.
“We are also working with other potential stablecoin issuers pegged to fiat currencies,” CZ said. “In every location we’re doing that, in Russia specifically, we’re looking for those partners as well.”
The Russian government announced it was working on a national cryptocurrency, the so-called crypto ruble, in January 2018, but since that time, there have been no updates on the project.
Fiat on-ramp
Dealing with fiat is a tricky part of doing crypto business in Russia, as cryptocurrencies have no legal status in the country yet, and crypto-related companies usually register as providing IT services and the like.
Only a handful of smaller exchanges like EXMO, Yobit, Livecoin and Kuna offer ruble deposits via partnerships with acquiring services that facilitate electronic payments and take care of the fiat bank accounts.
Without naming names, CZ said Binance is in talks with banks and acquiring services in Russia to provide a fiat gateway for the ruble.
“We’re basically doing what other exchanges are doing here, in Russia,” CZ said. “We are discussing with banks, but it’s not official yet. The banks are at a very early stage. Payment services will probably come up first.”
In fact, the ruble deposits were expected to be up and running already, CZ said, but technical issues delayed the launch by a couple of weeks – Binance is tentatively planning it for early November now.
Other initiatives
Meanwhile, CZ said he’s happy with the performance of its new business partner, Binance U.S., which opened in September. Currently, the platform sees about $14 million in daily trading volume, according to the market data websites CoinMarketCap, CoinGecko and Cryptocompare.
The Nevada-licensed trust company Prime Trust provides the fiat on-ramp and banking relationship for Binance U.S., CZ said. (Prime Trust isn’t FDIC-insured, but it has accounts with institutions that are.) He is hoping that institutional investors will ultimately do the majority of trading on the U.S. platform.
However, institutions are highly interested in trading derivatives, and this option is currently unavailable for U.S. traders: a warning about it pops up in front of any new user trying to sign up for Binance Futures.
The futures platform, nevertheless, has been gathering speed during its first months of existence, even surpassing Binance’s bitcoin spot market on some days. To fire up things even more, the exchange added an unprecedented 125x leverage for futures contracts earlier this month.
This leverage, higher than what’s available from other bitcoin futures venues, raised some eyebrows and sarcastic tweets which suggested that 125x is a perfect chance for traders to get “rekt.” CZ says the unprecedented high leverage is something the Binance users have been asking for, and would differentiate the exchange from competitors.
“It’s a little bit of marketing, a PR game as well, but you also want to be a little bit innovative,” he said, adding:
“We copy a lot of stuff from a lot of people, but we also want to be a little bit different.”
CZ image courtesy of Binance

Story 73
A 15 year-old boy from Marsascala who was charged on 1 October with committing eight burglaries and granted bail has been hauled back to court after allegedly trying to steal again.
The accused, who is not being named due to a court order, had been apprehended by the police on Thursday.
Magistrate Joe Mifsud warned the boy to change his path before it is too late. His case will be heard by the juvenile court, said the magistrate.
ADVERTISEMENT
"Now you are going to the Corradino Correctional Facility and from there you will be taken to Mtahleb, at the YOURS (Young Offenders Unit for Rehabilitation Services) where you should meditate. I don't think you want to spend the rest of your life going in and out of prison," warned the magistrate
Inspector Eman Hayman accused the 15 year-old of having attempted to steal from an apartment block in Marsascala. He was also charged with breaching bail.
He had been arraigned on October 1 accused of carrying out a number of thefts from residences in Marsascala between August and September.
He had been granted bail secured by a personal guarantee of €2,000 and placed under a supervision order. A social inquiry report was also ordered.
Lawyer Fransina Abela was legal aid to the accused.

Story 74
Copyright © 2019 Catholic News Service/U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops. www.catholicnews.com. All rights reserved. Republishing or redistributing of CNS content, including by framing or similar means without prior permission, is prohibited. You may link to stories on our public site. This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. To request permission for republishing or redistributing of CNS content, please contact permissions at cns@catholicnews.com.
You must be logged in to view individual pages.

Story 75
A senior partner in a law firm whose licence to sell Maltese passports was suspended in the wake of the revelations by a French television station has been referred to the Chamber of Advocates for breaching the code of ethics.
The referral was made by Magistrate Caroline Farrugia Frendo in a decree following an application filed by civil society NGO Repubblika, which is requesting an inquiry into alleged trading in influence in connection with the sale of Maltese passports.
Lawyer Jean Philippe Chetcuti, from Chetcuti Cauchi law firm, was filmed by TV station M6 saying he could make use of his political connections to serve clients seeking to acquire Maltese citizenship, especially those whose application had been refused for failing the due diligence test.
RELATED STORIES Law firm's passport licence suspended after citizenship sale exposé
In the footage, he says he is personally acquainted with Prime Minister Joseph Muscat, Parliamentary Secretary for Citizenship Julia Farrugia Portelli and Justice Minister Owen Bonnici. All three denied making undue pressure in this regard.
The magistrate noted it appeared that Dr Chetcuti was a director of Chetcuti Cauchi Advisors Limited and Chetcuti Cauchi Consulting Limited, in violation of the lawyers’ code of ethics.
The code lays down that “advocates shall not by themselves or with any other person set up, operate, actively participate in or control any business, which offers any of the following services: a) advocacy before any court, tribunal or inquiry; b) acting as executor; c) drafting any contract, including the memorandum and articles of association of companies; d) drafting any will; e) giving legal advice; f) drafting legal documents other than those [listed in the code itself]; g) any other activity reserved to advocates by law or usually performed by advocates”.
The court referred the matter to the attention of the president of the Chamber of Advocates, Louis De Gabriele.

Story 76
Abigail wants unicorn decorations for her bedroom for Christmas because this will be the first time she will be spending the holidays away from home since a protection order was issued to protect her from an abusive family.
The 14-year-old wants to be surrounded by unicorns as she drifts into sleep, in a place she now calls home, on Christmas eve.
Hers is one of the 2,500 dreams of vulnerable children, that can be fulfilled by the public as part of the Children’s Dreams initiative launched this morning.
Children’s Dreams, now in its sixth edition, is a project with the sole mission of making the Christmas wishes come true for the children identified by staff at the Foundation for Social Welfare Services, which come from families facing social and financial difficulty, and also children being raised in children's homes. The wishes of these children are collected and published on the website childrendreams.org All names used on the website are fictitious, including Abigail’s.
“These are children we get to know throughout the year. We get to understand what they need and ask them what they want,” said Children’s Dreams coordinator Remenda Grech who is also assistant director of Appoġġ.
A range of wishes
Dreams range from basics like nappies, clothes and grooming kits, to technology-based wishes like tables and computer games. Toys are high on the list with some children wanting to learn something new, like karate.
Amongst the hundreds of wishes there are also the altruistic requests.
In one dream, a 10-year-old girl whose mother is undergoing treatment in hospital wants a soft toy with the words “my mummy is the best” so she can give it to her mother.
Another girl, 15, wants a toy for her five-year-old sister as well as food vouchers for her and her family.
Meanwhile, adolescents who are undergoing treatment at the Rainbow Ward at Mater Dei Hospital, share a common dream of having a frigo bar for the ward.
And a blind boy who last year got an embosser (a typewriter that types in braille) wishes for the same gift for his blind friend.
The project, which follows a similar successful one in Lithuania, was brought over to Malta by Lina Pecorella and all of the children are monitored by the Foundation for Social Welfare Services.
Anyone who wants to fulfil a dream can visit the website where they can make their pledge. On leaving their contact details they will receive an email with instructions. Gifts are to be taken to the Children’s Dreams Office in Hal Farrug, Luqa, from where staff will deliver them to the children before Christmas.
For more information visit www.childrendreams.org, email childrendreams@gov.mt or call on 9928 2198.

Story 77
Following a June 2016 referendum, in which 51.9% of the electorate voted to leave, the UK government formally announced the country's withdrawal in March 2017, initiating a two-year process, due to be concluded on 29 March 2019.
In spite of the pre-set timeframe, negotiations took longer than expected. A long agonising struggle, which amongst other consequences, resulted in; a damaged political system, weakened economy, and an appalling reputation.
In the process, the UK parliament voted thrice against the negotiated withdrawal agreement and extended the deadline twice, with possibly further extensions following the experienced setbacks this week. This undoubtedly causing economic and political turbulence in the process.
Brexit instigating economic uncertainty
Consequent to the prolonged discussions between the UK government and the European Union, economic uncertainty amplified.
In fact, since the UK’s formal announcement, and subsequent discussions, we have been witnessing a succession of negative overall Index scores, with an overall downward trend. Notably, due to this ongoing uncertainty, the UK’s services Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI), amongst other indicators, decreased, sighting a decline in trade to the European Union.
Given that the services sector accounts for three-quarters of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) - largest contributor to the UK’s economy, the services PMI is of paramount importance.
Impact on the EU
As previously conferred, Brexit has brought with it significant uncertainty, leaving an impact on both sides of the spectrum. This uncertainty should be somewhat lessened when the members of parliament back the deal brought forward by Boris Johnson, along with Downing Street’s timetable to deliver it, clarifying the precise terms of the UK’s post-Brexit relationship with the EU.
In addition to long-term political and institutional shifts, Brexit will undoubtedly cause both social and economic changes to the Union, especially should an unorderly one take place.
In an effort to avoid significant changes to both sides, and complete autonomy from the EU, Pro-deal MPs are seeking to keep the UK in the EU customs union and in close regulatory harmony with the bloc’s single market. To clarify thoughts, the ‘Customs Union’ is a single market which seeks to guarantee the free movement of: goods, capital, services, and labour within the European Union, whilst the ‘Single Market’ means that all regulations governing the economy are the same.
To circumvent an unorderly Brexit, and thus attain the best possible deal for both ends, Donald Tusk encouraged the EU27 to accept the UK’s request for an extension, to the 31st January. This comes after the most recent developments; where UK MPs endorsed the prime minister’s Brexit deal in a vote on Tuesday night before rejecting his timetable for passing the legislation. The crucial decision is expected later on today that will further envisage the EU27’s stance on a post-Brexit relationship.
Meanwhile, markets continue to suffer the uncertainty saga surrounding the timings of exit. At the same time Pro-Europeans continue to push for a second referendum, despite an unlikely outcome, when one had to consider the democracy aspect.
In view of this turmoil, investors anxiously await today’s developments which would give an indication to where the economy will be heading in the coming months.
Disclaimer: This article was issued by Christopher Cutajar, Credit Analyst at Calamatta Cuschieri. For more information visit, https://cc.com.mt/. The information, view and opinions provided in this article are being provided solely for educational and informational purposes and should not be construed as investment advice, advice concerning particular investments or investment decisions, or tax or legal advice.

Story 78
The domestic violence law, introduced last year, is being reviewed to improve the way in which different entities work together and fine-tune the process, according to director of the government’s social welfare agency Appoġġ.
“We’ve come a long way, but there are still a lot of improvements to be made. We are working on amendments that would ensure that the different entities – like health, education and the police – are working in sync,” Ruth Sciberras told Times of Malta.
The time has come to re-evaluate the system to see how it is working and if everyone is working together efficiently in the best interest of victims, she said.
In 2018, domestic violence increased to 8.4 per cent of all offences, reaching 1,341 cases, according to an annual report by Crime Malta.
That year the Gender-Based and the Domestic Violence Act was enacted. The law brought with it a new risk assessment tool known as the DASH system – the Domestic Abuse, Stalking and Honour Risk Identification.
Throughout the year, DASH has been criticised by magistrates, prosecutors, defence lawyers and the police mainly because many cases are being ranked as “high risk” – overloading the system.
In 2018, domestic violence increased to 8.4 per cent of all offences
More recently, in August, the courts criticised the system after a woman was forced to live with her husband, a police sergeant, after she had reported him for domestic violence – because police took six months to press charges.
Krista Tabone, from Victim Support Malta, said this was “surprising” since the new legislation had increased the expediency with which victims were given protection orders and her agency had witnessed fewer cases of domestic abuse victims falling through the cracks.
Since DASH was introduced, if a person files a report of domestic abuse at the police station, they are met with social workers who conduct a risk assessment to gauge the severity of the case.
The risk assessment takes the form of questions. If the score indicates that the person is at high risk, the police have six hours to request the duty magistrate to issue a temporary protection order.
While stressing that DASH is a piloted, researched and tested system, Ms Sciberras said that, currently, the law stated that the risk assessment had to take place in all domestic violence reports – even if they involved name-calling. This was flooding the system and was to be reviewed, he said.
Domestic violence across the world has reached epidemic proportions and resources are limited. Photo: Shutterstock.com
Training professionals in risk assessment
Part of the process of fine-tuning the process involves ensuring that all stakeholders understand the DASH system.
This week, domestic violence expert Beverley Gilbert was in Malta to train 75 people that included social workers, risk assessors and police inspectors.
“What we’ve seen across the world is the only way to address domestic violence and this is through multi-agencies.
“And when you share understanding of the key critical issues, then you are enhancing trust between agencies and professions and you’re all beginning to work together,” says Ms Gilbert, an expert domestic violence risk assessor for the Family Court in London and lecturer in risk and safeguarding at Worcester University.
domestic violence has reached epidemic proportions across the world... resources are limited
“We’re in a situation across the world where domestic violence has reached epidemic proportions... resources are limited. We need to know who the families are and what are the risk levels that people are experiencing if we are to target our finite resources and our public protection services in the most efficient and appropriate way,” she said.
“And that’s what DASH is designed for.”
She stressed that DASH was not part of the police investigation but was designed as a checklist to identify risk areas.
Some of the 27 questions carried more weight than others and social workers used their knowhow and experience when assessing each case individually.
“For example, one of the questions is about stalking.
“Based on literature we know that one in two perpetrators who stalk will enact what they threaten. And that’s an international risk factor across the globe,” she said.

Story 79
Tributes have been paid on the death of an emergency services volunteer who died suddenly while on pilgrimage to Medjugorje in Bosnia–Herzegovina on Tuesday.
It is believed Eamonn Quinlivan was having breakfast when he took ill and died a short time later in the company of friends.
The 71-year-old from Navan, Co Meath was with a local parish group led by Oldcastle’s singing priest Fr Ray Kelly who performed at a charity concert while there.
He was well-known in Co Meath as a member of the Irish Red Cross and the Order of Malta. He was also former secretary of the Meath River Rescue Services .
Chairman of the Meath River Rescue, Christopher Rennicks paid tribute, thanking him for being a friend and all of his voluntary work. “A good heart has stopped beating, a good soul ascended to heaven. We part with our beloved Eamonn in pain.” Eamonn is due to be flown home in the coming days.

Story 80
Updated 11.35am -
A powerful earthquake struck the southern Philippines Tuesday, killing six people, cracking buildings and injuring dozens in a region still reeling from a previous deadly tremor.
Terrified locals ran into the streets after the 6.6-magnitude quake, which hit the island of Mindanao as schools and offices opened for the day.
The shaking lasted up to a minute in some areas, damaging homes, multi-storey buildings and classrooms in a region where hundreds are still displaced by a quake that killed at least five earlier this month.
The Philippines suffers regular tremors as part of the Pacific "Ring of Fire", an arc of intense seismic activity that stretches from Japan through Southeast Asia and across the Pacific basin.
A teenage boy was crushed by a falling wall as he tried to escape his school in Magsaysay, the town spokesman told AFP. Though other students were injured in a "stampede" to escape the building, they survived.
Rock and landslides unleashed by the violent shaking killed four others, while a collapsed wall crushed a man, authorities said.
At least 50 people were hurt by falling debris, including some seven pupils and teachers hurt escaping their collapsed elementary school.
Locals were awed by the power of the quake, which was shallow and thus potentially more destructive.
"Buildings were not just moving, they were swaying," Gadi Sorilla, a doctor at a hospital in Tulunan, a town about 25 kilometres (15 miles) from the epicentre told AFP.
"I asked God for help," he said, adding the hospital had quickly received about 10 patients, some with head injuries.
- Hundreds still displaced -
Tulunan's mayor Reuel Limbungan said the local municipal hall had been heavily damaged and authorities had received "lots of reports of injuries".
Rescue teams worked until dark on Tuesday to assess the damage to the region, where electricity and phone services were knocked out in some areas by the power of the quake.
The US Geological Survey said the initial 6.6 magnitude quake was followed by a number of smaller shakes, including one measuring 5.8.
The continuing tremors were causing anxiety on the ground, with people refusing to go back inside buildings for fear of being caught in any resulting collapse.
Schools across the area have been shuttered as a precaution.
The area is still suffering the effects of a 6.4-magnitude quake that hit less than two weeks ago, killing at least five people and damaging dozens of buildings.
Residents fled homes across the Mindanao region and a mall caught fire in the city of General Santos shortly after the quake struck on October 16.
"We still have 570 individuals in evacuation centres (from the previous quake) and with this quake, we are expecting more evacuees," said Zaldy Ortiz, an officer with a local emergency rescue team.
One of the deadliest quakes to hit the Philippines recently was in April, when 16 people were killed as a building near the capital Manila collapsed and the secondary Clark airport was shut down due to damage to the passenger terminal.
High-rise structures in the capital swayed after the April quake, leaving some with large cracks in their walls.

Story 81
Albert Galea
The Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean will terminate all of its services in Malta at the end of the year as it completes a move to the city of Naples, government sources told The Malta Independent on Sunday.
This brings forward the assembly’s departure, which was initially expected to be in around February of next year.
The Malta Independent on Sunday has already reported that communications coming out of the office were already being marked as emanating from a temporary office in Bucharest, Romania.
ADVERTISEMENT
Sources speaking to this newsroom noted that the government had seemingly not even noticed that the PAM had left Malta to Bucharest already, and noted that even if the government was to take action it would be “too little too late”.
Established in 2005, the PAM is the principal forum where the national Parliaments of the Euro-Mediterranean region deliberate to reach strategic objectives towards the creation of the best political, social, economic and cultural environment and conditions for the fellow citizens of the member states.
The Headquarters of the General Secretariat of PAM was established in Malta in November 2007, in recognition of Malta’s strategic role and commitment. The premises used were Palazzo Spinola in St. Julian’s, a venue which has apparently been a gripe for the PAM for a number of years due to unanswered calls for maintenance.
“[Palazzo] Spinola needed structural repairs and there was a lot of back and forth and delays in works; they were only promised another place in Paceville once they decided to leave”, sources told this newsroom.
The Malta Independent on Sunday has also reported that the PAM Secretary-General, Sergio Piazzi – whose hometown is Napoli – which will be the PAM’s new home – had left Malta with his secretary following a number of arguments with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade Promotion and that almost all of the PAM staff based in Malta had already left, apart from one worker.
The main issue however seems to have been that the PAM expected some action from the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. This did not materialise, so they left, the sources said.
The bottom line is, the sources explain, that the government could have avoided this or reacted to it; but it seems that instead it completely neglected the situation.

Story 82
On 21 October, the MFSA held a Strategy Briefing with over 300 industry stakeholders attending the event and participating in a discussion on the future of financial supervision.
In his introductory address, the MFSA Chairman Professor John Mamo welcomed President Felix Hufeld and Deputy President Elisabeth Roegele of the German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin), who were amongst the speakers. He noted that “There is, of course, no comparison between the size and extent of the responsibilities of BaFin and those of the MFSA. Yet, in spite of this disparity in size, both BaFin and the MFSA have the same vocation, responsibilities and aspirations within the EU financial services sector.”
During his speech, MFSA CEO Joseph Cuschieri shared highlights from the Strategic Plan, the Authority’s roadmap which defines the specific programmes and actions planned for 2019-2021. These include a substantial investment in human resources and cutting-edge technologies, as well as capacity building. Mr Cuschieri also explained that the plan delves into how the MFSA is raising supervisory standards in governance, conduct, cybersecurity, innovation but also in AML/CFT supervision.
Commenting on how the MFSA is future-proofing financial supervision, Mr Cuschieri said, “The MFSA’s Strategic Plan reflects both the ambitions of the Authority to strengthen itself as it prepares for the next generation of financial services, as well as the aspirations of financial services stakeholders who shared their ideas and the challenges they face when operating in the Maltese financial sector. “
During his intervention, the President of the German Regulator, BaFin, mentioned that supervisors and the entities which are supervised are being challenged by a variety of fundamental trends, such as low or negative interest rates, the emergence and ever-growing presence of the European ideal, and the digital transformation. He continued by saying that, “A powerful supervisor that intends to continue successfully fulfilling its mandate of safeguarding financial stability must become more digital, faster, more European, and global, and more networked. The MFSA and BaFin have a distinct advantage here: both of them are integrated authorities.”
The event also featured a discussion panel moderated by Michael Xuereb, Senior Advisor to the CEO at the MFSA, with the participation of BaFin’s Vice President and MFSA’s Chief Officer Strategy, Policy and Innovation Christopher P. Buttigieg. The panel session focused on the regulatory fragmentation between one jurisdiction and another, including different models for supervising key areas, such as anti-money laundering. The panel speakers discussed ways of fostering a mutual understanding of one another’s legislative frameworks, deepening existing regulatory and supervisory cooperation, whilst considering whether further supervisory convergence remains a necessity.
In line with its Vision 2021, the MFSA is planning to organise further industry briefings and more sector-specific workshops in the coming year, in efforts to engage even more with its licence holders and other practitioners on a regular basis and update them with the latest developments on financial services supervision and regulation.

Story 83
Jeremy Micallef
Malta currently lacks a dedicated HIV service, quite unlike other European countries. The Government recently put out a request for participation for HIV services to be provided, yet some insist that the particulars of the service are unclear. Jeremy Micallef speaks with lawyer, founder of PrepingMalta, member of the European AIDS Treatment Group and a teaching assistant at the Centre for Social Ethics and Policy at the University of Manchester Mark Josef Rapa on HIV and PrEP.
A tender launched in February which would require the winning company to provide HIV related services was too vague in its description of what is expected of the company, Lawyer Mark Josef Rapa said.
The tendered HIV services were noted to include continuous follow-ups, education, and training to healthcare professionals and patients with the main focus on adherence.
In an interview with this newspaper, Rapa who is the founder of PrEPingMalta, a member of the European AIDS Treatment Group, a lawyer and a teaching assistant at the Centre for Social Ethics and Policy at the University of Manchester, insisted that the general public is entitled to know what is going on – particularly because HIV is a public health concern.
ADVERTISEMENT
“It has to make things clear – the staff at the GU clinic need to know what is going to happen, and we also need to know what is going to happen as activists, since we base our campaigns on the information we have.”
Apart from no clear indication of what is expected of the company, Rapa also criticized the lack of specificity when it came to the company being tasked with bringing the newest treatment to Malta – with only the European guidelines being referred to in the tender itself.
“The issue is that there is nothing in the contract which binds the company to providing the single tablet which would cover all three drugs (needed for treatment).”
Giving the best possible treatment, he explained, would be both in the interest of the government and of the public.
“The issue with a private partnership, which nobody knows if that is what is intended, is that there is a chance that the government will be paying much more money to a private company when it could provide the services itself at a lesser price.”
Earlier in the year, this newspaper reported that an investment of €1 million was being budgeted for a project through which the current treatment available to HIV patients locally will be changed to a different therapy – this through a call for companies, joint ventures and consortiums to put in place international clinical guidelines, whilst the Central Procurement and Supplies Unit wished to provide an integrated service offering a variety of treatments, follow-up services and even education.
It was also noted that according to statistics from the World Health Organisation, 2017 saw another year of disturbing numbers of new HIV diagnoses in the WHO European Region. Rates of HIV diagnoses have increased by 50% in Malta, alongside countries such as the Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland.
This could potentially be attributed to increased public awareness and people being encouraged to be tested for HIV, although nothing can be ruled out.
PrEPing Malta
Having just celebrated its first anniversary, PrEPing Malta is very much in the thick of it when it comes to this area of public health.
Dr Mark Josef Rapa founded the website as a web-based activist portal, along with a Facebook page, with the intention of it being used to provide information to people on HIV, HIV prevention and also sexual health in general.
“We decided to come up with this because we realised that there was a vacuum in the central health services where people were reading about PrEP on international websites, but then had no idea what was happening locally or how to access it.”
His website states that “Pre-Expsosure Prophylaxis - worldly referred to as PrEP - is a pill which prevents the acquisition of HIV in 99% of the cases. The drugs in the pill (Tenofovir and Emtricitabine) are the same two drugs which can make part of Antiretroviral regimen (ARV)– the treatment prescribed for HIV.”
He explained that information on an international website may not necessarily be good information for people living locally in Malta since the same might not apply, so this was done to try and bridge those international websites with Malta, and at the same time campaign for the introduction of Prep in Malta.
Whilst Prep has been around for quite a while, and the data and the science was available in the 2000s, the ability to push something like PrEP requires both financial and human resources and Rapa noted that with “us being a very conservative country when it comes to sex in general, then it’s going to be more difficult for the department to just say "let's talk about sex".
What about the HIV-related services?
Fast-forward to the tender that was launched in February and closed in April, for which four companies applied – the idea was for the winning company to provide HIV services, or two companies since there is the possibility of two companies coming together which the government will decide in the negotiation of the tender.
“In the actual tender, we find that HIV services include the monitoring, follow-up and education on adherence - what is actually expected of the company is very broad - it is not just the supply of anti-retroviral therapy, which is the combination of drugs that people with HIV take on a daily basis.”
Rapa raised several questions to which the answers were still up in the air due to the terms of the contract being unclear.
"Does the contract extend to other things?"
"Does it extend to going to schools to educate?"
"If the company is in charge of lab results, then is the company going to be receiving data? And what is the company going to do with the data it receives? Will the government have access to that data? Or is the data that is coming out from this tender going to become privatised? That is one of the main concerns - are we saying that we are going to privatise?
“The fact that the government gets medication from a supplier is a normal standard procedure, but if I am extending that to other services then the general public is entitled to know, and in this case in particular, because HIV is a public health concern.”
Rapa insisted that since HIV is an infectious disease, then the government should make things clear, especially because the HIV LGBTIQ action plan includes the improvement of medication, which shows a commitment of the government to reduce the new infections of HIV.
“It has to make things clear - the staff at the GU Clinic need to what is going to happen; we need to know as activists what is going to happen because, as activists, we base our campaigns on what information we have.”
The GU Clinic is not mentioned in the tender.
If you've tested positive then you're transferred from the GU Clinic to the HIV services which fall under Infectious Diseases, which is still a public service, but, the consultants who deal with infectious diseases in Malta have to deal with all other infectious diseases.
“Abroad, because of the number of cases, they only deal with HIV.”
“As things stand there is no clear indication of what is expected of the company. We understand that the company is in charge of getting the newest treatment but it doesn't specify what type of treatment apart from referring to the European guidelines.”
Here Rapa, again, noted the lack of information - this time when it came to the medication that could potentially be prescribed to patients.
Whilst the guidelines note the first-line regimen, which is to be considered the gold standard, he said that there is nothing in the contract which binds the company to provide it or on what happens when the guidelines update the regimen in question.
"It also doesn't give us information on whether the medication that the company has to provide has to be a single tablet or different tablets," he explained, clarifying that the guidelines also give the drug combination.
Treatment and Prevention
The treatment for HIV is of three or more drugs.
Truvada has two drugs in it, and you still need other medication to supply the other drugs, but usually you can get other combinations.
Rapa said the issue is that there is nothing in the contract which binds the company to providing the single tablet which would cover all the three drugs.
Prescribing three tablets could increase the pill burden, which follows the EU’s idea of going into the single-drug regimen.
“There is ample research that says that with one pill a day adherence goes up, as opposed to taking three tablets three times a day.”
"Why should we make it easier for the patient? Because if the patient is given the best possible treatment then the chances are that the virus becomes untransmittable."
"It is in both the government's and the public's interest that we give the best possible treatment."
The main issue, he again insisted, was that we do not know what is being negotiated behind closed doors.
“What we know from the terms of the contract and the call for application is that there are too many loopholes and vague things, and at some point, it was asking the applicants to be creative.”
“The issue with a private partnership, which nobody knows if that is what is intended, is that there is a chance that the government will be paying much more money to a private company when it could provide the services itself at a much lower price.”
The contract also didn't extend to the provision of prevention, although Rapa did note that Truvada can also be used as PrEP.
"Why are we giving a contract to a company to provide several drugs, when that company could also extend the terms and provide drugs for PrEP when they are all the same drugs?"
"It's not practical, and it continues to delay the introduction of PrEP."
As things stand the number of HIV cases is going up, which is alarming when you take into consideration that we're seeing decreased in other countries, he said
In England, where the service is public and not private, “within a space of two years we have seen a 55% decrease in new HIV cases.”
“This is because PrEP is effective - and there also exists a test and treat system where when a person comes into the clinic and gets tested for an STI or HIV there's a treatment within the same day.”
“If you're HIV positive then you get your treatment on the very same day, which is beneficial as you are immediately attacking the virus, and the quicker you do that then the quicker the virus becomes undetectable and untransmittable.”
"Immediate treatment - test and treat."
“What this does is get people into the service and allows the STIs to be caught early on, which is great considering the difficulty was getting people to be tested.”
“What we are trying to do is get people to be in control of their sexual health, and by doing so we are creating cost-effective measures for the NHS.”
“If you look at it from a financial perspective on its own, it just makes sense.”

Story 84
Medserv and Infinity Oilfield Services UK have formed a joint venture to provide a broader portfolio of highly-specialised technical services to the oil and gas market.
“We are very excited to team up with the highly professional team from Infinity,” Karl Bartolo, CEO at Medserv Group said. “This joint venture will allow Medserv to expand its portfolio of engineering services providing value to our clients. The new joint venture, InMedCo will provide superior, highly-specialised technical services to oil and gas clients and will build on the strength that both the Medserv brand and that of Infinity enjoy in the market. Medserv looks forward to leveraging this relationship and developing a new revenue stream both in Malta and across the wider Mediterranean.”
Andrew Mackay, co-CEO at Infinity and director of the new joint venture InMedCo added: “We are very excited to be enhancing our existing relationship with the world-class company that is Medserv through the InMedCo joint venture. This strengthens our already great working relationship, bringing two service-oriented corporate cultures together in a technically strong and experienced endeavour and further strengthening our ability to capture the many opportunities available in the oil and gas, and energy markets.
This strengthens our already great working relationship
“Our combined capabilities will deliver benefits not only to both parties but importantly to our extensive combined client base in the Mediterranean and North Africa region and further afield.”
Infinity is an experienced Aberdeen based-oilfield services and engineering company providing expertise to the oil and gas and renewable energy industry. Their highly experienced technical and engineering teams specialise in delivering on-time, on-budget projects from concept through to detailed design and operations, and include survey, workover, commissioning and asset integrity and optimisation services.
Medserv provides integrated shore base logistics to the offshore oil and gas industry as well as supply chain management, premium threading, inspection and repair for Oil Country Tubular Goods (OCTG).
The InMedCo joint venture expands Medserv’s technical and engineering capability and combines Medserv’s integrated logistics capability with Infinity’s specialised technical and engineering expertise offering clients value-adding, expertise and reduced rig or vessel downtime.

Story 85
“About 90 percent of Malta’s patients live with one or more chronic diseases — chiefly, diabetes, hypertension, high cholesterol, asthma and obesity,” Murphy said. “Ideally, Malta’s providers would like these patients to return to the van every three months for a prescription refill or status check. Our increased demand — which we measure in patient visits, rather than just the number of patients in our population — reflects the fact that many people are ‘following doctor’s orders’ by coming back consistently for care, which of course helps to improve their health overall.”

Story 86


This crawler or robot has been disallowed from visting our site.
If you feel this has been in error, please contact our webmaster
Disallowed Crawler User Agents:

Story 87
Bank of Valetta, which went dark for a day after the fraudulent transfers of €13 million, is now looking to get the money back
Things are getting back to normal for Bank of Valetta (BOV) and its customers following a cyberattack that caused Malta’s largest bank to take the unprecedented step of temporarily shutting down all its services.
On Wednesday morning, BOV found out that unknown attackers had made fraudulent transactions from the bank to financial services providers in the United States, the United Kingdom, the Czech Republic, and Hong Kong. The heist, of around €13 million (US$14.6 million), even prompted a reaction from Malta’s Prime Minister Joseph Muscat, who said that customer funds were not touched and, indeed, were never in danger.
The theft came to light “during reconciliation of international transactions when discrepancies in eleven payments were noticed”, wrote The Times of Malta. Shortly thereafter, BOV was alerted by the country’s Security Service that the bank had been targeted by a cyberattack originating from outside the Mediterranean island.
It has been reported that, within 30 minutes after learning that something was amiss, the bank suspended its services and began to work on retrieving the funds. Naturally, the incident also prompted what the bank has called “rigorous overnight testing” of its IT systems. With the tests deemed successful, the bank restored most of its systems and services on Thursday, as well as its website and mobile app, and re-opened office branches and ATMs.
According to Reuters, the bank has also yet to determine where the intrusion came from and how it happened. Besides other unknowns surrounding the attack, another question has yet to be answered: Where’s the money and, indeed, will it be retrieved?
In their latest coverage, local media quote the bank’s chief business development officer Kenneth Farrugia as implying that while the money has been traced, its recovery is a different thing altogether.
“We know where the money went and into which banks but what happened at that touchpoint we do not have the visibility to know,” said Farrugia for The Times of Malta. “It’s not simply a matter of asking the banks for the money to be reversed. It does not work like that and there are banking procedures that have to be implemented,” he added, without shedding light on whether all the money will, or even can, actually be retrieved.
Per Reuters, BOV accounts for nearly one-half of Malta’s banking transactions. Most shares in the financial services provider, which is also Malta’s oldest, are held by the country’s government.
Bank jobs
Cyberheists are nothing new, of course, and we have previously written about thefts targeting banks in Bangladesh, India and Russia, and Mexico. In 2016, ESET researchers Anton Cherepanov and Jean-Ian Boutin wrote a paper about attacks at Russian financial institutions while, in 2018, ESET researcher Miguel Ángel Mendoza weighed in on the theft in Mexico.
We also wrote last year about how US banks are preparing for a scenario involving a particularly devastating cyber-intrusion.

Story 88
The overwhelming majority of procurement of goods and services by the Gozo Ministry last year was carried out through direct orders despite strict EU rules dictating this method should only be used as a last resort.
Information published recently and analysed by Times of Malta shows that in 2018, the Gozo Ministry procured services, paid through taxpayers’ money, for over 90 per cent of the cases.
A total of 146 direct orders were issued for goods and services costing over €7.4 million over 12 months.
Goods and services procured without any competitive process range across all types of supplies and services, including hiring people to drive to fuel for Gozo Channel’s vessels.
Minister for Gozo Justyne Caruana
Recipients of direct orders include a range of beneficiaries, from church institutions to football clubs.
Ministry officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity said that while some direct orders were justified, most of the time, this was a case of “Gozo politics”.
“Gozo is very particular and the ministry acts like a large local council distributing funds to keep everyone happy,” said the official, who has been working at the ministry for many years.
Gozo Channel made the most use of direct orders, some of them worth hundreds of thousands.
“Under the PN, everyone used to criticise Giovanna Debono for running the island like a fiefdom. Now [under Minister Justyne Caruana] it’s much worse as tenders have become a rarity and direct orders the rule. It has gone to an extreme,” he said.
Times of Malta is informed that despite various ‘informal’ warnings by the Finance Ministry to adhere to procurement rules and avoid as much as possible the use of direct orders, the Gozo Ministry continued to dish out contracts.
Questions sent to the Gozo Ministry asking for an explanation remained unanswered by the time of writing.
Ministry acts like a large local council distributing funds to keep everyone happy
The list shows that Gozo Channel made the most use of direct orders, some of them worth hundreds of thousands.
In one particular case, Gozo Channel paid directly Falzon Fuel Services over €1 million for fuel, which can be supplied by other suppliers.
Gozo Channel also paid hundreds of thousands in direct orders for many of the services needed, including personnel for security, mooring and seamen.
Most of the recipients of these lucrative contracts were given to security companies, including one owned by Stephen Ciangura, the driver of Malta Council for Science and Technology (MCST) chairman Jeffrey Pullicino Orlando.
In its procurement of legal services, which last year was compounded by the issue of a fast ferry tender, currently under scrutiny by the court and the Public Contracts Review Board, it issued numerous direct orders to Ganado Advocates for the procurement of legal services.
Football club Kerċem Ajax was given a €36,704 contract to provide yoga classes for the elderly while the Franciscan Friars, a religious order, was paid €700,000 to rent the Gozo Ministry a villa in Birkirkara to start hosting Gozitan students while studying in Malta.
Some of the highest-paid direct orders

Story 89
It has not been a good year for Bank of Valletta. Following the cyberattack in February that forced the bank to suspend its operations, regulators expressed their grave concern about the slow progress in the de-risking process. The downgrading of BOV’s credit rating by Standard & Poor’s was inevitable. The implications for Malta’s largest bank and to the Maltese economy are worrying.
Maltese banks were not significantly affected by the financial crisis of a decade ago. There are various reasons for this, including the conservative lending practices and the funding of the banks’ activities through retail deposits rather than inter-bank borrowing.
However, with Malta’s entry in the EU in 2004 and the eurozone in 2008, BOV embarked on an expansionary strategy built on providing services to the growing financial services and the nascent e-gaming industries.
With hindsight, one can argue that servicing foreign companies and clients carries risks that are much more serious than those related to serving Maltese-owned companies. BOV suffered significant setbacks when it started to offer trust services with apparently hardly any relevant in-house experience in this field. The same can be said about managing funds, including those relating to pension agencies in foreign countries.
These legacy issues will continue to have an impact on BOV’s profits for years to come much to the distress of shareholders who have not received any dividends for the past 18 months.
The return to normality for BOV will not be without pain, not just for shareholders but possibly also to employees and customers.
The impact of BOV activities on the local economy is significant as this bank has almost half the market share in lending and deposit-taking. Malta’s economic activities in the services sector are today much less dependant on bank borrowing. However, all financial services, e-gaming and other business activities need other services, including bank accounts and money transfer facilities, to operate effectively from Malta.
The Prime Minister has occasionally criticised with gusto the local banks’ conservative approach to lending and opening of accounts. With Malta’s reputation as a jurisdiction that does not take its anti-money laundering obligations seriously, the Prime Minister’s remarks will not help the perception of regulators on the effectiveness of the internal controls of banks like BOV that is still partly owned by the government.
One primary concern for companies operating from Malta is that the local banks’ strategies and the government’s economic strategy do not seem to be any longer in synch.
Financial regulators are unlikely to loosen their vigilance on BOV and other systemically important banks in Malta simply because the strategy of the government is to encourage economic activities that are perceived to carry a high risk of financial crime.
Both BOV and the government need to make tough decisions to restore normality in relations with regulators and correspondent banks.
BOV would do well to bring in new blood in its top ranks to promote a new culture underpinned by risk awareness and compliance.
The government needs to stop treating BOV as the bank of last resort for all the economic activities that fall within its national strategy for growth. It could start by giving up its right to appoint the chairman of the bank.
BOV needs to give more details of its strategy to restore the confidence of its shareholders and regulators.

Story 90
Last updated Thursday 7.30am as bank's mobile app went back online
Bank of Valletta shut down all its operations on Wednesday morning after hackers broke into its systems and moved €13 million into foreign accounts.
Mobile banking services are down.
All of the bank’s functions - branches, ATMs, mobile banking and even email services - were suspended and its website taken offline.
The bank's mobile app was back online on Thursday morning.
The fraudulent transactions had been traced and were "being reversed", Prime Minister Joseph Muscat told parliament later on Wednesday.
The attack is believed to have originated overseas.
'Funds not compromised'
In a statement, the bank reassured customers that their accounts and funds “are in no way impacted or compromised” and that it was working to resume normal services in a phased manner as soon as possible.

“The Bank is working closely with local and international police authorities in this regard,” it said.
"Bank of Valletta apologises to its clients for any inconvenience caused and will be keeping its customers and the general public informed of developments." Customs may phone on 21312020.
HSBC Malta issued a one-line statement saying its services were operating normally.
Payments to four countries blocked
The attack was detected shortly after the start of business on Wednesday morning, Prime Minister Joseph Muscat told parliament, when it noted reconciliation problems regarding international transfers.

Hackers sought to make international transfers to banks in the UK, US, Czech Republic and Hong Kong. The transfers were blocked within 30 minutes and the banks alerted, the Prime Minister said.
Watch: Prime Minister Muscat speaks to parliament about BOV hack

Initial indications are that the hack originated overseas, Dr Muscat added.
Bank of Valletta
MFSA keeping tabs
Malta's financial regulator, the MFSA, is closely monitoring the situation.
"The MFSA follows ECB guidelines with respect to cyber-security threats and attendant risk mitigating factors which need to be followed by licenced institutions," MFSA CEO Joseph Cuschieri told Times of Malta.
It was banks' responsibility to safeguard their cyber security, he added.
"We strongly encourage banks and other other licenced financial institutions continuously invest in their IT systems to prevent such occurrences," he said.
Shop owners in the dark
The shutdown has affected several local businesses which rely on BOV-operated point-of-sale equipment to process card payments. It also means POS systems run on rival banking networks cannot process payments on BOV-issued cards.
As of 3pm, shop owners remained in the dark.
Speaking to the Times of Malta on Wednesday afternoon, Chamber for Small and Medium Enterprises (GRTU) head Abigail Mamo said that shop owners had no option but to decline card payments as the point-of-sale devices used to charge credit cards were not working.
Shop owners initially thought something was wrong with their own systems, she said.
"Since the bank could not get in touch, they were not aware that something was wrong," she explained.
"They tried calling BOV, but didn't manage because their communication systems were down. It was a while before the bank got in touch and told them that they were offline," Ms Mamo explained.
No additional information was supplied to them, she said.

She explained that many customers were being turned away, resulting in some chaos in certain bigger shops, such as supermarkets, where they relied on the electronic devices for the majority of their payments.

“It’s obviously not the customers’ fault but they are, unfortunately, being turned away because the systems just aren’t working at the moment,” Ms Mamo said.

The GRTU head said that while some shop owners did have other POS machines installed, it was not always viable to use these as charges were higher.
A main clothing retailer confirmed that the problems started at around 1.15pm, noting that there had not been any issues earlier in the day.

While the retailer was making an effort to serve all customers, including those with a BOV card, by using the POS devices from other banks, some sales were still being lost.
APS Bank suspends some services
APS Bank said it had decided, as a precautionary measure, to suspend some of its services, including ATMs, cards-related transactions and payments from and to Bank of Valletta).
It stressed, however, that the integrity of its customers' accounts was protected and that deposits were safe.
Very rare occurrence
European Banking Authority guidelines introduced in 2018 lay out the steps EU-based banks and banking regulators ought to take when assessing and minimising their risk to IT-based threats.
Although banks in Malta have been attacked in the past, a source familiar with the regulatory sector said that something on this scale was very rare - which showed the levels of protection that banks had built up.
BOV ATMs have also been switched off.
Banks in Malta are regulated by the Malta Financial Services Authority, which would - along with the European Central Bank - have been advised about this attack by BOV, he said.
The sources said that the authority would, in an ideal world, itself carry out checks on banks' IT systems, and not just on their capital ratios and governance.
"The reality is that to do this you need to have very qualified technical resources who would understand the systems and be able to check them and challenge their protection systems," he told the Times of Malta.
"Having said that, the banks do not rely on the regulator but have their own internal audit teams, and most also get external consultants to monitor them."
OPINION: Malta's cyber defence - Martin Scicluna
Banks and other large enterprises often employ so-called white-hat hackers - ethical hackers - to probe its systems and find bugs and shortcomings in their systems, a digital security expert told Times of Malta.
'Malta a honey pot'
The bank’s decision to completely shut down its operations was either taken in haste or else because it was a severe attack, a separate digital forensics expert told Times of Malta.

“Banks usually try to mitigate these attacks behind closed doors,” he explained, while making it clear that he had no knowledge of this specific attack.
Malta’s rapid economic growth meant more malicious players would be interested in hacking local companies, he added.

In such cases, companies’ focus in such cases was on getting their businesses up and running again, rather than preserving evidence.

“Most of the time the private sector rarely cases about the second,” he noted.
Have you been affected by the bank shutdown? Get in touch on mynews@timesofmalta.com

Story 91
Lifesaving medicine for diabetics that costs up to €130 is not yet on the national formularly despite multiple appeals by healthcare professionals, MEP Francis Zammit Dimech has noted.
Dr Zammit Dimech, who co-chairs the EU diabetes working group, urged the government to follow in the footsteps of other EU member states, such as the UK, in making GLP-1 Agonists and SGLT2 inhibitors available to public healthcare patients, and not just privately.
Dr Zammit Dimech, who is contesting this month’s MEP elections, also said that many families with diabetic children were still waiting to receive continuous blood glucose monitors, despite government promises to make these available.
CGM can help kids to monitor their sugar level without needing to prick their fingers several times a day.
Read: Diabetics should get free needles, says Zammit Dimech

Story 92
Innovation in the financial services industry is one of the key topics that will be discussed by industry professionals at this year's FinanceMalta 12th Annual Conference. The conference will be held 6 June at the Hilton Conference Centre, with an evening networking reception taking place on the eve of the event.
The two-day event will provide delegates with networking opportunities, insights into the market, and updates on developments within the financial services sector, both on a local and international level.
ADVERTISEMENT
Titled Malta: A Platform for Innovation, the conference will include sessions on the innovation that is driving this sector forward, such as Fintech and AI, and will also touch upon important issues that arose due to this innovation, such as cybercrime.
Commenting about the annual conference, FinanceMalta Chairman Kenneth Farrugia said: "During this year's conference we will be discussing the challenges and opportunities that the domestic and global financial services sector is going through in view of the ongoing technological advancements and innovation. The conference is timely and relevant at a time when AI and Blockchain technologies are starting to transform, if not disrupt, payment systems, core banking activities, portfolio and asset management and the insurance industry. FinTech and RegTech are becoming buzzwords."
The event will include case studies focusing on setting up a business in Malta and what it entails for a foreign national, thus giving further insight into people's experiences with financial services in Malta. The finance and business conference will feature select local and international experts who will address delegates on contemporary and current topics affecting the financial services industry.
The conference will be chaired by Ms Federica Taccogna from FTI Consulting and will see an interesting line-up of local and foreign industry professionals including the CEO of the MFSA Joseph Cuschieri, the President of the Institute of Financial Services Practitioners Wayne Pisani, the Senior Content Editor of the Financial Times Live Michael Imerson, the Chairman of the Malta Stock Exchange Joseph Portelli, the advisor to the OECD in Mauritius Loretta Joseph, the Chief Officer Strategy, Policy and Fintech at MFSA Christopher Buttigieg, PwC Partner Forensic Services & Financial Crime Leader, Switzerland Gianfranco Mautone, and the Chairman of the Malta Bankers' Association Marcel Cassar, among others.
The Prime Minister of Malta, Dr Joseph Muscat will deliver a keynote address, while the Minister for Finance Prof. Edward Scicluna and Silvio Schembri, Parliamentary Secretary responsible for Financial Services, Digital Economy and Innovation, will be addressing the conference on the fight against money laundering, and 'Innovation Vision 2021' document, respectively.
The FinanceMalta Annual Conference, which is in its 12th edition, grows in numbers and prestige year after year and is a highlight in the business conference calendar for Malta.
The event is being sponsored by: Reyl & Cie (Malta) Ltd - Diamond Sponsor; Vacancy Centre - Platinum Sponsor; Apex Fund Services (Malta) Limited, Dolfin, Francis J. Vassallo & Associates Ltd., Malta Stock Exchange, Profile Software, Sparkasse Bank Malta plc, Systemic, Western Union Business Solutions - Gold Sponsors, among others.
For further information and registration details visit www.financemalta.org/conference-2019

Story 93
01 July 2019
MiFID - Investor Protection
The European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) has today issued four positive opinions on product intervention measures taken by the National Competent Authorities (NCAs) of Cyprus, France, Malta and Sweden. ESMA’s opinion finds that the proposed measures are justified and proportionate and that it is necessary for NCAs of other Member States to take product intervention measures that are at least as stringent as ESMA’s measures.
ESMA has issued opinions on national product intervention measures from:
• The Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission of Cyprus (CySEC) – Opinion on the proposed product intervention measure relating to binary options;
• The Autorité des Marchés Financiers of France (AMF) - Opinion on the proposed product intervention measure relating to binary options;
• The Malta Financial Services Authority of Malta (MFSA) - Opinion on the proposed product intervention measure relating to binary options; and,
• The Finansinspektionen of Sweden (FI) - Opinion on the proposed product intervention measure relating to binary options
Background
NCAs may take product intervention measures in accordance with Article 42 of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014. At least one month before a measure is intended to take effect, an NCA must notify all other NCAs and ESMA of the details of its proposed measure and the related evidence, unless there is an exceptional case where it is necessary to take urgent action.
In accordance with Article 43 of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014, ESMA performs a facilitation and coordination role in relation to such product intervention measures taken by NCAs. After receiving notification from an NCA of its proposed measure, ESMA must adopt an opinion on whether the proposed measure is justified and proportionate. If ESMA considers that the taking of a measure by other NCAs is necessary, it must state this in its opinion.
The opinions that ESMA previously issued on proposed national product intervention measures are published on its website.

Story 94
The Institute of Financial Services Practitioners said today that Malta should use the “remedial time” it has been given by monitoring body Moneyval “wisely”, and that “that enforcement action is undertaken and maintained by the relevant authorities in a manner that is effective, fair and proportional”.
The IFSP was reacting to Malta’s failure to reach a satisfactory level in its assessment by Moneyval in the Mutual Evaluation Report following the assessment of Malta’s anti-money laundering and combating the financing of terrorism system as at November 2018. Malta has been given 12 months to rectify the situation or face being blacklisted.
ADVERTISEMENT
The IFSP said it has not been privy to the Moneyval report or the Government of Malta’s remedial action plan to address the Moneyval findings, as these are not yet available to the public. Therefore, while it cannot comment in detail, in principle the IFSP welcomes steps to “raise the bar” and improve levels of anti-money laundering enforcement across the country as this is important for the reputation of the jurisdiction as a whole and all those who work in financial services and the many indirectly affected industries.
The output of the mutual evaluation process is that countries are placed either under regular follow up or enhanced follow up procedures. It is understood that Malta may be placed by Moneyval into an “enhanced follow-up” status which involves a more intensive process of follow-up, and is intended for countries with significant deficiencies, or countries making insufficient progress. In deciding whether to place a country in enhanced follow-up, the Plenary session of Moneyval considers both the level of technical compliance and effectiveness reached by the country.
If this is the case then the follow-up procedures should include a range of graduated measures to be taken if countries fail to meet their commitment or make insufficient progress in addressing their priority actions. The follow-up procedures should also include a process through which countries can be moved to “regular follow-up” from “enhanced follow-up” if the country no longer meets the criteria for enhanced follow-up. This should naturally be the immediate priority for Malta, IFSP said.
The IFSP noted that the Moneyval assessment process refers to a historical period between 2013 to 2018, and therefore excludes recent legislation and other initiatives that have already been enacted in a number of areas in anticipation of improvements that were necessary, or other initiatives such as the recent announcement regarding the setting up of a financial organised crime agency. It also notes that a number of countries, such as Hungary, Iceland and the Isle of Man, have also faced enhanced follow up procedures and remedial action plans in the past similar to what the IFSP understands Malta may be has been requested to implement.
The situation Malta therefore finds itself in is not without precedent and was perhaps not unexpected, but it is important that this remedial period is used wisely. It is also imperative that enforcement action is undertaken and maintained by the relevant authorities in a manner that is effective, fair and proportional.
The institute said it looked forward to working with the authorities to ensure that remedial action is undertaken effectively, thoughtfully and in a timely manner to safeguard the integrity of the industry and Malta’s position as a credible and transparent financial services centre, particularly within the wider context of the increased risk driven by the sophistication of international criminal organisations laundering the proceeds of criminal activities through seemingly legitimate business ventures.
In the meantime, the institute appealed to the entire spectrum of financial services practitioners to ensure that the highest levels of scrutiny and vigilance are consistently applied in the course of their day-to-day activities, for the timely pre-emption and detection of any suspicious business transactions, in line with all applicable legislation.

Story 95
Malta tougher pension rules which stipulates that advisers must be regulated in the jurisdiction where their client is based are soon to be enforced, a move that will affect tens of thousands of British savers.
The new rules, to be enforced on 1 July 2019 according to the Malta Financial Services Authority (MSFA), will impact the way in which pension trustees administer both new scheme applications and existing members on a number of levels. deVere Group estimates that in the UK alone, around 30,000 UK pensions have already transferred into a Malta-based Qualifying Recognised Overseas Pension Schemes (QROPS).
Under the new rules, licensed advisers must also be allowed to provide investment advice to the pension scheme member. The legislation was introduced in 2016 but is only now being enforced.
Malta is a preferred jurisdiction for those wanting to take advantage of the considerable financial benefits of transferring their UK pensions outside of the UK"
The tougher regulations further enhance client protections, as it is no longer enough for the financial adviser to only be licensed. An adviser's licence must also allow them to provide investment advice to the member. The adviser must also be regulation in the jurisdiction where the client is based.
"Malta is a preferred jurisdiction for those wanting to take advantage of the considerable financial benefits of transferring their UK pensions outside of the UK," deVere divisional manager of Western Europe, James Green, said.

"In a move welcomed by deVere, the Malta Financial Services Authority has made significant changes to the Maltese pension regulations. Coming into effect on 1 July 2019, these changes will have a major impact on how advice and service is given to those with Malta-based QROPS," Green added.

However, he said that it is "highly likely" that many advisory companies will be unable to meet some or all of the stringent new regulations and, therefore, will not be able to service new or existing clients in this area.

"I urge all retirees to check as a matter of urgency that their financial adviser is able to fulfil their obligations in accordance with the sweeping rule changes," Green said. However, deVere has worked with each of the Malta trustees to ensure that it continues to ensure that it continues to comply with the regulatory changes and the firm recognises these as a positive, proactive development.
Claire Trott, head of pensions strategy at St. James's Place Group, warned that transfers to overseas pensions need to be carefully considered as it may not always be the best thing to do.
She said: "Taxation in retirement often drives these transfers, yet in many cases at retirement the pension can be paid tax free in the UK whereas it can be taxed as income in the country in which the member is resident at the time, even if it is at a better rate.
"In addition, many people will return to the UK later in life or move elsewhere, which can then cause additional issues should they want to move their pension back to the UK or on to another country.
"Overseas pension schemes may not allow the onward transfer of a pension, and a UK pension scheme may not be willing to accept the funds back from an overseas scheme, especially if not held in sterling or already in payment."
The industry has sided with the regulator in Malta regarding the significant changes to the Maltese pension regulations which will have a major impact on how advisers operate in the jurisdiction.
Malta Association of Retirement Scheme Practitioners (MARSP) said the new framework issued at the end of 2018 governing personal pension schemes in Malta would make the sector more resilient.
Click here to subscribe to International Investment's free twice-daily newsletter

Story 96
Archbishop Charles Scicluna has formally handed over the Church premises known as Adelaide Cini Institute in St Venera to the Chairperson of Hospice Malta, Maria Gatt, for the establishment of St Michael Hospice, the first state-of-the-art complex to provide comprehensive palliative care.
The ceremony was held on Sunday, on the feast of St Michael the Archangel, in the same building in which the first patients are expected to be received in two years’ time following the necessary renovation works.
ADVERTISEMENT
Fundraising for this ambitious project is already underway and works are expected to commence in the coming weeks, the Church said.
The Church property including the existing building and gardens cover a total floor area of 11,000 square metres and is valued at around €8 million, with much more funds needed to renovate the complex over the coming years.
Archbishop Scicluna said that this initiative was inspired by the Year of Mercy proclaimed by Pope Francis in 2015. “St Michael Hospice will be a place in which the door of mercy will never close, reminding us of God’s tangible mercy in our lives.”
The Archbishop appealed to the Maltese people to be generous towards this project which, he added, is a timely reminder of the right to life and the dignity of the human person.
The Chairperson of Hospice Malta, Maria Gatt said, “Statistics are numbers but they are people! Cancer affects 1 in 3 of us and at Hospice Malta we get 60 new patients per month. With the majority of patients undergoing their care and treatment locally there clearly is the need for St Michael Hospice. The hospice is a necessity, and one that the Maltese population deserves. We are determined to renovate to exacting standards, comparable to the best Hospices abroad which we have already visited. We are under no illusions of the complexity of this project, but we know that we can rely on the legendary generosity of our nation to fulfill this ‘dream’ which is what our loved ones deserve.”
Through St Michael Hospice complex, Hospice Malta will expand its present community services to over 10,000 visits per year to patients and their families. With the increase in space, the new premises will also allow for an expansion of the present Day Therapy services from the current 700 sessions to over 2,000 sessions annually as well as the provision of new therapies and services.
The ultimate objective of the enhancement of the community palliative care services offered by Hospice is to allow patients to remain in their own homes in the community at this most vulnerable time and in turn to reduce the burden through the avoidance of unnecessary referrals to hospital.
St Michael Hospice will also offer an in-patient unit facility to cater for such needs. Educational training courses for the continuous development of Hospice professional care team as well as other Health Care professionals will also be delivered from the Education Department to be developed within St Michael Hospice in Santa Venera.
For 30 years since its foundation in 1989, Hospice Malta’s primary role has been the provision and promotion of palliative care services to patients suffering from cancer, motor-neuron disease, and end-of-life cardiac, respiratory, renal and liver diseases.
These services are offered through a professional interdisciplinary team. The patient and family-centred care offered targets the relief of pain and other physical symptoms as well as emotional, psycho-social and spiritual issues.
Hospice Malta, a registered NGO with the Commissioner for Voluntary Organisations, offers all of its services free of charge to patients in Malta and Gozo.
For more information and donations visit hospicemalta.org.
Photos:
Curia – church.mt/photos

Story 97
Companies in Malta at the centre of scams by criminals that are robbing taxpayers of €50 billion annually.
People’s taxes used to finance terrorism, the mafia and other illicit activities.
Cash-for-passport schemes like Malta’s are a useful addition to fraudsters’ toolkits.
Companies registered in Malta have been found to be involved in a Europe-wide racket that is robbing European taxpayers of €50 billion annually.
A cache of over 300,000 pages of previously unseen German, Italian, Danish and Spanish tax and security services investigations, including covert recordings and interceptions, interrogations, and court documentation seen by The Shift News, provides unparalleled insight into the execution of some of the biggest scams in recent history and the players involved.
The probe is part of the cross-border Grand Theft Europe investigation, a Europe-wide investigation involving 35 media partners and covering all countries, coordinated by non-profit newsroom CORRECTIV.
The scam is referred to as Missing Trader Intra Community (MTIC) Fraud, also known as VAT carousel fraud. Companies registered in Malta, now appearing on the Malta Financial Services Authority’s register as “inactive”, are at the centre of illicit trades worth millions of euro.
Maltese entities involved in these fraud schemes are allowing criminals to steal taxpayers’ money from other EU member states, contributing to their VAT Gaps. The fraud is creating a black hole, conservatively estimated at around €50 billion per year, stolen by criminal gangs from people’s taxes and used to finance terrorism, the mafia and other illicit activity, according to the European Commission.
Malta on the radar
When Malta’s Finance Minister, Edward Scicluna, stepped onto the podium in a small conference room at the Grand Hotel Excelsior last February, he spoke of how the growth of the country’s economy under his watch was far outpacing that of European peers.
His audience could not have been too impressed. The 60 or so attendees were EU cross-border fraud and tax experts who flew in for a two-day intensive meeting of the EUROFISC network, a pan-European initiative set up to address one of the EU’s most pressing problems – VAT carousel fraud.
Malta is increasingly appearing on their radar as a big part of the problem, but the experts instead got to hear Scicluna talking about Malta’s “business-friendly” approach. Only 20 days earlier, the Italian Guardia Di Finanza (GDF) had busted yet another ring of individuals accused of running a fraudulent scheme worth just short of €8 million. The VAT carousel fraud exposed involved petroleum, and a company set up in Malta – Maloa Ltd – was part of the scheme.
Robbing the taxpayer
In September 2018, the European Commission published its 2016 statistics on the VAT Gap in the EU. Malta scored an impressive 90% reduction in its own VAT Gap, to a manageable €20 million of uncollected VAT. But this did not tell the full story.
The cache of documents from tax and security services investigations seen by The Shift News as part of the cross-border investigation shows that the criminals involved in the design of these schemes openly discuss using Malta and consider it to be a handy jurisdiction to set up companies to include in these illicit structures. Not least since, due to EU membership, it cannot be blacklisted.
VAT carousel fraud is often referred to as ‘a crime against Europe itself’ because fraudsters abuse of the internal market and cross-border exemptions from VAT to set up cross-border webs of companies to import and export goods, rack up significant amounts of VAT, never pay it, and later claim a refund through another company.
Fraudsters may even re-import those same goods and run them through the import / export network (carousel) again, multiplying the damage to the taxman.
In its efforts to combat this crime, the European Commission has launched an action plan on VAT, and an explainer video on how VAT carousel fraud hits taxpayers.
Taxation | VAT carousel fraud accounts for €50 billion lost annually. We need to stop criminals & #StopTheCarousel. https://t.co/RsIkqu5WxR pic.twitter.com/SHMt1euM2O — European Commission ?? (@EU_Commission) August 3, 2017
The goods ‘go round and round’
Since VAT carousel fraud is a crime, any banks and service providers involved – even minimally – in the establishment of the scheme or the handling of its proceeds could also find themselves facing charges of aiding and abetting money laundering or even the financing of terrorism.
Although VAT carousel fraud theoretically requires just three companies (the company exporting, the importer / missing trader, and the company later claiming the illicit VAT refund), fraudsters wanting to avoid swift detection will aim to blur the links between the three companies as well as their common ownership or control.
This will typically involve the use of nominees or ‘straw men’ (or both) as well as the inclusion of other companies in the trading chain acting as intermediaries or ‘buffers’.
Fraudsters are aware that while EU tax authorities collaborate across borders, the larger the number of authorities required to get involved (particularly those less sophisticated or with less resources and less responsive) the longer the time it will take for the fraud to be uncovered. The end result is often a labyrinthine network of dozens, sometimes hundreds, of companies spanning multiple countries – and those are just the ones caught.
Criminals like ‘business friendly’ governments
It is here that Malta and its “business friendly” government policies, including one-stop shops to swiftly set up VAT registered companies stands out.
With a vast array of corporate service providers offering quick company formation and nominee services, combined with under-equipped and understaffed regulatory authorities, Malta is a prime location as a node in the network.
This did not start yesterday – some of the scams being unravelled involving Malta date back almost a decade. It is a risk with all countries positioning themselves as “financial services jurisdictions”, but when compliance and supervision is sacrificed, the likelihood of Malta being used by criminals increases significantly.
The cache of documents investigated shows that crime kingpins openly boast about this, as well as smaller fry such as a former Admiral in the Italian navy Giovanni Di Guardo, referred to as “the Admiral from Catania with a habit for crime”. He boasted of his fiduciary company in Malta, saying he could “transfer funds while by the pool in Romania,” the documents show.
Last April, the Italian media reported on the most recent accusations he is facing: “Taking advantage of the fact that there is a permanent Italian military mission of assistance to the Maltese army, Di Guardo is accused of devising a [VAT] carousel fraud by setting up a company in Italy and another in Malta. The first bought branded clothing without paying them, using his rank in the army to obtain credit from the main fashion houses of the Belpaese area”.
Two years ago, Di Guardio was arrested in a separate case for rigging contracts worth €11.5 million.
Convenient passports
Di Guardo’s is one in a string of cases exposed involving Malta-registered companies. And Malta has added to the arsenal in the fraudsters’ toolkit.
According to VAT fraud expert Marius-Cristian Frunza, most of the big VAT carousel fraud cases involved gang members holding at least two different passports. In order to hide common ownership of companies in a carousel, some fraudsters opt to create multiple identities without even needing forged documents.
When an individual from a country that uses a different alphabet purchases a passport, the name is often interpreted differently, creating a variation. A new nationality, a different passport number and a different name is, in effect, a new identity.
So criminals can open companies and bank accounts in different countries using two or more different passports with different names. This makes it extremely difficult for law enforcement authorities to accurately assess the full extent of the individual’s involvement in the cross-border crime.
EU lawmakers have strongly recommended the phasing out of golden visas and cash-for-passport schemes in Member States, saying they carry significant risks, including a devaluation of EU citizenship and the potential for corruption, money laundering and tax evasion. The Maltese government has denied this.
Malta’s track record in VAT carousal fraud schemes uncovered includes companies that never even submitted VAT returns or audited accounts, in breach of the law. One of these companies, that joins others on the Register of Companies as “inactive” after the money disappeared, had a €50 million turnover in its first year of operation. Yet, no red flags were raised.
The Shift News has asked the Finance Minister for a reaction.
In the next story
________________________________________
For Grand Theft Europe, The Shift News teamed up with a network of 35 European media partners from every European country, coordinated by the German non-profit newsroom CORRECTIV. Together the network is investigating VAT carousels, the biggest ongoing tax fraud in the EU. The investigation has resulted in numerous stories, a podcast and a number of TV documentaries.
The project: www.grand-theft-europe.com

Story 98
The Freeport is experiencing a significant slowdown in business activity as one of its major clients – Maersk – has decided to move most of its operations from Malta to other ports in North Africa.
The Freeport’s management has informed unions and other clients that the departure of Maersk and another associated company, MSC, is expected to reduce business at Malta’s container terminal by some 35 per cent by the end of next month.
Efforts are being made by the Freeport authorities to try to attract new business to compensate for the massive loss, and some 10 per cent of the container business throughput has already been recouped through new clients.
Last year, the Malta Freeport handled more than 3.3 million containers in its transhipment activities.
A spokesman for the freeport confirmed the withdrawal of services by Maersk and MSC.
“Maersk recently informed us that it will be shifting some of the services that are being carried out through Malta Freeport to a new fully-automated facility in Tangier Med, Morocco, and to Port Said in Egypt."
Maersk, the world’s largest container shipping company, has been using the services of the Malta Freeport for many years.
Malta Freeport said the nature of the transshipment industry meant that it was not uncommon for shipping lines to opt to make use of different terminals for operational purposes. Malta Freeport was accustomed to operating in such an environment and, for several years, has managed to thrive within it.
Maersk, it stressed, is to retain a presence in Malta through services covering South America and Northern Europe and, furthermore, the Freeport will be significantly increasing its handling of services operated by the CMA CGM shipping line.
“Meanwhile, we remain optimistic about attracting further business opportunities and have absolutely no intention of downscaling our operations. On the contrary, we are continuing to plan for the future.”
Industry sources said that business has already slowed down at the Freeport.
“The slowdown can already be felt and there are already fewer people working, particularly on overtime,” the source said. The company, however, does not have plans to make any of its employees redundant.
While confirming that the Freeport management are doing their utmost to attract compensatory business through other shipping lines, the sources noted that “Malta has much more competition than it used to have and attracting new business will not be easy”.
Last January, the Freeport announced expansion plans, with millions of investment on new facilities including an extension of the Terminal Two North Quay. So far, no changes have been announced to the plans despite the expected reduction in business.
In 2018, the Freeport handled 20 weekly mainline services, providing network links to 130 ports around the world.
Joe Gerada, Group Managing Director at Thomas Smith, representing Maersk, explained that Malta-destined and originating cargo is presently serviced via Port Said Egypt versus a direct Far East to Malta call. The effect of this is that it adds a few days to the transit time of the service Far East to Malta. The feeder services that used to feed other Mediterranean ports from the Far East service via Malta automatically moved with the service.
Otherwise all other services have stayed and there is no intention for any of them to change in the foreseeable future.
Maersk Line still operates direct services from North Europe and South America besides being still connected worldwide via other transhipment ports.
Shipping, he said, is a dynamic business involving many international variables and nobody in the business is surprised by changes in shipping patterns.
"Maersk Line's contribution to Malta has been and still is that of giving worldwide container shipping connections to Maltese exporters and importers as well as bringing transhipment opportunities to Malta where Maersk has been and still is a significant player at Malta Freeport Terminal."

Story 99
The Council of Europe’s Committee on the Evaluation of Anti-Money Laundering Measures and the Financing of Terrorism – Moneyval – chose to have a picture of the iconic gardjola on the front page of its latest report on Malta.
Promotional material about Malta would tell you that this stone lookout post that forms part of the majestic bastions has various symbols sculpted on it such as an eye, an ear and the crane bird, representing guardianship and observance protecting the Maltese shores.
Was the choice of image purely linked to the fact that the eye on the gardjola is a popular feature in many brochures about the Maltese islands? Or was there a message that Moneyval wanted to convey?
What we know for sure is that, in its ‘fifth round mutual evaluation report’ published this summer, Moneyval commented that “Malta should ensure that the supervisory authorities have sufficient resources and expertise in place to ensure effective supervision for the size, complexity and the (money laundering/financing of terrorism) risks of their respective sectors”.
It also urged the island to take action to improve the national understanding of risks, threats and vulnerabilities.
It takes hard work to build a good reputation but that can be lost in no time, especially if the government appears to be turning a blind eye when cracks appear in the regime.
When the FBI acted upon information it had been compiling in relation to the Ta’ Xbiex-based Pilatus Bank, which has since closed down, the government had no alternative but to push the supervisory authorities – notably, the Malta Financial Services Authority (MFSA) – to do something about it.
The action taken included changes at the top at the MFSA.
Unfortunately, it did not take long for the new MFSA chief executive, Joe Cuschieri, to face public criticism – and by a member of the Authority’s Board of Governors, to boot. Former Labour justice minister Joseph Brincat filed a judicial letter accusing Mr Cuschieri of spending the regulator’s money as if he had a “bank cheque” rather than using public funds for the purposes decided upon by Parliament.
The MFSA said it did not consider it appropriate to comment publicly on the ongoing matters referred to by Dr Brincat but noted that funds administered by it “are and will continue to be used exclusively in the exercise of its functions and operations”.
That may, of course, be the case but at least one member of the board of governors disagrees and felt he had no other alternative but to take legal action to stop what he considered to be an offence that, as a director, could expose him to criminal action.
Prime Minister Joseph Muscat merely expressed full confidence in the chairman, the CEO and the entire MFSA board. Which, of course, implies he also trusts Dr Brincat who decided to publicly point a finger at the CEO, presumably after his internal efforts proved futile.
This is not the first time the government had to deal with such serious accusations made by one of its own against the headship of the country’s financial services regulator.
Education Minister Evarist Bartolo had on various occasions accused former MFSA chairman Joe Bannister of a conflict of interest.
In Mr Cuschieri’s case, the accusation made by Dr Brincat implies that the man running a supervisory authority that must ensure all laws and regulations are rigorously observed is unable or unwilling to abide by the house rules.
Such behaviour simply cannot be allowed from the sentinel manning the gardjola.

Story 100
The International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking was marked on June 26. This year, the theme chosen by the UN for the day was “Health for Justice, Justice for Health”.
This highlights the fact that health and justice go hand in hand – to rightfully tackle drug issues throughout a country, both health and legal institutions need to work together to ensure that the best possible services are offered to people who require assistance in order to lift themselves up after tackling destructive vices.
This theme promotes a holistic approach to the situation as well as promoting human rights and collaboration between the stakeholders involved.
The relationship between June and addictions is not something that is only relevant on a European level. Last month, Malta celebrated the 25-year anniversary of Aġenzija Sedqa and 30 years since the opening of the San Blas Therapeutic Community run by Caritas Malta.
In total, there are 23 services that are licensed by the Social Care Standards Authority to provide care in addiction to treatment, which are provided by Aġenzija Sedqa, Oasi and Caritas Malta.
These standards were created to guide service providers on how to help people with addictions
On June 27, we launched the Public Consultation for the Social Regulatory Standards for both residential and office-based services offered to persons with drug, alcohol and gambling-related problems.
These standards were created to guide service providers regarding the provision of services geared towards people who need assistance with overcoming addictions related to drugs, alcohol and gambling.
There are two different sets of guidelines, and therefore two public consultations. The first deals with services that are residential based; these are services that are offered in a residential treatment facility, where the people seeking treatment reside for the duration of the programme.
The second set of guidelines is geared towards office-based services, which are services provided in the community.
These standards tackle various aspects of the services and the quality with which they should be provided. The service providers need to follow these standards and ensure that every individual making use of the services will have their privacy, dignity, right of choice, potential achievement and individuality respected.
The Social Regulatory Standards for Residential Services offered to persons with drug, alcohol and gambling-related problems are divided into seven standards.
Standard 1 instructs the service provider to create an individualised and holistic support plan for individuals making use of their services.
Standard 2 details the respect that is to be shown to the individuals and their right to be included in decisions pertaining to their care.
The health and safety of individuals is highlighted in Standard 3, with an emphasis on the elevated quality of life to be maintained during their use of the service and the attention given to their safety and health needs.
Standard 4 states that the residents are to be clearly informed on what the service will provide and to ensure a smooth transition when the individual enters and exists the residential programme.
The fifth Standard stresses the importance of record keeping, especially when it comes to sensitive information.
Relationships with family and significant others during the individuals’ stay in the residence are of the utmost importance, as well as communication with professionals who can enhance the care given to the persons making use of the service, as highlighted in Standard 6.
The remaining Standard for residential services states that the management and staff at the residences are to provide quality support and care in a respectful and caring manner.
Some similarities can be noted when comparing the standards for residential and office-based services, however, one would be wrong to think that these are the same.
Standard 1 in the Social Regulatory Standards for office-based services offered to persons with drug, alcohol and gambling-related problems instructs the service provider to create an individualised and holistic environment for people making use of the service.
The office-based standards also put stress on the respect to be shown to individuals and their right to be included in decisions pertaining to their care (Standard 2), issues on health and safety (Standard 3), the importance of efficient record keeping (Standard 4), maintaining and nurturing the individuals’ important relationships (Standard 5) and the level of quality expected from the management and the staff of the service (Standard 6).
While these standards might seem similar, one needs to delve into the content of each document to see that they are in fact streamlined and that they cater to the service depending on its nature, whether it is an office-based service or a residential one.
The public consultation is open until tomorrow and the public can send feedback on the documents on feedback.scsa@gov.mt or by calling 2549 4444.
Matthew Vella is chief executive officer, Social Care Standards Authority.

Story 101


This crawler or robot has been disallowed from visting our site.
If you feel this has been in error, please contact our webmaster
Disallowed Crawler User Agents:

Story 102
Qatar Airways has announce that it will launch direct services to Malta starting 4 June 2019, marking this the airline's first gateway to Malta and the latest addition to its rapidly-expanding European network.
The Valletta route will be served with an A320 aircraft, with daily services in summer and four-times-weekly flights in winter.
Qatar Airways Group Chief Executive, Akbar Al Baker, said: "We are tremendously excited to announce the launch of direct services to Malta, one of Europe's architectural gems and a key new addition to our European network.
ADVERTISEMENT
"This new direct route demonstrates our commitment to enhancing connectivity for both business and leisure travelling to and from Europe, which we have enhanced during the past year with the launch of non-stop services to Prague, Kyiv, Skopje and many more.
"We look forward to introducing travellers from around the world to this captivating city."
Flight Schedule:
Doha (DOH) to Valletta (MLA) QR381 departs 01:25 arrives 06:45 (Mon, Wed, Fri, Sun)
Valletta (MLA) to Doha (DOH) QR 382 departs 09:20 arrives 15:55 (Mon, Wed, Fri, Sun)
Doha (DOH) to Valletta (MLA) QR383 departs 08:05 arrives 13:25 (Tues, Thurs, Sat)
Valletta (MLA) to Doha (DOH) QR384 departs 17:45 arrives 00:20 +1 (Tues, Thurs, Sat)

Story 103
Qatar Airways will launch direct services from Malta to Doha as the latest gateway in airline’s rapidly-expanding European network on Tuesday 4 June 2019, the airline announced yesterday.
The new route will be served by an A320 aircraft, with daily services in summer, leading to a fourtimes-weekly service in Winter, and will bring even greater connectivity to Malta through Qatar Airways’ global network of more than 160 destinations.
ADVERTISEMENT
The airline has also launched a new website for the Maltese market – www.qatarairways.mt – enabling customers to book flights online, and boasts a search function allowing them to set filters to find their ideal flight. Customers can also find airfares, as well as departure and arrival date combinations in a fast and convenient way.
Qatar Airways Country Manager for Italy and Malta, Mate Hoffmann, said: “We are very much looking forward to the launch of the direct services from Malta, one of Europe’s architectural gems and a key new addition to our European network. The new route will provide both business and leisure passengers travelling from Malta access to Qatar Airways’ extensive global route network.”
The new Malta service opens up a world of new connectivity options for Qatar Airways’ customers to destinations across Africa, Asia and Australia, such as Capetown, Hong Kong, Bali, Maldives, Bangkok, Sydney and many more.
Passengers flying from Malta will also enjoy a quick and convenient transfer at the airline’s home and hub, Hamad International Airport (HIA) in Doha. Offering more than 100 retail and dining options and unique services such as a swimming pool, hotel and spa, designed exclusively for those in transit, HIA aims to further enhance passengers’ overall travel experience.

Story 104
CGEX, the Malta-based subsidiary of South Korean crypto exchange Coinone, is terminating its crypto trading services without mentioning specific reasons.
According to a notice displayed on its website, the exchange will terminate all its services on September 18 at 2 am (UTC).
London Summit 2019 Launches the Latest Era in FX and Fintech – Join Now
“Unfortunately, due to our circumstances, we decided that we could no longer maintain service, so we are terminating the service,” the exchange noted.
The announcement detailed that the exchange will stop all services on the specified date and will not allow its users to log in to the platform. It requested that customers withdraw their stored funds on the exchange as it will not retain customer information after the termination of the services.
“Your personal information (including transaction details) will be destroyed accordingly with the end of service. All assets held in your account can be withdrawn until the end of the service and further withdrawal will no longer be available after this date,” the announcement added.
Suggested articles Why BTCC is a Pillar of Confidence in an Unstable IndustryGo to article >>
“We further inform you that personal information with obligatory preservation clauses will be safely stored until destroyed at the end of the obligated period as outlined by the Act.”
Backup plan gone bust
Launched in October 2018, the Malta-based exchange was offering crypto-to-crypto trading services. It also integrated Coinone’s operations in South Korea and Indonesia. The opening of the exchange in a jurisdiction like Malta was viewed as Coinone’s backup plan to avoid any crackdown on crypto in South Korea.
The announcement of the termination of CGEX’s service came two months after the suspension of crypto trading services on the platform. The exchange then suspended services including deposits, canceled active orders, and also disabled APIs.
Though the exchange then assured that the suspension was not permanent and it would relaunch in the third quarter of this year, it is now shutting down completely.
Meanwhile, a recent local media report claimed that 97 percent of South Korean crypto exchanges are on the verge of bankruptcy due to the low volume of transactions.

Story 105
The Malta Financial Services Authority (MFSA) has just issued a report on security token offerings. The consultation paper is meant to be a recommendatory outline to better the regulatory framework in the small nation.
The MSFA has put out a report which is in line with its Vision 2021. The paper details the security token industry and how to best approach the STO question.
Malta is a highly-developed nation and relies on capital markets and investment to sustain its economy. This is why the MSFA has taken a strong interest in security tokens because it believes they will lead to greater private sector innovation, investment, and growth.
In 2018, the MSFA released its Fintech Strategy and Virtual Financial Assets Framework. This consultation paper expands on these ideas and seeks to bridge the gap between traditional securities and tokenized securities. Of course, the paper is meant to be a consultation; this means it is open to the public with the goal of obtaining stakeholders’ views to better create policy initiatives. The topics covered include investor protections, integrity, stability, and lessening risk. Overall, Malta is seeking to build a friendly atmosphere for the cryptocurrency space and only seeks to intervene in cases of fraud and abuse.
The consultation will be open to the public until August 30, 2019.
A Future Security Token Hub?
Last year, Maltese exchange LXDX announced its plans to host a fully-compliant security token offering. The exchange was started by a former engineer at SpaceX. Other efforts in Malta, such as security tokens pegged to gold, are also actively being pursued by the Malta Digital Exchange.
Overall, Malta is looking to be a prime destination for security token issuers. The small country is relying on the security token space as being one sector where the nation can stand out with its progressive regulations and openness to the industry.
Do you believe Malta will be one of the leading hubs for the security token industry? Let us know your thoughts below.
Image courtesy of Times of Malta.

Story 106
Satabank has been slapped with a record €3 million fine for widespread breaches of money laundering laws.
The bank has been on regulators’ radar ever since a joint inspection by the Malta Financial Services Authority and FIAU last year found extremely weak structures in place to prevent its clients from using it to launder potential proceeds of criminal activity.
This led regulators to come down hard on the bank, freezing all its funds and appointing EY to administer its assets. Police and financial regulators have since been combing through suspicious transactions with potential links to fuel smuggling, drug trafficking and trade with sanctioned countries.
One source familiar with Satabank’s operations said the bank felt hard done by the multi-million euro fine, particularly given the way Pilatus Bank had escaped any sanction by the FIAU.
Contacted about the FIAU fine, a bank representative said Satabank continues to operate under close supervision, and is focused on returning funds to customers under the controlled release procedure instructed by the MFSA.
“The bank is taking all appropriate action in respect of investigations by the authorities,” the bank representative said.
Satabank poor risk management structures had already attracted a €60,500 fine from the MFSA in July 2018.
Fines levied on banks and other entities regulated by the FIAU usually show up on the unit’s website, yet in this case, the record fine imposed on Satabank is nowhere to been seen.
‘Naming and shaming’ on the FIAU’s website is often seen within the financial industry as being an even bigger penalty than the actual fine, as it could have a knock-on effect on the fined entities’ business.
Asked why recent FIAU fines are not showing up on online, a spokesman for the unit said changes to the law in December 2017 opened up the option of appealing fines in court.
Since the introduction of these amendments, €4.6 million in fines imposed by the FIAU have been appealed, the spokesman said.
A request by The Sunday Times of Malta for the list of entities that had been fined was refused by the FIAU on legal grounds due to the pending appeals.
The spokesman said the FIAU is currently reviewing the effectiveness of the legal framework and considering whether this may be amended to improve the overall sanctioning regime, including the publication process.
When fines are appealed
A search of civil cases filed against the anti-money laundering unit since December 2017 reveals how a bank and other financial institutions that have hit the headlines in recent years are appealing fines for money-laundering breaches.
Bank of Valletta is one of those appealing an FIAU fine.
Questioned about the fine, a BOV spokesman said the judicial process for appealing FIAU fines is not public in order to protect the confidentiality of its consumers.
“The bank is therefore not in a position to make further comments in reply to your query. The bank continues to maintain a good working relationship with the FIAU and remains committed to complying with its anti-money laundering and combatting the financing of terrorism obligations.”
Another familiar name on the list of appellants against the FIAU is Baltimore Fiduciary, a local company investigated for its role in a money-laundering scheme.
MaltaToday had revealed how a money-laundering probe by the police in early 2013 was placed on the back-burner once MP Beppe Fenech Adami’s name cropped up as a director of Baltimore Finance.
Prime Minister Joseph Muscat had promptly appointed a board of inquiry to investigate the claims, and had sent the inquiry’s findings to the FIAU for further investigation.
Contacted about the FIAU fine which is being appealed by Baltimore Finance, Dr Beppe Fenech Adami said he is no longer involved in the company, having resigned as a director many years back.
“I am not aware of the fine you mention. I am not aware of the appeal you mention. I have never been contacted or spoken to by any agency including the FIAU on any of the matters you mention. May I remind you that a public inquiry held way back in 2017 has cleared me from all allegations made against me by the Labour Party in particular,” Dr Fenech Adami said.
Another name on the appeal list is that of Portmann Capital Management, a Maltese company allegedly involved in money-laundering linked to Venezualan President Nicolas Maduro.
The Sunday Times of Malta has previously reported how the company was slapped with a €350,000 fine, which at the time, was a record for an FIAU sanction.

Story 107
The Malta Financial Services Authority (“MFSA”) said today it has become aware of an entity which has an internet presence at https://emiratecointech.com . This entity purports to be an MFSA licenced investment and crypto exchange institution with a physical presence at 1000 Mahler Building (floor 4), Gustav Mahlerlaan 1025, 1082, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. The entity claims to be a “fast-growing investment and brokerage company, founded in 2013, to transform the way people invest. “ The entity also states that “it focuses on trading and mining cryptocurrencies on contract for investors, and ensuring the highest possible return on investment within manageable risk.”
ADVERTISEMENT
The MFSA said that Emirate Coin Tech is NOT a Maltese registered Company NOR licenced or otherwise authorised by the MFSA to provide any investment, crypto currency or other financial services which are required to be licenced or otherwise authorised under Maltese law. Furthermore, information available to the MFSA suggests that https://emiratecointech.com is likely to be a scheme of dubious nature with a high risk of loss of money. The public should therefore refrain from undertaking any business or transactions with the above-mentioned entity.
The MFSA would like to remind consumers of financial services not to enter into any financial services transaction unless they have ascertained that the entity with whom the transaction is being made is authorised to provide such services by the MFSA or another reputable financial services regulator. Investors should also be extra cautious when being approached with offers of financial services via unconventional channels such as telephone calls or social media.
A list of entities licensed by the MFSA can be viewed on the official website of the MFSA at http://www.mfsa.mt/pages/licenceholders.aspx.

Story 108
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 109
Air Malta has inaugurated its first scheduled service to the Georgian capital Tbilisi. Although the once-weekly flight will initially run until the 18th of September, there is a possibility of extending the service further according to demand.
It is the first time that the Maltese airline has operated scheduled services to Georgia. “Interest in this market started around a year ago when the airline was looking at growth opportunities to expand its network. This service is expected to open up new tourism markets to Malta and generate around 3,300 customers in both directions during the period of operation,” reveals captain Clifford Chetcuti, Air Malta’s chief executive.
Together with the InterCo Travel Group, the airline’s tour operating partner in Georgia, Air Malta has formulated a plan to establish direct air links between the two countries that will facilitate travel for Georgians visiting the islands as well as other European destinations via Air Malta’s European flight network. At the same time, Air Malta is able to offer the Maltese travelling public an exciting new destination.
Air Malta’s new flights to Georgia come at a time when the country badly needs new markets, following Russia’s decision to suspend air links with Georgia after social unrest in Tbilisi.

Story 110
Kevin Schembri Orland
Technology is pivotal for the financial services industry, Prime Minister Joseph Muscat said today.
Addressing the Finance Malta annual conference with the theme ‘Malta: A platform for innovation’, Muscat said that an element of risk can be contained in the environment that the government is creating, by putting regulation at the heart of new emerging technology.
ADVERTISEMENT
The growth in the digital economy, new technology, and the ability to capture and analyse large amounts of data spurred a new wave of innovation. He said that this industry will look different over the coming decade.
Financial services and related technology will not only change how business is done, but will change the composition of the actors involved,” Muscat said.
“New technology will allow new players and business models to enter the market, creating more competition.”
Muscat said that the outlook is positive, but that the government and industry must remain proactive, changing where needed while adapting to new circumstances.
“Malta has several advantages to work in its favour. Firstly is the efficient and highly enabling information technology sector. We also have a robust financial regulatory framework. Our ability to renovate ourselves is another such advantage.”
He spoke of the need to develop local talent by upping educational institutions focus on these developments. “Malta must also look outwards, not just to Europe but to whole world, to attract the right talent and skills to compete internationally. This applies to all econ sectors, but is of paramount importance for this one.”
He stressed that the government’s role is to act as a facilitator, through strengthening regulatory frameworks and institutions. He said that the MFSA looks at Fintech as a regulator working to create the best environment in Europe, and that by this he means attreacting only the serious businesses in the industry. “We are after quality not quantity.”
He spoke about certain problems for growth, and the need to further develop the banking ecosystem.
Also addressing the event, Parliamentary Secretary Silvio Schembri said Malta’s agility and fast-moving advantage within the innovation sphere has enabled the country to reinvent the economy.
“Malta’s economic development strategies are crucial traits which propel and support the country to constantly innovate and diversify its foreign investment landscape. This was partially thanks to Malta’s nimble business environment, the embracing of cutting-edge technology and the setting up of a strong and robust ICT infrastructure, competitive labour costs, a highly educated workforce as well asan enviable quality of life,” he said.
The financial services sector has now become a key contributor to Malta’s economic growth, the livelihood of more than 10,000 families and contributes to 12% of the Gross Domestic product.
“By virtue of an ever-changing global landscape, we are now looking at a more diverse financial services industry that is introducing new financial clusters which are casting away from the usual traditional methods. The myriad of technological advancements which materialise on a regular basis are destined to change the landscape of the industry we know today.”
Schembri said the robustness of this sector is underpinned by a resilient regulatory framework based on strong, prudential consumer protection and money laundering prevention mechanisms together with healthy capital, liquidity levels of banks and increased capital market opportunities.
“On these solid foundations, we’re committed to take this industry to the next level in order to stay ahead of the curve in such a way, that we position the financial services industry ahead of its time; a reflection of what this sector will look like in the coming years. It is to this end that we have adopted a vigorous proactive stance in embracing new technology, in strengthening further our institutions and invigorating our human capital.”
The launch of the MFSA Vision 2021 and Fintech Strategy earmarks the necessity to reform an Authority that is required to serve us perfectly well in the digital age and to enhance the Authority’s efficiency and transparency in its day-to-day functions, he said.
Schembri said the government will set up a Consultative Body which will serve as a Forum for discussions between the Government, the Regulator and the practitioners, aiming to understand better the difficulties, anticipate any developments on the international scenario and to formulate a 10 year strategy for the financial services sector in Malta.

Story 111
We took a look at Eurostat's data on people employed in the financial sector, and found that Luxembourg has more than twice as many financial services worker per capita than any other EU country.
The below chart draws on Eurostat data from 2018 for both population and the number of financial services workers (excluding those working in the insurance and pension funding sectors). With 4.9 such workers per 1,000 population, Luxembourg by far has the highest proportion of financial service employees in the European Union.
The EU average stands at 0.9, while Malta comes in second place at 1.9, followed by Ireland at 1.7.

Story 112


This crawler or robot has been disallowed from visting our site.
If you feel this has been in error, please contact our webmaster
Disallowed Crawler User Agents:

Story 113
Over half of the population struggles with accessing healthcare services because they cannot afford the costs, despite free public health care, a report has found.
The financial barriers were flagged by a European Union agency, Eurofound, in an analysis of the quality of health and care services across EU member states.
According to the report, published this month, 51% of the population in Malta claimed the cost of healthcare makes access to it difficult.
The rate is among the highest in Europe, the data shows, with Cyprus and Greece joint top of the list, where 62% find it difficult to access healthcare.
Asked to explain how Malta’s numbers could be so high despite all public healthcare services being free, Charles Pace, a lecturer in social policy at the University of Malta said that analyses of Malta’s health systems often ignored “an important factor”.
“Thirty-seven per cent of what we Maltese spend on health comes from our own pockets. Only Bulgaria, Cyprus and Latvia in the EU spend more than we do. The other 63% is financed by government,” Dr Pace said.
And while hospital services and the use of health centres are free to all, many patients still preferred visiting their family doctor for most of their ailments, he said.
“We have to dig into our own pockets when buying most medicines, and seeing family doctors and specialists, and that costs a lot.
“There are general practitioners and some specialists at health centres but, many people still prefer to visit their own doctor for something more serious,” he said.
This is also the case with visiting specialists and that is why more than 50 per cent claim cost is a worrying factor, Dr Pace said.
We have to dig into our own pockets when buying most medicines
He added that for a pensioner, for instance, expenses could be tough, especially seeing that retirement, for about half the population, brings less than a “two-thirds pension”.
The social policy expert pointed to a number of factors why people still opted to use private services instead of making use of the free services.
Population growth is one factor, he said, pointing out that with more people on the island, the demand at health centres had naturally increased.
Another issue that is deterring patients from using free services could be the fact that continuity of care has been weak when visiting health centres as it is with private doctors.
Noting that continuity of care, through the use of computer records, has improved, Dr Pace pointed out that many still preferred visiting a doctor who has treated them for years rather than a different one each time they fell ill.
“One thing leads to another. You have a pension that is eroded and more people on the island. It’s a combination of things that results in people unable to afford certain medical costs,” Dr Pace said.
Contacted about the issue, a government spokeswoman told Times of Malta the question asked as part of the study “specifically refers to primary care providers”.
“It is a well-known fact that the largest element contributing to out of pocket expenditure in the health sector is for ambulatory [outpatient] care including general practitioners.
“While GP services are provided free of charge across the community clinics and health centres all around the islands, people often still choose to consult a private GP,” she pointed out.

Story 114
Fraudsters are using the details of a genuine Maltese entity to try to deceive the public, the Malta Financial Services Authority has warned.
The website https://securetrading-services.com/ falsely claims to be associated with a licensed and authorised organisation in Malta, the MFSA said in a statement.
The entity claims to have a presence in France, Luxembourg and the UK, with its head office located in Paris, France. These representations are believed to be false.
The MFSA said it can confirm that the website has no association with the authorised and licensed company Secure Trading Financial Services Ltd, which is a Malta-based company with a registered office in Birkirkara (company registration C56013).
The MFSA said the public should refrain from undertaking any business or transactions with the false entity.
A list of entities licensed by the MFSA is available from the official website https://www.mfsa.com.mt/financial-services-register/

Story 115
Air Malta started operating a once weekly flight every Saturday to Warsaw.
This route will operate until the 19th October.
“Warsaw is the first scheduled service we have introduced this summer. With this seasonal operation we are eyeing the Polish market with the possibility to extend this service further in line with demand. After adding 21 new routes last year, this summer we have concentrated on adding frequencies to established destinations. However we are also adding three other routes; Cairo, Tbilisi, and Ibiza. The month of June is one of our busiest and with 42 routes to choose from, we are now making sure we offer our Customers, great destinations at value for money prices,” said Air Malta’s Chief Executive Capt. Clifford Chetcuti.
ADVERTISEMENT
The flight schedule will operate as follows (local time):
Saturday:
KM 4428 Dep Malta 08:55 Arr Warsaw 11:40
KM 4429 Dep Warsaw 12:30 Arr Malta 15:20
Customers can book flights through www.airmalta.com or by calling Air Malta’s Call Centre on +356 21662211, Air Malta sales office at Malta International Airport or from Travel Agents in Malta and Poland.

Story 116
Taxi service Bolt has terminated its contract with Malta’s TaxMal Limited due to an undisclosed breach of contract.
A spokesman for Bolt - formerly Taxify - said the company will continue to operate its service in Malta without any glitches in service availability.
“We can assure nothing will change for passengers nor drivers. Bolt is already setting up its own local office and support team in Malta. All drivers will continue to receive payouts as usual.
“It is important to note that Bolt Technology OU has always done payouts to drivers and will continue to do so.”
The spokesman said TaxMal Limited was providing local support to drivers and passengers.
Efforts to contacts TaxMal proved futile.
Bolt allows users to request a private cab through their smartphone. The company was founded as Taxify in Estonia by a 19-year-old entrepreneur in 2013 and quickly spread across Europe, with its Malta-based services beginning in 2017. It rebranded earlier this year.

Story 117
Following an ultimatum and a declaration of a trade dispute with the Ministry for Education, the Malta Union of Teachers said today it is issuing a set of nine directives to Student Services grades working with the Ministry for Education and the Secretariat of Catholic Education.
These directives are being issued following over 12 months of negotiations on a new agreement for these grades which include Counsellors, Career Advisors, Youth Workers, Resource Workers etc.
ADVERTISEMENT
The Ministry is failing to recognise the importance of these grades even though these practitioners are resigning from their posts and there is a serious shortage which is affecting the service to students whereby schools have a minimum of personnel to address the growing needs of such services to students.
List of Directives:
1. No work on My Journey
2. No submission of annual and other reports
3. No submission of forecast
4. No answering of emails from management*
5. No answering of telephone calls from management*
6. No communication with management*
7. No attendance to meetings organised by management*
8. No new referrals to be accepted
9. No walk-in services to be accepted
*(management includes NSSS, school SMT, college Principals and personnel and the Secretariat for Catholic Education)
These directives shall come into force on Monday 22 July as repeated attempts to reach an agreement with the Ministry for Education and Employment have failed.
Ministry's response
Education Minister Evarist Bartolo, in response, said that the union issued a directive and took action that will result in students’ suffering as a result.
The minister said that the union did not accept proposals put forward by the ministry so that support services employees benefit from a financial package which would be more than is currently. Employees, the minister said, can benefit from career advancement in less time than was proposed by the union, and benefit from advances in new scalesthat, as of now, they do not reach.
The minister said that through these latest actions a number of services needed by students are being affected. Serious new cases of abuse, suicide, cases of a psychological nature and others will not be addressed by councillors as a result, the minister said.
Services offered to children up to the age of five with disability will also be affected, the minister said, amongst other services.

Story 118


This crawler or robot has been disallowed from visting our site.
If you feel this has been in error, please contact our webmaster
Disallowed Crawler User Agents:

Story 119
Representatives from the Civil Aviation Directorate within Transport Malta met with their Brazilian counterparts in Lisbon, Portugal yesterday and signed a Memorandum of Understanding on air services and cooperation between the aeronautical authorities of both countries.
The delegations also initiated an Air Services Agreement between the respective Governments.
By means of this Memorandum, both sides reached agreement on a common regulatory framework which would permit the operation of air services between Malta and Brazil. Moreover, this would open up new opportunities to the respective airlines and investors of both sides as they would be able to cooperate between themselves and enter into arrangements on various routes linking Malta to Brazil.
ADVERTISEMENT
Minister for Transport, Infrastructure and Capital Projects, Ian Borg, said that this is positive news for the aviation industry which is a very important segment for the Maltese economy. "This is in line with Government's policy to continue increasing the connectivity of Malta to the rest of the world."
Civil Aviation Directorate Director General Captain Charles Pace said that other similar initiatives are also in the pipeline and work has already started with other South American countries which include Colombia, Chile and Argentina.

Story 120
Albert Galea
The investment services sector was the source of the majority of complaints filed by people with the Arbiter for Financial Services in 2018, with 70% of all the complaints that the received being from this sector.
The Annual Report reveals that a total of 192 cases were received by the office in 2018, Arbiter Reno Borg explained. The majority – 70% - of those were related to investment services, a further 20% related to the banking sector and the rest related to insurance and private pension cases.
ADVERTISEMENT
54% of the complaints originated from persons residing outside Malta and who acquired the services from a financial services provider mainly on a cross-border basis. The remaining 46% of complaints originated from customers residing in Malta.
Not all of these complaints require review and adjudication; 33 were resolved at mediation stage or after parties agreed to settle prior to mediation, while a further 13 cases were solved after parties agreed to on a compromise suggested during the first oral hearing.
The Arbiter issued 125 final decisions as well as a further 14 preliminary and follow-up decisions – such as clarifications or corrections). 100 cases were upheld in full, three were partially upheld and 22 were rejected.
The office received 1,016 enquires and minor cases throughout 2018 through emails, phone calls, and walk-ins, with the majority of them (424) being related to the banking sector, a significant increase from the 265 received in this sector in 2017 and the 13 received in 2016. A further 404 were related to the insurance sector, 137 related to the investments sector, and the remaining 51 looking at other subjects.
Out of those enquiries, 805 persons only required general information to their query.
Borg said that the office emphasised the need for professional and timely service.
The number of decisions delivered by the Arbiter increased from 64 in 2017 to 139 in 2018. The backlog that the office faced when it was founded in 2016 dated back to 2004, but all those cases have now been settled, while all the cases from 2017 save for around 10 have also been settled. Some other cases introduced in 2018 have also been settled, Borg said.
Borg said that mediation is an important part of arbitration, and lamented that the Maltese are not used to the culture of mediation, as neither side would want to budge from their position out of fear of setting a precedent. He noted that these fears were “unfounded” as decisions are published online in any case with all the details save for the complainant’s name, meaning that they are in the public domain.
He said that while there has been a small development in the number of cases solved by mediation, he augured that more and more complaints are solved through mediation as that would mean both sides would come to an agreement and both sides would be, up to a point, content with the outcome.
The Annual Report has already been tabled in Parliament, and is the third such report since the office was founded.
The office was established in 2016 and provides an alternate dispute resolution tribunal in line with European Union directives so that people can resolve complaints related to the financial services sector.
The arbiter’s jurisdiction is particularly wide, meaning that he can hear a number of different cases. However, he can only hear a case if a complaint is filed. However, the office, while being independent, works with the MFSA and the arbiter advises them if there is a service provider with a high number of cases against it or where there can be potential harm to a lot of people.

Story 121
Melita Italia, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Malta-based telecoms and internet services operator Melita, has announced the availability of Diamond Fibra. This internet-only product includes 1,000 Mbps, gigabit internet delivered through Italy’s Open Fiber FTTH network and Plume’s smart home services bundle, featuring Adaptive WiFi, HomePass and AI Security, all for €39 per month.
This new service bundle combines the speed of fibre internet access, with the reliability, control and security of Plume, to deliver a powerful and intelligent solution for the smart home. Diamond Fibra will initially be available to consumers in eight cities across Italy ‒ Milan, Turin, Monza, Florence, Naples, Bari, Palermo and Catania.
Harald Roesch, CEO of Melita Ltd said: “Led by Ricardo Ruggiero, the launch of Melita Italia and Diamond Fibra blends our internet experience and customer focus with super-fast internet from the Open Fiber network and Plume’s intelligent smart home services to deliver a new level of service to Italian consumers. By delivering the fastest, most reliable and most secure internet experience on any device, Diamond Fibra is a perfect starting point for Melita Italia’s growth journey.”
Plume co-founder and CEO Fahri Diner said: “Melita has just created the world’s first ‘modern triple play’ offering – unified and managed connectivity over fast fibre and reliable whole-home Wi-Fi, personalised parental controls and guest access, and tightly secured and protected devices. As Melita raises the bar in Italy with an unprecedented service bundle and customer experience, Plume is honoured to be partnering with such a pioneer.”
For more details on Diamond Fibra call 0800 13 72 27 or visit www.melita.it.

Story 122
Giulia Magri
Malta is one of the few European countries which do not provide cremation services, not because there is no demand but as there are no regulations or legalisation for this, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Health Chris Fearne.
Speaking at the launch of the public consultation document on cremation services, Fearne said that Maltese law as it is now only allows burial in designated cemeteries and an alternative to that is burial at sea. He said that “in a year we have around 400 cases of people requesting to be buried at sea.”
ADVERTISEMENT
Fearne said that in 2015 the Cemeteries Policy and Design Guidance was drafted and approved by numerous representatives from the Planning Authority, Environment and Resources Authority and the Environmental Health Directorate and Superintendent of Cultural Heritage.
He said that the consultation document presents a legal and regulatory framework for the public to understand the regulations of cremation. “We welcome the public to read the document and the provided questions which will help spark discussion on the topic. We look forward to hearing the public’s opinion.”
Fearne said that the consultation process will remain open until the end of March. He said that once all the comments and amendments from the consultation are collected, in April the Bill will be presented in Parliament for discussion. “The plan is that the by May cremation services will be legalised,” Fearne said.
Labour MP Rosianne Cutajar said that the government is respecting the public’s wishes on what should happen to their bodies after their death.
She said that recent research shows that 30 per cent of the population prefer to be cremated rather than buried. She also highlighted numerous reasons why people may prefer cremation, be it culture, religious or environment reasons.
“Our island is limited in space and therefore the cremation act will be of benefit from an environmental point of view, as cremation techniques have a minimal impact on the environment. Cremation facilities do not require the same large amount of space which cemeteries need,” she said.
Cutajar added that in the past there were at least four planning applications for the setting up of a crematorium however none of this materialised due to the lack of legal framework.
She said that throughout the past few months she discussed the issue with numerous groups such as Humanists Malta and the Church. She stressed that the consultation phase is important as it gives the public the opportunity to voice their opinions and concerns on the proposals and that the legislators will take all the formal opinions and observations from the public into consideration.

Story 123
Unborn children should be better protected by introducing better antenatal health and social services and stronger family units rather than through changes to the law, the Commissioner for Children has said.
“Heavy-handed approaches which risk making the pregnant woman feel like or actually reduce her to the status of a quasi-surrogate mother are not conducive to the child’s best interest,” the Office of the Commissioner for Children argued.
The statement comes one day after PN MP Claudio Grech argued in parliament that a child protection bill which legislators are discussing should be amended to ensure that “foetus” [tarbija fil-guf] was included in the definition of “minor”.
This, Dr Grech argued, would send a “strong signal” that the unborn deserved equal protection as human beings.
Dr Grech’s line of thought did not chime with the Office of the Commissioner for Children, however, which believed the Minor Protection (Alternative Care) Bill was not ideal to protect the unborn.
“In the context of a child developing in its mother’s womb, there can be no alternative form of care to that provided by the pregnant mother,” the Office argued, emphasising the “natural symbiosis” which bound the unborn child to its pregnant mother.
Introducing “more accessible, tailored, better-quality antenatal health and social services that empower and support pregnant parents to carry their pregnancy to term” would be more effective, the Commissioner went on to add.
That, coupled with strengthened familial and organizational structures around pregnant women, were the best protection an unborn child could have, the Office argued, as it urged MPs to approve the Bill being debated “without delay”.

Story 124
Not Acceptable!
An appropriate representation of the requested resource could not be found on this server. This error was generated by Mod_Security.

Story 125
Air Malta is eyeing longer-haul services such as flights to New York, Toronto and Mumbai, but rather than take the risk of acquiring a wide-body aircraft it is studying the possibilities offered by the new extended-range Airbus A321, Tourism Minister Konrad Mizzi said on Sunday.
Speaking on One TV, Dr Mizzi said one of his focuses in the tourism sector is to improve connectivity, something which is also needed by the financial sector.
Malta airport, he said, already offered more connections to European destinations than London Heathrow, although it needed to increase frequencies.
Tourism Minister Konrad Mizzi speaking on Sunday.
Over the medium term, he said, he would like to see connections extended to more airports in the Middle East and Africa, including sub-saharan Africa, feeding traffic to Air Malta. The same applied for Scandinavia, which was under-served from Malta.
But one also needed to dream longer range and study the possibility of services to New York, Toronto and Mumbai, which were important for tourism. The North American market already yielded 45,000 tourists to Malta, which was just a start, he said.
Rather than take the risk of acquiring a wide-body aircraft, Air Malta was considering the possibilities stemming from the new extended range Airbus A321neo aircraft, which is slightly longer and with more comfortable seating than Air Malta's current planes, Dr Mizzi said.
As part of the plans for increased traffic, he added, Malta airport was carrying out improvements to the runway and it had been given land by the government for more aircraft apron space. The airport terminal would be extended, as would its car park.

Story 126
Please leave this field empty
GET MORE STUFF LIKE THIS
IN YOUR
INBOX
Subscribe to our mailing list and get interesting stuff and updates to your email inbox.
We keep your data private and share your data only with third parties that make this service possible.

Story 127
Minister for Finance Edward Scicluna, Minister for Home Affairs and National Security Michael Farrugia, Minister for Justice, Culture and Local Government Owen Bonnici together with Parliamentary Secretary for Financial Services, Digital Economy and Innovation Silvio Schembri said today they welcomed the recent MONEYVAL mutual evaluation report that followed last year’s assessment of Malta’s effectiveness in anti-money laundering and combating the financing of terrorism.
ADVERTISEMENT
“We reiterate our commitment to implementing the recommendations in the Council of Europe report now officially published by MONEYVAL, namely, the Mutual Evaluation Report (MER) which was drawn up following the assessment of Malta’s system as at November 2018 for anti-money laundering and combating the financing of terrorism (AML/CFT)," they said in a statement.
Together with other stakeholders and competent authorities in Malta, we are satisfied with the progress achieved on the multi-year Strategic Action Plan laid out by Malta’s National Coordinating Committee (NCC). The NCC was established in April 2018 to implement a national strategy against money laundering and the funding of terrorism. The Committee is composed of the most senior officials, coming from the Ministry for Finance, the Central Bank of Malta, the Malta Financial Services Authority, the Commissioner of Revenue, the Financial Intelligence Analysis Unit, the Malta Police Force, the Ministry for Justice, Culture and Local Government, the Office of the Attorney General, the Asset Recovery Bureau, and the Malta Gaming Authority.
The National Coordinating Committee, in collaboration with twenty Maltese competent institutions, will now be preparing a one-year action plan to implement the fifty-eight MONEYVAL recommendations. Each MONEYVAL recommendation will be entrusted to a competent institution, with a proposed set of actions in respect of each recommendation, a time frame for implementation, the resource requirements, including support and expertise, and, where required, an appointed project leader.
These recommendations will complement the measures listed in the Strategic Action Plan, prepared following the National Risk Assessment carried out during 2017. It is to be mentioned that, so far, 35 per cent of the measures have been implemented, in line with the time-frames mentioned in the three-year action plan.
The recent findings carried out by the Basel Institute for Governance, which classify Malta as a low risk jurisdiction for money laundering and terrorist financing, confirm our view that the issues in Malta can be addressed successfully especially through the ongoing reforms being made to strengthen our regulatory and law-enforcement institutions.
The Maltese authorities will continue to exchange information and collaborate with their peers in other countries to address this cross-border challenge. By the adoption of these enhancements and other organizational changes within our competent authorities, Maltese authorities will be strengthened and be better equipped to combat money-laundering activities and the financing of terrorism.
Malta is deeply committed to helping combat money laundering and the financing of terrorism, and we welcome recognition of our efforts so far, the statement said.
AML/CFT are serious, transnational issues that require cross-border collaboration. We are determined to commit even more resources towards strengthening our institutions, regulators and law enforcement agencies, to aid in this mission.

Story 128
The government has taken a major step towards the development of a new open centre at Ħal Far, raising capacity there to 2,400 asylum seekers.
A call for tender was issued on Wednesday for civil engineering and finishing works for the centre.
The National Programme linked to the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund, valid for the period 2014 to 2020, had promised that Malta would “continue to focus on meeting the basic needs of migrants arriving in Malta in an irregular manner. It said that work would will be undertaken to provide adequate accommodation facilities together with the provision of basic material aid such as food, psychological support and health services. It is Malta’s objective to continue to improve accommodation facilities throughout the programming period & be able to accommodate migrants in the case of influxes.”
The programme’s aims were meant to be reached by 2022, with the reception centre being allocated a budget of €7 million, of which €5.25 million is committed EU co-financing.
The situation in Malta has changed since the programme was first drawn up, with the influx of foreign workers driving up rental prices and making it ever harder for the asylum seekers to become more independent. When the programme was being written, capacity was 1,200 and 2,000 for closed and open centres respectively.
The new facility will house 1,000, but because of the improvements envisaged to the existing centre, it will add 400 net places, bringing the total capacity of the open centre up to 2,400.
The centre will not only offer accommodation but is meant to bring together services aimed at the residents, from information about education and health, to services offered by the UNHCR and other NGOs.
The centre will also give the authorities more flexibility when it comes to separating different categories of asylum-seekers, such as minors and the vulnerable.
While in 2018, 1,445 arrived by boat, by March 2019, a total of 237 boat arrivals had been registered according to national statistics.

Story 129
Economic freedom vs security cooperation- Malta's commitment to EU integrations remains fragmented by national interests.
As many of its neighbours’ economies continued to languish, Malta achieved one of the highest growth rates in Europe in 2018. The islands have the third-highest employment rate in the European Union, trailing only the Czech Republic and Germany. According to the ECFR’s EU Coalition Explorer, while the average ratio of employed to unemployed persons in the seven southern member states is 8:1, Malta has a ratio of 25:1.
That Malta has for years now weathered a deep regional economic downturn is due in no small part to a rapid expansion of its online gaming and creative financial services industries, through the provision of preferential tax rates, a legislative environment amenable to offshore banking services, and appeals to foreign investors. In 2018 the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, the European Parliament, and the Financial Action Task Force concluded that weak regulation of Malta’s financial services and online gaming sectors, its burgeoning cryptocurrency exchange sector, and its Individual Investor Program create significant money-laundering risks. Meanwhile, the European Banking Authority initiated an investigation into Malta’s Financial Intelligence Analysis Unit for failing to enforce EU anti-money-laundering standards. Yet, despite this flurry of international investigations and regulatory actions, little has changed on the ground.
Both of Malta’s leading political parties remain committed to its current growth model. Citizenship is up for sale, cryptocurrency exchanges are relocating to the island, and online gaming and creative financial services industries are booming. Even as alleged tax evasion by Maltese politically exposed persons comes under international scrutiny, the political class unanimously defends Malta’s right to “tax sovereignty” and resists EU efforts to harmonise financial regulations. Thus, it comes as no surprise that the findings of the Coalition Explorer reflect a staunch Maltese commitment to national prerogative over EU fiscal policy and eurozone governance. To those across the EU who might wonder how the ruling Labour government maintains overwhelming domestic support despite its links to an ever-growing litany of corruption scandals, one explanation suffices: it’s the economy, stupid!
In stark contrast to its position on fiscal policy and eurozone governance, Malta remains committed to a pan-European solution to the migration “crisis” through the establishment of common border force and coastguard, as well as a common immigration and asylum policy. Like other member states, Malta regards establishing a common immigration and asylum policy as the EU’s highest priority.
Malta regards establishing a common immigration and asylum policy as the EU’s highest priority.
As the prospects of securing a European consensus on various aspects of migration policy – the Dublin II regulations, a Common European Asylum System, and even-handed refugee relocation programmes – grow ever more remote, Malta coordinates with a limited coalition of the willing in disembarking, redistributing, and processing migrants. The islands host the second-highest number of refugees per capita (18.2 per 1,000 people), and maintain the fourth-highest proportion of positive decisions on asylum application (68.7 percent), in the EU. Lacking an EU agreement on search and rescue cooperation, Malta pursues the only migration policy that has broad support across the bloc: the fortification and externalisation of Europe’s external border. To this end, Maltese policymakers see various Libyan actors as able partners in external border management, despite widespread violence and human rights abuses in the country. Malta trains the Libyan Coast Guard on Maltese soil and co-finances border management projects through the Partnership Framework on Migration.
In the eyes of many Maltese leaders, the policy of fortifying and externalising the border has been a success. In 2018 the number of migrant departures from Libya declined precipitously, as did arrivals in Europe along the central Mediterranean route. However, migrant deaths have increased dramatically as a percentage of crossings. Under the auspices of the EU, the Libyan Coast Guard has become more active, with the International Maritime Organization affirming in June last year Libya’s responsibility for a vast search and rescue zone. Predictably, this has led to a sharp rise in the number of migrants who have been forcibly returned to the country and incarcerated in detention centres there. But as Malta and other EU member states shift responsibility for asylum and search and rescue to Libya, they risk violating the 1951 Refugee Convention and the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea.
Lacking economic resources and military power, Malta is not a favoured partner of other member states – meaning that even its closest alliances within the bloc are inherently unbalanced. This partly explains why the country seeks to gain a competitive edge through loose financial regulations, low taxation, and efforts to nurture industries such as cryptocurrency, online gaming, and artificial intelligence. Concurrently, government rhetoric sensationalises the migration crisis and the pressure on Malta as a state on Europe’s external border – even at a time when there is relatively little irregular migration to the country. This approach is designed to increase Malta’s leverage within the EU while also playing to domestic concerns. Rather than grandstanding against the bloc like their Italian and British partners, Maltese politicians across the political divide remain – in rhetoric and reality – deeply committed to the European project. Yet national interests continue to determine the extent to which Malta supports European integration.
Daniel Mainwaring is an international foreign policy adviser and researcher based in Malta. He has been an associate researcher at ECFR since 2013.
The EU28 Survey The EU28 Survey is a bi-annual expert poll conducted by ECFR in the 28 member states of the European Union. The study surveys the cooperation preferences and attitudes of European policy professionals working in governments, politics, think tanks, academia, and the media to explore the potential for coalitions among EU member states. The 2018 edition of the EU28 Survey ran from 24 April to 12 June 2018. Several hunded respondents completed the questions discussed in this piece. The full results of the survey, including the data and its interactive visualisation, the EU Coalition Explorer, are available online at www.ecfr.eu/eucoalitionexplorer. The project is part of ECFR’s Rethink: Europe initiative on cohesion and cooperation in the EU that is funded by Stiftung Mercator.
The European Council on Foreign Relations does not take collective positions. This commentary, like all publications of the European Council on Foreign Relations, represents only the views of its authors.
Read more on: Migration, Refugee Crisis, Internal responses to the refugee crisis, Note from Berlin, European Power

Story 130
The way people were being forced to bury their loved ones contradicted their long-held beliefs, the Hindu community lamented.
"Malta should show some maturity and be more responsive to the hurt feelings of its hard-working, harmonious and peaceful Hindu community, which had been in the country since the 1800s and had made lot of contributions to the nation and society, and continued to do so," Hindu statesman Rajan Zed said in a statement in Nevada on Tuesday.
Cremation for the Hindu community signifies spiritual release and helped sever ties to earthly life, he added.
A Bill allowing the practice was approved in Parliament earlier in 2019. Malta, however, still does not have a crematorium.
“It was simply heartbreaking for the community to perform something in clear violation of their faith,” they said.
Mr Zed added that Malta should allow the community to cremate the deceased on traditional open pyres for which Malta should build a cremation ground.
Mr Zed insisted the tenets of Hinduism and other world religions should be taught in all Malta state schools at par with religious teaching of the Roman Catholic faith.
“Opening-up the Malta children to major world religions and non-believers’ viewpoint would make them well-nurtured, well-balanced, and enlightened citizens of tomorrow,” he added.
Malta should also provide some land for a Hindu temple, he said, adding Maltese Hindus did not have a “proper traditional worship space”. This, he added, would be in line with the Constitution which outlined that people should have full freedom of conscience and enjoy the free exercise of their religion.

Story 131
Aberdeen-based Infinity Oilfield Services and Malta-based Medserv have formed a new joint venture named InMedCo, to provide a broader portfolio of highly specialized technical services to the oil and gas market.
The InMedCo joint venture combines Infinity’s technical and engineering expertise with Medserv’s integrated logistics capability and quayside facilities in Malta and Cyprus.
The company provides inspection, repair, upgrade and refurbishment of topside and drilling equipment for platforms, floating production, storage and offloading units (FPSO), drill rigs/ships and support vessels.
The companies say InMedCo will aim to deliver enhanced service levels, value-adding expertise and reduced rig or vessel downtime to their combined client base in the Mediterranean and North Africa region.
Andrew Mackay, co-CEO at Infinity and Director of the new joint venture InMedCo said, “[The InMedCo joint venture] strengthens our already great working relationship bringing two service-oriented corporate cultures together in a technically strong and experienced endeavor. InMedCo allow us to further strengthen our ability to capture the many opportunities available in the oil and gas, and energy market.’’
Karl Bartolo, CEO at Medserv Group added, “This joint venture will allow Medserv to expand its portfolio of engineering services providing value to our clients. InMedCo will provide superior, highly specialized technical services to oil and gas clients and build on the strength that both the Medserv brand and that of Infinity enjoy in the market.”
Infinity Oilfield Services is an Aberdeen based oilfield services company providing services to the onshore and offshore oil and gas industry. Their technical teams provide specialist equipment maintenance, preservation, storage, mobilization and logistics services for offshore and topside drilling equipment.
Medserv provides integrated shore base logistics to the offshore oil and gas industry as well as supply chain management, premium threading, inspection and repair for oil country tubular goods (OCTG).

Story 132
Hospice Malta raised around €200,000 from public donations during TVM’s Xarabank on April 26. Hospice Malta is a local NGO that provides and promotes free palliative care for persons suffering from life-limiting illnesses.
Hospice Malta chairwoman Maria Gatt thanked all those who contributed to collecting this sum: “We rely heavily on donations such as these to live up to our aim – that of providing and promoting free palliative care services to patients suffering from cancer, motor-neuron disease and end-of-life cardiac, respiratory, renal and liver diseases. It would not be possible for us to provide our array of services without this kind of assistance and support initiatives. This invaluable contribution will help raise much- needed funds to support an increasing number of families who are passing through very difficult times.” She also thanked the volunteers and staff members who contributed towards this nationwide campaign, as well as the Xarabank team for their support.
Hospice Malta offers its services through a professional multidisciplinary team. Its services include home services delivered by a team of nurses, doctors, physiotherapists, psychologists, social workers, complementary therapists and chaplain; day therapy services offering various activities for patients, including physiotherapy services, complementary therapy, spiritual and emotional support sessions, crafts and hairdressing as well as hydrotherapy services; professional care assistance at the patients’ home to support them while serving as a form of respite to family members; loan of specialised equipment; bereavement support services and an after-hours on-call service.
hospicemalta.org

Story 133
A Memorandum of Understanding on air services and cooperation between the aeronautical authorities of Malta and Brazil has just been signed.
Yesterday, representatives from the Civil Aviation Directorate within Transport Malta met with their Brazilian counterparts in Lisbon, Portugal, to sign the Memorandum. The delegations also initiated an Air Services Agreement between the respective Governments.
This Memorandum allows the two sides to reach agreement on a common regulatory framework which would permit the operation of air services between Malta and Brazil, as well as open up new opportunities to the respective airlines and investors of both sides.
This Memorandum is in line with the Government’s policy to continue increasing the connectivity of Malta to the rest of the world. Civil Aviation Directorate Director General, Captain Charles Pace, said that other similar initiatives are also in the pipeline and work has already started with other South American countries which include Colombia, Chile and Argentina.

Story 134
Bank of Valletta, Malta’s largest bank, has been employing a de-risking scheme over the last few months, which has resulted in plenty of companies having their bank accounts closed down without reason.
The banking sector in Malta has suffered over the last few years, with plenty of foreign banks opting to withdraw their services from Malta, resulting in BOV becoming the major bank in the country that is also prepared to offer its services to firms.
However, due to BOV wanting to lower its risk profile, whilst also strengthening its anti-financial crime structures and policies, it has inexplicably started to close clients’ accounts. This follows the termination of the correspondence that Dutch bank ING had with the Maltese bank, which is set to take place in the coming December. Speaking on the matter, the Maltese bank made it clear that the shortcomings were on its part, not on the part of ING.
The main reason that the de-risking is taking place is because of “a spate of anti-money laundering failures, especially in Europe,” according to a spokesperson from BOV.
An official BOV statement read that “Smaller jurisdictions like Malta are being particularly hard hit, since the volumes of business they generate are not sufficient to be of interest to the larger players, given the risks and the compliance costs involved.”
This decision to suddenly close down the accounts of many clients has disgruntled plenty of company owners, as they will now have to relocate their services abroad.
An owner of an unnamed foreign company which until recently was operating in Malta told Maltawinds that “A very large company that has been operating in Malta for 20 years has closed all its accounts and cannot operate,” with it having to “close and unload all its Maltese employees and transfer all the Maltese ships to another flag.”
The most shocking fact is that when asked for justification or whether it had a solution to the problem, BOV simply told the owner to “look for another bank.”
He also added that “Not only are banks killing businesses because they are discriminatory with regard to foreign customers, but they are also now closing good deals that have been ongoing for years.”
To make matters worse, the way that BOV is dealing with foreign companies is also driving away foreign investors, particularly with the way that it is classifying foreign customers as potential financial criminals.
Speaking on the matter, he added that “The fact that our meeting should be with an analyst from the anti-financial crime department is also an insult in itself. Therefore, since maritime trade involves foreigners, it is deemed as a criminal activity.”
Whilst all of this is appalling, it is not all too surprising since the banking sector in Malta has been on a downward spiral for the last few years.
However, the Central Bank of Malta has refuted these claims in the past, stating that the sector remains “sound, resilient and profitable”. Whilst the Central Bank stated that there are no concerns with regards to Malta’s core domestic brands and that small international banks such as Pilatus Bank were of no danger to the country’s financial stability, it is still evident that there are major problems in the banking sector.
To put this into context, Standard and Poors (S&P Global Ratings) rated BOV as having a negative outlook, with there is increased pressure on the jurisdiction’s reputation, with the main concern being the bank’s long-term future. The Central Bank of Malta added that S&P Global Ratings’ score of the bank industry in Malta was “essentially based on the rating of Bank of Valletta,” with the Maltese bank being the major bank in the whole sector.
Late in 2018, one of the most controversial banks in Malta’s history, Pilatus Bank, had to officially close down after several alleged breaches of money laundering. The ECB made the final decision in closing the bank down, by revoking its license completely.
Several other banks have been hit with such punishments when it comes to money laundering, one of which being Satabank, which was hit with a record €3 million fine in July, after it was jointly-inspected by the Malta Financial Services Authority and the FIAU. The inspection found that the bank had extremely weak structures, which could potentially allow clients to conduct criminal activities.
HSBC, which was the main competitor for BOV for several years, is no longer an active participant in the market, with the bank registering a 23% decrease in profitability by the end of 2018.
Several foreign clients have been forced to take their operations abroad or else start working with e-money institutions, with there being extremely limited options locally.
The chairman of the Malta Bankers’ Association, Marcel Cassar, is extremely concerned with the ongoing situation, saying that “there are no straightforward solutions, but more needs to be done to preserve the hard-earned reputation of Malta’s financial services industry.”
Mr Cassar’s statement comes after there was an insufficient number of banks that were keen to take up the service of processing transactions in US dollars for BOV after ING completely terminated its correspondence relationship with the Maltese bank.
BOV have until December 14 to find a new bank which will allow it to process transactions in US dollars. If it fails to do so, then the Maltese banking sector will end up in an even worse situation than ever before.

Story 135
A collective agreement has been signed between the General Workers Union and the Public Broadcasting Services, which falls within the Ministry for Justice, Culture and Local Government.
Minister for Justice, Culture and Local Government Owen Bonnici was present for the signing and reiterated the importance of such initiatives. “Through this agreement we are guaranteeing more stability for the PBS’ employees. This fulfils the Station’s aim to acknowledge its human resources by strengthening its employees’ motivation and commitment to accomplish the aims of its operations, whilst also ensuring better quality in its services. This also leads to more competitive and commercial sustainability for the station,” Minister Bonnici said.
ADVERTISEMENT
This 5-year agreement will see to the introduction of 8 new grades, which will recognise the necessary competencies of each function. All employees will benefit from better salaries thanks to the new structure, including an increase in increments and an increase in the maximum salary grade which the employees occupy, which guarantees progression.
The shift allowance has been increased by 40%. The allowance for recognised qualifications has been doubled so that operational and technical competencies are increased, whilst family-friendly measures have been updated according to current laws.
This agreement is valid between 2019 and 2023 and highlights PBS’ national mission and business plan.

Story 136
Image copyright Kurt Arrigo Image caption Air Malta has turned loss in to profit after embracing the "API economy"
Air Malta managed to turn its business around after two decades of losses and soar with the big boys and girls in the airline industry. But how?
Air Malta is a tiny operator with 10 aircraft that had experienced two decades of annual losses. It was €10.8m in the red (£9.6m, $12.1m) in the financial year to March 2017.
"We said, this is our last chance," explains Alan Talbot, the airline's chief information officer.
Malta, a 17-mile long island between Sicily and North Africa with 450,000 people, relies heavily on its five million annual tourists.
But Air Malta had trouble competing with the big airlines who also shuttle tourists to Malta's beaches and baroque buildings.
It has to supplement its income doing odd jobs for the small country, including air ambulance and postal services.
"We were in a position where there could possibly be no more Air Malta," says Mr Talbot.
He calls the four-decade-old company's battle to find a niche against Air France, Lufthansa, and Gulf Air "a David and Goliath story" of the air.
But the next year, the state-owned airline turned a profit of €1.2m - its first in 18 years. The number of passengers soared to two million, a rise of 11%.
And this reversal of fortune was down - in part - to clever use of technology, the company says.
Two-and-a-half years ago, Air Malta decided to redesign its computer systems around web-based APIs (Application Programming Interfaces) - publicly available ways one company can make its data available for others to use.
Image copyright Kurt Arrigo Image caption State-owned Air Malta struggled to compete with bigger rivals
It's part of a growing collaborative economy.
By working with other businesses and sharing data, you make it easier for them to sell what you offer as part of their own offerings.
This kind of collaboration isn't new to the industry - airlines started widespread codeshares in the 1990s, when large alliances like Oneworld and Star Alliance formed.
But back then, making back-end servers talk to each other was an expensive and cumbersome business.
With APIs, this process has become fast and painless.
Ryanair, for example, started listing Air Malta flights on its website and the tech integration process took just 11 weeks
"We started getting connectivity requests from third parties who never considered us as an option," Mr Talbot says.
Image copyright Andrei Logoviceanu Image caption Car hire firm Addison Lee has also used APIs to integrate other firms' computer systems
"Now, instead of us chasing them, we are in the flattering position they are asking us to connect."
API interfaces also let Air Malta connect more easily to cloud-based software handling different parts of airline operations, like flight operations, reservations, and customer management, the company says.
Other companies, like car service Addison Lee, also are moving towards more integrated, cloud-based offerings in this new API economy.
Addison Lee needed to rethink its place in a "market that gets disrupted by new entrants" like Uber, says Ian Cohen, its chief information officer.
And when it bought global chauffeur service Tristar Worldwide in 2016 in an attempt to expand its upmarket offerings, APIs made it easier to integrate their systems.
Air Malta and Addison Lee use a platform from San Francisco-based Mulesoft to connect their back-end systems to the cloud through APIs.
Amsterdam's Schiphol Airport uses a platform from North Carolina open source developer Red Hat.
The airport started integrating APIs as part of a digital airport strategy in 2015, says spokeswoman Willemeike Koster, enabling passengers and airlines to access up-to-date information.
"We had approximately 1.5 billion API calls [the number of times external software accesses a database] in 2018, and now have more than 300 API uses. Airport data is clearly a valuable asset for many," she says.
APIs bring down the cost of personalising offerings for a particular customer, like a flight followed by a taxi ride, says Uri Sarid, Mulesoft's chief technology officer.
And since customers will get more personalised solutions, companies will sell more of their products, he argues.
"Once GPS is available, who's going to look at maps?" he says.
More Technology of Business
Shifting from back-end servers to the cloud is "laying building blocks for much bigger disruptions to traditional businesses," says Red Hat's Mark Cheshire.
Still, a frequent mistake is for companies to say "everybody's got an API and we should, too", he says.
Instead, "don't try to boil the ocean but focus on getting one API successful for a particular use case, and build up from that," he recommends.
Companies like Air Malta and Addison Lee have been ahead of the curve in moving to a model of co-operating with other companies.
But over the next year, more businesses are "going to migrate into a world of mainstream adoption, where this is routine," says Michael Beckley, chief technology officer at Appian, a northern Virginia cloud computing company that works with APIs.
It will be "a new omnipresent expectation of how computer systems work - they should be collaborative, transparent, and should be scalable," he says.
But there are special challenges with APIs too, he warns.
Companies might find APIs they rely on suddenly slowing down. Maybe the designer of a data source wasn't anticipating a big spike in demand.
While APIs are "great at exposing data, and connecting back-office systems to new ideas," those back-office systems "may never have been designed for that workload," he says.
So in the API economy, says Mr Beckley, businesses "should plan for success and that growth, and have an ability to swap in an alternate service, or scale-up services."
Image copyright Air Malta Image caption Air Malta chairman Charles Mangion announces the firm's first profit in 18 years
Air Malta also boosted its fortunes by selling its summer landing rights at London's Heathrow and Gatwick airports to Malta's government, says Gabor Bukta, an aviation analyst in Budapest.
It will be leasing these rights back, giving it a cash boost of €33.9m - a helpful cushion as Air Malta pivots to its new business model.
Competition is increasing, though - Ryanair recently announced it will start a new low-cost airline called Malta Air.
Malta's Tourism Minister Konrad Mizzi says the new airline will not harm Air Malta, with its different business focus on medium-haul flights, routes to key hubs like Heathrow and Frankfurt, and cargo.
Air Malta is a "small airline, but a very ambitious airline", says Mr Talbot. Embracing the API economy seems to have put extra lift under its wings.

Story 137
A call for proposals for a helicopter service between Malta and Gozo has been issued.
The call was launched by state company Malta Air Travel Ltd (Malta Medair) on Monday.
Read: Time for a Malta-Gozo air link?
Tourism Minister Konrad Mizzi said officials from his ministry together with Malta Medair had concluded the preparatory and consultative work - technical, legal and financial, on the basis of which the call was being issued.
Due to this, the government could proceed to the tangible step of finding an operator for a helicopter service which could take at least 15 passengers.
Read: Could Gozo get its own airport?
“Our vision is to bring Malta and Gozo closer and this alternative connection service would take one from the Gozo heliport to Malta International Airport in a few minutes,” the minister said.
The service would provide between international connectivity for Gozitans and foreigners, better connectivity for tourism purposes and ensure a service between Malta and Gozo in case of an emergency.
Gozo Minister Justyne Caruana said that discussions for the re-launch of the service started at the beginning of the legislature when the responsibility was transferred to the Gozo Ministry.
Minister Konrad Mizzi. Video: Tourism Ministry
The necessary studies were held to identify the most suitable economic model and the service would be given according to a schedule.
She said she and her government’s vision was for better connectivity between the two islands to maximise Gozo’s potential. Connectivity, she pointed out, would also improved with Gozo Channel’s fourth vessel.
The proposals document can be requested by e-mail from enquires.gozoairlink@maltamedair.com.
Proposals will be accepted until June 18, electronically on proposals.gozoairlink@maltamedair.com or personally at Malta Med Air offices Administration Block A – Aviation park, Aviation Avenue Luqa 9023 between 9am and 2pm.
Proposals should be titled “Requeset for Proposal for the Provision of Passenger and Baggage Air Transport Services between Malta and Gozo”.

Story 138
A new research project that aims to analyse eye disease and visual impairments will see data being collected from over 2,000 participants, with individual DNA samples investigated by specialists for genetic traits that can impact entire families.
The initiative, called Malta Eye Study, is the brainchild of ophthalmic surgeon Francis Carbonaro, and is being spearheaded by the University of Malta’s Research Innovation and Development Trust (RIDT). It has already attracted €132,000 in funding, the largest donation ever made by the Community Chest Fund towards medical research.
Mr Carbonaro, who believes that having reliable data on eye health is essential to Malta’s health services, conceived the project while studying for his PhD at King’s College in London.
“While in the UK, I was considering what useful research I could do back in Malta,” Mr Carbonaro says.
“Although other European countries keep governmental records of the eye health of their respective populations – and use that information to improve Public Health Care – in Malta, we do not yet have easily accessible data, at least for ophthalmology. There currently isn’t robust, reliable data regarding the prevalence of eye disease in Malta, data that may then be used to give very valuable insight into the nation’s health as a whole.”
Mr Carbonaro plans to rectify this lack of data through the Malta Eye Study, a streamlined research project that aims to collect the eye health data of around 2,000 individuals from across Malta and Gozo, between the ages of 50 and 80.
“Since we will be specifically looking for eye diseases such as glaucoma and cataracts, as well as determining the prevalence of blindness or visual impairments, we have chosen to focus on an older age range that may be more prone to such eye health issues,” Mr Carbonaro explains.
“By focusing on such a specific demographic, we will also be able to confidently use the collected data to improve local health services. We may even be able to determine if there are any genetic or environmental factors, such as climate, that may have affected the overall health of the population.”
This study will be carried out by PhD student David Agius under the supervision of Mr Carbonaro and Prof. Julian Mamo. Dr Agius, a Higher Specialist Trainee in Ophthalmology, will be collecting and analysing all the data from the 2,000 randomly selected subjects.
Each of these subjects will be invited to attend a clinic for a brief 30-45 minute visit, where they will be asked to complete a questionnaire, before being given a full eye test, completely free of charge.
Among other tests, images will be taken of the retina and optic nerve, details noted of any prescriptions, and the subject’s DNA will be collected via a harmless saliva swab.
The main issue with all research is funding
The eye test will be far more detailed than at any clinic appointment.
Thus, all the study’s subjects will receive free, specialised optical medical care, where they will be referred onwards as necessary.
In addition, their individual DNA sample will be examined by specialists, which may uncover genetic traits that could directly impact the health care needs of both themselves and their immediate family.
The journey to realising the Malta Eye Study has been a long one for Mr Carbonaro, largely due to the struggle to secure funding which, he argues, should at least, in part, be a prerogative of the government.
“Research projects such as the Malta Eye Study should, I feel, be funded and prioritised by the government – or at least incentivised, for instance, by making purchases such as instrumentation VAT-free, like in several other European countries,” he points out.
“The generated data could have a knock-on effect on the specific health care requirements of the general public.
“Accurate data from projects like this may be used to inform strategies for public health care, as well as set up efficient, customised screening strategies, establish projected financial costs and define which medical staff may be required and where.
“It would be an incredibly useful resource for the government”.
With the help of University of Malta’s Research Innovation and Development Trust (RIDT), funding for the project was secured from the Malta Community Chest Fund, which donated €132,000.
While this contribution has covered the purchase of specialised equipment from abroad and the salary of the PhD student, additional funding is required to complete a second study, in which the DNA data collected will be examined in more detail to determine common genetic traits of the Maltese population.
“The main issue with all research is funding,” Mr Carbonaro says.
“Similar studies abroad require tens of millions of euros, and most will have a team on board that can liaise with the subjects, go out into the field and collect data, and so on. By the time you have covered the costs of the equipment and the specialised manpower, the funding is all gone.”
The RIDT was established by the government in 2011 to bolster investment in research and development on a national level.
Funds donated by the public to the RIDT go towards medical research and other worthy causes.

Story 139
VALLETTA, Malta — Russia has withdrawn a request to dock a warship in Malta that officials told BuzzFeed News was bound for Venezuela. Malta planned to reject the request.
It can also be revealed for the first time that Russian diplomats were trying to purchase riot gear and gas canisters on the island, which officials suspect they wanted to load onto the ship.
Russia’s ministry of foreign affairs and its embassy in Malta did not respond to a request for comment.
The move comes days after Malta, a member of the European Union, denied Russia permission to use its airspace to fly military aircraft to Venezuela’s capital, Caracas, from Syria, this month. Venezuela is currently experiencing huge political unrest and mass protests.
This new incident, reported here for the first time, has raised concerns among senior US and European government officials that Moscow is looking to boost its military presence in Venezuela, and, at the same time, flex its muscles in the Mediterranean.
On March 28, Russia’s embassy in Malta asked Maltese authorities for permission to allow a large Russian navy anti-submarine ship — the Severomorsk — to dock on the island from April 23–26, a senior Maltese government official said.
According to the request, the contents of which have been shared with BuzzFeed News, the purpose of the stopover was to “pay a business visit to Malta” for “provisioning and crew rest.” The 7,570-ton Severomorsk is 163 meters long, and has a crew of 403 people, the request says.
Malta initially asked Russia for additional information about the ship’s operations and itinerary, but has since been told by US officials that the vessel was en route to Venezuela, said senior Maltese government officials.
The sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity due to the sensitive nature of the topic, added that the request, which was withdrawn late Tuesday afternoon, would have been denied.

A high-level government official confirmed that the US assessment had been shared with Malta. On the basis of information and sources, the ship — “to the best of our knowledge” — was ultimately bound for Venezuela, the same US government official said.
Commenting on news of recent Russian military flights to Venezuela, the official also questioned the humanitarian nature that Russia claims is the purpose for diverting resources from Syria — a war zone — to Venezuela.
Reports that Russian military planes are flying from Syria to Venezuela, via the EU countries’ airspace, has raised alarms in the international community. The Kremlin is one of the main backers of Venezuela’s embattled president, Nicolás Maduro, after opposition leader Juan Guaidó proclaimed himself interim president in January. Guaidó’s claim is supported by the EU’s member states, the US, and about two dozen other governments.
Reuters reported in January that a contingent of private military contractors linked to the Kremlin traveled to Venezuela to beef up Maduro’s security at the turn of the year.

At a regular press briefing on Thursday, the Russian government described Malta’s decision to close its airspace to Russian military transport planes bound for Venezuela — first reported by BuzzFeed News — as "unfriendly."

Story 140
Updated 10.55am with bank statement
Bank of Valletta has been closing down a number of accounts during the past weeks, mostly in US dollar denominations, citing “client relationship reviews”, the Times of Malta is informed.
As the island is facing increasing pressure on its reputational risk, particularly due to claims of lax monitoring against money-laundering and proceeds from organised crime, BOV informed some of its clients that it will be closing down their accounts.
“Following an internal policy review, Bank of Valletta plc is no longer in a position to continue processing transactions through your US$ account held with the bank,” correspondence sent to clients and seen by this newspaper, states.
Clients, mostly international businesses and wealthy individuals, have been told that while the bank will continue to provide banking services in other currencies, it will close down their dollar accounts with immediate effect.
Relationships and accounts are reviewed on a regular basis
Asked for a reaction, a spokesman for the bank said that while BOV extends services in various currencies to a full spectrum of clients, it manages and maintains relationships and accounts within its risk appetite framework.
“Relationships and accounts are reviewed on a regular basis, and the necessary steps to align these with the bank’s risk appetite are taken accordingly,” the bank said.
Banking industry sources told this newspaper that the exercise made by BOV “might be related to potential problems with its US dollar correspondent banks”.
“Malta’s banking industry has been on the radar for a long time now and this may be part of the consequence. Despite continued claims by the local authorities that Malta is a sound jurisdiction, it is evident this view is not shared by other countries. We are no longer being taken seriously,” the sources said.
Last week, Malta’s reputational problems were also highlighted by the CEO of HSBC Andrew Beane while announcing a 23 per cent drop in profits in the financial year ended December 2018.
He warned about the danger to the sector as a whole: “2018 was difficult for the local financial services sector which suffered further reputational damage.
“It is essential that all market participants ensure anti-money-laundering standards are fully implemented without delay in order to avoid more significant long-term risks. We welcome new initiatives announced by the local authorities which the industry must fully embrace and support,” he said.
Only last year, Germany’s banking giant – Deutsche Bank – withdrew correspondent banking services for US dollar transactions to BOV without giving a reason.
The local bank played down the incident, describing this as “a normal occurrence” in the banking sector.
Banks outside the United States require a correspondent bank to clear transactions in dollars.
'Higher-risk clients' - BOV
In a statement issued on Saturday morning, the bank insisted that the accounts it had shut down belonged to customers which it considered to be "of a higher risk".
"This forms part of a multi-year de-risking programme that the Bank is undertaking," BOV said, adding that any further interpretations were "pure speculation."
"The bank continues to offer accounts in US dollars and in all major currencies," it added.

Story 141


This crawler or robot has been disallowed from visting our site.
If you feel this has been in error, please contact our webmaster
Disallowed Crawler User Agents:

Story 142
Special direct bus services are being laid on for football supporters coming to and from the Euro 2020 Qualifier match between Malta – Spain tonight.
Malta Public Transport explains that the direct services to the National Stadium will leave from Valletta Terminus to Ta Qali between the times of 17.45 and 19.55.
Following the match, MPT says that a further direct service will run supporters back to Valletta, Sliema and St Julian’s, and St Paul’s Bay and Buġibba.
Last Saturday, the national team beat the Faroe Islands 2 – 1 in their opening qualifier match.
Malta wins 2-1 to Faroe Islands in 2020 Euro qualifiers

Story 143
The management and staff at Fenlex Corporate Services hosted a meeting with William Spiteri Bailey, president of the Malta Institute of Accountants, at their new offices in Marsa. Fenlex has been active in servicing local and international, corporate and private clients since the 1980s. Their services include company incorporation and maintenance, accountancy, directorship, trustee and fiduciary as well as tax services to a large number of local and international clients. The main aim of this meeting was to further explore and develop mutual cooperation between the company and the institute, as well as discuss the aspirations of professionals who work within the company.
Times of Malta Premium
This article is part of our premium content. You have exceeded your 10 free articles for this month. A subscription is required to access Times of Malta content from overseas.Register"> to get 10 free articles per month. Subscribe to gain access to our premium content and services. Your subscription will also enable you to view all of the week's e-paper editions (both Times of Malta and The Sunday Times of Malta), view exclusive content, have full access to our newspaper archive to download editions from 1930 to today, and access the website in full from overseas. All of this will also be available to you from our tablet and mobile apps. Already have an account? Sign in here.

Story 144
Hackers posed as the French stock market regulator to break into Bank of Valletta’s IT systems and walk away with millions of euros, Maltese and European authorities believe.
The group, dubbed EmpireMonkey by investigators, carried out a €13 million heist from the bank on February 13, which led BOV to temporarily take its services offline.
The investigations have seen the police, the financial services watchdog, the State IT authority and foreign counterparts all come together to try and trace the missing cash and fish out flaws in Malta’s banking security systems.
“This investigation has involved a lot of collaboration, both in Malta between different authorities but also overseas, with Europol and other entities that are assisting in this,” a source privy to the details of the investigation said.
“We are working around the clock on the case, but it is extremely complex and we have never had anything like this in Malta before.”
A review of the bank breach has already uncovered how the hackers could have been attempting to infiltrate as far back as October 2018. A source said similar “phishing” – a method used to break into a computer system via electronic communication – had first been detected locally some four months ago. This had the same digital fingerprint as the hacking group believed to have carried out this month’s heist.
The hacking group is also believed to have targeted another Maltese bank, however, their attempts to infiltrate appear to have been unsuccessful.
A source was quick to point out that banks regularly receive such threats and attempts to infiltrate their systems were commonplace.
He told The Sunday Times of Malta that last year the hackers were believed to have broken into the Autorité des Marchés Financiers which regulates the stock exchange in France.
We have never had anything like this in Malta before
They then sent out e-mails to Maltese and French entities posing as the authority using an innocent-looking e-mail that included the authority’s official letter heads and a decoy document that, when clicked on, gave the hackers access to the bank’s systems.
The hackers then sought to move hefty sums to international banks in the UK, US, Czech Republic and Hong Kong.
Sources said the authorities had identified the BOV computers that had clicked on the malicious e-mails which inadvertently gave the hackers the keys to the vault.
It is not yet clear how long the hackers had access to the bank’s systems before the robbery was carried out.
Read: Just €19 left and 'no access to my own money'
BOV went completely dark on February 13 after they discovered their systems had been compromised. Branches, ATMs, mobile banking and even e-mail services were suspended and its website was also taken offline.
The attack was detected shortly after start of business, when bank employees started encountering difficulties reconciling international transfers.
The bank was quick to reassure customers that their accounts and funds had in no way been impacted or compromised by the incident.
BOV said yesterday that its third-party payment services outside the euro area were being reactivated from its branch network and it would endeavour to have them fully operational by tomorrow. The bank is in the meantime working to also reinstate these payments through internet banking.
The bank’s euro area payments were activated last week and are operational through all BOV channels in the normal manner.
Read: As cybercrime grows, banks are increasingly being targeted
Meanwhile, industry veterans have their doubts as to whether all the money will be recovered.
“There are mechanisms in place to start tracing the money but this is not as simple as just reversing a transfer,” one of them said.
“The bank now has to reassure people that it is secure – it is of paramount importance if customers are to continue trusting it.”
ivan.martin@timesofmalta.com

Story 145
Kevin Schembri Orland
The Malta Financial Services Authority (MFSA) today saw the basis for its reform agenda launched.
During a press conference held this afternoon, Chief Executive Officer Joseph Cuschieri unveiled MFSA’s Vision 2021, setting out the Authority’s mission and strategic vision underpinned by a set of goals and objectives. A consultation document on the MFSA’s FinTech strategy was also published, proposing the introduction of a ‘Regulatory sandbox’ and Innovation Hub.'
ADVERTISEMENT
Prime Minister Joseph Muscat addressed the event, and said that these documents reaffirm the MFSA's commitment in safeguarding and developing financial services sector.
"What we are sure of is that this institution works, and does take the appropriate measures when faced with challenges. The regulator has been accused of being too lax or too harsh, sometimes by the same critics. As a country we will continue to strengthen the institutions. We will continue to listen and act on constructive ideas, like those made by Venice Commission and will continue to act on recommendations by the IMF," Muscat added.
"I must mention the banking sector. A sector which is facing a new environment emanating from increased pan-EU supervision. It is clear that Malta needs more banks to service growing economy and offer customers alternatives and a more efficient service. While supporting de-risking efforts, one cannot tolerate a situation where banks simply opt not to open accounts to legitimate individuals and businesses, which I would say is in breach of EU rules."
"Banks need to be prudent but pro-active. They need to be engines for growth and not safety deposit boxes. This duty does not fall on one particular bank but on all eco system."
Through Vision 2021, the MFSA has set the blueprint for its mission to enhance its position as a forward-looking, proactive and trustworthy supervisory authority with one clear purpose - safeguarding the integrity of markets and maintaining stability within the financial sector, Joseph cuschieri said.
The vision document also articulates the Authority’s approach to risk management, conduct, enforcement, and Anti-Money Laundering (AML)/Counter-Financing of Terrorism (CFT) supervision.
Cuschieri said: “The MFSA’s Vision 2021 is the start of a transformative journey supported by an ambitious change programme focused on innovation, investment in FinTech and RegTech, modernisation of supervision, and technological development. Our reform agenda includes an overhaul in our organisational and governance structures to enable the Authority to meet its future challenges more effectively”.
Cuschieri said that in the 25 years that the MFSA has been regulating the financial services sector, “our role has grown exponentially to become the single financial services regulator. After such a long period, it is time to evolve, modernise and look ahead with a sense of achievement but at the same time, it is equally important to learn from our experiences so that we take on board lessons learned.”
Describing the changes, Cuschieri said that the MFSA will further invest in the development of human capital. He also said that the authority will invest in the latest supervisory technology, business intelligence and knowledge management tools, highlighting that this will become mission critical to the success of the MFSA and Malta as a jurisdiction. “This is key to unlock our potential and improve our efficacy as a European financial services supervisor. We cannot talk about FinTech hubs, FinTech strategies, Malta as a centre of excellence and Blockchain but at the same time shy away from making the necessary investment. Our new technology strategy will make the MFSA a European role model in the application of the latest technologies.”
As for organisational changes, the CEO said that the MFSA will shortly unveil its new organisational structure and a number of key organisational changes. “These changes are designed to strengthen our governance structure but also streamline our organisational structure with clearer lines of responsibility and accountability, eliminating unnecessary bureaucracy where possible, but also adding new critical functions such as research and innovation, a dedicated FinTech team, risk management, strengthening of financial crime compliance and business intelligence.”
In terms of stakeholder engagement, the CEO said that they plan to engage more with their peers at European level on many fronts to contribute in sectoral reforms.
He said that the authority’s vision statement is essentially “recalibrating our level of ambition but also unveils a set of values which will guide our supervisory decisions and our corporate culture.”
These values, he said, are integrity and trustworthiness where the authority will act fairly and objectively,
In terms of FinTech, he said that across the spectrum of FinTech companies, “from innovative startups to established global financial institutions seeking competitive advantage via increasing adoption and deployment of technology, the focus on investment in financial services technology has never been greater. Global corporations are adopting multiple strategies to deliver on these challenges and opportunities, such as incubate, invest and collaborate. Our aim is to provide a tailored approach to authorisation for innovative firms. Such a tailored approach may include the provision of pre-application support to firms, or authorising them with restrictions, in order for such firms to test their business models and products in a controlled environment. Our strategy aims to build on our success to date, by working with new and existing companies to capture additional financial technology investment and help drive increased investment, entrepreneurship and employment across the industry. Similar to other major financial services regulators, the MFSA is currently assessing viable solutions to nurture innovation and facilitate the industry’s access to FinTech.”
Parliamentary Secretary for Financial Services Silvio Schembri also spoke at the event, and spoke about the FinTech strategy. He highlighted the challenges this new economic niche holds. He said that it paves the way to establish Malta as an international FinTech hub.
The Financial Regulator has been the main player in sustaining growth of financial services in Malta. Today, the MFSA is responsible for more than 2,300 livence operators, he said, all of different sizes.
He said that the drive towards new areas of growth, like FinTech, was pushed by the government.
He announced that in coming days a consultative body is being created and will serve as a forum of discussion between government, the regulator and practitioners to help understand difficulties, and formulate a 10 year strategy for financial services sector in Malta.
"Let change be the rule, rather than the ruler. Change is inevitable."
The Vision 2021 document for the MFSA mentions that the authority is currently restructuring its organisational structure with the aim of “[i] addressing supervisory fragmentation; [ii] streamlining the organisational structure; [iii] ensuring efficacy in the decision-making process; and [iv] addressing supervisory gaps, as well as, eliminating duplication of supervisory processes. The proposed changes will strengthen our governance by providing for clear lines of responsibility and accountability of individual directorates in the execution of the Authority’s remit.”
The document highlights that it is being proposed that the Educational Consultative Council (ECC) should be reformed. Whilst retaining its current remit – that is to: [i] identify gaps in existing skills required by the financial services sector; [ii] provide support in relation to training programmes offered primarily by its members and other entities within the finance industry; [iii] promote careers within the financial services sector; and [iv] maintain a website to provide up to date information in this regard – it is proposed that the ECC should also be tasked with addressing the educational gap at all levels, including but not limited to the available qualifications in financial services (university degrees, diplomas, certificates, etc.) and the identification of new areas where education is necessary, particularly with regards to the areas of innovation identified, such as FinTech and RegTech, amongst others. In this regard, the ECC will be collaborating with the University of Malta and possibly other educational institutions in order to develop the necessary programs of studies to strengthen knowledge in the field of financial services.
“It is also being proposed that an ‘Academy of Excellence for Financial Supervisors’ is established to provide a yearly curriculum to train young and upcoming financial services supervisors,.
The MFSA is also undertaking a Business Process Reengineering (BPR) project to define internal standards and policies; to remodel internal processes in order to improve efficiency and efficacy; to adjust remits, handbooks and task descriptions; to update organisational structures and define new functions; to enhance internal communication; to enhance business intelligence and risk management; in workflow management and business continuity; in data and document management; and to enhance cross-unit collaboration.
The document also highlights that the authority is in the process of publishing an Anti-Money Laundering Supervisory Strategy.
The document also highlights a number of other upcoming changes. The MFSA shall be replacing its website with a new more user-centric website. In addition, the MFSA is proposing to implement an interactive rulebook, similar to those implemented by the European Banking Authority.
The MFSA is also implementing state of the art supervisory technology. “This technology, commonly termed SupTech, will assist the MFSA to automate certain processes and effectively make the supervision of licence holders more efficient. Furthermore, data analytics, for example, can assist the Authority in detecting abuses, as well as handling, complex issues, problems and investigations.”
The Authority also intends to issue ‘Guidelines on cybersecurity for regulated entities’ with the aim of enhancing licence holders’ cyber-resilience, particularly for firms which are reliant on technology. The proposed guidelines will set out the Authority’s minimum expectations with regard to how entities should be addressing cyber-risk and the necessary safeguards which they should have in place.
The document also reads that the MFSA is currently working on a strategic plan focusing on short and long term strategies.
The plans, the document reads, focus on enhancing the core functions of the MFSA, that is, the authorisation, supervisory and enforcement functions within the MFSA. “The strategic plan will seek to enhance our risk-based approach to supervision to enhance the efficiency of our operations and increase market confidence. Whilst it is difficult to achieve a zero failure regime, our strategic plan will seek to enhance our effectiveness in preventing and detecting any misconduct in the market.”
Firms operating within the financial services sector will be asked to participate in the consultation process.

Story 146


This crawler or robot has been disallowed from visting our site.
If you feel this has been in error, please contact our webmaster
Disallowed Crawler User Agents:

Story 147
On 25 February 2019, the MFSA published the third installment of the Virtual Financial Assets (‘VFA’) Rulebook concerning VFA Licence Holders.[1] The final version of this rulebook is the result of a consultation conducted by the Malta Financial Services Authority (‘MFSA’), being the designated ‘competent authority’ under the VFA Act[2] and follows two anteceding publications: one regulating VFA Agents and the other regulating ‘Initial VFA Offerings’ (commonly known as ICOs).
The provisions of the VFA Act empower the MFSA to issue rules as necessary to implement the VFA Act including the regulation of VFA Licence Holders and VFA Services, and the leading provision in this regard is Article 13 of the VFA Act that states that no person shall provide, or hold itself out as providing, a VFA Service in or from within Malta unless such person is in possession of a valid licence granted under the VFA Act.
The Rulebook contains detailed provisions on the licensing requirements of VFA ‘License Holders’[3], being those persons duly licensed to carry out the VFA Services found in the Second Schedule to the VFA Act.[4]
‘Chapter 3 of the Virtual Financial Assets Rulebook: Virtual Financial Assets Rules for VFA Service Providers’ (the ‘Rulebook’) fleshes out this provision by setting down VFA Service Providers’ licensing requirements, licensing process, their ongoing obligations and provisions concerning enforcement and sanctions in the event of misconduct. The Rulebook’s salient parts shall be explored next.
Classes of VFA services, Capital Requirements and Fees
The Rulebook and the VFA Regulations[5] establish minimum capital requirements, application fees and annual supervisory fees payable to the competent authority, as per the table below:
Class Activities CAPITAL REQUIREMENT APPLICATION FEE ANNUAL SUPERVISORY FEE Class 1 Reception and transmission of orders and/or provision of investment advice in relation to VFAs €50,000 or €25,000+PII €6,000 €5,500* class 2 Any VFA related activity except operating a VFA exchange or dealing on own account €125,000 €10,000 €9,000* class 3 Any VFA related activity except operating a VFA exchange €730,000 €14,000 €12,000* class 4 Any VFA related activity – including operating a VFA exchange. €730,000 €24,000 €50,000*
* The supervisory fee payable annually to the MFSA might increase depending on the revenue generated by the business.
The initial capital that VFA Licence Holders are required to have for authorization purposes must be retained at all times.
VFA Agent and Systems Auditor Requirements
A person seeking to obtain a licence under the ACT must engage a VFA Agent who has been duly registered with the MFSA. Currently, the MFSA is in the process of approving the first batch of VFA Agents, who upon registration shall be listed in a specific register that will be uploaded on the website of the MFSA. Where an applicant has an ‘innovative technology arrangement’[6] in place, the MFSA might also ask the applicant to appoint a Systems Auditor, the role of whom would be to certify that the particular arrangement complies with technical guidelines issued by the Malta Digital Innovation Authority (‘MDIA’).
VFA Service Providers operating under the transitory period
Entities who had started operating before the coming into force of the VFA regime on November 1st 2018 and who had submitted a transitory period notification in accordance with Article 63 of the VFA Act are not exempt from the application of the Rulebook, insofar as they comply on a best effort basis. According to a recent circular issued by the MFSA,[7] such entities must engage a VFA Agent, must provide evidence that it has passed a ‘fitness and properness assessment’ conducted by the VFA Agent, and must provide evidence that it has sufficient mechanisms and internal controls to comply with AML/CFT requirements.
Fitness and Properness Assessment
Applicants are obliged to undergo a ‘fitness and properness assessment’ conducted by the VFA Agent which, upon conclusion, would determine whether an entity is ‘fit and proper’ in terms of integrity, competence and solvency. The fitness and properness assessment should not be made in respect of the entity as whole only but should also be made in respect of certain natural individuals involved in the applying entity such as qualifying holders, beneficial owners, members of the board of directors, senior managers, and so on.
The licensing processes
An application for a license under the VFA Act is to be made only by through the VFA Agent. The application process consists of three stages – a ‘preparatory stage’ during which the applicant submits a letter of intent containing an overview of the proposed business and activities to be carried out and a formal application; a ‘pre-licensing stage’ during which the MFSA initiates a review of the application, a successful completion of which would lead to an ‘in principal approval’; and a ‘post-licensing & pre-commencement of business’ stage during which the applicant is asked to satisfy a number of pending matters prior to commencing the business.
Passporting a VFA licence
Although under European Union law, a VFA Services Licence issued by the MFSA in terms of the VFA Act is not passportable to other European member states, other European member states may individually make provision for the exercise of such right. If such right exists by virtue of a law of a specific member state, a VFA Service Provider would need to notify the MFSA of its intention to provide a VFA service in another member state.
Ongoing Obligations – Governance
An entity should have at least two individuals directing or managing the Licence Holder’s affairs. This is known as the ‘dual control principle’ or ‘four-eyes principle’. The internal organizational structure must be clearly defined, with clear reporting lines and specific functions and responsibilities assigned to each person involved in the entity’s organizational structure.
Good internal governance also requires entities to put in place effective internal management systems and controls as you would find in any professional business. The Rulebook specifies what policies a Licence Holder is expected to have, including a ‘Cyber-Security Framework’ to manage the control of sensitive date securely and effectively; a risk management policy; a business continuity framework; a compliance policy and function. In any case, the complexity of the internal systems and controls should be proportional to the complexity of the business activities being carried out by the relevant Licence Holder.
Anti-Money Laundering / Countering Finance of Terrorism
A Licence Holder must appoint and retain at all times a Money Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO).
Safeguarding clients’ assets
All classes of Licence Holders (with the exception of Class 1 Licence Holders) are permitted to hold or control clients’ assets or money provided that such holding or control is in conjunction with the provision of the particular VFA Service they offer. Where Licence Holders hold or control clients’ funds, due regard must be had to ensure compliance with the general principles contained in the VFA Act and in the VFA Regulations. The Rulebook makes further rules in this regard and outlines the obligation that clients’ assets are held in segregated accounts and be subjected to a periodical reconciliation exercise.

Story 148
RYANAIR, EUROPE’S largest low-cost carrier, has long defied conventional wisdom when it comes to branding. Its garish yellow and blue livery–much like its loud-mouthed chief executive, Michael O’Leary–is an assault on the senses. While other airlines try to woo passengers with sophisticated brands, Ryanair slaps them in the face with its low prices. The strategy has served it well, appealing to a majority of short-haul flyers who prize cheap fares over other frills. Since last year, however, Ryanair has changed course. Rather than relying on just one brand, it is now diversifying. First it established an airline in Austria called Lauda, with red-and-white branding. Then it unveiled a Polish subsidiary, Buzz, with a yellow-and-black colour scheme. And earlier this week it created a Maltese-based airline, Malta Air, with red-and-white planes painted in the country’s national colours. Travellers to and from those countries no longer have to suffer the ignominy of flying Ryanair. Yet the services offered on the new airlines will be barely indistinguishable from that of their parent company. So what is Mr O’Leary up to?
The company has presented its recent moves as Ryanair “growing up”. Its biggest competitors are groups of airlines, not companies with a single brand. International Airlines Group (IAG), for instance, owns British Airways, Iberia of Spain and Aer Lingus of Ireland, while the Lufthansa Group controls the flag carriers of Austria, Belgium, Germany and Switzerland. But the similarities end there. For IAG and Lufthansa multiple brands are a necessity, not a choice. Most of their subsidiaries are ex-state-owned flag carriers that are tied inexorably to national pride. If Lufthansa retired the Austrian Airlines brand and rerouted traffic from Vienna via its hub in Munich, it would face a backlash from Austrian travellers and well as the government there. Both IAG and Lufthansa also have separate low-cost subsidiaries–Level and Eurowings–to ensure that that their no-frills services do not damage the image of their more premium brands. No such diversity exists in Ryanair’s growing stable.
Get our daily newsletter Upgrade your inbox and get our Daily Dispatch and Editor's Picks.
The establishment of subsidiaries in Austria, Poland and Malta have some other logic. Low-cost carriers have been slow to gain market share in German-speaking countries, where customer loyalty to national carriers is stronger than elsewhere. Lauda, named after Niki Lauda, an Austrian racing driver who died last month, is a uniquely appealing brand for locals. In Poland, the Buzz name bears more than a passing resemblance to Wizz Air, a rival low-cost airline, which is snapping at Ryanair’s heels in the country. In Malta, favourable employment laws could be the target. Ryanair plans to register 50 of its aircraft in the country, only 10 of which will serve the local market.
But there is also a more mundane explanation. The clue was the decision in February to make Mr O’Leary the chief executive of Ryanair Group. A new chief executive of Ryanair the airline will be appointed later this year. Mr O’Leary has already begun to distance himself from the airline’s marketing. He lets more affable executives on his board do the bulk of media interviews these days. It now takes customer complaints more seriously than in the past, when Mr O’Leary would tell customers who asked for a refund to “fuck off”. That is a hint that after decades of revelling in negative publicity, Ryanair’s brand has become too toxic for some of the markets it now wants to expand into. Mr O’Leary used to believe that “all publicity is good publicity”. But now perhaps even he has learnt that there is a limit to which you can take any management slogan.

Story 149
A baby died in its mother's womb because staff at Mater Dei Hospital were more concerned about sorting out payment issues for the non-EU father, a couple claimed in court on Monday.
In a judicial protest claiming compensation, the couple, a Romanian woman and her Serbian partner, described how they went to hospital for the delivery of their daughter after a problem-free pregnancy earlier this month.
But the baby died inside the mother’s womb owing to lack of professional prudence, diligence and care by hospital staff and the authorities, directly or indirectly responsible for such staff, they claimed.
The couple pointed out that the mother, as an EU national, was the holder of a European Health Insurance Card which entitled her to free medical treatment or reduced fees in case of emergency care in public hospitals.
Yet, they said the hospital staff appeared to have been more concerned with how the non-EU father would pay for medical services at the state hospital, making “no effort to control or address the situation” brought to their attention by the expectant mother.
Such professional negligence and discriminatory treatment in their regard as non-Maltese nationals led to the death of their unborn child, the parents said.
The protest was filed against the Director General of Health Services, the Chief Government Medical Officer, the Prime Minister, the Health Minister, his Permanent Secretary, the CEO at Mater Dei Hospital, the Director (Nursing Services) and the Attorney General. They asked them to liquidate damages within 15 days, whilst reserving the right to further legal action.
Lawyers Natalino Caruana De Brincat and Ivan Mifsud signed the judicial act.

Story 150
Corinthia Palace general manager Adrian Attard was yesterday in Portugal to receive the World Travel Awards 2019 for ‘Malta’s Leading Hotel’. The award was the top accolade given to Malta at the international ceremony, which took place at the Belmond Reid’s Palace in Madeira.
“It is a huge honour to receive an award that sets out to recognise the very best that the global travel industry has to offer,” said Attard.
“This award has been won by every single member of the team at Corinthia Palace, each of whom works tirelessly to create special and memorable experiences for our guests in Malta. At the soul of Corinthia Palace lies a legacy of 51 years built upon uplifting the lives of our guests and our staff, and I am honoured to be able to take this legacy forward at what is certainly an exciting time for the hotel, as well as the international Corinthia brand as a whole.”
The award comes at a milestone moment for Corinthia Palace, as the hotel gets set to complete a substantial renovation process that included new back-of-house services and machinery, a soft upgrading of the rooms and suites, the launch of the new executive lounge, and an upgrading of the lobby.
Phase three of this programme will be the relaunch of the Athenaeum Spa as Malta’s foremost spa following a multi-million euro investment that will be completed in October.
“The Athenaeum originally opened in the early 1990s and has always held a very special place among the Maltese as one of the first real spas to come to open on the island,” Attard continued. “Today we are in the process of reimagining it and recreating it for the 21st century, with a product line and treatment experience that exudes luxury but which is firmly rooted in Maltese nature. We look forward to unveiling it to our guests in October.”
Achieving the accolade of Malta’s Leading Hotel also underlines the Corinthia Palace’s food and beverage offering, with a set of five-star dining options that includes The Summer Kitchen – which has recently reopened for the season, Villa Corinthia, Rickshaw, Orange Grove and Caprice Lounge. Villa Corinthia is also proving to be one of the island’s most popular luxury events venues for extraordinary weddings and other occasions.
Video: Jonathan Borg
“Beyond that, there has been the development of the soft side of the business,” Attard continued. “Namely the consolidation of our in-house Uplifting Lives programme, which sits at the heart of our culture – a culture rooted in the positive, open and creative characters of our team.”
After all, Corinthia Palace is known to be the spiritual home of Corinthia Hotels – a now global brand that started in Villa Corinthia, in the 1960s.
“That means a lot to us,” Attard said. “We strive to be the champions of what we call ‘the best of Malta’, helping our guests to discover our island’s exceptional character and the elements that are truly Maltese.”
Looking to the future, Attard explains that 2020 will see a consolidation of all the efforts that have gone into redefining Corinthia Palace over the last few years, and bringing together the hardware and software that will clearly position the hotel at this milestone moment.
“We are so proud of this award because it is merited by every single member of our team in recognition of their continual commitment to crafting unsurpassable experiences for our guests. They go out of their way to really create something special for the discerning customers who choose Corinthia Palace, and endeavour to showcase Malta in the light that it deserves to be seen in.”

Story 151
Malta’s financial services watchdog made a €7.9 million loss in 2018, amounting to a swing of €15.3 million from the €7.4 million surplus registered the previous year.
A look at the Malta Financial Services Authority’s accounts shows the main drivers behind this loss were a €9 million drop in revenues from the registry of companies, which has de-merged from the authority, and a 37 per cent increase in the MFSA’s costs.
It will be receiving direct funding from the government to make up for the shortfall in revenues from the registry.
Professional fees paid by the authority shot up from €748,288 to just under €6 million, an increase of 700 per cent.
Auditor Godfrey Leone Ganado, who analysed the MFSA’s accounts for the Times of Malta, noted that no details about the ‘professional fees’ was offered in the watchdog’s annual report.
Mr Leone Ganado warned that if the MFSA were to make an equivalent loss this year, its reserve fund could be wiped out.
The reserve fund declined from €27.5 million to €15.1 million in 2017 thanks to a €13.4 million payment the authority made to the government as per its legal requirements, Mr Leone Ganado said.
This fund was further reduced to €7.3 million thanks to the losses incurred in 2018, Mr Leone Ganado said.
Questioned about these losses, and if they are sustainable, a spokesman for the MFSA pointed towards a growing need for more robust monitoring of the financial services sector.
“The achievement of enhanced supervisory engagement will require investment in technology, knowledge management, international expertise and human resources.
The authority will require an increase in its revenues to cover the relevant transformational costs
“As a result, the authority will require an increase in its revenues to cover the relevant transformational costs but also in building the required capacity and technology arrangements to achieve long term sustainability in our regulatory system,” the spokesman said.
The spokesman said the MFSA was working on a new business plan, which will include an increase in authorisation, supervisory and ancillary fees to reduce dependence on government funding and, in the long run, become fully self-funded, the spokesman said.
Asked how the authority would make good for the loss in revenues from the registry of companies, the spokesman said for this year, the MFSA would receive funding directly from the government.
The spokesman said the €5.2 million in professional fees were for compliance, forensic analytics and regulatory actions taken by the authority.
Among the regulatory action taken last year was the formal withdrawal of Pilatus Bank’s licence and the appointment of EY to administer Satabank following widespread breaches of anti-money laundering practices at the St Julian’s bank.
The MFSA’s shake-up and rebranding under the leadership of its CEO Joe Cuschieri has been the subject of praise by Prime Minister Joseph Muscat. Last month, Dr Muscat said during one of his Sunday sermons that the MFSA was taking on a more proactive regulatory role under its new leadership.
Mr Cuschieri was handpicked by Castille and put on a €115,000 salary in 2018.
The move followed a quiet reshuffle of Finance Minister Edward Scicluna’s responsibilities in 2017, which saw the veteran politician lose authority over the financial regulator.
Responsibility for the sensitive portfolio was instead placed in the hands of cabinet newcomer Silvio Schembri, who is based within the Prime Minister’s office.

Story 152
The first details of Malta’s Artificial Intelligence policy were announced on Thursday at a workshop organised by the MALTA.ai taskforce.
Silvio Schembri, Parliamentary Secretary for Financial Services and the Digital Economy, said that Malta aspires to become a jurisdiction in which local and foreign companies and entrepreneurs can develop, prototype, test and scale AI, and ultimately showcase the value from their innovations.
"Our ambition is to create the conditions for AI to a springboard from Malta to the world”, he said.
He said that the.AI Taskforce identified three strategic pillars: Investment, Start-ups and Innovation; Public Sector Adoption and Private Sector Adoption.
There were also three enablers: Education and Workforce, a Legal and Ethical Framework, and Ecosystem Infrastructure.
The main objectives of the Investment, Start-ups and Innovation segment are to make Malta a centre of excellence and a technological hub in the field of AI by attracting leading AI companies to set up operation in Malta, stimulate local start-up activity and raise awareness and visibility of the Malta AI sector.
The main goal for the Public Sector Adoption is for the government to take a lead in showcasing the benefits that can be brought about by AI by using the technology to provide better services to citizens/businesses, improving the economic and social wellbeing of Malta and enhancing the internal operations of the Public Service Sector.
“Our aim is to create an AI-powered government and to do so will assess a number of use cases for public sector applications. These AI use cases will be clearly defined and then assessed against criteria that will consider operational, economic, financial, legal and regulatory aspects, with a view of identifying the projects that can generate the biggest local impact," Mr Schembri explained.
"These projects will be gradually implemented as pilot projects with a view of later rolling them out across the nation”.
He added that this pillar will ensure capacity and capability building and knowledge transfer within the public sector, address training needs, help drive a cultural shift, change management and will also seek to encourage the procurement of smart technology-based solutions with the Public Service.
On Private Sector Adoption, he said that the aim is to encourage SMEs to embrace and adopt AI, help local businesses to use AI and build trust in how AI works in terms of transparency and accountability.
The policy document will be open for public consultation until April 22. It can be accessed at:
https://malta.ai/wp-content/uploads/2019/03/Towards-an-AI-Strategy.pdf

Story 153
Malta fell 10 places on the Euro Health Consumer Index, but Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Health Chris Fearne has blamed this on the fact that the island still does not offer abortion services.
The EHCI started in 2005 and the European Commission has praised it for being the most accurate and reliable comparison of public health among European countries. The scoring criteria was tightened this year to make it more challenging for countries.
Malta placed 27th out of 35 countries with 631 points, which classified it as a ‘red’ country in the report
Those countries that scored less than 650 points were marked as ‘red’ by the report, which means they had a downward trend in the provision of their public services. The report states that this downward trend cannot be interpreted in the way that their healthcare systems have become worse over the time studied – only that they have developed less positively than the European average.
The scoring criteria have been tightened on some indicators in the EHCI 2018, in order to keep the Index challenging
The ECHI report states that there is decent accessibility in Malta, but the country didn’t score too well on treatment results. Also, it pointed out that there seem to be gaps in the public subsidy system of Maltese healthcare.
It also mentioned that this was particularly prominent for drug subsidies, stating Malta has little data on drug use.
European healthcare is steadily improving: infant mortality and survival rates of heart disease, stroke and cancer are all moving in the right direction. Patient choice and involvement are also developing.
“This survey places a lot of emphasis on abortion services which Malta does not have, and therefore we were placed further down”
TVM reached out to Minister of Health Chris Fearne for his comments on the report. “We went back ten places since we do not offer the termination of pregnancies,” he said. “We have more children with serious medical problems… and that puts us behind.”
Minister of Health Chris Fearne has said Malta not offering “the termination of pregnancies” is what pushed the island’s ranking down
Regarding abortion, the scoring of this indicator is somewhat complex
The scores are based on the principle that free, legally defined abortion should be available for women in any country. The report raises alarm that Malta, along with Cyprus and Poland, have legal bans on abortion. It mentions that these bans “do not prevent abortions, but rather turn them into a major health risk, forcing women to go abroad or having an abortion under obscure, insecure conditions.”
For this reason, Malta was given a unique ‘purple score’ (of 0 points) when it came to weighing the abortion measure.
The scores are fundamentally based on the principle that free, legally defined abortion should be available for women
The report shows that Malta was given a ‘red’ rating for concern over suicide rates, cigarette sales per capita, high percentages of caesarean section births, percentages of hospital-acquired strains being resistant and for no online accessibility to hospital services.
Malta was given a positive ‘green’ score when it came to cancer treatment accessibility, kidney transplants, elderly care, low rates of binge drinking and low rates of traffic accidents.
The EHCI analyses national healthcare on 46 indicators, looking into areas such as Patient Rights and Information, Access to Care, Treatment Outcomes, Range and Reach of Services, Prevention and use of Pharmaceuticals. This year two new indicators were introduced, which reflect access to psychiatric care for children and suicide rates.
What do you make of these results? Let us know in the comments

Story 154
A number of towns in the south will be getting a better distribution of their water - but there is no gain without pain, they say.
Fgura, Cottonera, Kalkara, Żabbar, Xgħajra Marsascala and Bulebel Industrial Estate will have their water supply interrupted from Tuesday July 9 at 9pm till Wednesday 10 at 6pm.
Triql-Għaxrata’Settembru in Żabbar, direction Bulebel, will also be closed for traffic from Tuesday July 9 at 9am till Wednesday 10 at 6pm.
All efforts will be done to finish these complex works as soon as possible, WSC promised, while apologising for any inconvenience caused.
The WSC page on Facebook will be updated as works progress,

Story 155
A number of towns in the south will be getting a better distribution of their water - but there is no gain without pain, they say.
Fgura, Cottonera, Kalkara, Żabbar, Xgħajra Marsascala and Bulebel Industrial Estate will have their water supply interrupted from Tuesday July 9 at 9pm till Wednesday 10 at 6pm.
Triql-Għaxrata’Settembru in Żabbar, direction Bulebel, will also be closed for traffic from Tuesday July 9 at 9am till Wednesday 10 at 6pm.
All efforts will be done to finish these complex works as soon as possible, WSC promised, while apologising for any inconvenience caused.
The WSC page on Facebook will be updated as works progress,

Story 156
Workers should not be forced to enrol in a trade union, but if they benefit from better conditions through collective bargaining they should be obliged to make a financial contribution, UĦM Voice of the Workers is proposing.
The idea was floated by UĦM CEO Josef Vella during the opening session of an annual two-day seminar organised in collaboration with the European Centre for Workers’ Questions.
Mr Vella was reacting to a recent proposal by the Prime Minister who called for a discussion on the possibility of introducing mandatory membership in both trade unions and employers’ associations. The move was justified on the grounds that a unionised workforce would be a deterrent for precarious employment, exploitation and abuse.
However, with the exception of the General Workers Union, this solution was rejected on various grounds, including possible breach to the right of free association.
In his remarks Mr Vella spoke in favour of the “agency shop model” whereby non-union members pay a fee whenever they benefit from a service negotiated by a trade union. However, the money would not go to their coffers but a centralised fund meant to finance research and statistical initiatives by trade unions.
A centralised fund meant to finance research
“Such model is based on the principle that anybody benefitting from a service should contribute in some form or another,” Mr Vella remarked.
“This is even more the case, as at present free-riders [non-members] stay on the fence, knowing they would nonetheless benefit from better conditions if a new collective agreement is signed,” the UĦM CEO added.
The debate also focused on the UĦM’s proposal for the setting up of an internet portal offering employment contract templates based on the basic provisions of the Maltese law. This proposal is being floated to prevent the exploitation of workers engaged without a contract.
Matthew Brincat, who was on the debate panel on behalf of the Malta Employment Lawyers Association, expressed disagreement on the grounds that both sides would be stripped of the freedom to contract.
Instead, Dr Brincat called for stricter enforcement as otherwise even with the template system in place abusive practices from some employers would persist.
However, he said that they would consider introducing such measure on a voluntary basis, in order to have a reference point when drafting contracts.
The conference was also addressed by Nationalist Party MEP Roberta Metsola who called on the authorities to crackdown on worker exploitation in the wake of the recent tragic death of a Libyan construction worker who fell to his death due to a lack of protective measures.

Story 157
This story was written in collaboration with Forbes Finds. Forbes Finds covers products and experiences we think you’ll love. Featured products are independently selected and linked to for your convenience. If you buy something using a link on this page, Forbes may receive a small share of that sale.
Malta, Il-Mellieha. View of the famous village Mellieha and bay on a sunny day Getty
All-inclusive resorts can often match the stellar experiences at most luxury properties. By offering guests the chance to enjoy all their meals, drinks and activities where they’re staying, it takes the guesswork out of budgeting and planning during a trip. That allows people to get to the heart of what a vacation should be about: relaxing. That’s a perfect fit for the island country of Malta. With its beautiful beaches and natural beauty, many travelers come to the island to enjoy rest and relaxation amid the unspoiled beauty of the country.
When you’re planning your next trip to Malta, these are the best hotels that are either all-inclusive or offer an all-inclusive option:
db Seabank Resort and Spa db Seabank Resort and Spa
The db Seabank Resort + Spa provides an all-inclusive package that includes a diverse array of dining options and onsite experiences. Imagine yourself relaxing in the sun as you take turns splashing in the welcoming pools or in the ocean at the beachfront hotel. It offers a massive breakfast buffet and late continental breakfast. Guests can choose from six buffet and themed restaurants for lunch and dinner. Beverages can be enjoyed throughout the day, and a free bottle of water is offered to each guest. The db Seabank Resort + Spa helps families make the most of their trip with childcare services and a children’s club with pool slides and planned games. The onsite spa has a sauna and steam room that guests can enjoy after treatments, and entertainment is offered with a nightly live show and after-hour parties.
Book Now
AX Seashells Resort at Suncrest AX Seashells Resort at Suncrest
The all-inclusive dining package at the AX Seashells Resort at Suncrest allows guests to easily enjoy all the incredible onsite restaurants. Located on the Qawra Waterfront—near Birdpark Malta and the Bugibba Beach—the hotel offers beautiful views from any of its 450 rooms and suites. The family-friendly AX Seashells Resort also has a children’s pool, supervised activities for kids, a playground, and in-room childcare services. And it caters to the needs of couples and solo travelers with an adults-only pool and a spa with a Turkish bath.
Book Now
Camino Hotel Camino Hotel
An all-inclusive option is available when you book a stay at the Comino Hotel. This casual hotel is set on a private beach on Comino Island and overlooks San Niklaw Bay. The hotel has 97 rooms and suites on two floors with balconies that feature either sea views or garden views. It has separate diving and water sports centers to help guests get the most of their stay by the sea. Onsite tennis courts are available, and other popular activities include mountain biking, boules, and country walks through the pristine natural areas that surround the hotel.
Book Now
LABRANDA Riviera Hotel and Spa LABRANDA Riviera Hotel & Spa
If you picture yourself talking strolls along the rocky shoreline and savoring the beauty of the Mediterranean Sea during your trip to Malta, they will be steps from your door at the LABRANDA Riviera Hotel & Spa. Located near Mellieha Bay in northern Malta, it overlooks the Gozo Channel. Breakfast is included for all guests, and all-inclusive bookings are also available. The hotel has 250 rooms and junior suites, and connecting rooms are available. Its Elysium Spa offers a variety of beauty and wellness treatments, and the hotel is family-friendly with two large outdoor pools and a diving school.
Book Now
Paradise Bay Paradise Bay Resort
Guests can choose an all-inclusive option at the Paradise Bay Resort, a beautiful property overlooking the Mediterranean Sea, and just a 10-minute boat ride from the Blue Lagoon. The hotel has 276 rooms and suites with balconies. Relaxation is easy as the hotel is located on a private beach. It also has four seawater swimming pools, a large sundeck, and an indoor swimming pool. Scuba diving training is available directly at the hotel, and dive boats depart from the hotel beach. An onsite playground and complimentary children’s club enhances its appeal for families.
Book Now
Qawra Palace Hotel Qawra Palace Hotel
Savor strolls along the scenic Qawra promenade and seafront when you stay at the Qawra Palace Hotel. It’s near the awe-inspiring gardens at San Anton palace and the historical Basilica of the Assumption of Our Lady, commonly known as the Rotunda of Mosta. The hotel has four types of accommodations and most have private balconies. Enjoy the heated fresh-water indoor pool or the outdoor, salt-water pool with its water cascade that looks out on Qawra Bay. Although this hotel is not strictly all-inclusive, a variety of onsite eateries cater to your dining preferences. Also, your stay does include activities such as water sports, mini golf, and a game room.
Book Now
Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Malta Golden Sands Radisson Hotels
Imagine yourself spending your island time relaxing on the private beach of the Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Malta Golden Sands. Although it is not completely all-inclusive, add-on specials are available for the onsite eateries, and a free breakfast buffet is served to all guests. The hotel’s 337 rooms and suites have amenities such as balconies with countryside views. For those who like a workout on vacation, the hotel has tennis courts, jogging trails, and a fitness center. The family-friendly hotel also offers a game room, a children’s swimming pool, and special kids' programs with planned activities. It can even give parents a break with in-room babysitting services, and the concierge is happy to help plan outings for every member of the family to enjoy together.
Book Now

Story 158
Malta needs to increase its levels of anti-money laundering (AML) policing to match the growth in financial services, according to the EU.
As reported by Malta Today, the European Commission said the island jurisdiction’s moves to boost its cryptocurrency sector, alongside sizable financial and gaming industries, mean an effective AML regime is required. The comments came in recommendations made to EU member nations regarding spending of EU funding.
The commission said that it was “positive” that Malta’s Financial Intelligence Analysis Unit had seen increases in budget and staffing levels, and other procedures had been ramped up. However, it sees scope for government failings that could affect Malta’s business prospects.
The commission said:
“Governance shortcomings, particularly in the fight against corruption, may also adversely affect the business environment and weigh negatively on investment. In particular, there is a risk of conflict of interest at various levels of government.
Further, it said the Malta Police Force’s Economic Crimes Unit is not adequately staffed, according to the report.
“In this context, it is important to couple a strengthened legislative framework with timely and thorough implementation,” said the commission.
Malta has been actively working to create a friendly regulatory regime for the blockchain and cryptocurrency industry. To that end, the island’s government passed several pieces of legislation last summer that have since seen notable crypto exchanges such as Binance and OKCoin open offices there.
The nation has already been taking some steps to more effectively spot suspect crypto activity. Last month, the Malta Financial Services Authority (MFSA) announced that it would integrate CipherTrace’s Compliance Monitoring product to “protect consumers, investors and business partners.”
The tool uses blockchain analytics and forensics to look out for “suspicious” addresses and wallets, according to CipherTrace’s website. The firm says it profiles cryptocurrency exchanges, ATMs, coin mixers and money laundering systems, as well as known criminal addresses, to score transactions and gauge the level of risk.
The MFSA said the system also de-anonymizes blockchain addresses, allowing regulators to “evaluate and monitor the trustworthiness of virtual asset businesses.”
Malta and EU flags image via Shutterstock

Story 159
Melita Italia Srl., a wholly owned subsidiary of Melita Limited is to provide gigabit broadband in Italy from April 2019.
Headed by former Telecom Italia CEO Riccardo Ruggiero, Melita Italia will use Italy’s Open Fibre wholesale network to initially provide services in Catania, Palermo, Milan and Naples. The company plans to expand services to more than 30 cities and 3,000 sales points by the end of 2021. Some 100 new jobs will be created, most of which will be based in Southern Italy.
The Malta-based company said its venture will bring innovation to broadband customers in Italy in terms of customer care and product. Following the European launch of Plume by Melita in Malta in 2018, Melita Italia customers will become the second Melita group in Europe to benefit from Plume’s services bundle that provides access to highly personalized in-home experiences.
Plume membership includes Adaptive WiFi, HomePass guest access, advanced parental controls, the Plume app and SuperPods that combine to learn and adapt to the needs of the home to make WiFi faster, safer and more reliable.
Harald Roesch, CEO at Melita Limited, said: “This is a significant milestone for Melita, a business built in Malta, which is now expanding into new markets. While our core business will remain in Malta, Italy presents an excellent opportunity for growth as millions of homes gain access to the Open Fibre network. By combining the skills of our team in Malta - where we are innovative leaders in the provision of internet services and customer experience - with the market knowledge of Riccardo and his team, the future for Melita in Malta and Italy looks bright.”
Riccardo Ruggiero, Executive Chairman at Melita Italia, said Melita has a great opportunity to grow in Italy as the country’s super-fast fibre internet network enters a phase of rapid expansion.

Story 160
The government is winding up a security and guard services company set up just years ago, Times of Malta is informed.
Keys Security Services Ltd, a subsidiary of Malta Industrial Parks, the government’s entity responsible for the management of industrial estates, was set up in 2016 with the intention of providing security services at government properties.
However, no detailed information was forthcoming on the setting up and function of the company and Malta Industrial Parks CEO, Karl Azzopardi, said it is no longer in business.
The only set of accounts published so far by the company showed it employed almost 40 people in 2016.
No specific information was provided as to which entities made use of the company’s services, how were the security guards recruited and what happened to them once they were no longer on the company’s books.
“The company does not have any employees on its books and, in fact, we are in the process to liquidate this company accordingly,” Mr Azzopardi said.
Pressed to say how recruitment was done and what happened to the employees, he said the company offered guarding services to properties that “belonged to the government at the time”.
“As for the then existing employees, we understand that these were originally employed through the standard JobsPlus procedure” and that the “remaining employees were assigned to other entities,” he said.
Sources close to Malta Industrial Parks said the only reason the security firm had been set up was to employ people.
Times of Malta is informed that the majority of those employed by the company hailed from localities within the electoral districts contested by Economy Minister Chris Cardona.
“The employees were eventually transferred onto the books of other government agencies, making their recruitment look regular,” the sources said.
Dr Cardona had set up another security services agency – Fort Security Services Ltd – in 2015. It had soon emerged that the 18-year-old nephew of the minister’s chief of staff had been appointed company director.
Fort Security Services Ltd is still in existence although it does not seem to be commercially active.
Keys Security, whose directors were Mr Azzopardi and lawyer Katrina Borg Cardona, is dormant.

Story 161
Air Malta inaugurated its first scheduled service to the Georgian capital, Tbilisi. The once weekly flight every Thursday will run until 18 September with the possibility to extend this service further in line with demand.
"This is the first time that the Maltese airline is operating scheduled services to Georgia. The interest in this market started around a year ago when the airline was looking at growth opportunities to expand its network. This service is expected to open up new tourism markets to Malta and generate around 3,300 customers in both directions during the period of operation," said Air Malta's chief executive Capt. Clifford Chetcuti.
ADVERTISEMENT
Together with the InterCo Travel Group, the airline's tour operating partner in Georgia, Air Malta formulated a plan to establish direct air links between the two countries. The plan is expected to facilitate travel for Georgians to visit the Islands or other European destinations through Air Malta's European flight network.
At the same time Air Malta is now offering the Maltese travelling public a great new destination to visit. Through Air Malta's network of over 40 destinations, Georgians will have easier access to countries like Rome, Paris, Frankfurt, London and other main European cities.
The flight schedule is operating as follows (all times local): Thursday KM4280 Dep. Malta 0.40am Arr. Tbilisi 6.30am KM4281 Dep. Tbilisi 7.20am Arr. Malta 9.30am.
Air Malta offers a mix of fares from the luggage only fares Go Light to fares like Go Smart with a 23kg checked in luggage. Interco, Air Malta's travel partner in Georgia can be contacted on http://interco.travel
Georgia, a country in the Caucasus region of Eurasia, is located at the crossroads of Western Asia and Eastern Europe. The country is bounded to the west by the Black Sea and to the north by Russia, to the south by Turkey and Armenia, and to the south-east by Azerbaijan.
Tbilisi, its charming capital, is where eastern and western traditions merge together offering a unique multicultural living experience. This multi religious city is the only capital in the world where Georgian Orthodox, Armenian Georgian, Roman Catholic churches, a synagogue, a mosque and a Zoroastrian temple can be found within just five minutes' walk from each other.
One can start off by boarding a cable car to visit the 4th century Nirkala Fortress which commands an exceptional view of the city.
Wander through the cobbled narrow streets of the old town of Tbilisi and admire the picturesque traditional brick build homes which exudes unique character. Visit the National Museum of History and appreciate the extraordinary historic collection of pre-Christian gold artefacts and jewellery.
Make sure to take a funicular and visit Mtatsminda - Holy Mount which is home to St David's Church and Pantheon of Georgian writers and public figures. Mtatsminda offers panoramic views of this enchanting capital.
Walk along the magnificent Rustavelli Avenue and take a tour of the historic Parliament Building.
Your visit is not complete unless you savour the mouth-watering traditional Georgian delights like the Khinkali and Khachapuri. The country is one of the oldest wine regions in the world and has a unique wine culture. The fertile valleys and protective slopes of the Transcaucasia were home to grapevine cultivation and Neolithic wine production for at least 8,000 years. Due to this rich history and its prominent economic role, the traditions of wine in Georgia are considered entwined with and inseparable from the national identity.

Story 162
The MFSA's former human resources director, who was paid to retire only to be re-employed in the same position by an offshoot of the financial services regulator, was personally involved in drafting the rules pertaining to his retirement.
George Spiteri, at the time a director of the Malta Financial Services Authority, drafted the rules of the early retirement scheme which was later approved by the board.
The Sunday Times of Malta recently revealed that after his resignation was accepted and he was paid more than €150,000 to retire from the MFSA, Mr Spiteri was re-employed as head of HR with an offshoot of the authority, the Registry of Companies.
“On the instructions of MFSA CEO Joseph Cuschieri, Mr Spiteri was tasked to draft the rules of the lucrative scheme and which, unlike similar schemes, did not include any conditions for those benefitting from a golden handshake,” sources said.
Clauses on revolving-door policies are normally inserted in schemes related to golden handshakes to prevent beneficiaries from taking sums of money without actually retiring. However, in the case of the MFSA scheme, no such rules were inserted.
An MFSA spokesman confirmed Mr Spiteri had drafted the rules of the scheme but insisted he was not solely responsible.
“As head of HR, Mr Spiteri oversaw all HR-related matters as expected in his professional capacity,” the MFSA said.
He added that “policies and initiatives at the MFSA pass through established channels and are approved at multiple levels of the organisation creating a system of checks and balances”.
Despite not retiring, Mr Spiteri has so far not been asked to return the money paid for his retirement.
“This is a big injustice for those of us who served the MFSA for many years. We were told in no uncertain terms to either transfer to the Registry of Companies or move out,” a senior employee at the registry said.
So far, Mr Spiteri has refrained from replying to questions sent.
When Parliamentary Secretary Silvio Silvio Schembri was confronted with claims that he was involved in Mr Spiteri’s lucrative deal, he insisted that the MFSA “is an autonomous authority and there is no interference in its day-to-day operations”.
In 2014, when Mr Spiteri was responsible for the recruitment of the Registry of Companies, as part of the MFSA functions, the Parliamentary Secretary’s wife was recruited as manager at the same registry. The Parliamentary Secretary declined to comment.
Last week, NGO Repubblika asked the National Audit Office to start a formal investigation on this case.

Story 163
A lot is reported in the crypto and mainstream press about Malta and its open stance towards companies innovating with both cryptocurrency and blockchain tech. However, it appears that many start-ups are struggling to secure banking services with the island’s financial institutions.
According to a report in the Times of Malta, banks have been more receptive to blockchain companies than those building companies around digital assets themselves. However, their inexperience with the technologies often means they fail to make a distinction between the two.
Even Banks in Malta Remain Wary of Crypto
NewsBTC has reported many times about the favourable blockchain and crypto business conditions being cultivated by the government of Malta. In fact, the nation’s embrace of the technology is likely behind the stellar economic growth forecast for the island by the EU earlier this year.
However, all is not perfect for the blockchain and crypto start-ups setting up or shop or moving operations to Malta. Reports at The Times of Malta claim to have spoken to numerous sources – company service providers, legal companies, and corporate finance firms – who informed the publication that banks were declining services to both crypto and blockchain start-ups on the grounds that it was too risky for them. For client confidentiality reasons, these sources’ anonymity was respected.
The publication reports that banks were failing to distinguish between blockchain start-ups and those focusing on digital assets themselves. Parliamentary Secretary for Financial Services Silvio Schembri stated:
“The general understanding is that when it comes to crypto operators, banks are waiting for operators to obtain an MFSA (Malta Financial Services Authority) licence before opening their doors – which is understandable.”
However, Schembri did add that there should be more effort made to understand the industry correctly and that he would be personally meeting with banking executives and share holders to provide the necessary guidance:
“One should make a clear distinction between blockchain operators and crypto operators.”
Banking Difficulties Haven’t Taken the Shine off Malta
Despite reports of crypto start-ups struggling to secure banking services, Malta seems to still be proving a popular destination to do business for the space’s young firms. The MFSA reportedly received 28 applications from start-ups hoping to be licensed as a Virtual Financial Asset Agent since November.
However, such applications are not dealt with quickly given the perceived risks associated with the industry. A spokesperson for the MFSA stated that the precise timeline for granted a licence under the Virtual Financial Asset Act depended on how well each individual firm satisfied anti-money laundering and counter terrorism checks. They added:
“As Malta’s first line of the defence, the MFSA’s assessment with regard to VFA Agent applications is thorough and includes inter alia a rigorous competence assessment as well as checks on the applicants’ proposed governance and business model.”
Related Reading: Malta Attracts 5,000+ Attendees in Crypto Conference, Active Market
Featured Image from Shutterstock.

Story 164
The Argus Group has just announced its intention to acquire FirstUnited Insurance Brokers Limited (‘FirstUnited’), an insurance brokerage firm that provides professional insurance broking services to individuals and businesses in Malta. The transaction is subject to receipt of all regulatory approvals.
For many years the Argus Group has successfully operated independent brokerage and insurance companies in Bermuda, Gibraltar and most recently in Malta, inclusive of Argus Insurance Agencies Limited and Island Insurance Brokers Limited. This latest acquisition is very much part of Argus’ strategic intent to diversify and expand its global business operations outside of Bermuda. Adding FirstUnited to the Argus Group strengthens its international presence and expands its existing broking capabilities in the Maltese market.
Alison Hill, Chief Executive Officer of the Argus Group, says, “I’m delighted to announce that Argus is acquiring FirstUnited to help broaden our global footprint. The market-leading reputation of FirstUnited’s client-centric culture, technical and employee benefits expertise and service excellence aligns very strongly to the Argus brand, making FirstUnited a very natural fit with the Argus Group.”
Ms Hill also noted, “The Argus Group Management and Board recognise that Malta has a proven track record of strong economic development, has exciting market growth potential and many commonalities with the other jurisdictions in which we operate. We are excited and committed to growing our presence in Malta, where we have operated since 2010 and the acquisition of FirstUnited is a significant step in that direction.”
Salvino Mifsud Bonnici, Chairman of FirstUnited, says: “Joining the Argus Group is a positive step for our company. The size of Argus means that FirstUnited will benefit from access to global financial services professionals, technology and resources, including a strong regulatory, governance and compliance regime, enhanced internal business processes and best practice procedures that will improve our client offerings.”
Ms Hill adds, “We value the contribution that FirstUnited will bring to the group. Under the terms of the acquisition, FirstUnited will retain its name and continue to operate independently from other Malta-based businesses within the Argus Group. FirstUnited senior management will continue to lead the company, operate from their existing office location and retain the FirstUnited brand. FirstUnited employs 25 people and there are no planned redundancies as a result of the acquisition.”

Story 165
Malta Might Be 'Blockchain Island' But Don’t Try Opening a Crypto Bank Account
Malta has been hyped up as the happy ending for crypto business who have trouble operating elsewhere, but there’s a problem: banks are reluctant to grant crypto startups business accounts until they’re properly licensed with the MFSA. This process can take up to six months for a first-round response, leaving many businesses unable to operate using local bank accounts.
Also read: Only 39 Percent Pass Malta’s Cryptocurrency Exam
A Banking Snag in Blockchain Paradise
A recent report by the Times of Malta suggests that while crypto businesses have flocked to the world’s so-called blockchain haven, a task as simple as opening a bank account isn’t nearly as straight-forward as they had anticipated, with banks showing them the door until they’ve received the appropriate licensure from the Malta Financial Services Authority.
Malta, a tiny island in the middle of the Mediterranean, has — thanks to its highly publicised commitment to becoming the “Blockchain Island” — made a name for itself in an industry where regulatory loyalty stretches as far as those countries that provide the most favorable support conditions.
However, while many cryptocurrency startups, including high-profile exchanges like Binance, Bittrex, Okex, Bitbay, and Zebpay, have moved or extended operations from stricter regulatory jurisdictions to set up shop incorporating their businesses in crypto-friendly Malta, it appears the reality might not be as rosy.
Numerous service providers confirmed to the Times of Malta that banks are citing the reason for their rejection of account applications as being “outside their risk appetite.” Additionally, Parliamentary Secretary for Financial Services Silvio Schembri told the paper that a distinction should be made between blockchain and crypto operations since banks are less likely to do business with the latter.
It’s Not Just Malta, It’s Everywhere
Ian Gauci, a partner at Malta-based legal firm GTG Advocates, serves as an advisor on the Maltese government’s task force for blockchain strategy and deployment. In communication with news.Bitcoin.com, he noted that the scenario in Malta is symptomatic across the globe.
Gauci, who is also the co-founder of the Malta Blockchain Association and lectures on Legal Futures and Technology Law at the University of Malta, noted that banks in both Malta and abroad are averse to risks. This, he added, cuts across different sectors and is not exclusive to the blockchain industry. In Malta, he said, the issue is exacerbated due to the fact that as a country it has installed a regime to cater for blockchain as well as cryptocurrencies, thus attracting the largest amount of innovators and operators to its shore. According to Gauci:
These [cryptocurrency] outfits, like any other industry, need bank accounts to manage their operations. We have seen a slight opening from certain banks – albeit, in all honesty, it’s still minimal. I am sanguine, however, that once our regulatory regime is fully rolled out (which is imminent), banks can assess the sector from a different angle and in all probability be more receptive to this new industry.
Blockchain Island, Blockchain Bank: Media Creations
Alessandro Benigni, co-founder of crypto market research firm Coinsflare, told news.Bitcoin.com that Agribank was one of the first banks in Malta which seemed to be crypto-friendly, but even there, “they wouldn’t issue cards, you could only have access to the online platform to manage funds.” Benigni added that it’s important to keep one’s finger on the pulse, as banks are “constantly updating their policies,” as is to be expected from financial institutions on the high-profile island.
Former AgriBank CEO Roderick Psaila is reportedly in the process of applying for a credit institution license with the Malta Financial Services Authority. His new venture, RnF Finance Limited, will open its doors to crypto companies, provided their due diligence procedures are sufficient. However, the media’s portrayal of RnF as “Malta’s first blockchain bank” has been blown out of proportion and is downright erroneous. Speaking to news.Bitcoin.com, he explained that such media reports are inaccurate:
The reality is that RnF is not a bank and its application has still to be processed by the appropriate regulatory authorities. So in this respect, any reference to RnF as a bank would be misleading and damaging. Should a license be granted, the model will not emulate any traditional banking model, it will lead a new generation of service providers, always within the applicable banking and AML regulations.
Separating Hype From Reality
Hitherto, Malta has rarely made waves on the world stage. However, with the island’s dedicated insistence on becoming a regulatory utopia where cutting-edge tech in the digital economy flourishes from one corner of the land to the other, this is changing fast. Over and above blockchain, Malta is already a flourishing igaming destination and is now also involving itself in becoming AI- and medical marijuana-friendly.
However, while the industry enjoys widespread support from Prime Minister Joseph Muscat, this doesn’t ensure direct translation to the Shangri-La the media suggests. With everyday operations being stilted by access to services as basic as a business account, the question remains whether positioning Malta as present-day crypto paradise has been too hasty, losing companies valuable time and money in the process.
Emanuel Pulis, CEO of three Malta-based conferences (the Malta and AI Blockchain Summit, Cannabiz Summit World, and Sigma, World’s iGaming Village), confirmed to news.Bitcoin.com that banks are “fine” with opening bank accounts for blockchain operators but less likely for operations in crypto. With cryptos, he explained, banks are “threading on the cautious” and waiting for the MFSA licenses to be granted before opening any bank accounts. He noted, however, that the future “seems bright” with other private banking initiatives that are currently being reviewed by MFSA for approval, adding that this topic will be a central theme at the next Malta AI & BC Summit, which will be attended by Prime Minister of Malta Joseph Muscat on May 23-24, 2019.
Thus, while the blockchain media has made Malta its destination darling, the reality is far more sobering. It’s an island dedicated to playing an active role in shaping regulations around blockchain and cryptocurrency, yes, and shaping them as pro-startup as possible, but it’s not a place where anything goes. At least, not presently where bank accounts are concerned.
Do you think Malta will live up to its much-publicized reputation of being a premier industry destination? Let us know in the comments section below.
Images courtesy of Shutterstock.
Verify and track bitcoin cash transactions on our BCH Block Explorer, the best of its kind anywhere in the world. Also, keep up with your holdings, BCH, and other coins, on our market charts at Satoshi’s Pulse, another original and free service from Bitcoin.com.

Story 166
Billions of euros in suspicious transactions through Satabank are under investigation.
Financial regulators and police are looking into a cornucopia of cases with suspected links to fuel smuggling, drug trafficking, the Mafia and black listed countries, a senior source privy to the case has told The Sunday Times of Malta.
“This makes previous cases of money laundering through a Maltese financial institution look like child’s play,” the source said.
“The extent to which crime seems to have infiltrated this bank is quite astounding. It is one of the most complex cases we have ever had to deal with.”

All 12,000 of Satabank’s accounts were effectively frozen by the Malta Financial Services Authority last October, with EY (formerly Ernst and Young) appointed to administer the bank’s assets in “the best interests of depositors”.
The move came after a joint inspection and audit by the Malta Financial Services Authority and Financial Intelligence Analysis Unit last year found shortcomings in the bank’s anti-money laundering procedures. The police have since been roped in, as well as a magistrate to help facilitate the investigations.
The extent of the problem
Details of what irregularities were discovered at the bank have so far been held under lock and key.
Sources however have now told The Sunday Times of Malta that the extent of the alleged irregularities detected at the bank in recent months had exceeded what the authorities had initially expected.
They explained that tens of billions of euros in transactions had passed through the Paceville bank during its four years of operation and investigators now believe as much as half of these may have been “high risk and highly suspicious”.
“There are accounts through which hundreds of millions were channelled, with very lax controls, and in some cases from questionable sources. Each account is now being analysed to make sure that only ‘clean funds’ are released. It is a painstaking process,” one source said.
The extent to which crime seems to have infiltrated this bank is quite astounding
'This is a huge mess'
Meanwhile another high-ranking source, from a financial regulatory body, said the extent of the rot discovered in the Satabank probe begged the question of how the bank was given a licence to operate on the island in the first place.
“The aggressive business model of on-boarding clients with limited due diligence, and processing transactions with very weak governance and anti-money laundering procedures, certainly attracted many people, but it also attracted the worst kind of people. This is a huge mess,” claimed a source who is involved in overseeing the case.
Satabank was compared to the popular UK-based financial services application Revolut, which allows relatively small peer-to-peer payments with lax controls.
“It is one thing to move €50 from one person to another on Revolut, it is another to move €50 million with basically the same level of oversight,” he alleged.
“In fact, the bank hardly operated as a bank at all – it was more of a payment institution through which more than €30 billion were channelled as payments and transactions,” the source said.
Prior to the bank gaining its licence in Malta, Satabank’s Bulgarian co-owner Christo Georgiev ran an e-money business in Luxembourg. He has since faced a number of international investigations into alleged wrongdoing.
The group the bank forms part of had voluntarily surrendered its electronic money institution licence issued by Luxembourg shortly after Satabank was given its licence in Malta.
The action against the beleaguered bank comes after a change in the MFSA’s top brass last year. Sources within the watchdog said that although the bank had been on the MFSA’s radar since late 2016, interest had intensified last year and a comprehensive compliance review had so alarmed the authority that a freezing order – the most severe action possible – was issued soon after.
The move, however, did raise some eyebrows at it saw many ordinary clients who held accounts at the bank unable to access their funds. The authorities eventually released some of the regular funds to these clients after the review had already started.
Another shock came at the outset of the probe when investigators learnt that the bank’s servers were not even located on the island – a direct violation of its licence.
“So at the very start of the investigation, a request had to be made, through the competent authorities in other jurisdictions, to get our hands on terabytes of information. It was already clear, at that early stage, that there were going to be problems with this case,” a source said.
Satabank for sale
The future for Satabank could include a surprise twist.
A number of interested parties, including banks and foreign financial institutions with a presence in Malta, have expressed their interest in taking over the bank, sources said.
This would see a shareholding transfer on the basis of a new business model, technology platform, service portfolio, governance structures and remediation plan.
Such a shareholding change, the sources said, would need a business case analysis and compliance review including a thorough due diligence before any recommendations would be made to the European Central Bank for their consideration.
Meanwhile, the sources said this was seen as favourable for the jurisdiction as more banks were needed.

Story 167
Malta’s anti-money laundering regime received a poor grade in a draft Moneyval evaluation, with the government now scrambling to push up its final score before the summer deadline.
The Committee of Experts on the Evaluation of Anti-Money Laundering Measures and the Financing of Terrorism, known as Moneyval for short, is a permanent monitoring body of the Council of Europe. It assesses compliance with the principal international standards to counter money laundering and the effectiveness of their implementation.
A senior source told The Sunday Times of Malta that a draft report by Moneyval had “failed” Malta when it evaluated the country’s actions and preparedness in complying with rigid anti-money laundering legislation.
However, veteran financial service practitioners said that while this might appear “alarming”, there was still time to improve.
“Countries do often fail in the draft report and then manage to turn it around for the final document, so I wouldn’t be surprised if the country’s final score is better than this,” one source said.
A government spokesman last night emphasised that the evaluation was still far from complete and would only be so when Moneyval publishes it in July after another eight stages in the process.
Read: 'Malta sending out message that financial crimes go unpunished'
A source privy to the details of the investigation said that unless the draft grade were improved, a chain of events would be set off that could end in the country being blacklisted.
No problems - 'on paper'
The source explained that Moneyval, which conducted a mission in Malta in November 2018, had not found any major problems with Malta’s laws and the measures the island has ‘on paper’. The island was found to be largely compliant.
However, it had raised concerns about how effectively these laws were being implemented by State organs such as the police and the Malta Financial Services Authority.
This second section can see a country’s anti-money laundering effectiveness graded as either ‘high’, ‘substantial’, ‘moderate’, or ‘low’ – sort of like an A to F grading scale in exams, moderate being considered a fail and low being considered a “terrible grade”, the source said.
How did Malta do?
The source said that out of 11 sections of effectiveness graded – ranging from international cooperation to local supervisory functions and policing – none were considered good enough to score a ‘high’.
Countries often fail in the draft report and manage to turn it around
“Half” were only found to be ‘moderate’, “just one or two” were considered good enough to be ‘substantial’, with the rest ranked as ‘low’, the worst grade possible.
The source said the government had already spent “millions of euros” in consultancy fees in a bid to impress the Moneyval mission, however, the effort had come up short.
“In one area alone – risk management – the government spent some €800,000 in consultancy and advice, but we still failed that section,” the source said.
Next month Maltese officials will travel to Strasbourg for a grilling as part of the assessment, and then the government will engage in a dialogue with the Council of Europe experts. Then, in July, the final document will be voted on in a special plenary.
Once the document is approved, Malta will be given a long list of recommendations that it will have to implement, likely under some form of supervision, within one year.
The source said that if progress was not deemed sufficient, the worst possible scenario could see the island ultimately put on a blacklist, adding that several high-level meetings had been held with heads of State organs and the administration to discuss the way forward.
How did the government react?
Asked for the government’s position on the draft and what it was doing to address the situation, the government spokesman said the document was an internal draft undergoing a due process which applied equally to all Council of Europe members.
“Moneyval insists that this draft is confidential and in fact not even sent to any EU or international institution; not to hide anything, but because the evaluation is only complete when Moneyval itself publishes it in July after passing through all the stages. In fact there are still eight more stages in the process,” he said.
He added that the disclosure of extracts from this draft document was unethical because it interfered in this due process and this would harm the country by prejudicing the final evaluation.
“Moneyval aims to improve the capacities of national authorities to fight money laundering and the financing of terrorism more effectively. Let us allow our institutions to undergo this exercise without interference.”
Government sources indicated that an investment drive had already begun in a number of areas highlighted for shortcomings.
The Financial Intelligence Analysis Unit, which has been in the spotlight over the past few years after handling several high-level money-laundering investigations involving politicians, recently saw its budget explode from €1.6 million to €10.6 million.
Similar investments were expected for the police’s Economic Crimes Unit, while the Malta Financial Services Authority is already undergoing a significant restructuring exercise.
The government sources also said that Finance Minister Edward Scicluna did not seem to be losing sleep over the draft report, saying he appeared “surprisingly cool” given the magnitude of the task at hand.

Story 168
VALLETTA/DUBAI, (Reuters) - In February 2017, the Maltese investigative journalist Daphne Caruana Galizia wrote in her blog about a mystery company in Dubai called 17 Black Limited. She alleged it was connected to Maltese politicians, but offered no evidence.
FILE PHOTO: Activists from Occupy Justice Malta hold up placards reading "Who Owns 17 Black?" in reference to revelations by the Daphne Project, outside the office of Prime Minister Joseph Muscat at Auberge de Castille in Valletta, Malta May 15, 2018. REUTERS/Darrin Zammit Lupi/File Photo
She was unable to discover who owned the company, and it remained unclear whether 17 Black had any significance.
Eight months later Caruana Galizia was killed by a car bomb, prompting an international outcry. No evidence has emerged that connects her death to any of her journalism. But her killing did renew interest in her many different claims, leading to media reports about such subjects as banking regulation and Malta’s sale of passports. Now Reuters and other media have begun to unravel another mystery, that of 17 Black.
Two people familiar with the subject in Malta said a report by Malta’s anti-money laundering watchdog had identified Yorgen Fenech, the chief executive of a Maltese property developer, as the owner of 17 Black. A third person familiar with the subject in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) said account records at a bank in Dubai identified Fenech as the owner of 17 Black. Reuters last month reviewed UAE banking correspondence that described Fenech as the owner and signatory of a 17 Black account at Noor Bank in Dubai.
Fenech is a director and co-owner of a business group that won a large energy concession from the Maltese state. In 2013, that group was granted the right by the Maltese government to build a 450 million euro ($517 million) gas power station on the island.
When asked to comment, Fenech declined to say whether he owns 17 Black.
Yorgen Fenech of the Tumas Group talks with VIP guests during the opening of the Oracle Casino in St Paul's Bay, Malta, June 4, 2014. Picture taken June 4, 2014. Jeremy Wonnacott/Malta Government Department of Information/Handout
The ownership of the company is significant because of another document, an email written in December 2015 by accountants for two senior figures in Malta’s government. That email was discovered by Maltese financial regulators among documents obtained from the accountants’ firm, according to a person briefed on the investigation. Its existence has been reported before and its authenticity has not been challenged.
The two senior political figures concerned are Konrad Mizzi, who was Malta’s energy minister from 2013 to 2016, and Keith Schembri, the prime minister’s chief of staff. Mizzi conceived and promoted the idea of offering the power station concession.
According to the December 2015 email, Panama companies owned by Mizzi and Schembri stood to receive payments from 17 Black for services that were unspecified. The email said the Panama companies expected 17 Black to be a “main target client,” with payments of up to $2 million expected within a year. The email made no reference to the gas power station energy scheme and there is no evidence the payments went ahead.
It remains unclear why the Panama companies owned by two senior political figures expected to receive money from 17 Black.
The December 2015 email was first published in April by the Daphne Project, a collaboration of news organizations, including Reuters, that has been carrying on the work of the murdered journalist. In a response at the time, Schembri said that firms he owned had a business plan to earn money from 17 Black but that those plans did not go ahead. He did not elaborate. Mizzi denied all knowledge of 17 Black.
Schembri and Mizzi both told Reuters in October they had no knowledge of any connection between 17 Black and Fenech, or of any plan to receive payments connected to Fenech or the energy project. Fenech denied making any plans to pay any politician or any person or entity connected to them.
Malta's Tourism Minister Konrad Mizzi addresses a tourism conference at the Hilton Hotel in St Julian's, Malta, September 27, 2018. Picture taken September 27, 2018. REUTERS/Darrin Zammit Lupi
The Maltese firm of accountants that sent the December 2015 email, NexiaBT, said it could not comment because of client confidentiality.
There is no suggestion that anyone connected with 17 Black was involved in Caruana Galizia’s death. Three people have been charged with planting the bomb that killed her; they deny the charges. No evidence has emerged publicly about who ordered the assassination.
Mizzi, who is now Malta’s tourism minister, issued a statement through a spokesman saying he “reiterates that there is no connection, direct or otherwise, between him, the company or trust he held, and any entity called 17 Black. Furthermore, he has no information relating to 17 Black.”
In a statement to Reuters, Schembri said he had not heard that Fenech owned 17 Black. He said he was not involved in the power station project and, asked if he had intended to profit from the project, said: “The answer is a categorical ‘No’.”
Keith Schembri, Chief of Staff in the office of Malta's Prime Minister Joseph Muscat, arrives for a joint news conference between Muscat and President of the European Council Donald Tusk in Valletta, Malta March 31, 2017. Picture taken March 31, 2017. REUTERS/Darrin Zammit Lupi
Fenech said he and his companies “never had (or intended to have) any untoward business relation” with any politicians or politically affiliated individuals or entities. “We have always and consistently run our operations in compliant, transparent and above-board fashion,” he said.
Financial records identifying the owner of 17 Black were first discovered earlier this year by Malta’s anti-money laundering watchdog, the Financial Intelligence and Analysis Unit (FIAU), according to two sources briefed on its findings.
Reuters reviewed UAE banking correspondence that summarized 17 Black’s banking activity in Dubai. The documents stated that when 17 Black opened an account in June 2015 at Noor Bank in Dubai, the company declared it was 100 percent owned by a Maltese citizen called Yorgen Fenech. The correspondence also said Fenech is the account’s sole signatory.
The only “Yorgen Fenech” listed on Malta’s electoral roll and company register is the power station developer.
In the spring of this year, the FIAU passed Fenech’s name to Malta Police’s Economic Crime Unit as part of a wider examination of energy deals conducted by the government.
Malta Police said it was prevented by law from confirming whether it had received any information from the FIAU and whether any investigation was under way. In a statement, the FIAU declined to comment on 17 Black because of “secrecy obligations” under Maltese law.
A UAE government official, who was unwilling to be named, said UAE financial and law enforcement authorities were examining 17 Black’s activities after a request for assistance from Maltese authorities. The official declined to elaborate.
In July 2017, more than a year after Caruana Galizia had mentioned the Panama companies owned by Mizzi and Schembri in her blog, a Malta magistrate ordered a judicial inquiry into whether the companies involved any illicit activity. Opposition politicians in Malta and members of the European Parliament called for Mizzi and Schembri to be suspended from office while that inquiry was conducted. The island’s prime minister, Joseph Muscat, declined to do so.
In May this year, another magistrate ordered that 17 Black’s activities should also be examined as part of the same probe. The inquiry is currently stalled, pending a legal challenge made on procedural grounds by Mizzi, Schembri and others. Both Mizzi and Schembri have said they would welcome testifying and disproving any allegations made against them before any inquiry.
In a statement to Reuters this month, referring to the judicial probes, Kurt Farrugia, the prime minister’s spokesman, said that as the activities of 17 Black were under investigation, Muscat would “await the conclusion of this process and act accordingly. He has been consistent on this point.” The prime minister, Farrugia said, did not know who owned 17 Black.
Maltese investigative journalist Daphne Caruana Galizia poses outside the Libyan Embassy in Balzan, Malta April 6, 2011. Picture taken April 6, 2011. REUTERS/Darrin Zammit Lupi
OLD FRIENDS IN POWER
Before he became a government minister, Mizzi worked as a management consultant. In September 2012, he became energy spokesman for Muscat’s Labour Party. In January 2013, at the start of a general election campaign, Mizzi proposed an ambitious plan to reform Malta’s energy sector.
Mizzi said the proposals, which counted on private investment to build a gas power station, would cut the country’s bill for energy generation by 187 million euros a year. Muscat said he would implement the plan.
Labour won the March 2013 election. Muscat became prime minister and appointed Mizzi energy minister.
Mizzi and the government proceeded with the energy plan, and several deals were struck by October that year. One deal granted a concession to a private business group, selected from several bidders, to build and run the new gas power station. Under the selection procedure, Mizzi played no direct role in choosing the winner.
The winning group - which included Maltese investors, Azerbaijan’s state oil company SOCAR, and the German company Siemens – was set up in 2013 and called Electrogas Malta. Fenech, the Maltese property developer, was a director and an investor. The 450-million-euro Delimara power station was completed in 2017.
Siemens declined to comment on whether Fenech owned 17 Black, or about Mizzi and Schembri’s potential business connection, saying “Siemens is not in a business relationship with the company.” SOCAR Trading, the subsidiary of SOCAR involved in the power station project, said it “has no knowledge of the company 17 Black.”
In July 2015, Mizzi bought a shell company in Panama called Hearnville Inc, registering his ownership via an anonymous trust in New Zealand, according to corporate records and public statements later made by Mizzi. At the same time, Schembri acquired a Panama company, called Tillgate, also via a New Zealand trust.
Schembri, a businessman, had known Muscat, Malta’s prime minister, since they were at school together in the 1990s. Schembri became Muscat’s chief of staff in 2013. When he did so, he resigned his directorships of his Maltese printing and stationery business, but remained the owner. Schembri said his position in the prime minister’s office gave him “no involvement” in the power station project.
When Hearnville and Tillgate, the two Panama companies, sought to open bank accounts, they were asked to list their likely sources of revenue. Accountants acting for Mizzi and Schembri sent an email on Dec. 17, 2015, to a Panamanian law firm that was assisting the search for a suitable bank. The email named 17 Black Limited and another company, Macbridge Limited, as the “main target clients” from whom banks could expect payments to Hearnville and Tillgate.
Mizzi and Schembri were asked this month by Reuters if they had knowledge of the email before it was sent. Schembri replied “No”, without elaborating either about the email or what he knew of 17 Black. Mizzi replied that he “did not see the alleged email you are referring to prior to its publication.”
Asked about Hearnville and Tillgate, Fenech told Reuters that “neither I, nor any company/entity of which I am or have been involved in, have ever had (or had the intention to have) any relation whatsoever with the entities you mention.” Asked to clarify whether he owned or had any relation to 17 Black, Fenech did not respond.
Brian Tonna, head of NexiaBT, the accountancy firm that sent the email, said he was prevented by client confidentiality from commenting. He added that the firm was cooperating fully with the authorities.
The December 2015 email said both 17 Black and Macbridge were registered in Dubai. Reuters found no trace of Macbridge. The banking correspondence reviewed by Reuters indicated 17 Black was registered in the nearby emirate of Ajman and opened an account at Noor Bank in Dubai in June 2015.
The person familiar with 17 Black’s arrangements in the UAE said 17 Black was a “flexi-desk company,” a business that could be created without a physical presence in the country. Around 9 million to 10 million euros went through 17 Black’s account at Noor in 2015, the person said, after which the account became dormant. Reuters could not confirm those figures.
The source said that most of the money paid into the 17 Black account had swiftly moved on to other entities, though it had retained a balance of about 2 million euros. Based on the absence of evidence for the business purpose of these in-out transactions, Noor Bank froze the account in September, the source said.
In a statement, Noor Bank declined to confirm any details of the bank account or its actions, saying it was “legally precluded from any unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer information” but always complied with any formal requests for information from authorities.
Maltese financial investigators have traced two payments to 17 Black, according to a source briefed on the investigation and a draft FIAU report from 2017 seen by Reuters. One was $200,000 sent to 17 Black on July 10, 2015, from Orion Engineering Group Limited, marked as provision of “manpower” in Qatar. Orion is a Maltese company owned by Maltese businessman Mario Pullicino, according to the report and public corporate records. Pullicino was also a company secretary of Armada Floating Gas Services Malta Limited. Armada was set up in June 2015. It provided a gas storage tanker for the new power station commissioned by Mizzi.
Pullicino confirmed to Reuters making the $200,000 payment and said it was for work unrelated to the Malta gas project. Speaking by telephone, he declined to provide further details of the transaction, 17 Black or its owners. He said his company “has never paid any money to any politically exposed people.”
Pullicino did not respond to further questions about whether he knew 17 Black was owned by Fenech.
Another payment to 17 Black consisted of $1.5 million sent in November 2015 by Mayor Trans Limited, a Seychelles company with a bank account in Latvia, marked as for “financial advisory services.”
Mayor Trans, according to public U.S. regulatory filings relating to that start-up, is ultimately owned by an Azeri citizen named Rufat Baratzada. The address given for Baratzada in U.S. regulatory filings is a modest apartment in Baku, the capital of Azerbaijan. Neighbors there described 51-year-old Baratzada as a former subway worker.
His family, contacted at Baratzada’s new one-storey home at end of an unpaved road on the outskirts of Baku, said he was now working as a security guard on a construction site in Baku. Reached by telephone and asked whether he owned Mayor Trans, Baratzada said: “If it’s me, it’s me.” He declined to talk further.
POLITICALLY EXPOSED
Through the autumn of 2015, the Panama companies acquired by Mizzi and Schembri applied to open bank accounts in Panama, Miami, Dubai, St. Lucia and the Bahamas, according to evidence assembled by Malta’s financial investigators from emails, obtained directly from the offices of Maltese accountants for Mizzi and Schembri, and detailed in the draft FIAU report. Copies of the emails were also contained in the Panama Papers and shared with Reuters by the German newspaper Süddeutsche Zeitung, which first obtained the Panama Papers.
According to those emails, opening bank accounts proved tough. The biggest obstacle, the emails indicated, was that the ultimate owners were politicians.
A general view of a high income neighborhood of Panama City, April 6, 2016. REUTERS/Carlos Jasso/File Photo
Financial institutions are obliged to take special care in handling customers designated as “politically exposed persons,” or PEPs - people entrusted with a prominent public function or their families. Banks shy away from handling the money of PEPs if they are unsure about the source of it.
The emails show that efforts to open accounts for the Panama companies of Mizzi and Schembri continued until February 2016. That month Caruana Galizia and other Maltese media reported the existence of the Panama companies. Mizzi and Schembri then commissioned audits of the New Zealand trusts they had set up to hold the shares of their Panamanian companies. Both audits were conducted in October 2016 by an office of Crowe Horwarth accountants in Wellington, New Zealand.
The firm declined to comment on questions from Reuters. In notes attached to the audits published by Mizzi and Schembri, the accountants said that the audits were based on “sufficient and appropriate evidence.” The audits stated the Panama companies had carried out no trading activities and that neither had a bank account.
Slideshow (11 Images)
In March last year, 17 Black changed its name to Wings Development, according to the person familiar with 17 Black’s arrangements in UAE. An official at Ajman Free Zone said Wings Development was still registered there but provided no evidence. Reuters could locate no company of that name for comment.
Additional reporting by Margarita Antidze in Tbilisi, Maria Tsvetkova in Moscow and Jacob Borg of the Times of Malta in Valletta; Editing By Richard Woods.
This story is part of the Daphne Project, coordinated by Forbidden Stories, a Paris-based group that continues the work of journalists silenced through murder or imprisonment.

Story 169
Lawyers, programmers, ethicists and other stakeholders have one month to tell the government what they make of an Artificial Intelligence framework document published on Fridya.
The Malta Ethical AI Framework document sets out the guiding principles and requirements which will serve as the basis for AI-related projects in Malta.
A public consultation period for the framework document will end on September 6.
The document was drafted by the Malta.AI taskforce. It is based on four key principles:
* A human-centric approach;
* Respect for all the applicable laws and regulations, human rights and democratic values;
* Benefit maximisation and risk minimisation and prevention;
* Alignment with emerging international standards and norms around AI ethics.
In a statement, the government said that the document was consistent with emerging international standards.
Innovation Parliamentary Secretary Silvio Schembri encouraged the public to provide feedback and recommendations.

“Having a framework on ethical and trustworthy AI is crucial as this will serve as guidance in the creation of trustworthy AI projects but most importantly it will play a crucial part in instilling trust amongst the public.”
Such solid foundations would eventually lead to the certification of AI related projects, Mr Schembri said.
Feedback must be provided by September 6 by e-mailing fsdei.opm@gov.mt or by post to : Malta.AI, Financial Services, Digital Economy and Innovation, Office of the Prime Minister, Auberge de Castille, Valletta, VLT 1061.

Story 170
A system that allows hospital authorities to automatically know whether a person is entitled to free healthcare is in the pipeline.
This would make collecting dues from these patients more efficient.
As things stand, those without a Maltese ID card have to present documentation to prove their entitlement.
This is already an improvement over the previous practice of ‘no questions asked’ and has helped the hospital increase its revenue from €300,000 to €1.2 million in a few years.
“We have not changed any regulations – only the way we do things,” Mater Dei CEO Ivan Falzon told The Sunday Times of Malta.
Mr Falzon explained that following an exercise in 2015, his team realised that a potential €1.5 to €2 million in services were being given to non-entitled patients every year.
When he first joined in 2014, Mater Dei used to collect between €300,000 and €400,000 from non-entitled patients. The current system started to be enforced gradually and last year the hospital collected up to €1.2 million in healthcare fees.
The funds are invested in the training of staff and hospital infrastructure. Last year, for example, the income helped fund part of Mater Dei’s air conditioning project.
Mr Falzon explained that in the past people would head to hospital with a referral ticket from their GP and given an appointment without any questions asked. It was only when they turned up for their appointment that those not entitled to free healthcare would be asked to pay.
This was a ‘lose-lose’ situation that led to confrontation, ghost invoices with the consequent loss of revenue for the hospital, and in some cases the treatment slot was lost, he explained.
Therefore, to make things easier, a new standard operating procedure started being rolled out in 2017. All new referrals now require documentation – such as payslip or marriage certificate – to be presented before an appointment is set up. Those who are not entitled to free treatment are informed of the fee upfront.
This system is still being rolled out across the different hospital departments, so not all patients are being informed as yet.
Mr Falzon noted that on average, 90 foreigners are seen at the emergency department and another 200 by the outpatients’ services every day. Out of all these, between 60 and 70 people are sent to the billing department to prove their entitlement or otherwise, before they are seen by the professionals.
Foreigners need to present their payslip because so far there is no electronic system in place that checks the NI contributions of patients.
Mr Falzon said that the Health Ministry and the Family Ministry were working together on this issue, which has generated complaints from foreign patients.
“The process we are aiming for is that rather than pushing data into the system, we pull data out of the system – for example we would input an NI number, and the system tells you whether you are entitled or not.
Read: €2 million in unpaid bills fester at Mater Dei
“At the moment we are asking patients to show us their payslip, pulling the information from the patient. It should be the other way round.”
The end result will either be a database with updated information about NI contributions, or an entitlement card issued together with the work permit for those without a Maltese ID card or a Reciprocal Health Agreement card.
Director of the Entitlement Unit Michelle Galea, from the Ministry for Health, noted that the current social security data was around a year old, and that is why people were being asked to present their most recent payslip dating to the previous month.
Following an exercise in 2015, Mater Dei realised that a potential €1.5 to €2 million in services were being given to non-entitled patients every year. Photo: Chris Sant Fournier
So were people expected to carry a payslip with them in case they need urgent care?
“At the emergency department we treat first and ask questions later,” Mr Falzon said.
Emergency cases make up 15 per cent of the hospital’s cases, with the remaining 85 per cent being scheduled, therefore carried out by appointment. In such cases, questions were asked first and people treated once those questions have been answered, he added.
What if you do not want to leave your payslip with the billing department?
Revenue Manager Steve Ellul said patients had a right not to leave the payslip with the clerk because of data protection issues. In such cases, the staff had been instructed to contact him for approval and verify that they have seen the NI contribution document. He admitted the need for more fine-tuning of the system.
The patients’ experience…
▪ A woman with Italian citizenship, dependent on her partner who pays NI in Malta, was rushed to Mater Dei by ambulance, where she was admitted for pneumonia-related complications. At the hospital she was reassured that she was entitled to free healthcare but she then received a €2,500 bill at home.
▪ A Scottish man was asked for his payslip upon being admitted to emergency and asked to send it by e-mail as soon as he could, even though he was in pain. He questioned whether people were expected to carry their payslip around with them.
▪ When a British woman turned up for an appointment, she was asked on the spot to present a payslip. When she did not want to leave her payslip with the billing department because of privacy, she was asked for a marriage certificate and her son’s birth certificate as he was the patient. What if her child is in the care of family friends, and they do not want to leave their payslip with them?
How much does it cost to stay at the hospital overnight?
A general ward bed: €256.23 daily
A high dependency care bed: €489.17 daily
An intensive care bed: €931.75 daily
CT scan: €465.87
MRI: €698.81
Normal pacemaker and leads: €3,494.06
What do you need to take with you to hospital if you don’t have a Maltese ID card?
What documentation do you need?
*Unemployed TCNs or EU nationals married to unemployed Maltese qualify for free health
**Unemployed TCNs or EU nationals, not married to Maltese/NI paying foreigner, do not qualify for free health care

Story 171
A poorly regulated online taxi-sharing industry that resulted in increased exposure was behind Malta’s insurance companies almost tripling their annual fee to €2,500, sources have told Lovin Malta. Last March, insurance companies came together to raise all fees on all ‘Y’ number plates, which consist of all passenger carrier vehicles like taxis, vans, or coaches. The fee tripled from €800 to €2500 for some. The issue, however, only started to rear its head over the past month when a large number of drivers went to renew their insurance. Sources within the industry explained to Lovin Malta how insurance companies were forced to step in after years of timid enforcement by authorities. It appears that the increase has stemmed out of growing exposure in poorly regulated taxi-sharing platforms, which are companies that match passengers with vehicles, unlike normal taxi services which have their own fleet at their disposal. This issue has been identified by the state, with the Ministry yesterday announcing that taxi industry is set for reform once again due to the rise of online platforms.
There two types of legislated taxi services in Malta, white taxis and all other chauffeur-driven services. Both face different regulations, namely that white taxis are allowed to remain on the road when they are not carrying passengers, while other vehicles must return to a public service garage. A public service garage is any garage over 25 square metres that is licensed to hold vehicles for hire. However, through the new platforms, people are often using public service garages to be used as taxis without any links to that garages. Within the current legislation, any taxi has to be driven by the owner of the garage or by someone employed by him or her. For example, a public service garage could have 10 vehicles registered, and simply lease out those 10 cars to any number of drivers who are not employed with the garage. In fact, since the start of 2017, the number of registered chauffeur-driven cars has almost doubled. In the preceding years, the number of ‘garage hire’ passenger cars only increased by roughly 100 per year. However, in just two years the number has increased by 1,000. Such abuse presents a safety issue with regard to culpability. If such a taxi is involved in an accident, who is responsible, the driver or the public service garage owner?

Story 172
The EU's banking regulator said it has "serious concerns" on the effectiveness of the Malta Financial Services Authority's supervision of financial institutions in the country but it did not find evidence that EU laws were breached.
"With regard to the Malta Financial Services Authority (MFSA), which is the competent authority responsible for supervising compliance with prudential requirements, and in spite of serious concerns about the adequacy and effectiveness of the MFSA's approach to supervision, the EBA arrived at the view that there was not enough evidence to conclude that Union law had been breached," the European Banking Authority's annual report said.
In 2018, the EU's banking watchdog started an preliminary inquiry into the MFSA and the Financial Intelligence Analysis Unit (FIAU), the competent authority in Malta responsible for supervising financial institutions' compliance with their AML/CFT obligations, after concerns about the supervision of the now defunct Pilatus Bank.
In spite of serious concerns about the adequacy and effectiveness of the MFSA’s approach to supervision, the EBA arrived at the view that there was not enough evidence to conclude that Union law had been breached"
The investigation found that the FIAU had breached EU anti-money laundering laws in 2016 during the course of its monitoring of the bank owned by Iranian national Seyed Ali Sadr Hasheminejad, who is facing money-laundering and sanction-busting charges in the United States.
The EBA said in the report that the FIAU "failed to supervise effectively the high-risk bank Pilatus."
FIAU is now providing regular updates to the EBA on the progress of implementing the EU's recommendations, which included enhancing its ML/TF risk assessment of the financial sector; establishing a clear supervisory strategy; implementing robust supervisory procedures; improving its decision-making processes; and reviewing its sanctioning procedures.
Concerns about the MFSA's supervision were raised by the International Monetary Fund in a March report.
Being an international financial services hub, Malta provides a platform for transactions and operations of a diverse nature to take place through its financial systems. This makes the financial services industry in Malta also vulnerable to money laundering of foreign proceeds of crime.
Finance Minister Edward Scicluna has insisted the government is working relentlessly on improving Malta's anti-money laundering supervision.
Subscribe to International Investment's free, twice-daily, newsletter

Story 173
Bank of Valletta's Single Euro Payments Area services are now back to being fully operational, the bank said on Friday evening.
The bank said in a statement Friday afternoon that it was "working relentlessly to restore its full payment services as soon as possible".
As has been communicated before, all other services are operating normally after the bank was compelled to shut down all of operations following a cyber-attack that saw €13 million being transferred out of the bank through false international transactions.
ADVERTISEMENT
Following overnight testing of the bank's IT systems, BOV resumed its operations on Thursday, however payment to third parties were not activated pending further tests.
The bank said that for any queries customers, customers should contact the BOV Customer Service Centre on [email protected] or +356 21312020.

Story 174
Queen's former home in Malta is on the market
Queen's former home in Malta is on the market
Princess Elizabeth, as she was then, with the Duke of Edinburgh at the villa in 1949
A property in Malta once home to the Queen and Duke of Edinburgh is on the market for £5.3m.
Villa Guardamangia is a six-bedroom palazzo-style mansion on the outskirts of the Maltese capital Valletta.
Between 1949 and 1951 it was a royal residence while Philip served on HMS Chequers with the Royal Navy Mediterranean Fleet.
Those early years of marriage were perhaps the closest the couple got to "normal life" before her coronation in 1953.
As well as the bedrooms, the villa has three bathrooms, a grand living room, sea views, a roof terrace, guest and servant quarters and "great historical value", according to estate agents Homes of Quality.
Advertisement
Image: The exterior may have seen better days but the estate agent says it has potential
But, despite its regal history, it looks a little dilapidated these days, with gardens overgrown and the exterior somewhat faded.
The estate agent describes it as "just crying out for a great conversion" but promises it could become a "superb residence or possibly a commercial venue".
Image: Villa Guardamangia is in Pieta, just outside Valletta
The property, which covers 1,560sqm has an asking price of €5.95m (£5.3m).
The Queen has spoken of her "deep affection" for Malta, saying during a 2015 trip that visiting the country was "always very special for me".
"I remember happy days here with Prince Philip when we were first married," she said.

Story 175
Asylum seekers, refugees, and detainees are living in “deplorable” conditions and experiencing discrimination and negative attitudes when dealing with public officials in Malta, according to a report by the Asylum information Database (AIDA).

A number of serious concerns have been raised around the treatment and living conditions of asylum seekers, refugees, and detainees in the country. Those residing in Open Centres have been found to be experiencing difficulties in securing an “adequate standard of living”.
Conditions are described as “extremely challenging,” according to the report.
NGOs accessing the centres observed that the daily allowance of between €2.91 and €4.66 was not enough to meet basic needs. There were also issues with low hygiene levels, severe overcrowding, poor infrastructure and a lack of security.
Rat and cockroach infestations were also a significant problem across the centres.
Following a visit from the UN Working Group of Arbitrary Detention in 2015, where concerns were expressed about migrants living in prefabricated containers in wholly inadequate conditions, the 2018 report from AIDA notes that the situation remains deplorable.

Concerns were also raised around the lack of access provided to individuals or organisations that want to provide services to residents at Open Centres. Only a very limited number of NGOs, lawyers and UNHCR officials were granted access. Volunteers, academics, friends, and the media were generally refused.
The report said that people suffering from mental health issues, or those who have experienced trauma or torture were rarely identified or treated. There were no specialised services in the country to provide for any of the those in need of care, and legal aid was not widely available.
The situation in detention centres was not much better. Detainees were supervised by untrained and unskilled individuals and reports were included of excessive use of force used as punishments, to gain control, or discipline detainees. There were also issues relating to a lack of effective redress in cases of detainees accusing staff of abuse.
Inadequate sanitation, lack of privacy, no provision of weather-appropriate clothes, no proper heating or ventilation, deficiencies in availability of legal aid were all present in detention centres.

Individuals granted asylum encounter difficulties when trying to access the labour market. Discrimination and exploitation were widespread, with low and unpaid wages, long working hours and unsafe working conditions.

Those granted refugee status and allowed to apply for a three year renewable residence permit, reported strong negative attitudes, comments, rebukes, dismissals, and instances of disrespectful behaviour by public officials.
The report also clarified that migrants can only be returned to countries of a safe origin under certain circumstances and as defined by the Refugee Act.
Countries on the list include EU and EEA states, Senegal, Ghana, and India. It does not include countries such as Syria, Somalia, Sudan, Pakistan, Ukraine, Nigeria, Palestine or Pakistan where a high number of migrants come from.
Libya is also not included in the list – a country which Joseph Muscat has said that migrants in the Mediterranean should be dealt with by the Libyan coastguard.
A total of 532 applications were deemed inadmissible in 2018, a significant increase when compared to the 246 the year before. NGOs have raised concerns on the process.

At the Report of the Working Group on the Universal Periodic Review last week at the United Nations in Geneva, 20 member states called on Malta to better address the rights of asylum seekers.
Criticism included infringements on human rights, xenophobia and racism, poor living conditions, and a lack of access to adequate medical, legal or education services.

Story 176


This crawler or robot has been disallowed from visting our site.
If you feel this has been in error, please contact our webmaster
Disallowed Crawler User Agents:

Story 177
It is dismaying that Turkey’s military operation in northeastern Syria is being spun in the American news media as an attack on Kurds, as weakening the fight against the remnants of Daesh (or the so-called Islamic State) and hurting America’s credibility with its allies. I am compelled to set the record straight because the 67-year-old Nato alliance that Turkey has with the United States is not temporary, tactical nor transactional.
Turkey started the operation to ensure its national security by removing the danger posed by terrorists along its border regions. This operation will liberate Syrians living there from the tyranny of terrorist organisations and eliminate the threat to Syria’s territorial integrity and political unity.
These two developments would facilitate the safe and voluntary return of displaced Syrians.
Turkey has never accepted a corridor run by a terrorist group on its border. We have repeatedly proposed establishing a safe zone, including at the United Nations General Assembly. We have called on the United States to stop providing material support to terrorists.
But the American security bureaucracy couldn’t bring itself to disengage from the group, known for short as the PYD/YPG. This is even though American officials, including a secretary of defence, have admitted that the PYD/YPG, which forms the core of Syrian Democratic Forces, is inseparable from the Kurdistan Workers’ Party, or the PKK, in Turkey, which is recognised as a terrorist organisation by the United States, the European Union and Nato.
Our American interlocutors seemed to agree that those forces needed to be removed from along our borders and we had even agreed on a timeline. Most recently, military-to-military talks in August ended with a mutual commitment to establish a safe zone from which the PYD/YPG was supposed to be removed. But the United States did not see this through and gave us the strong impression that it was playing for time as the terrorist group entrenched itself even deeper in Syria.
The PYD/YPG may present itself to the world as the group that fought Daesh, but it also smuggles explosives to the PKK by digging tunnels into Turkish soil. We have found its members ushering Daesh prisoners toward Turkey. And in November 2017, the BBC reported on a secret deal under which the Syrian Democratic Forces arranged transport and allowed hundreds of Daesh terrorists to escape during the coalition operation to liberate the city of Raqqa.
We had to act. Several voices expressed concerns about the safety of the Kurdish population in Syria. I want to repeat and emphasise that Turkey’s fight is not against the Kurds. Our fight is against the terrorists. Any description of the situation as “Turks against Kurds” is malicious and false. Kurds are not our enemies.
Our target is the complex of terror run together by the Kurdistan Workers’ Party and the PYD/YPG, which have recruited child soldiers, intimidated dissidents, altered the demography and forced conscription in areas under their control.
The Kurds, Arabs, Christians and others who have been suffering under the PYD/YPG yoke will be better off when freed. The World Council of Aramaean Christians have been asserting this point insistently.
Before proceeding with this operation, we have taken all steps to minimise risk to civilians and prevent a humanitarian crisis.
Over the past several years, Turkey has provided shelter to large numbers of refugees from northeastern Syria, including Arabs, Kurds and Turkmens.
The fight against Daesh and other terrorist organisations will have to continue with everyone’s contributions and cooperation
Most of them, including over 300,000 Kurds, were driven from their homes by the terrorists. We have extended to them safety, shelter and livelihood in Turkey. We have shared our bread and the benefits of our public services. Turkey is the biggest humanitarian spender in the world and host to most refugees worldwide.
Turkey has established a reliable pattern in the last three years. Turkey’s operations in northwestern Syria – in 2016-7 in and around Jarabulus and 2018 in Afrin – cleared a vast area of the terrorist presence.
In the aftermath of those operations the communities that suffered under the terrorists started living in peace and benefiting from orderly governance. Some 365,000 refugees returned to their home in northwestern Syria.
We have instituted public services, including schools for over 230,000 students. Six hospitals with 55 ambulances employ over 2,000 Syrian and Turkish personnel in liberated areas in northwestern Syria. Scores of recreational and sports facilities were built, including a soccer stadium. Businesses were rehabilitated and a border gate was opened to facilitate trade. Agriculture and animal husbandry started receiving material support.
Compare Turkey’s previous operations to the destruction of Raqqa by the coalition and you will see how carefully we manage counterterrorism operations. The lessons learned in those operations will help us make it even better this time around.
The PKK and the PYD/YPG have been blackmailing the global community by claiming that the fight against Daesh would falter without them. But the fight against those brutal terrorists will not falter, especially if our allies stay the course and cooperate with Turkey. We are the only nation that put boots on the ground against Daesh.
The fight against Daesh and other terrorist organisations will have to continue with everyone’s contributions and cooperation. Several European countries have been reluctant to allow the return of their citizens who joined the group. However, wishing away the problem cannot be the policy. They must shoulder their share of the burden.
We in Turkey are convinced that we are paving the way for the Syrian refugees to return home and ensuring that Daesh and other terrorist groups will not re-emerge.
I am aware that safe and voluntary return home of the Syrian refugees needs to be carefully planned and managed. This has to proceed in accordance with international law and in cooperation with the relevant United Nations agencies. Syria is home to several ethnicities and viable and representative local councils need to be established until a political solution is found to the Syrian conflict.
After our last counterterrorism operation, in areas where the Kurds were in majority, Turkey facilitated the creation of local governing councils with a Kurdish majority to reflect the population.
The Syrians want to go home now. They have suffered more than enough. We are taking the initiative to help create the peaceful conditions that are necessary for the homecoming of millions of refugees. Contrary to the prevailing misapprehensions, our operation will help address the humanitarian dimension of the problem, contribute to the preservation of the unity of the country and add to the political process.
Mevlüt Çavuşoğlu is the Foreign Minister of the Republic of Turkey.

Story 178
Social Regulatory Standards for Residential Services for Persons with Disability were launched on Monday afternoon.
Speaking at the launch, the Parliamentary Secretary for Persons with Disability and Active Ageing, Anthony Agius Decelis, said that the Government has invested €200 million in respite services, focusing on persons with disability, whilst also providing attention to their parents and carers.
ADVERTISEMENT
He said that it is a priority to reassure families and carers and to ensure a good quality of life and dignity for persons with disability and their families.
Agius Decelis explained that respite services are essential in helping persons with a disability to continue to integrate into society and be more independent. He also said that the service provides support to those families and carers so that when they leave their beloved in a specialised residence they too can rest properly.
“Just as machines do not work properly if they are in overproduction mode, neither do people,” he said.
The PS said that currently there are 116 people using the respite services.
Agius Decelis said that the Government has increased the number of respite services available for persons with severe disabilities, which address their quality of life and respect their dignity and security. There are also NGOs and private sectors entities that offer Respite Services for persons with disability.
He said that the sector has contacted families to identify their needs and concerns so that these can be addressed accordingly. “We will make sure that the environment where persons with disability will be making use of respite services is safe and the service is up to standard; both for the client and for parents and carers.”
The CEO of Social Care Standards Authority, Matthew Vella, said that the Respite Services will provide the safeguarding of the rights of persons with disability, including participation and decision-making.
Vella said that the new standards will assist the service providers in raising the level of quality offered by the respite services. He explained that in the upcoming months, the authority will be conducting a number of monitoring visits to ensure that these standards are being implemented.

Story 179
APS Bank would like to inform its customers and the general public that all its banking services are back to normal. The Bank will be refunding any cash advance fees incurred by those customers that have used their APS Visa Debit card to withdraw cash from third-party ATMs during the APS ATM downtime of the 13/14 February 2019. Any queries may be directed to our Customer Support Centre on 21226644.

Story 180
Malta’s proposition for the UK’s financial services industry was presented to industry professionals last month at London’s Guildhall by FinanceMalta and practitioners from the financial services industry.
The London-based event was aimed at highlighting the advantages and high level of services that the Maltese jurisdiction has to offer to UK companies seeking to relocate to other jurisdictions. The event kicked off with a keynote address, followed by four focused panel discussions on asset management, insurance, private wealth and blockchain. Each discussion was held concurrently in separate rooms featuring a different panel for each topic.
Speaking about FinanceMalta’s participation, Wayne Pisani, Finance Malta governor, said: “The aim of our participation in this event was twofold. On one hand to network with leading UK and international stakeholders and on the other to promote Malta as a financial services centre of international repute.”
Dr Pisani added: “Malta has evolved into a platform for financial activity drawing on its rich history boasting millennia of mercantile activity as a business hub in the heart of the Mediterranean. As an EU jurisdiction with a robust and innovative regulatory framework, excellent infrastructure and a balmy Mediterranean climate, Malta is the ideal financial services platform for businesses looking to tap a strong double tax treaty network with EMEA markets and beyond.”
The asset management discussion saw the participation of Mark Caruana Scicluna from Ganado Advocates, Chris Portelli from EY Malta and Rebecca Xuereb from BOV Fund Services. The insurance panel discussion was introduced by Romina Bonnici from Mamo TCV Advocates with the participation of Ian-Edward Stafrace from MARM, Karl DeGiovanni from AON and Malcolm Falzon from Camilleri Preziosi Advocates.
The private wealth panel discussion was moderated by Tom Burroughs and introduced by Przemyslaw Koger from Alter Domus (Services) Malta Ltd together with Michael Gauci from Corrieri Cilia Legal and Simon Denton from Sovereign Group. The fourth and final panel discussion on blockchain was moderated by Dr Pisani and introduced by Gayk Ayvazyan from Chetcuti Cauchi.
The panel discussion saw the participation of Stephen McCarthy from MDIA, Joseph Portelli from Malta Stock Exchange, Ian Gauci from GTG Advocates and Gerd Sapiano from the Malta Financial Services Authority.

Story 181
Opening a tap is as easy as the proverbial counting to three. Actually, it is probably easier, as a quick turn of the tap gives us access to water for cooking, washing and drinking.
Water is not only a precious commodity, but a human right, as recognised by the United Nations General Assembly on July 28, 2010.
Yet whereas we normally associate lack of access to water to other continents, this is closer to home than we might think. Estimates by Right2Water – the first ever European Citizens’ Initiative to surpass the required one million signatures (and subsequently reaching almost two million) in seven member states – show that currently, approximately two million people in Europe still lack access to suitable water for drinking and sanitation.
In addition, there’s an element of distrust in tap water. For instance, while 95 per cent of respondents said they used tap water for sanitation and 84 per cent for cooking, 55 per cent use it for drinking, while 10 per cent drink it after filtering it. Moreover, while 80 per cent said that they had good access to quality drinking water where they lived, only 20 per cent said they drank tap water when out of their country of residence.
The lack of trust in tap water is resulting in greater consumption of bottled water especially in plastic bottles – in fact, on average, every person in the EU consumes up to 106 litres of bottled water every year.
The economic cost of this consumption is significant – research by the European Commission has found that reducing the consumption of bottled water could help households in Europe save more than €600 million every year.
In addition to the economic cost, such high consumption of bottled water has a negative impact on the environment, as it contributes towards CO2 emissions and plastic waste.
This assumes greater significance when EU statistics show how every year, about 26 million tonnes of plastic waste are generated in the EU – of these, less than 30 per cent is recycled, while some is exported to non-EU countries for treatment. The rest is incinerated, goes to landfill or ends up uncollected on beaches or in forests, rivers and seas.
So bad is the situation that the EU is about to ban certain single-use plastics by 2021. Single-use plastics such as cutlery and straws – which are non-biodegradable products used just once and then thrown away – and fishing gear make up 70 per cent of marine litter in Europe. The legislation, which has just been approved by the European Parliament as co-legislator with the Council, also sets a collection target of 90% on plastic bottles by 2029. These will also have to consist of a minimum of 30% recycled content by 2030.
But how can the EU increase trust in tap water among its citizens?
Most people in the EU already have good access to high quality drinking water. According to a 2016 report by the European Environment Agency, more than 98.5 per cent of tests carried out on drinking water samples met EU standards. These standards are set by the EU Drinking Water Directive, which sets minimum quality standards for water intended for human consumption – drinking, cooking and other domestic purposes – in order to protect consumers from contamination.
On March 28, the European Parliament voted in favour of new rules to further improve the quality and access to drinking water for everyone, and ensure plastic waste from water bottles is reduced. These new rules - as part of the EU Plastics Strategy - call on governments to promote universal access to clean water, especially vulnerable groups with no or limited access and could reduce the consumption of bottled water by 17 per cent – less bottled water would help people save money and have a positive impact on the environment.
Apart from the associated economic cost, high consumption of bottled water has a negative impact on the environment
The new legislation also tightens the maximum limits for certain pollutants such as lead, or harmful bacteria, introduces monitoring on levels of microplastics, and enforces new caps for the most polluting substances found in tap water. The new rules also increase transparency and provide consumers better access to information.
The vote on this report, adopted by show of hands, closed Parliament’s first reading. However, EU ministers have not reached their position in time to open negotiations before the end of the European Parliament legislative term. Negotiations will therefore start in the new parliamentary term, following European elections in May.
Through these proposed new rules, which have received MEPs’ backing, the European Commission says that consumption of bottled water could be reduced by 17 per cent, less bottled water would help people save money and have a positive impact on the environment.
The proposed new rules also encourage member states to take measures to improve water access in cities and public places, by setting up free fountains where technically feasible and proportionate. They should also encourage tap water to be provided in restaurants, canteens and catering services for free or for a low service fee.
Citizens are less likely to consume bottled water if they are provided with better alternatives.
In Malta, tap water consumption is the lowest in Europe. According to European Environment Agency statistics, while the average consumption of tap water in the EU stands at 120 litres every day, in Malta, this stands at 50 litres. The highest consumption is in Italy, at 243, followed by Bulgaria (191 litres), Croatia (182) and Greece (177).
Low consumption of tap water in Malta is not due to low quality. A Water Services Corporation (WSC) spokesperson said that Malta’s tap water is in line with the Drinking Water Directive 98/83/EC and thus safe to drink. The spokesperson also said that local tap water – which is a mixture of groundwater and reverse osmosis product – is constantly being monitored to lessen any potential risks.
However, surveys conducted by the WSC shows that the preferred source of drinking water is, by far, bottled water.
The main reason for this, as most of the WSC survey replies cite, is due to the taste of the water itself. A concern, which the WSC is already addressing by implementing a major EU-funded project to improve the taste of tap water. With €150 million in funding, the ‘Towards a Net Zero Impact Utility’ project is the largest ever Cohesion Policy financing for a project in Malta.
In an interview with the Times of Malta last year, WSC CEO Richard Bilocca said the WSC was aiming to “revolutionise” tap water. The CEO said that while tap water is perfectly safe to drink, the salts in the water which come from the water table give it a taste which most people find unpleasant. This means the majority resort to bottled water.
During the interview, the CEO added that the WSC was planning to link the Pembroke reserve osmosis plant directly with the main reservoir at Ta’ Qali through a tunnel. Once at Ta’ Qali, the water would be blended with groundwater – increasing the share of the former – and then polished to remove the salts and give a “very noticeable improvement in the taste” in each household.
Despite consuming bottled water, respondents to a WSC survey said they were increasingly aware of the environmental cost this consumption carried.
Speaking last December during the signing of a memorandum of understanding between the government, private sector players and other stakeholders, to launch a new refund scheme for plastic bottles, scheduled to run by the end of this year, Prime Minister Joseph Muscat said that while 200 million drinking containers are put in the market every year in Malta, only a quarter were being collected for recycling. This was the context to government’s decision to collaborate with the private sector on the collection and recycling of plastic beverage bottles through the new refund scheme.
Also under way is ‘Towards a Net Zero Impact Water Utility’, a WSC project funded through EU Cohesion Funds. This investment aims to greatly improve the production and distribution of tap water in Malta. All the while, safeguarding the table water, increasing the quality of tap water and reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
If trust in tap water – and consumption – increases, everyone is set to gain benefits. Financially, consumers will be better off because, while one litre of tap water costs €0.002, that of bottled water is markedly higher. Moreover, the reduction of plastic bottles – and the associated emissions and pollution – will benefit the environment and consequently, our own health.
Drinking water in the EU
The European Union has a history of over 30 years of drinking water policy. This policy ensures that water intended for human consumption can be consumed safely on a life-long basis.
The main pillars of the policy are to:
▪ Ensure that drinking water quality is controlled through standards based on the latest scientific evidence. Secure an efficient and effective monitoring, assessment and enforcement of drinking water quality.
▪ Provide the consumers with adequate, timely and appropriately information.
▪ Contribute to the broader EU water and health policy.
Messages in a bottle
The average person in the EU consumes up to 106 litres of bottled water every year.
Lower consumption of bottled water can help households in Europe save more than €600 million per year.
Bottled water costs more than the €0.002 EU consumers pay for one litre of tap water.
Plastic bottles are one of the most common single use plastic items found on European beaches. The European Parliament will phase out the use of all plastic water bottles and other single-use plastics from its building. The catering outlets in Parliament will also phase out plastic cups, cutlery and other items, replacing them with biodegradable or recyclable ones. This phasing out will start in July and is in line with the EU drive towards a circular economy and plastic waste strategy.
One of the objectives of the 2016 Paris Agreement is to reduce the consumption of bottled water, estimated to go down from 100 to 88 litres per year by 2050. This can reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 1.2 million tonnes of CO2.
A service brought to you by the European Parliament Office in Malta.
www.diddarbasenivvota.eu
www.thistimeimvoting.eu

Story 182
Imagine summoning a public bus through an app on your phone, just as you would do with a taxi today.
Malta Public Transport is hoping to entice passengers with an innovative new service: an ‘on-demand’ bus service allowing people to book pick-up at a specific time from a specific bus stop, with a bus showing up to take them to their destination, untethered from the usual bus routes and schedule.
The system then operates as a form of collective taxi, navigating a route between all passengers’ drop-offs and new pick-ups.
Branded TD Plus, the new service has just started running on a trial basis in a corridor between Pembroke and Valletta, with operators collecting customer feedback and fine-tuning the service ahead of a full launch.
“This is another service we are introducing to offer an enhanced experience for our customers,” Malta Public Transport commercial director Daniel Grech told the Times of Malta.
“There is a lot of demand for public transport in that area and this new service makes it more efficient. Customers can book a seat on the bus using the Tallinja smartphone app, which makes it more attractive,” he said.
To use the service, passengers first register on a newly-added TD Plus function on the Tallinja app and then request pick-up and drop-off points at any bus stops in the area of operation.
An enhanced experience for our customers
Pick-up time can be selected in half-hour windows and, once the booking is made, the app indicates the exact time their bus – the service uses smaller 16-seaters – will arrive at their stop.
Payment is made on board using the Tallinja card.
Malta Public Transport says the service works to maximise the use of the bus while at the same time offering customers a quicker way of getting from one place to another by bus, also guaranteeing them a seat.
The fare for a TD Plus trip is €3 for all passengers – pricier than a normal bus fare of 75c, when paying with the Tallinja card, or €1.50 for direct routes, but much cheaper than a taxi – though this could be subject to change.
On-demand bus services have already been trialled in a number of countries worldwide, with transport operators looking to technology to reduce both congestion and costs.
Similar services already run in parts of New York and Chicago and trials have been carried out in the last 12 months in Singapore and Sydney.
Helsinki operated a public on-demand service for about four years but shut it down at the end of 2015 after deeming its cost to taxpayers too high.
Trial run
The Times of Malta used the TD Plus service on Tuesday on two journeys from Msida to San Ġwann and from Pembroke to Floriana.
Booking through the app is straightforward and in both instances the bus showed up at or before the scheduled time: four minutes after booking in one case and 11 minutes after booking in the other.
The operators have clearly aimed at a premium feel on board the buses, with comfortable seats each equipped with USB charging ports.
Both journeys followed direct routes between pick-up and drop-off and so made the trip almost as quickly as a private car – less than five minutes from Msida to San Ġwann. However, with just two other passengers on board for one journey and none on the other, it remains to be seen what speed and efficiency the system can maintain with higher demand.

Story 183
Tista' taqra bil- Malti.
The number of services offered by the Department of Physiotherapy at St Luke’s Hospital will increase in the coming months. Furthermore, the department’s renovation project is scheduled to start during Summer and be concluded by end of October 2019.
This was announced in a press release issued by the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister and the Ministry for Health, which also explained that the renovation exercise and the increase in physiotherapy services are a result of a meeting between Deputy Prime Minister and Health Minister Chris Fearne, Steward Healthcare and the Malta Union of Midwives and Nurses (MUMN).
News services will include exercises for persons suffering from Parkinson’s disease and multiple sclerosis, training sessions for persons who have suffered a stroke, rehabilitation following orthopaedic interventions, targeted services for diabetics and well as treatment for patients with neurological issues.

Story 184
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 185
Prime Minister Joseph Muscat said that the inauguration of the new premises of the Malta Business Registry is yet another milestone for the financial services sector. ‘This is not just a change in the premises but a start of something new. Now the MFSA can focus better on its regulatory role and duties whilst exerting its energy in addressing challenges within the the sector and seek to impliment new innovative technological methods in this thriving sector.
ADVERTISEMENT
On the other hand, the agency can focus better on the registration of companies, seeks to provide services that before were difficult to be given, make sure that the registry will be more accurate and includes in it companies that are still active and lastly provide better services to clients and investors’, said Prime Minister Joseph Muscat.
‘The fact that now there’s this Agency in place shows the Government’s commitment strengthen regulator’s work. The Malta Business Registry will complement the modernization process the MFSA has embarked upon whilst this entity will be able to move forward through digitalization processes where even here Distributed Ledger Technology will be used in its day to day operations’, said Prime Minister Muscat whilst adding that even the location of the premises in Żejtun reflects the Government’s commitment in bringing commercial activities to this area of the country.
Parliamentary Secretary for Financial Services, Digital Economy and Innovation Silvio Schembri recalled the time when he first visited the Registry of Companies’ old premises which were in a bad state and were not giving workers the dignity that they truly deserved. ‘The previous situation was unnacceptable. Resources were limited and at times shared with clients as well. From then onwards, as a Parliamentary Secretary responsible for the Financial Services, I took the initiative to identify adequate premises to arrive to where we are today. Through an extensive investment in IT, the Registry of Companies will be more efficient and will substantially reduce unnecessary bureaucratic procedures. It will be run by a system which will handle all of the processes performed by the Registry of Companies. The new system will make possible the provision of new services which the present system does not cater for’, said Parliamentary Secretary Schembri while adding that the Agency will be the first one in Europe to be run by a blockchain-based system as well as artificial intelligence.
‘The premises will serve as the beating heart of the technological activity in Malta. It will reflect our drive to remain at the forefront of the digital revolution, our commitment to embrace new emergent technology and give it room to flourish in our strong ecosystem’, he said. Parliamentary Secretary Schembri added that the agency depicts the Government’s commitment in being a role model by implementing family-friendly measures, one of which is the child-minding project, which would allow parents to bring their children here to be picked up for school and vice-versa. This will complement and encourage the uptake of the free transport services being provided by the Goverment.’
The Registrar, Joseph Farrugia, explained that the agency’s vision is to expand its operations in managing records related to other businesses which will include foundations and associations. Therefore, the new name of the agency, the Malta Business Registry (MBR for short) in order to reflect the agency’s new vision and responsibilities, said Farrugia.
Farrugia said that the workload at the RoC has been growing exponentially over the past years. The total number of companies registered in the Registry at present is 98,000, with over 66% of these companies being active. In 2018, a total of 6,000 new companies were registered, representing a 9% increase over 2017 figures and a whopping 27 % increase over 2013 statistics. The average number of registered new companies in the last three years has been 5,700 per year.
The Registry of Companies is a public registry responsible for the registered information and documentation pertaining to new and existing companies. It was at the end of last year when formally the Registry of Companies demergered from the MFSA and established itself as a standalone agency. Through the new Legal Act the Registry of Companies was given the responsibility for all assets, liabilities and obligations which were previously vested or entered by the MFSA and which emanate or arise from the functions of the Agency. The new premises in Żejtun will later host the International Taxation Unit, Tech.MT Foundation, Finance Malta and Gaming Malta..

Story 186
What happened?
This website is using a security service to protect itself from online attacks.

Story 187
With a no-deal Brexit scenario looming, the Malta Financial Services Authority ('MFSA') has issued a circular which provides a well-needed update to investment funds, investment firms and asset managers licenced in the UK (collectively referred to as "UK entities") passporting into Malta.
The intention of the MFSA is to grant temporary permission to UK entities that already passport their services and activities into Malta. Therefore, only existing clients/contracts would be able to benefit from the Temporary Permission Regime (the "TPR"), and such regime will only apply if the UK leaves the European Union without a deal by the relevant date. Furthermore, any TPR granted by the MFSA would remain valid for a period of 12 months after the relevant date.
This envisaged regime would thus apply to UK entities wishing to obtain the necessary authorisation, and/or terminate existing contracts in an orderly manner, and/or proceed with the assignment of the contracts to a duly authorised entity. However, it is pertinent to note that, post-Brexit, UK entities passporting into Malta would not be allowed to offer their services to new investors or clients in Malta.
Therefore, any entity providing cross-border services from the UK to Malta under the current passporting arrangements that wishes to avail itself of the TPR is urged to analyse its position and subsequently notify the MFSA of its future intentions, such as whether it intends to apply for a Maltese licence or otherwise.
The circular can be accessed by clicking on this link: https://www.mfsa.com.mt/wp-content/uploads/2019/03/20190328_Circular_BrexitMaltaTPRFinalVersion.pdf

Story 188
Tista' taqra bil- Malti.
A local company has offered its services for free to the owner of a car that was vandalised with graffiti in Sliema. The same graffiti was also found on walls of houses and other properties.
Sliema local council published a photograph yesterday of a young man whom has been identified spray paiting walls and cars in Isouard Street in Sliema. In a Facebook post, the council said it condemned the acts of vandalism on private properties and resident’s vehicles.
Updated: Watch: Sliema cars vandalised; Council searching for young man
Meanwhile a company called Auto Detailing Studio said it would be offering its services free of charge to those affected. Many praised the company this bold gesture.
Last month a 37 year old man was given 450 hours of community service and a fine of almost €10,000 for being caught for putting up graffiti on buildings in the City.

Story 189
Apex Funds Services (Malta) Ltd, hosted a half day conference at Casino Maltese, to celebrate its 10th year anniversary in Malta. With over 90 staff, Apex Malta is the largest Fund Administrator in Malta, forming part of the Apex Group which currently employs over 1200 staff across 24 jurisdictions globally and administers circa USD350 billion in assets under management.
Current Challenges for Investment Managers panel moderated by David Butler, Chairman Apex Malta. Andre Zerafa, Partner, Ganado Advocates; Karl Tonna, Managing Director, CIO, FMG Malta Limited, Michael Bianchi, Director, Deloitte; Hakon Haugnes, COO, Andurand Capital and Omar Schembri, Head of Operations , Apex Malta
The event brought together Apex founder and CEO, Peter Hughes, Apex Malta Managing Director, Paulianne Nwoko, Apex Malta Chairman, David Butler, Board Members, Senior Management and major service providers in the Funds Industry in Malta.
Left: Ivan Grech, Finance Malta and Omar Cascun, Apex Malta. Right: Paulianne Nwoko, Managing Director Apex Malta addressing the event.
In recent months, Apex Group has made international news following several strategic acquisitions including Deutsche Bank Alternative Fund Services, M.M. Warburg & CO's Luxembourg Services and Ipes.
Joe Portelli, CEO Malta Stock Exchange
Left: Peter Hughes, Apex founder and CEO, Peter Hughes. Right Paulianne Nwoko, Managing Director Apex Malta

Story 190
MENLO PARK, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--The Malta Financial Services Authority (‘MFSA’) is partnering up with CipherTrace Compliance Monitoring to monitor and manage business risks related to Malta licensed virtual asset businesses and cryptocurrencies. The CipherTrace Compliance Monitoring solution continuously rates the risks of cryptocurrency businesses to protect consumers, investors and business partners.
CipherTrace is an effective Supervisory Technology (‘SupTech’) tool which, through the cryptocurrency anti-money laundering, cryptocurrency forensics, and blockchain threat intelligence solutions it offers, will enable MFSA to manage the risk associated with virtual asset businesses. “Being strongly aware of the money laundering and financing of terrorism risks associated with entities operating in this sphere, the decision has been taken to engage the services of CipherTrace in order to reduce fraud and detect transactions with illegal sources of funds. CipherTrace Compliance Monitoring will provide the MFSA with powerful oversight tools to automate regulatory processes and audit the risk management of virtual asset businesses that are licensed in Malta,” said MFSA Chief Executive Officer, Joseph Cuschieri.
CipherTrace Compliance Monitoring uses machine learning to de-anonymize transactions, which helps regulators evaluate and monitor the trustworthiness of virtual asset businesses. This solution tracks the risk exposure of virtual asset businesses including cryptocurrency exchanges, collective investment schemes and initial coin offerings (ICOs) to gauge and measure potential exposure. “This SupTech will allow the MFSA to monitor the activities of crypto businesses both pre- as well as post-authorisation stage,” said Dave Jevans, CEO CipherTrace.
“Cryptocurrency businesses often have difficulty establishing trust and maintaining banking relationships because of their perceived risk. Banks and other financial institutions use the CipherTrace Compliance Monitoring solution to help decide which virtual asset businesses to trust as corporate customers. These insights help banks avoid de-risking by turning away valuable customers in this lucrative and fast growing sector,” said Dave Jevans, CEO CipherTrace.
CipherTrace helps assure the trustworthiness of virtual asset market participants worldwide, and through its Compliance Monitoring solution delivers a broad, high-resolution view of the cryptocurrency transaction landscape.
CipherTrace machine learning algorithms calculate risk levels for exchanges, addresses, wallets and other entities based on known associations, criminal addresses, and money laundering services. CipherTrace also profiles hundreds of global exchanges, dark markets, mixers, gambling services, high-yield investment products, and ATMs to determine risk levels of transactions based on activity related to suspicious addresses and wallets.
About CipherTrace
CipherTrace develops cryptocurrency Anti-Money Laundering, cryptocurrency forensics, and blockchain threat intelligence solutions. Leading exchanges, banks, investigators, regulators and digital asset businesses use CipherTrace to trace transaction flows and comply with regulatory anti-money laundering requirements, fostering trust in the cryptocurrency economy. Its quarterly CipherTrace Cryptocurrency Anti-Money Laundering Report has become an authoritative industry data source. CipherTrace was founded in 2015 by experienced Silicon Valley entrepreneurs with deep expertise in cybersecurity, eCrime, payments, banking, encryption, and virtual currencies. The U.S. Department of Homeland Security Science and Technology (S&T) and DARPA initially funded CipherTrace, and it is backed by leading Silicon Valley venture capital investors. Visit www.ciphertrace.com for more information or follow the company on Twitter: @CipherTrace and LinkedIn: /company/CipherTrace
About MFSA
The MFSA is the single regulator of financial services in Malta, covering banks, insurance companies, investment services, trusts and pensions. As of last year, the MFSA became the first European regulator to develop a framework to regulate virtual financial assets. The MFSA’s mission, as enshrined in its Vision 2021, is to enhance its position as an independent, proactive and trustworthy supervisory authority with the main purpose of safeguarding the integrity of markets and maintaining stability within the financial sector, for the benefit and protection of consumers. Over 2,300 entities are licensed by the MFSA to operate in the financial services sector, which makes up 11% of the Maltese Gross Domestic Product.

Story 191
This story was written in collaboration with Forbes Finds. Forbes Finds covers products and experiences we think you’ll love. Featured products are independently selected and linked to for your convenience. If you buy something using a link on this page, Forbes may receive a small share of that sale.
The Malta skyline as seen from Tigné Point Beach. Getty
As part of the Maltese archipelago that also includes Gozo and Comino, Malta is an island country in the center of the Mediterranean Sea. Thanks to its sunny weather and gorgeous coastline, it is a popular vacation destination. Malta has 7,000 years of known history, and some of it is preserved in locations such as the Grandmasters Palace, the Ggantija Temples and Hal Saflieni Hypogeum. It also has many other cultural attractions, including the National Museum of Archaeology, Malta and the Malta Maritime Museum.
No matter what your reason for visiting this scenic island, consider staying at one of these top resorts.
Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Malta Golden Sands
The luxurious Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Malta Golden Sands is set on Malta’s Golden Bay. With the Mediterranean just steps from the resort, guests can enjoy water sports such as kite surfing and sailing. All rooms have a private balcony, and many have sea views. The hotel’s four on-site restaurants make dining a breeze, too. Relax after a day of exploring the city with a massage at the hotel spa. The family-friendly Radisson is also happy to arrange childcare services for couples who want to enjoy some alone time.
Book Now
The Westin Dragonara Resort
Located in downtown St. Julian’s near St. George’s Beach, The Westin Dragonara Resort has direct access to the Mediterranean from its beach lidos. The family-friendly resort welcomes two children free of charge when two adults book the room. (It also has a Westin Family Kids Club, organized children’s activities, two children’s pools and a special menu for children.)
Book Now
Phoenicia Hotel Malta
The Phoenicia Hotel Malta is a stunning resort hotel near the Royal Opera House and Our Lady of Victories Chapel. Originally built in the 1930s, this luxurious Art Deco hotel has hosted celebrities such as Queen Elizabeth II and Arnold Schwarzenegger. True to its location, the 136 rooms and suites have a Mediterranean décor. Amenities include a complimentary nonalcoholic minibar and an in-room safe. The Phoenicia Hotel Malta offers interconnecting rooms for groups traveling together. It has a heated outdoor infinity pool. The hotel welcomes small pets, and an airport shuttle can be arranged. It’s also a popular spot for destination weddings with its intimate garden and lovely views of the sea.
Book Now
Maritim Antonine Hotel & Spa
Perched on the hillside in Valletta, the Maritim Antonine Hotel & Spa is close to some of the finest beaches in Malta, not far from Mellieha Bay. The hotel has 218 spacious rooms and suites and most have a private balcony. The family-friendly resort has a children’s pool, and babysitting services are available. The Marion Mizzi Wellbeing Spa offers massages and other holistic wellness treatments, and guests can enjoy a freshwater hot tub, sauna and steam rooms while there. And there are three swimming pools in case you want options.
Book Now
Grand Hotel Excelsior Malta
The Grand Hotel Excelsior Malta is in the heart of Floriana, near the Grand Harbor and within walking distance of the Royal Opera House. This has 429 rooms and suites resort is located on a private beach with a marina and guests can enjoy a full array of services at the on-site hair salon along with massages, facials and other beauty treatments.
Book Now
AX Sunny Coast Resort & Spa
Whether you want to completely relax for the entire trip or long to jump right into adventures, the bayfront AX Sunny Coast Resort & Spa is ready when you are. The onsite Soul Solutions Spa help guests to look and feel their best with hair and nail salon services. The spa also provides relaxing massages and other wellness treatments. And it offers water sports such as windsurfing, wakeboarding, water skiing and paragliding. And if that’s too much exertion, the AX Sunny Coast Resort & Spa has an outdoor pool that overlooks the sea.
Book Now
db Seabank Resort + Spa
Located on Mellieha Bay, the db Seabank Resort + Spa is a beachfront resort in Għadira. The all-inclusive resort offers live entertainment every day at the Entertainment Dome, and activities include beach volleyball, beach soccer, water games and mini golf. A large shopping center within the resort has everything from necessities you may have forgotten at home to specialty gifts for souvenir shoppers. The spa and wellness facilities allow guests to enjoy a heated indoor pool, sauna and steam room before or after their treatments. The rooms and suites at the db Seabank Resort + Spa have a nautical theme and color schemes. Each room has a balcony that overlooks the countryside, pool or Mediterranean.
Book Now

Story 192
Wealth management platform Dolfin has been awarded a Category III licence, expanding its execution and post-trade services to include principal trading on the Malta Stock Exchange (MSE).
With the new licence, Dolfin can now extend its brokerage offering to other market participants in Malta such as professional clients and eligible counterparties.

Dolfin opened its new Malta office in April last year, making it the first London-headquartered provider on the island to offer access to custody and depositary services. It consolidated its position in Malta’s financial sector when it became a member of the MSE in October 2018. The latest development enhances Dolfin’s offering and embeds it in Malta’s growing financial services industry.

Anthony Charles, Head of Trading at Dolfin Asset Services in Malta, says: “Our licence upgrade broadens the scope of our trading capabilities and enables us to be a true one stop shop for our clients. It allows us to operate to our full capacity, integrate into the trading community and build relationships with other members on the MSE.”

Ramon Bondin, CEO of Dolfin Asset Services in Malta, says: “Since opening our office in Valletta, we have gone from strength to strength, growing with the Maltese financial services industry. Our Category III licence is testament to our commitment to the region and is the next step in our journey, delivering our Maltese clients the same level of service as our UK-based clients.”


