Story 0
A Brazilian cryptocurrency trading firm only has one day to pay back its two aggrieved investors. The firm, Atlas Quantum, has been having issues with its finances ever since Brazil’s financial markets regulator cracked down on it two months ago. However, according to a new report, a local court has demanded that it pays back its investors in the next 24 hours.
Atlas Quantum has been on the news in recent months after it collided with the regulators, and its woes don’t seem to be coming to an end soon. According to a report by BeInCrypto Brazil, a local court has ordered that the company deposit over $250,000 worth of BTC to refund two of its aggrieved investors who want their money back. The report states that one of the investors has been waiting on a withdrawal from the platform since September 4, 2019.
Atlas is a crypto arbitrage firm that received widespread popularity for its promises of guaranteed returns and easy withdrawals. The company described its systems as having the ability to identify price differences across multiple crypto exchanges. The system then purportedly buys the crypto at the lowest price and sells it at the highest, all this done automatically.
It was going well for the company until regulators started cracking down on it and this is when it all started unraveling. The first thing that was affected was the withdrawal of funds. After the investors filed a lawsuit against the firm, its accounts were frozen and it was ordered to sort out the outstanding accounts in 48 hours. The court further described it as a pyramid scheme.
However, as CoinGeek reported in September, the company decided to defy this order and said that while it was working to resolve the issue, it wasn’t under any obligation to do it in the given timeline.
Whether the company will adhere to the new deadline to repay its investors remains to be seen. For Atlas, the challenge is much bigger, given that international crypto exchanges have purportedly limited its ability to cash out from its accounts after the irregular behavior by its clients. But even this claim has been disputed by some exchanges such as HitBTC.
To receive the latest CoinGeek.com news, special discounts on CoinGeek Conferences and other inside information direct to your inbox, please sign up for our mailing list.

Story 1
Updated at 8:40 p.m.
Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings Inc. (NASDAQ: AAWW), buffeted by a weak global airfreight market exacerbated by trade disputes and disruptions from a labor dispute with its pilots, lost $879,000 in the fiscal third quarter from operations, compared with a $54.5 million operating profit in the same period a year ago.

Operating profit for the first nine months of 2019 fell 65% to $55 million at AAWH, the parent company of Atlas Air, Southern Air and Titan Aviation and majority owner of Polar Air Cargo.

On paper, the company’s boasted net income of $60 million for the quarter, or $2.32 per diluted share, compared with $71.1 million, or 84 cents per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2018, but the profit came from financial securities that rose in value by $83 million.

The airfreight holding company on Wednesday lowered its full-year guidance for revenue to $2.75 billion from $2.9 billion, adjusted pre-tax earnings to $500 million from $520 million and adjusted net income of about 60 to 65% of its 2018 adjusted net income of $204.3 million. In the summer, the company forecast adjusted net income to be 80% of last year’s figure. It said it expects to fly 325,000 block hours versus 330,000 it previously estimated. In April, Atlas previewed block hours of 340,000, revenue of $3 billion, adjusted pre-tax earnings of about $600 million and mid- to upper-single-digit adjusted net income growth.
The company’s stock closed Oct. 30 down 11.3% to $21.31.

“Our third-quarter performance was affected by the uncertain global macroenvironment, driven by ongoing tariff and trade tensions,” said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer William J. Flynn. “In addition to lower yields and volumes than we anticipated, labor-related service disruptions had a significant impact on our performance during the third quarter.”

Atlas pilots, who complain pay and benefits lag those of other cargo airlines, have been locked in contentious negotiations with the company over a new contract. Atlas management has accused the pilots and their union, the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, of violating terms of the existing contract through sick-outs and work slowdowns. In late August, an arbitrator ruled that the pilots must proceed to an arbitrated contract process.

One of Atlas’ largest customers, e-commerce giant Amazon.com, Inc. (NASDAQ: AMZN) in September assigned two of the 19 aircraft it leases from Atlas for its Prime Air operation to a unit of Atlas’ rival Air Transport Services Group (NASDAQ: ATSG).

“We expect to benefit from peak-season volumes and yields, including the seasonal flying we do for express and e-commerce customers. In addition, our outlook anticipates increased passenger flying for the military and lower maintenance expense compared with the fourth quarter of 2018, as well as from a refund of aircraft rent paid in previous years,” Flynn said.

He expressed confidence that Atlas is positioned to meet future demand for air cargo transport as global middle-class consumption and supply chains continue to grow.

Officials said they are adjusting capacity in line with the market and reducing costs to deal with difficult operating conditions.

AAWH’s revenue fell $7 million to $648.5 million compared with the third quarter of 2018. One of its main business lines is providing airlines with a service package that includes leased aircraft, crew, maintenance and insurance (ACMI). That segment’s revenue was essentially flat at $289 million during the quarter because of higher levels of flying. It was partially offset by a decrease in the average rate per block hour due to the growth of smaller-gauge Boeing 767 and 737 used by airlines contracting only for crew, maintenance and insurance.

Charter business revenue inched up $1 million to $324 million from the same period a year ago, and dry leasing, which only covers the aircraft itself, ticked down 1.4% to $43.8 million.
The direct ACMI contribution to revenue, after allocating for direct ownership costs, fell 35% to $33.4 million because of additional heavy maintenance, startup costs for new customer growth initiatives and short-term redeployment of two 747-8 freighters to the Charter segment, CFO Spencer Schwartz said on the earnings call with analysts later. The Charter direct contribution felt the brunt of decreased yields and volumes due trade and labor headwinds, falling about 22% to $36 million.

Atlas said its cash and cash equivalent holdings fell to $82.8 million from $248.4 million at the start of the year as the company invested in flight equipment and modifications, including the acquisition of 747-400 and 767-300 passenger aircraft and related freighter conversion costs, spare engines and GE engine upgrade kits, and made debt payments.

The company incurred a special charge of $18.8 million primarily due to an impairment loss for the disposal of four aircraft engines and the permanent parking of two 737-400 passenger aircraft used for training purposes.

On Tuesday, Atlas Air Worldwide promoted James A. Forbes, currently senior vice president and chief operating officer of Southern Air, to executive vice president and COO of the parent company, effective Jan. 1. He will succeed John W. Dietrich, who, as previously announced, will assume the role of CEO. Forbes will also act as COO of subsidiaries Atlas Air and Southern Air.

Forbes’ appointment is in line with the leadership transition plan initiated by the company in July, when Flynn announced his retirement on Jan. 1. Flynn will continue to serve as chairman of the board.


Story 2
CLOSE
A jury has returned a $32 million verdict for the estate of a beloved hospice nurse who was killed when a dump truck driver operating under the influence crossed the center line and struck her head on.
The verdict, returned Thursday in Anderson County against the driver and his employer, included $10 million in punitive damages.
Louisville attorney Steve Romines said evidence showed that Atlas Excavating put the driver, Eric D. Jenkins, on the road without giving him a pre-employment drug screen, as required under federal law.
Tests after the crash on Sept. 7, 2012, showed he had marijuana in his bloodstream. He was charged with murder and DUI and pleaded guilty to second-degree manslaughter. He was sentenced to six years in prison.
The victim, Marie Garmon, 43, whose legs and pelvis were broken, was trapped in her car for more than an hour while firefighters fought to extract her. She died five days later.
Marie Garmon (Photo: Family photo)
More than 4,000 people attended her visitation and funeral, according to The Anderson News.
Romines said Garmon, a mother of two, had touched thousands of lives as a hospice nurse in the county. She was returning from visiting a patient at home when Jenkins smashed into her. “It was such a tragedy,”
He said he asked the jury to send a message to trucking companies that breaking the law is not worth the risk.
Romines, a boyhood friend of Garmon’s widower, David Garmon, represented the estate with his partner, Lawrence Young. Lexington lawyer John McNeil defended for Jenkins, Atlas and its owner, Clint Russell. McNeil didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.
The jury deliberated about 2 ½ hours before returning its verdict, which included $5 million for pain and suffering.
Romines said the Garmons turned down all offers to settle. "We wanted a trial," he said.
In Adair County: Noise coming from Kentucky gas pipeline that exploded 5 years ago
Also read: Bevin, Beshear exchange barbs at first debate. Here's what to know
Jenkins allegedly smoked marijuana in the hours leading up to the wreck, along with taking Loritab and Valium pills, the Anderson News reported, citing court documents.
Romines once exclusively represented criminal defendants, but in recent years has tried lawsuits as well.
In a 2007 profile, after he’d won several acquittals in succession in high profile cases, The Courier Journal described him as “Louisville's hottest criminal defense attorney.”
The profile quoted Shannon Ragland, editor of Kentucky Trial Court Review, a newsletter for lawyers, who said, “In terms of trying and winning cases that didn't look very winnable, Romines doesn't have a peer.”
Andrew Wolfson: 502-582-7189; awolfson@courier-journal.com; Twitter: @adwolfson. Support strong local journalism by subscribing today: courier-journal.com/andreww.
Read or Share this story: https://www.courier-journal.com/story/news/2019/10/04/kentucky-news-company-must-pay-32-m-dui-crash-killed-nurse/3863744002/

Story 3
Tiburones goalkeeper Sebastian Jurado kneels behind the ball as part of his team's protest against the Veracruz owner. (Photo by VICTOR CRUZ/AFP via Getty Images)
After days of turmoil due to weeks of unpaid wages, the Tiburones showed up for their game against the Tigres, in a manner of speaking.
Matchday 14 kicked off the Liga MX stretch run with three important matches. Atlas helped its playoff chances with a road win at Puebla, while Santos moved back into first place with an explosive performance against visiting Tijuana. But the drama before and after the night’s games was centered in Veracruz.
Fans bought a ticket to a soccer match in Veracruz and got a Monty Python skit instead. The Tiburones took the field against the visiting Tigres on Friday night but continued their protest by refusing to play for the game’s first 3 minutes. The Tigres, however, didn’t fully comply with the Tiburones’ demonstration and scored twice.
This apparent lack of unity on the part of the Tigres earned the wrath of pundits in post-game chat shows, with many voices opining that the outcome of the week-long turbulence has effectively made the players association (AMFPro) a non-entity. This latter point was bitterly made by former players who have seen all previous efforts to organize players get crushed by league owners and the national soccer federation.
Veracruz players stand their ground
Veracruz owner Fidel Kuri has not been paying his players – or team employees, evidently – for some months and complaints fell on deaf ears at league offices. The players decided to make a stand. In the week leading up to their home game against the Tigres, Veracruz players had insisted they would not play if the league did not resolve the situation.
Kuri told reporters that he would use junior players from the Under-20 team (who also weren’t getting paid), but senior players contacted the U-20 kids and the coaches urging them to respect their protest.
Then, something happened. Some unconfirmed reports before the game suggested that the league and the national soccer federation had agreed to set aside an emergency fund to pay players whose salaries were not being paid. So, the Tiburones boarded the team bus and headed to the stadium.
Once the opening whistle blew, however, Veracruz took the kickoff and passed the ball back to their goalie Sebastián Jurado, then didn’t move. At the same time, the entire Veracruz bench and coaching staff walked to the touch line and stood in unison while the Tiburones on the pitch remained motionless.
Tigres players jogged around, but it was apparent they weren’t entirely sure what was happening. You could see some of them chatting with Veracruz players. Finally, at the 1-minute mark, the Tigres moved toward the ball and Jurado kicked it out, but none of the other Veracruz players moved. As the clock ticked past the 1:30 mark, the Tigres had control and Edu Vargas lofted a long shot from about 45 meters that soared into the net. No Tiburones players moved.
The Tiburones repeated their protest, sending the kick off back to Jurado who held the ball for nearly a minute before kicking it out of bounds.
Two minutes later, Vargas dribbled around the last Veracruz defender about 25 meters out but circled back away from goal, before passing to André-Pierre Gignac. The Frenchman fired from 35 meters, sending the ball into the net for a 2-0 Tigres lead.
Some of the Veracruz players were furious, but they started to play a bit, mostly fouling the Tigres. A wide variety of comments flowed across social media: the Tigres showed no solidarity; their coach ordered them to start playing; Veracruz had not fully explained the terms of their protest to the Tigres.
The game resumed in a more-or-less orderly fashion after that, but the entire affair will be analyzed and over-analyzed for the next several days. Liga MX officials appear unwilling to accept any responsibility and the situation will leave Mexican soccer with a black eye.
Oh, by the way, the Tigres won 3-1 with the Tiburones tallying their goal in minute 90.
Santos 4, Tijuana 1
The home team came out blazing, nearly scoring twice in the opening 40 seconds. Tijuana settled down after that and controlled the tempo for the next 30 minutes, hurrying Santos into mistakes and frustrating the hosts.
In minute 33, Diego Valdes controlled a long pass near midfield, spun into the clear and raced down the right flank with Brian Lozano filling the left lane. Valdés waited too long to make the pass and then his cross was hard and low. Lozano dived low and headed the ball at net, but goalie Gibran Lajud blocked it. The ball bounced behind the keeper and Lozano was able to nod it forward while prone on the ground and while scrambling to his feet, he got just enough of a toe poke to send it trickling over the goal line.
Nine minutes later, Lozano and Valdes teamed up again to make it 2-0. Lozano helped steal the ball as Tijuana tried to clear their zone, chased a through pass into the box and cut a perfect cross back into the path of Valdes who banged it into the back of the net.
Santos’ third goal came just before halftime off a textbook fast break. A Tijuana corner kick was cleared and the Guerreros were off to the races as a lead pass sent Fernando Gorriarán free down the left side. The Uruguayan midfielder took a few touches before sending a curling cross all the way to the other side of goal where Julio Furch thumped it into the opposite side netting.
Tijuana momentarily revived their chances in minute 57 when Erick Torres headed home off a Mauro Lainez pass. But that was all they would generate.
Santos got their fourth of the game in minute 86. Literally seconds after entering the game, sub Adrián Lozano filtered a perfect pass to Octavio Rivero near the top of the box, and Rivero slotted home with ease.
Puebla 0, Atlas 1
Facundo Barceló scored in minute 85 to clean up a listless Zorros performance and earn a key road win. The victory moved them temporarily into sixth place, pending other weekend results.
Want your voice heard? Join the Viva Liga MX team! Write for us!
Atlas did not look crisp against a defensive Puebla side, often indecisive and out of sorts. Despite a considerable advantage in possession (62% to 38%), the Zorros were ineffective in their offensive third.
Puebla created a few scoring chances in the second half and it seemed that Atlas would be lucky to escape with a draw. But less than 10 minutes after checking in, teen sub Christopher Trejo created space down the left flank and chipped a neat cross into the center of the box where Barceló lifted his left foot about knee high and clipped a nifty volley of his instep and past Puebla goalie Nicolás Vikonis. That was all the Zorros would need to claim all three points.

Story 4
This content was published on October 31, 2019 10:12 AM
Some of the accused made defiant final statements in court.
(Keystone)
A Moroccan anti-terrorist court has confirmed the 20-year prison sentence for a Swiss-Spanish citizen accused of playing a role in the beheadings of two Scandinavian tourists last year.

He was among 24 men convicted of “forming a gang with the aim to commit terrorist acts” in connection with the murders committed in southern Morocco in December 2018.

A 24-year-old Danish student and her friend, a 28-year-old Norwegian, were decapitated while camping on an isolated site in the High Atlas Mountains. Their bodies were found near the village of Imlil.

On Wednesday, the court in Salé, near Rabat, upheld the death sentence for the four men who were said to have orchestrated the murders on behalf of the Islamic State group.

The only foreigner in the appeal, Swiss-Spanish citizen Kevin Zoller Guervos, handed the floor to his lawyer to reiterate his innocence. He was arrested in December, suspected of being part of an operation to recruit people to commit terrorist acts in Morocco.

The court also confirmed the sentences handed down to the other defendants ranging from 5 to 30 years' imprisonment. It increased one man’s sentence from 15 to 20 years.

An earlier demand that the four main suspects pay two million dirhams (CHF250,000) in compensation to the Norwegian victim’s parents was upheld. But the court rejected demands of the family of the Danish victim for 10 million dirhams from the Moroccan state for its "moral responsibility".

Second Swiss

Earlier this month a second Swiss citizen had his sentence reduced from ten to five years by the Moroccan judiciary. He had been convicted in April on three counts: participation in a terrorist act, supporting terrorism, and withholding information relating to a crime.

According to this lawyer the Swiss, first name Nicolas, was arrested for receiving an e-mail from the dual Swiss-Spanish citizen prosecuted for the double murder. Nicolas was also accused of having had explicit exchanges with other Swiss nationals suspected of having links with Syria.

Keystone-SDA/jdp
Neuer Inhalt Horizontal Line
SWI swissinfo.ch on Instagram SWI swissinfo.ch on Instagram

Story 5
Moroccan police stand guard during the trial in Sale earlier this year. Photo: AFP
A Moroccan anti-terrorist court on Wednesday confirmed death sentences handed down against three men convicted of beheading two Scandinavian tourists last December, and sentenced a fourth man to be executed.
All four defendants had been convicted at a trial in July, but the fourth defendant was originally sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder of the two women, killed while hiking in the High Atlas mountains.
Those sentenced to death included ringleader Abdessamad Ejjoud, a street vendor and underground imam, who had confessed to orchestrating the attack with two other radicalised Moroccans.
They had admitted killing 24-year-old Danish student Louisa Vesterager Jespersen and 28-year-old Norwegian Maren Ueland in murders that shocked the North African country.
Although the death penalty remains legal in Morocco, there have been no executions there since 1993 because of a moratorium, and the issue of capital punishment is a matter of political debate.
The court in Sale, near Rabat, confirmed jail sentences of between five and 30 years against 19 other men, but increased the jail sentence of another man from 15 to 20 years.
The court also confirmed an order for the three men who carried out the killings and their accomplices to pay two million dirhams (190,000 euros) in compensation to Ueland's family.
But it refused a request from the Jespersen family for 10 million dirhams in compensation from the Moroccan state for its "moral responsibility".
READ ALSO: Convicts appeal in Morocco case of murdered Danish, Norwegian hikers

Story 6
Los Angeles-based virtual reality startup AmazeVR has struck a deal with Atlas V and Felix & Paul Studios to distribute the studios’ immersive content on its platform. As part of its partnership with Atlas V, AmazeVR will be the first VR video platform to carry “Gloomy Eyes,” the animated zombie tale narrated by Collin Farrell that premiered at Sundance Film Festival earlier this year.
Through its distribution agreement with Atlas V, AmazeVR will also get access to “Ayahuasca,” which debuted at Tribeca this year, “Battlescar,” which is being narrated by Rosario Dawson, and “Vestige,” a room-scale VR experience that premiered at Tribeca in 2018. “Ayahuasca” will be available on AmazeVR in December, with the other Atlas V titles coming to the platform next year.
“AmazeVR has shown a deep commitment to the very best VR content, and by doing so, it raises the standard for what VR can be,” said Atlas V founder Antoine Cayrol. “At the same time, the AmazeVR platform offers the opportunity to expose new audiences to this stellar content.”
Felix & Paul Studios will be bringing some of their existing work to AmazeVR, including titles like “Space Explorers,” “The People’s House,” “Through the Ages” and “Strangers.”
“There is an appetite for high-quality premium content in VR,” said AmazeVR chief content officer Ernest Lee in an interview with Variety. Lee said that the company had initially been monetizing VR via transactional VOD, but that it started to experiment with a subscription tier late last year.
That experiment went so well that Amaze introduced a premium pass for a monthly fee of $6.99 (with cheaper options for users who pre-pay for multiple months) earlier this year. Lee said that Amaze would be selling Atlas V’s movies as part of its premium tier; titles that were available for free elsewhere would not require a subscription on AmazeVR either.
AmazeVR’s app is available for all major headsets, and have been downloaded a million times thus far. And while the company was until now primarily focused on 360-degree content, Amaze also started to produce interactive branched narratives last year. The next step for the company was to add high-end immersive VR experiences that viewers can lean into to its app, explained Lee.
Using the industry shorthand for 360-degree videos that only offer 3 degrees of freedom, he argued: “Storytelling can’t be limited to the 3DOF space.”

Story 7
Everyone has a cell phone these days. We've gotten rid of landlines in our homes and switched to an easier alternative. But there is one thing that consumers don’t love: The price tag. Smartphones today are so expensive. Take the new iPhone 11 Pro Max for example, which retails for over $1,000 ... and that's before taxes. Then comes the data plan. A data plan runs at about $20 a month and the average cell phone bill is almost $100. Think of all the money that could be saved if there was an alternative to the traditional cell phone ownership.
Well, that's where AIRO.Life Be Free Phone comes in. As the world’s only free flagship smartphone and data plan, AIRO.Life is a revolutionary offering. Back the campaign on Indiegogo and the phone will be shipped in May of 2020. That’s it. AIRO.Life allows customers to get a free phone and use it for free, with just a thin layer of content and ads at the top of the screen. Sounds like a great trade for never having to pay a phone bill again.
The quality AIRO.Life Be Free Phone gives you the latest Android experience (Android 9) packed with all of the best features and apps that people love. The phone has a huge 6.3 inch display with resolution of 409 ppi, an amazing 16 MP rear camera with phase detection auto focus and a 5 MP front facing camera. What about battery life? They’ve got it covered. The 4,800 mAh battery is designed to last all day long, plus there's a fingerprint sensor for keeping things secure and simple. Each phone has 128 GB of internal storage with a card slot for up to 256 GB more. You'll never run out of space.
Each phone has 128 GB of internal storage with a card slot for up to 256 GB more. AIRO.Life
Everything was thought of when designing the AIRO.Life smartphone. Not only will consumers be able to enjoy a phone that has all of the features people want but there is now an option to bring access to information to people for education that may not have been available otherwise. Fifty percent of profits will go to carbon and methane offset, humanitarian, and other environmental projects.
AIRO.Life is truly an amazing company with our environment and the the populations best interest in mind. Those who want to be free of their wireless bill while helping improve our planet can head over to their campaign page here.

Story 8
Jessie Zevalkink and Luke Yeates cast aside their doubts to cruise Morocco’s Atlas Coast. This is their story of their African sailing adventure...
Air is chopped in the distance. Our ears swell as an ill-defined dot appears, growing larger in diameter. The helicopter flies hastily in our direction as if ready to fire. The pilot comes to a hover just overhead, unnervingly close to our mast.
The pressure differential around the main rotor blades is deafening, the soft sea around us now turbulent. Our precisely trimmed sails slam from side to side. I am stone scared. My breath is held, as I raise my hands to protect my eyes from the sand dislodged from Desirée’s creases. What do they want? What did we do wrong?
Ten miles off the coast of northern Morocco, the helicopter tilts to circumnavigate Desirée. The men aboard hang out of the open fuselage, and cheerfully wave and smile. I release my breath. They take out their mobile phones and take photos of us. We raise our arms and wave back, and off they go.
Our details are relayed to a nearby Moroccan Navy ship. We have them in sight but they are not on the AIS. As they approach we can see each other on deck with binoculars. We study one another, holding our course. After determining we are not a threat, the ship alters its course. That is our first welcome to Morocco.
Mohammedia is on the bow. A port city placed between Rabat and Casablanca, it is the centre of Morocco’s petroleum industry and a well established point of entry. We chose it because we wanted to explore Casablanca, 16 miles further south.
There is a marina being developed in Casablanca. Some say it is open to the public, some say it’s not. The internet makes this unclear but we are not in the mood for guessing as we approach a lee shore and so we settle on Mohammedia.
Article continues below…
Head versus heart
Six months after an incredibly rude wave put our mast – and myself – into the sea off the coast of Portugal, we returned to Desirée, our 1962 Pearson Invicta, in the Algarve for some gruelling boatyard work.
The repercussions of a single breaking wave were extensive and included having to build a new rudder from scratch, re-bed all the stanchions, refit the Hydrovane and solar panels, remake our dodger and repair sails and electronics. It required two months of full-time work to have Desirée ready for the ocean again.
By January this year we were ready to sail but our passage plan remained indecisive. We flipped a coin: Morocco vs. Madeira. Our hearts were silently set on Morocco, although logic dictated Madeira. We knew we wanted an experience, not a vacation. The Queen’s head landed face up: Morocco. Our hearts had won; we were sailing to Africa.
Despite a lack of reliable information, we read as much as we could about Morocco, most of it negative, incomplete, vague and often contradictory. I remained unsure about our Moroccan yearnings: unsure about the unwanted attention we could attract, unsure about the language barrier, about our lack of boat insurance, about safety. Unsure about arriving there as a female captain.
One thing was very clear, my mother would prefer if we went to Madeira. Regardless of our apprehensions, we choose the southerly course.
After a grim sail from Newfoundland to England across the North Atlantic two years ago, and an early spring passage from England to Portugal the following year, my expectations of the actual sailing were fairly low. The entirety of my deep-water sailing experience has been cold, wet, foggy, iceberg-strewn, in gales or becalmed, and for the most part physically miserable.
Captain’s duties
The forecast was in our favour for the passage to Morocco, in fact it couldn’t possibly have looked better. However, I hold close the belief that forecasts aren’t always right. In reality, it’s categorically perfect.
The whole darn 200 miles across the Strait of Gibraltar feels like a make-believe voyage. It’s the kind of sail where you could bring your whole family aboard, even your seasick sister, and open a bottle of red wine.
We have soft, horizontal seas, 12-17 knots of tailwind on a broad reach. The Milky Way looks like it was pulled from a screensaver and glued to the night sky. Dolphins leave neon contrails in their wake as we sail through pancakes of glowing jellyfish. Not a glass of red wine is spilled.
Mohammedia is basic. I am so enthused to be here that basic is more than enough. No one responds on the VHF, but our mast is spotted and we are guided in by a man with deep wrinkles and baggy clothes. He speaks to us politely in French and I follow him to the office with our paperwork.
We nod at one another, not properly able to communicate. I fill out repetitive forms as he calls customs and immigration. He writes down numbers in front of me. There’s a €26 port entry fee, a €40 dockage fee. I hand him cash, he nods, and waves me back towards the boat.
Customs and immigration arrive within the hour. In well-spoken English two men ask permission to come aboard. They are very curious about our emergency flare gun but don’t care about our cat. They advise us to be extremely cautious with no insurance and graciously welcome us into their country.
Days later, halfway down the Moroccan coast; we wait for first light just shy of Essaouira, our next port of entry some 250 miles south-west. It’s an inviting fishing village where fisherman over-load skiffs and smash their way out towards deep water, eager to work.
We motor over a lifeless sea under the blood orange sky. Soon there is a single mast in the harbour: ours. We are so visible, as the village comes alive and keen to greet us. Two local men gesture us in the right direction, over to a tall, slimy cement wall behind the coastguard vessel.
Before we can finish properly tying up the boat they ask for the captain. Promptly. I begin to climb up an old ladder, the cat meowing in the now blinding sunlight. I hear the words “No,” and “Captain.” I point to myself, and present the paperwork. “Me. Captain.” There are questions in their pupils, but they smile. “Come.”
I follow them into a corridor of enclosed walls exposed to the sky. The harbourmaster speaks no English but politely moves some French forms in my direction. I fill out three sheets of paperwork to the best of my best ability and pay him in Euros even though their currency is dirham.
The harbourmaster sends me to the coastguard station next door, and I fill out three more sheets of the same paper. I ask him about the helicopter that approached us. He smiles: “They had nothing better to do”.
The coastguard sends me to the police station. I fill out three more sheets of the same paper and, finally, curious officials stamp our passports. As odd as this sounds, this is an absolute dream come true. We are sailing Morocco.
Oceans of sand
Arriving somewhere exotic and electrifying by sailboat usually compels me to next head to places a yacht can’t take me. In Morocco, that’s the mountains and the desert, the sand ocean. I ask several men in what appear to be uniforms if it would be safe to leave our boat here unattended.
It’s the same tactic as looking up three weather forecasts and choosing to trust the one you like the most. Three completely separate ‘officials’ tell me that, as long as we lock the boat, that the boat is perfectly safe. (Don’t Google this question. It says someone must remain on board at all time.)
I later find out that the coastguard told my husband not to worry because he would “shoot anyone who tried to get on board”. We choose to trust, and we go.
Desirée is left unattended for two days and two nights, in an area that’s completely unsecured, where the homeless beg and children play, cats lounge, locals and tourists are free to wander right up to our vessel. Given the dividing pulls between my responsibilities as skipper and innate desire to explore, many would consider this to be a poor choice.
But we drive, far away from the coast, over the Atlas Mountains and down into the desert valleys. Euros turn to dirham, broken English turns into French, then French to Arabic and Arabic to Berber. The occasional flushing toilet turns to all sorts of different holes in the ground.
The landscape is indescribable, the colour palette captivating, the people beautiful. We are defenseless against the sun and stifling heat or shivering in the shade. Here, we cannot hide. This is the first time I’ve ever longed deeply to fit in.
A donkey crosses the motorway, goats balance high up in tree branches, cats patrol their territory and skinny dogs bake in the sun. We wander among rusty blue doors and brightly patterned rugs, past flatbed trucks stacked with tangerines and djellaba-cloaked locals under pointy hoods. Everywhere we go we attract long looks, and each and every observer smiles at us. Curiosity received, curiosity returned.
Thirty miles outside of Marrakech, the Atlas Mountains provide scale. We go up, up, and up some more. And then down and down until there is nothing left but old date branches on the side of the road and the occasional camel.
After we’ve driven over the Atlas mountains, into the Sahara and back, we are tired, have had our cultural fill, and anxious to return to our unattended boat. Untouched and awaiting us, Desirée rests beautifully in the harbour.
Unforgettable experiences
We have one full day before departing for the Canary Islands with an ambitious list to check off: water; provisions; laundry; engine service etc. But Essaouria’s entire population seems to know of our presence after our return from the desert, and I cannot complete a single task without interruption.
We awake to a weathered man trying to sell us a puppy. I’ll admit, it is difficult to deny a puppy. The next man tries to sell us a fishing line wrapped around half a flipflop, with a rock tied to the end. Luke buys it for €5.
A woman lingers alongside quietly. She waits until no one else is around and cups her palms and holds them out towards me. She wants money, and I gave her spare change. A gigantic cat tiptoes over and lays on the edge of the cement wall, purring like a train and preforming yoga until we give him food. When satiated, the cat leaves.
Then a fit middle-aged man arrives and asks for clothes. It’s his lucky day – I have a bag of clothes I was trying to get rid of. I pass it over and he pulls out sweatpants and cowboy boots.
The harbourmaster arrives and tells me I must come with him. He needs all new paperwork filled out because by now it has been one day longer than we said we would stay. By late afternoon, I have accomplished nothing and I’m ready for a beer.
But that we are lucky to be here is an understatement. In Morocco, we are associated with wealth, and looked upon like unicorns, living in a 37ft sea castle. Everywhere else we have sailed, we are an average young sailing couple on a tight budget, choosing to evenly weigh personal experiences and professional careers. Trying to work out this lifestyle just like everyone else.
It’s easy to lose track of the places we have been and the people we have met. I sail for the experience of the next port and the people I meet when I get there. They’re the reward for working hard in the boatyard, the slow passages and the building anticipation at a stubborn 5 knots.
It is possible to have a flawless passage, just don’t expect it. It is possible to sail Morocco untroubled. Just don’t believe wholeheartedly whatever you might read in advance.
The young girl in a fleece burka who couldn’t take her eyes off me. The boy who guided us on camels and, out of nowhere, would throw his arms up in the air to shout “New York City!” The smell of fish in the harbour. The sound of camels spitting. The elite display the sky would put on every morning, and every evening. The hot days, and freezing nights.
We will never forget this experience. Their faces will never go missing in the crowds of people we’ve met. Morocco will never get lost in the sea of places we’ve sailed.
Morocco sailing advice
Mohammedia is safe to approach in heavy weather. It’s a well-secured harbour and they provide you with a shore pass to get in and out of the marina gate to access town.
Essaouira is more rocky and shallow. We waited for sunlight to enter. The harbour itself is bustling with people and unsecured. Anyone is free to come and go.
You must check in, and back out, of every port in Morocco – your information is not passed along to the next port of call. Immigration and customs is repetitive and you are required to visit multiple different offices. Officials were polite and welcoming. Around a third spoke good English.
All port fees must be paid in advance. If you overstay what you have paid for, they will come and find you, and you are required to fill out all the same paperwork – again.
€1 roughly equals 4 dirham. Most areas accepted euros, but no credit cards.
You need to ask permission to anchor, but officials are more than happy to let you do so.
The entire coast is dotted with fishing boats and buoys, most of them unlit.
About the author
Michigan-born Jessie Zevalkink is a freelance photographer and writer. She sailed double-handed from her home to Britain with Luke Yeates, whom she then married. They plan to sail Desirée to further destinations. You can follow their adventures at www.onaboat.net
First published in the October 2019 edition of Yachting World.

Story 9
He doesn't wilt under criticism. In 2010, residents of Hayden Island became fed up with a string of booming lottery delis they said brought crime to their neighborhood. The neighbors focused their ire on Sondland and Durant, the delis' landlords. Sondland's response? He publicly mulled renting some idle Hayden Island space to a strip club. He defended his thinking to The Oregonian's Steve Duin. "You're implying that because I serve on the art museum board, which is something I'm doing for the community, that somehow carries the responsibility to encumber my real estate," Sondland told Duin. "I don't understand the connection. That doesn't make any sense to me." (The couple didn't rent to the strip joint.)

Story 10
The skies of Florida’s west coast are dotted with cranes busy at work on condo projects. These residential towers provide luxury living for residents of the state, new and old. But state-of-the-art condos aren’t just for people anymore.
They’re now for cars, too.
One noted example: Wheel Base Premium Garage Condos, coming soon to Sarasota. The 54,000-square-foot facility for car collections is under construction now. Project officials decline to disclose the total value.
Wheel Base will have 46 units that range from 674 square feet priced at $150,000 to 2,500 square feet priced at $490,000. Owners will also pay a maintenance fee. The smallest condo can hold three cars. The capacity of the largest unit depends on how cars are stacked. The facility is expected to be completed in summer 2020.
Lori Sax. Sarasota-based Atlas Building Co. President Andy Stultz and Vice President of Construction Charlie Woehle are working on a Wheel Base Premium Garage Condos project in Sarasota.
Sarasota-based Atlas Building Co. is constructing the facility, at 1600 Sarasota Center Boulevard, east of Interstate 75. President Andy Stultz thinks it’s one of the first projects like it in the area where car enthusiasts can own a garage condo unit, but he doesn’t think it will be the last — far from it. The commercial contractor is in talks now with other developers about similar projects. “In this area and this region, net worth is going up every day, and expectations are going up every day,” he says.
Atlas first started talking with Hans Schmeits, one of the project owners, in June 2018. The firm broke ground on the project in August —a 14 month timeframe. Stultz says Atlas likes having a long pre-construction phase. Where Atlas adds the most value, he says, is helping with the creation of a project team and working with that team through the design process, budgeting process and beyond.
With Wheel Base, the work began for the commercial contractor when the project owners, Schmeits and Dennis Brozak, came to Atlas with a picture of another car condo project as inspiration. Atlas then helped select an architect, Ron Zawistowski of Innovative Design Studios in St. Petersburg. Atlas also served as a local guide, helping the developers navigate the intricacies of doing a construction project on the west coast of Florida.
Atlas Building Co. Vice President of Construction Charlie Woehle, project manager for Wheel Base, says the project is not like an average garage — not only because some units are the size of a house. The facility will have air conditioning, restrooms, Wi-Fi and a clubhouse with a meeting room. Owners will also be able to keep multiple cars in their units and will have the option to build a loft in their space. The units will be sold as finished products, not just as shells.
'In this area and this region, net worth is going up every day, and expectations are going up every day.' Andy Stultz, Atlas Building Co.
The facility will have security and hurricane features, from impact-resistant doors and windows to perimeter fencing, security cameras and entry gates. “It’s a safer place to have your collection,” Woehle says.
Stultz thinks car condos will become a trend similar to how self-storage has been popular in the area. But the units aren’t quite the same as self-storage — the car condos will be for sale not for lease, the finishes will be done at a much higher level and security will be more sophisticated. “This concept is becoming more and more popular around the country, especially in Florida,” says Stultz. “I think it’s a trend we’re going to see more of.”
The popularity of car condos is in part, he says, because of deed restrictions that prevent people from keeping additional cars in their driveway or on the street. There’s also a key problem many residential condo owners face — their condo units only come with one to two spaces for cars. Facilities such as Wheel Base give owners the flexibility to live wherever they want and still have the cars they want, he says. An example of another car condo complex in the region is in Collier County, with Naples Motor Condos.
Car condos, says Woehle, make sense because of Sarasota’s evolving demographics that includes a sizable segment of high-wealth individuals. Businesses in the area have opened or added services to cater to clientele in that group. As two indicators, he points to storage facilities specifically for people’s wine collections and luxury car dealerships.
The Wheel Base developers have another parcel across the street where they could build more units. For now, they’re waiting to see how the first round of car condos kicks off. “I don’t see it going away,” Stultz says. “We have two to three different developers talking about doing similar projects in Tampa and other areas.”

Story 11
Today is D-Day for for banks and the City of Johannesburg to pay ransom demands that were sent through by hackers last week. It is alleged that two separate groups of hackers are threatening to close down the finance sector and local government at a time when South Africans would be paying municipal bills and gaining access to their bank accounts.
Last Wednesday, one group sent a ransom note to a number of banks, claiming if it was not paid two Bitcoins (R219,000), it would launch a Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attack.
Meanwhile, another group of hackers is threatening to release City of Joburg customer information if it was not paid four Bitcoins by today (Monday).
Bryan Hamman, Regional Director at NETSCOUT, which offers NETSCOUT Arbor, specialising in advanced DDos protection solutions, has offered offers this explanation of DDoS attacks in the broader cybersecurity landscape.
Cyberattacks have been around since the dawn of the Internet. What initially started off as curiosity or bragging rights, quickly escalated to monetising the activity. In a world where every piece of personal data is of value, the more you have, the more you can bank.
Historically, internet service providers would merely ‘blackhole’ any attack traffic. This rudimentary tactic would drop the attack traffic but also any valid traffic towards the intended target. In many cases this would merely achieve what the attacker wanted, which was to take the target offline.
In around 2000, a team of students from the University of Michigan began working on a better way to tackle the problem. In the coming years, the company they formed, namely Arbor Networks, pioneered the fight against cyberattacks and quickly became the leading provider of attack mitigation for service providers globally.
The idea, although simple in principle, was far more challenging in execution as attackers constantly evolved as well. The goal of the solution was to clean all attack traffic without any impact to the valid traffic to one or more victims of cyberattacks. Using a non-inline device, Arbor pioneered the local scrubbing of malicious traffic within service provider environments.
This became a game changer and today Arbor (now a part of NETSCOUT) actively works with, and is the vendor of choice for, over 90% of the top Tier 1 and Tier 2 ISPs in the world.
Later in 2007, a collaborative effort began between Arbor and its ISP customers to share data on the type of malicious traffic seen across the globe. The idea was to reverse- engineer, curate and create unique ‘fingerprints’ of the bad traffic and share it with other providers, so that as a group they could more easily identify and block this traffic at the edge of their respective networks.
Today, ATLAS boasts over 380 ISPs who are sharing data. This unique collaboration is translated into the intelligence feed that Arbor sends back into its products as the real-world visibility of what is happening. NETSCOUT enterprise and ISP customers use the cybersecurity intelligence feed from Arbor to keep their networks and customers safe. This value proposition is unmatched in the fight against cyberattacks.
With the rise of the Internet of Things (IOT), the rapid increase in last mile connectivity and the shift to global ecommerce, enterprises have more frequently become the targets of various forms of cyberattacks. The problem, however, is that traditional vendors of firewalls, IPS, WAF and such are ill-equipped to handle these new and emerging threats.
Firstly, they are often the victim of the attack, as state and application-based attacks are frequently used to target security appliances that by design have to track sessions. These devices have a limited amount of memory and CPU, which translates to a fixed number of sessions or packets the device can handle. Attacks can be crafted to expose those weaknesses. A far simpler method would be to just saturate the last mile of connectivity.
Regardless of dropping traffic on the customer side, the entire customer site would be affected.
NETSCOUT | Arbor has a globally unique solution in not only blocking both inbound and outbound connections that are deemed to be suspicious, but it also has the ability to work with Arbor-enabled service providers to facilitate automated local ‘cloud’ scrubbing for the enterprise customers, with no changes required to the infrastructure or routing.
This is of major benefit over the use of DNS or BGP methods used with cloud scrubbing, as there is no additional latency not only to the valid traffic to the attack victim, but also as regards all other traffic that would be affected when using BGP due to the /24 minimum block requirement. Enterprise customers can procure the device themselves or, in the majority of cases, as part of a managed service from their upstream ISP.
The AED is an inline layer 2 transparent device that by design is stateless in nature. It has the ability to block both inbound attacks and outbound dubious communications. The AED is backup by a near real-time intelligence feed from the ATLAS research team, allowing the device is identify and stop new and emerging threats. Insertion into existing networks requires no changes to the underlying architecture.
Looking at the local footprint we have seen a drastic increase in cyberattacks, and this is something that local companies have historically not given much consideration to. The publicly-documented cases at Cool Ideas, Cybersmart and various South African public services illustrate that more and more attacks can be expected. The growing level and frequency of attacks are not only limited to local ISP and enterprises, but even global giants have been taken down in recent weeks with successful attacks against Google and AWS.
NETSCOUT | Arbor releases a Cyber Threat Intelligence report every six months based on the work done by ASERT, the Arbor Security Engineering and Research Team. The statistics over the past six months compared to 2018 show a clear and dangerous trend in both the size and frequency of attacks.
Overall, there was an increase in attacks in the first six months of 2019, with a slight drop in the maximum size of the attack compared with the first half of 2018.
Meanwhile, Matt Walmsley, Head of EMEA Marketing at Vectra, says extortion is a well-established approach for cyber criminals and is used through tactics that include threatening denial of service, doxing, and ransomware.
“In the reported case of the city of Johannesburg, the four Bitcoin ransom (circa US$30,00) is meaningful but not particularly high and so may be pitched at that level to encourage a decision to pay.
“Cyber criminals are increasingly making rational economic decisions around targeting organisations and demand ransom levels that they believe will have a higher likelihood of payment.
“Cybersecurity teams supporting the city will undoubtedly be working flat out to confirm the extent of any attack to aid officials in deciding if they should pay. The same learning needs to be applied to their future risk mitigation of any techniques the attackers used.
“All too often we are reminded that defensive controls are imperfect, and the ability to quickly detect and respond to live attacks that have successfully penetrated an organisation can make the difference between a contained incident and damaging breach.”
Craig Freer, Executive Head: Cloud and Managed Services at Vox Telecom, says that security ‘is no longer a luxury’ and is something that must take top priority at every organisation.
“Cybersecurity must be addressed at a board level and not left being ‘relegated’ to an IT decision-maker,” he said.
“Companies need to conduct an extensive audit of their entire IT environment, invest in getting the right cybersecurity infrastructure in place and ensure their systems are updated to factor in emerging threats.
“They also need to continually assess their ability to effectively deal with attacks. In our experience, most companies are not geared to repel any type of attack, much less recover effectively from one. It has become a case of businesses being sitting ducks.
“Very few SMEs really understand their vulnerabilities and it can be quite complex for them to secure themselves as best as possible. It really is a case of they do not know what they do not know.
“Cybersecurity at an organisation is not a snapshot in time but evolves as the threat landscape changes. Businesses must do more to educate themselves about the threats they face and take the necessary steps to protect themselves.”
Anna Collard, Managing Director at Popcorn Training, a KnowBe4 company, says breaches occur on a regular basis.
“While large ones hit the headlines, small ones are continuous like a dripping tap,” she said.
“This is mainly because a lot of the breaches occur at small companies or merchants. The full scale of these breaches can’t be fully appreciated until looked at in totality as this breach shows.
“For companies of all sizes, having good security control is absolutely vital. For the most part, this would mean having the fundamental security controls which can prevent, protect, and respond to threats.
“Beyond that, companies should look at what the biggest threats to them are, and how those threats materialise. In the majority of cases, this will boil down to social engineering attacks, taking advantage of unpatched software, or authentication attacks. By investing in these controls, most companies can reduce the likelihood of being successfully compromised.”
Anton Ivanov, Security Researcher at Kaspersky, says that the threat of ransomware remains as powerful as ever and the company’s detection data shows that larger organisations, such as city authorities and enterprises, are the fastest-growing target.
“According to our data, attacks on employees of large organisations have gone up 17.9% in the last 12 months (from 198,334 in the period June 2017 to end May 2018, to 233,763 for June 2018 to end May 2019), compared to an increase of just 3% in attacks on individual consumers,” said Ivanov.
“Attacks on urban infrastructure are often worryingly successful, with far reaching impact on essential systems and processes, affecting not just the authority itself but local businesses and citizens. What makes cities a target? It could be the fact that they run vast networks of connected technology that can be hard to update, manage and patch effectively, or because the attackers believe they may be more inclined to pay the ransom to avoid recovery costs that can be many times higher than the ransom fee.
“To protect city infrastructure against the threat of ransomware, Kaspersky recommends securing all data, devices and networks with robust security software.
“But with many non-technical employees, located across many different sites, employee training and awareness is probably the greatest priority.
A useful checklist could be:

Story 12
On Wednesday morning, Rwanda’s Central Bank (BNR) and his staff were holding a press conference at Kigali Serena Hotel.
In the middle of the press conference, Governor Rwangombwa, who was at the centre of answering countless questions from the visibly curious journalists, stole a moment to send money to someone in Nyagatare district, Eastern Province, using his Smartphone.
“I abandoned my Cheque book,” Governor Rwangombwa joked earlier before the press conference. Literally, the governor has moved to the digital payment system and no longer carry money in his wallet.
One or two years ago, the former Minister of Information Communication Technology, Jean Philbert Nsengimana, tweeted a photo of his empty wallet.
Nsengimana’s tweet was a message to the public that he has switched to digital payment system and no longer owned any liquid cash, just like Governor Rwangombwa.
All these are examples that came back today when Central Bank launched the second phase of the digital payment awareness campaign dubbed “Go Cashless”.
For the past nine years, Rwanda has been pushing the policy in which its citizens can migrate from traditional or manual way of making payments to an electronic payment system.
According to Central Bank Governor, the campaign has paid off. But there is still a long way to go in order to meet government targets, Rwangombwa added.
“Rwanda’ cashless journey has been progressive, with digital financial services increase over time,” Governor Rwangombwa said at the launch of the second phase of the campaign.
Over the last nine years, said Governor Rwangombwa, “the value of e-payments to GDP increased from 0.3% in 2011 to 34.6% in 2019. The target is 80% by 2024.”
The policy of the cashless economy has been largely attributed to several initiatives put in place, according to governor Rwangombwa.
Some of the initiatives, Governor Rwangombwa said, was the introduction of new types of POS (Point Of Sale) since 2017 that are easy and almost costless to deploy.
The point of sale (POS) or point of purchase (POP) is the time and place where a retail transaction is completed.
The second initiative, according to Rwangombwa, was the introduction of micro digital savings and digital loans.
For instance, he said, “Digital loans increased in volume by 270%, from 99,027 loans worth Rwf1.9billion in 2017, to a volume of 367,103 loans in June 2019 worth Rwf14.2 billion. This has doubled the number of individuals accessing loans through formal financial services in just one year.”
Governor Rwangombwa statement was good news to the audience from all Central Bank’s stakeholders including Banks, telecom companies and other institutions directly involved in the cashless economy journey.
While more initiatives to promote cashless economy have been put in place, the question of less awareness among the consumers and lack of trust for these services were among the key issues raised especially by the consumers.
For instance, Damien Ndizeye, the Executive Secretary of the Rwanda Consumers’ Rights Protection Organization (ADECOR), said that one of the key issues Central Bank and stakeholders should focus on during this second phase of the campaign is to build trust among the users of the digital services.
The other issue, he said, “These digital services should be more available and affordable. For example, there is no way both the sender and the receiver of Mobile Money services should be charged,” Ndizeye asked.
But governor Rwangombwa was quick to intervene with an answer. In the cashless economy model, people should avoid holding cash in their hands, he said.
For the case of a receiver in the mobile money transactions, Governor Rwangombwa advised that: “Instead of these people cashing out money, they should go to the nearest shopkeeper and buy things they want to buy with that money. And with this, they won’t be charged anything,” he said.
One of the key champions of digital transactions are banks and telecom companies. For instance, MTN Rwanda handles 20% of all Rwandans involved in mobile use and its transactions.
And, according to MTN Rwanda Chief Executive Officer Mitwa Kaemba Ng’ambi, “70% of the 20% of Rwandans on our network are involved in Mobile Money transactions.”
Nearly ten million of the country’s 11.3 million Rwandans are subscribed to the mobile network.
As of last year, data released by Rwanda Utilities Regulatory Agency (RURA) indicated that Mobile phone subscriptions reached 9,665,544 in October 2018 compared to 9,321,347 – two months earlier that same year.
But how will everyone especially ordinary Rwandans in the rural areas be able to go cashless like Governor Rwangombwa and former Minister Nsengimana?
In response to this question, Rwangombwa told KT Press that one of the strategies is to work with stakeholders to “increase the number of point of sale across the country but also educating the population, knowing that you don’t have to withdraw the money.”
To support Governor Rwangombwa, Eric Rwigamba – the Director-General of Financial Sector Development Directorate at the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (Minecofin), said that the use of digital payment system enables Rwandans to easily access loans.
According to Rwigamba, “When people transact with liquid cash without banking the money or transacting digitally, banks will not see them and hence become difficult for them to access loans and expand their business. The government will not be able to facilitate them because they can’t see them,” he said.
Offloading costs to handle cash
By migrating to a cashless economy, both central bank and financial institutions will get rid of huge costs incurred on handling cash.
For instance, Governor Rwangombwa said, “The cost of printing cash is Rwf1.5 billion a year.”
For Maurice Toritich, the CEO of BPR Atlas – one of the biggest financial institutions in terms of assets, “Banks spend between Rwf3 billion to Rwf5 billion every month to handle cash. With the digital payment system, we will get rid of these costs,” he told KT Press.
Digital payment systems will also reduce the costs banks incur on Automated Teller Machines (ATMs).
According to Toroitich, “It costs between $20,000 and $25,000 for one ATM and this excludes other costs associated to it such as operating and maintaining it,” he said, adding that ATMs are not part of the cashless economy since people go there to dispense money.
In 2018, the cabinet approved the Rwanda Payment System Strategy (2018-2024).
According to Governor Rwangombwa, “One of the objectives is to foster an enabling environment for innovation in the payment system,” he said calling for collaboration between the public and private sector to promote better access, adoption, and usage of digital financial services and products.
Some of the costs of handling cash include staff by hiring the required number of people handling cash such as cashiers and tellers to take care of the customer transactions.
Banks also hire managers to look over all of those transactions at the end of the day and double-check that everything is correct.
In addition, you probably have a cash room or vault associate at your head office who is the last person to check the cash that’s been brought in.
Cash handling isn’t just about accepting money for transactions and providing change. A lot more goes into it including the time bank managers and cashiers each spend on counting and balancing the money in the bank vault, preparing the floats every day, handling change requests, skims, and cash pulls, reconciling the floats at the end of the nights, preparing deposits, and delivering the money to the bank, among other issues.
During the “Go Cashless” campaign, Mobile payment, Tap & Pay, Scan & Pay, Merchant number, Payment cards, Mobile banking, Internet banking are some of the options that will be focused on, according to Central Bank Deputy Governor Dr Monique Nsanzabaganwa.

Story 13
This week we’re looking at the ways that ghostly and ghastly tales evolve—shifting shape, but never quite dying out. Previously: how the Demogorgon went from scribal error to “Stranger Things,” and the Flying Dutchman’s imperial path to the big screen.
For the last decade, on the first Sunday in spring, a demon has stalked the streets of Detroit. Sometimes he arrives on a forklift. Once he rode in on a mechanical dragon; another time he was astride a float modeled on a cockroach, like a mischievous Poseidon on a scuttling chariot.
However he makes his entrance, this creature, known as the Nain Rouge, loves to rile up the locals. At the annual Marche du Nain Rouge, a parade that’s also part concert and part interactive theater, complete with elaborate homemade costumes and floats, someone dresses up as the Nain and taunts thousands of Detroiters at a time—whoever shows up to stroll, cheer, or jeer. (Organizers wouldn’t say who gets the dreaded or coveted demon gig.) All in all, it’s a festivity that Francis Grunow, the co-founder and parade director, calls “kind of a mashup of Halloween, Burning Man, and Mardi Gras.”
Each year, between 5,000 and 7,000 people turn out to celebrate Detroit’s favorite demon, or to cast him away. Depending on whom you ask, the ill-tempered imp is either defender of the city, who appears to warn people that danger is coming, or the very engine of said danger, delighting in any disasters that befall the place.
In 2015, the Nain rode in alongside flames, perched on a float designed to look like a cockroach. Marche du Nain Rouge/Steven Pham
Legend has it that the Nain has been visiting Detroit since at least the 1700s. His tale features in the 1884 volume Legends of le Détroit, collected by the local author and historian Marie Caroline Watson Hamlin, who was descended from some of the city’s first French arrivals.
To hear Hamlin tell it, the trouble began at a party in Québec one March evening in 1701. At the castle of St. Louis, she writes, the French explorer Antoine Laumet de la Mothe Cadillac—who would soon depart to claim Detroit for the French and their fur traders—and other officials gathered around a table, “resplendent with costly silver and sparkling glass,” their heads swimming with wine from the building’s “noted cellars.”
Into that shimmering scene burst a “swarthy,” fortune-telling crone with a scrawny black cat on her shoulder. She called herself Mère Minique, La Sorcière, and she came bearing a warning. Things would work out well for Cadillac, she promised, but if—and only if—he appeased the Nain Rouge, or “Red Dwarf.”
The demon “emitted a cold gleam like the reflection from a polished surface, bewildering and dazzling all who came within its focus.”
Hamlin describes the creature as the ornery “demon of the Strait” (détroit is the French word for “strait,” a narrow waterway linking two other bodies of water). The Nain was a creature “most malignant,” the prophetess said, but “capable of being appeased by flattery.” If Cadillac played his cards right, the woman foretold, he would “found a great city which one day will have more inhabitants than New France now possesses.” Cross the demon or let your ambition run amok, she cautioned Cadillac, and “your name will be scarcely known in the city you founded.”
Cadillac set out on his mission the next day. By July, he and his company arrived at the present-day Detroit River, historic home of the Anishinaabe people and other indigenous groups, including the Huron and Miami, and began setting up Fort Pontchartrain du Détroit on its western bank.
In 2014, the Nain rode on a fire-breathing dragon. Paul Warner/Getty Images
As the Detroit Historical Society recounts it, the next few years were fairly kind to Cadillac: He and his wife welcomed a daughter, and several Native American tribes, game to trade with the French newcomers, established communities in the area around the fort. But there were tussles, too—and Cadillac started to get a little big for his britches, the Historical Society reports, demanding that settlers treat him “as a landlord,” and requiring them to pay rent and give up some of their crops. Traders had to hand over a bounty too.
Cadillac’s ambition was ratcheting up—even former supporters would go on to protest his growing greed—and one evening in 1707 he and his wife overheard an unsettling snippet of conversation. Someone claimed to have spotted the Nain Rouge. Cadillac’s wife bristled, and grabbed her husband’s hand: “‘Beware of the Nain Rouge’ was what that prophetess told you,” Hamlin recounts her saying. “When he should come, misfortune was nigh.”
Cadillac shrugged it off, and the pair kept walking—until the demon scrambled into their path. He was “very red in the face, with a bright, glistening eye,” and razor-sharp teeth. Maybe he seemed almost metallic: Hamlin writes that the demon’s visage “emitted a cold gleam like the reflection from a polished surface, bewildering and dazzling all who came within its focus.”
Cadillac was not pleased to make the demon’s acquaintance. He apparently thwacked the Nain with his cane, demanding, “Get out of my way, you red imp!” The creature obeyed, Hamlin writes, disappearing from sight as “a fiendish, mocking laugh pierced the still night air.”
Legend has it that the creature showed up over the years on the eve of catastrophe in the city.
Sure enough, Cadillac’s life soon took a nosedive. He was by nature quarrelsome and prone to lying, and habitually inflated his own victories and downplayed his fumbles, recounts the historian Yves F. Zoltvany in a brief biography. (Zoltvany casts Cadillac as a “scoundrel,” who had “never been anything but a cunning adventurer in search of personal enrichment.”) The fortune-teller had warned him to not let his ambition take the wheel, but Cadillac ignored the advice, and soon after his run-in with the Nain, Cadillac’s superiors had had enough: He was removed from his post in Detroit and shipped off to Louisiana, which he considered a “wretched place.”
The Nain couldn’t save Cadillac from himself, but legend has it that the creature showed up over the years on the eve of catastrophe in the city. In 1805, when fire ripped through Detroit, Hamlin says, “many an old habitant thought they caught a glimpse of his malicious face.”
In 2016, the Nain taunted the crowd while outfitted with scores of imagined corporate sponsorships. Marche du Nain Rouge/Kate Sassak Photography
Hamlin writes that the tales in her volume had been in her family for generations, and that she’d bolstered them with her own research. It’s also possible that the lore was somewhat syncretic, borrowing strands from the various cultures that co-existed—somewhat uneasily—in Detroit at the time. In the 18th- and 19th-century Midwest, French and indigenous cultures intermingled. In some trading towns, bicultural marriages and households were common, says Tiya Miles, a historian at Harvard University whose research includes Native-American and African-American history in 18th-century Detroit.
“While French Catholics would have been suspicious of beliefs that seemed anti-Christian, they may have picked up bits and pieces about indigenous culture heroes that stuck with them and influenced how they recalled and interpreted folktales from their homeland,” Miles says. “And it is even possible that the French imagining or retooling of Nain Rouge in and around the walled settlement of Detroit, where the French viewed some Native people as allies but others as enemies, was partly a projection of French settlers’ racialized anxieties about a lurking indigenous threat.”
Parade organizers say the event is a chance for pride and playfulness in a city that’s used to bouncing back. Marche du Nain Rouge/Kate Sassak Photography
To this day, there’s disagreement about whether the Nain is a friend or a foe. At the Marche du Nain Rouge, the demon scales the steps of the city’s massive Masonic Temple to reveal the ways he plans to meddle in Detroit’s business in the coming year. (Once, he threatened to become the city’s emergency manager. Another time, he announced plans to launch NainCo—what Grunow describes as a dystopic, “insidious corporate interest behind everything.”)
Each year the Nain snarls and heckles. But ultimately, at the end of the parade, he leaves. Just before the festivities morph into a full-on party, Grunow and his collaborators engineer a bit of catharsis among attendees—maybe holding up a cheerful banner, or celebrating a genuine marriage proposal. In each case, it’s something that irks the Nain. He does not “want to deal with all the positivity” coming from the crowd, Grunow says. “He’s just disgusted by it.” The Nain retreats, chased away by an onslaught of earnestness.
But some locals think everyone should just try to get along. In a 2016 deep dive about the Nain Rogue in Detroit Metro Times, a local alt weekly paper, reporter Lee DeVito spoke to John E. L. Tenney, a Nain enthusiast who believes that the demon gets an unjustly bad rap. Tenney and his fellow Nain-lovers have flanked the parade with signs reading “Stop Nain Shame,” “Nain Is Nice,” and “Don’t Dread the Red.” Tenney contends that the Nain is less a rapscallion than a guardian angel.
Plus, he adds, it’s a matter of neighborliness. “The Nain has been a resident of Detroit for longer than any of us,” Tenney writes on his website, “and the spirit of the Nain will continue long after we’re gone.”
The parade also features music by the Gabriel Brass Band, a Detroit group with New Orleans origins. Marche du Nain Rouge/Steven Pham
The Marche du Nain Rouge comes but once a year, but elsewhere in the city, the Nain hangs around all the time. He was the inspiration for the Detroit Dwarf brew at Detroit Beer Company. And this autumn, the new Nain Rouge Brewery is slated to open a taproom adjacent to the new restaurant Smith & Co. in an old industrial space in the city’s Midtown neighborhood.
Grunow says there’s room to think about the demon either way. “For me, the crux of it is that there’s an enigmatic quality no matter which way you slice it,” he says. “I think it’s totally reasonable to have a variety of perspectives on it.”
So grab a beer and raise a toast—resentfully or lovingly—to Detroit’s patron saint of shenanigans.
You can join the conversation about this and other Spirits Week stories in the Atlas Obscura Community Forums.

Story 14
CALGARY, Alberta, Oct. 30, 2019 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) --

Financial Results

For the three-month period ended September 30, 2019, PHX Energy achieved adjusted EBITDA of $15.5 million, which is the highest quarterly result since the third quarter of 2014. Consolidated revenue for the third quarter was $93.1 million and was the highest since the first quarter of 2015. Strong growth continued in the US division and this was the primary driver behind the 11 percent increase to adjusted EBITDA and 9 percent increase in consolidated revenue as compared to the third quarter of 2018. In the 2019-quarter there were more premiums and surcharges generated by PHX Energy’s high performance technologies in the US and Canada and this aided the improvement in profitability. Average consolidated revenue per day, excluding the motor rental division in the US and Stream division, for the three-month period ended September 30, 2019 was $13,434, a 14 percent increase as compared to the 2018-quarter’s average of $11,803.
The Corporation’s US activity improved by 10 percent in the 2019-quarter, growing to 3,850 operating days in comparison to 3,506 days in the 2018-quarter. The US segment’s revenue for the 2019-quarter increased 26 percent to $68.3 million from $54.1 million in the 2018-quarter. The higher level of activity and revenue in the US is mainly attributable to the greater capacity of the Corporation’s high performance technology fleets in the US, specifically Velocity Real Time Systems (“Velocity”), PowerDrive Orbit Rotary Steerable Systems (“RSS”), and Atlas High Performance (“Atlas”) Motors. In contrast to the US division’s results, the US rig count declined 12 percent from 1,051 average rigs running per day in the third quarter of 2018 to 920 rigs in the 2019-quarter (Source: Baker Hughes). Given the weakening industry environment, the Corporation’s positive momentum in the US is a testament to its operational performance and the opportunities the US market presents.
The ongoing challenges and uncertainty in the Canadian industry persisted in the third quarter and, as was the case in the first two quarters of 2019, activity levels declined as compared to the prior year. The rig count dropped 37 percent quarter-over-quarter with an average of 130 active rigs operating per day in the third quarter of 2019 (2018 – 207 rigs) (Source: Baker Hughes). Due to lower activity in the Canadian industry, for the three-month period ended September 30, 2019 the Canadian segment’s revenue declined by 25 percent to $19.1 million relative to $25.6 million in the same 2018-period.
As at September 30, 2019, the Corporation had loans and borrowings of $15 million as well as operating facility borrowings of $6.6 million. These debt items less cash and cash equivalents of $6.7 million resulted in net debt of $14.9 million (December 31, 2018 - $21.5 million). As at September 30, 2019, the Corporation’s working capital was $62.2 million.
Capital Spending
The Corporation spent $28.8 million in capital expenditures in the nine-month period ended September 30, 2019, of which $20.8 million was spent on growing the Corporation’s fleet of drilling equipment and the remaining $8 million was spent on maintenance of the current fleet of drilling and other equipment. Capital expenditures in the first nine-months of the 2019-year were mainly directed towards Atlas Motors and Velocity Systems and were 82 percent higher than the $15.8 million spent in the corresponding 2018-period. The Corporation funded its 2019 capital spending through net cash flows from operations and its working capital and debt facilities.
As at September 30, 2019, the Corporation had $14.7 million of outstanding capital commitments, of which $4.2 million is expected to be delivered in 2019 and $10.5 million is expected to be delivered in the first half of 2020. Capital commitments are primarily comprised of $10.3 million for performance drilling motors, $2.9 million for measurement while drilling (“MWD”) systems, and $1.5 million for other machinery and equipment.
On April 8, 2019, the Corporation announced an increase to its capital expenditure program from $15 million to $25 million. In the second quarter of 2019, PHX Energy’s Board of Directors (the “Board”) approved an increase to the 2019 capital expenditure program that resulted in the budget being set at $30 million as compared to the $25 million previously announced. On September 6, 2019, the Corporation announced another increase to its capital expenditure program from $30 million to $35 million.
In the 2019-year, the Corporation expects to spend $24.5 million growing the Corporation’s fleet of drilling equipment and $10.5 million maintaining the current fleet of drilling and other equipment. The Corporation anticipates that capital expenditures for the 2019-year will be allocated as follows: $16 million towards performance drilling motors primarily relating to Atlas Motors, $15 million on MWD systems, primarily relating to Velocity, and $4 million relating to RSS, and other machinery and equipment.
PHX Energy announces that its Board has approved a preliminary 2020 capital expenditures program of $20 million (the “2020 Program”). The 2020 Program is anticipated to principally be allocated toward expanding the Corporation’s High Performance fleets.
Normal Course Issuer Bid
In the third quarter of 2019, the Toronto Stock Exchange (“TSX”) approved the renewal of PHX Energy’s normal course issuer bid (the “NCIB“) to purchase for cancellation, from time-to-time, up to a maximum of 3,280,889 common shares, representing 10 percent of the Corporation’s public float of Common Shares as at July 31, 2019. The NCIB commenced on August 9, 2019 and will terminate on August 8, 2020. Purchases of common shares are to be made on the open market through the facilities of the TSX and through alternative trading systems. The price which PHX Energy is to pay for any common shares purchased is to be at the prevailing market price on the TSX or alternate trading systems at the time of such purchase. Pursuant to the current NCIB, in the 2019-quarter, 801,600 common shares were purchased by the Corporation and cancelled.
The Corporation’s previous NCIB commenced on August 8, 2018 and terminated on August 7, 2019. Pursuant to the previous NCIB, 357,500 common shares were purchased by the Corporation in the second half of 2018 and cancelled, and in 2019, the Corporation purchased and cancelled 2,237,800 common shares. In total, pursuant to the previous NCIB 2,595,300 common shares have been purchased and cancelled by the Corporation.
PHX Energy continues to use the NCIB as an additional tool to enhance total long-term shareholder returns in conjunction with management’s disciplined capital allocation strategy. In 2019, the Corporation has purchased and cancelled 5 percent of its total shares outstanding as at December 31, 2018.
(Stated in thousands of dollars except per share amounts, percentages and shares outstanding)
Three-month periods ended September 30, Nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019 2018 % Change 2019 2018 % Change Operating Results (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) Revenue 93,099 85,033 9 268,204 224,800 19 Net income (loss) 2,594 3,743 (31) (494) (591) (16) Earnings (loss) per share – diluted 0.05 0.06 (17) (0.01) (0.01) - Adjusted EBITDA (1) 15,536 13,934 11 37,961 30,715 24 Adjusted EBITDA per share – diluted (1) 0.27 0.24 13 0.66 0.52 27 Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of
revenue (1) 17% 16% 14% 14% Cash Flow Cash flows from operating activities 9,721 6,027 63 40,665 15,871 157 Funds from operations (1) 14,669 11,461 28 34,554 24,376 42 Funds from operations per share –
diluted(1) 0.26 0.19 37 0.60 0.42 43 Capital expenditures 8,444 8,067 5 28,840 15,831 82 Financial Position (unaudited) Sept 30, ‘19 Dec 31, ‘18 Working capital (1) 62,207 60,316 3 Net debt (1) 14,900 21,526 (31) Shareholders’ equity 149,592 168,414 (11) Common shares outstanding 54,969,320 57,963,720 (5) (1) Non-GAAP measure that does not have any standardized meaning under IFRS and therefore may not be comparable to similar measures presented by other entities. Refer to non-GAAP measures section that follows the Outlook section of this document.
Non-GAAP Measures

PHX Energy uses throughout this document certain measures to analyze operational and financial performance that do not have standardized meanings prescribed under Canadian generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). These non-GAAP measures include adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA per share, debt to covenant EBITDA, funds from operations, funds from operations per share, working capital and net debt. Management believes that these measures provide supplemental financial information that is useful in the evaluation of the Corporation’s operations and are commonly used by other oil and natural gas service companies. Investors should be cautioned, however, that these measures should not be construed as alternatives to measures determined in accordance with GAAP as an indicator of PHX Energy’s performance. The Corporation’s method of calculating these measures may differ from that of other organizations, and accordingly, such measures may not be comparable. Please refer to the “Non-GAAP Measures” section following the Outlook section of this document for applicable definitions and reconciliations.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information and Statements
This document contains certain forward-looking information and statements within the meaning of applicable securities laws. The use of "expect", "anticipate", "continue", "estimate", "objective", "ongoing", "may", "will", "project", "could", "should", "can", "believe", "plans", "intends", "strategy" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking information or statements.
The forward-looking information and statements included in this document are not guarantees of future performance and should not be unduly relied upon. These statements and information involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results or events to differ materially from those anticipated in such forward-looking statements and information. The Corporation believes the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements and information are reasonable, but no assurance can be given that these expectations will prove to be correct. Such forward-looking statements and information included in this document should not be unduly relied upon. These forward-looking statements and information speak only as of the date of this document.
In particular, forward-looking information and statements contained in this document include, without limitation, the timeline for delivery of equipment on order, and the projected capital expenditures budgets for the 2019 and 2020-year and how these budgets will be allocated and funded.
The above are stated under the headings: “Capital Spending”, and “Cash Requirements for Capital Expenditures”. Furthermore all statements in the Outlook section of this document contains forward-looking statements.
In addition to other material factors, expectations and assumptions which may be identified in this document and other continuous disclosure documents of the Corporation referenced herein, assumptions have been made in respect of such forward-looking statements and information regarding, among other things: the Corporation will continue to conduct its operations in a manner consistent with past operations; the general continuance of current industry conditions; anticipated financial performance, business prospects, impact of competition, strategies, the general stability of the economic and political environment in which the Corporation operates; exchange and interest rates; the continuance of existing (and in certain circumstances, the implementation of proposed) tax, royalty and regulatory regimes; the sufficiency of budgeted capital expenditures in carrying out planned activities; the availability and cost of labour and services and the adequacy of cash flow; debt and ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms to fund its planned expenditures, which are subject to change based on commodity prices; market conditions and future oil and natural gas prices; and potential timing delays. Although Management considers these material factors, expectations, and assumptions to be reasonable based on information currently available to it, no assurance can be given that they will prove to be correct.
Readers are cautioned that the foregoing lists of factors are not exhaustive. Additional information on these and other factors that could affect the Corporation's operations and financial results are included in reports on file with the Canadian Securities Regulatory Authorities and may be accessed through the SEDAR website (www.sedar.com) or at the Corporation's website. The forward-looking statements and information contained in this document are expressly qualified by this cautionary statement. The Corporation does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements or information, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required by applicable securities laws.
Revenue
(Stated in thousands of dollars)
Three-month periods ended September 30, Nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019 2018 % Change 2019 2018 % Change Revenue 93,099 85,033 9 268,204 224,800 19

For the three-month period ended September 30, 2019, PHX Energy recorded the highest level of consolidated quarterly revenue since the first quarter of 2015. The Corporation increased consolidated revenue by 9 percent to $93.1 million in the 2019-quarter compared to $85 million in the 2018-quarter. This was partly driven by improved activity in PHX Energy’s US division, despite declining rig counts in the US industry. In addition, higher revenue per day was realized in both the US and Canadian divisions. For the three-month period ended September 30, 2019, the average consolidated revenue per day, excluding the motor rental division in the US and the Stream division, was $13,434 in comparison to $11,803 in the same 2018-quarter, a 14 percent increase. Higher revenue per day was mainly due to the greater capacity of PHX Energy’s high performance technologies and the resulting increase to the premiums and surcharges generated in the 2019-quarter. For the three-month period ended September 30, 2019, consolidated operating days decreased by 5 percent to 6,629 days from 7,008 days in the corresponding 2018-quarter. The lower operating days are primarily due to large declines in activity in the Corporation’s Canadian segment that were offset by improved activity in the US segment. US and international revenue were 73 percent and 6 percent, respectively, of total consolidated revenue for the 2019-quarter relative to 64 and 6 percent, respectively, for the 2018-quarter.
During the third quarter, the volatility in commodity prices continued and the declines experienced impacted industry activity levels. Western Texas Intermediate (“WTI”) spot crude oil price was 19 percent lower than in the 2018-quarter averaging USD $56/bbl (2018-quarter – USD $69/bbl) and the Western Canadian Select (“WCS”) oil prices showed a 6 percent decrease averaging USD $44/bbl (2018-quarter – USD $47/bbl). Despite declines in both the Canadian and US rig counts the two industry environments continued to be in stark contrast, with the US operating an average of 920 rigs per day in the third quarter, a 12 percent decline quarter-over-quarter, and Canada operating an average of 130 rigs per day, a 37 percent decline quarter-over-quarter. Throughout North America the vast majority of wells continued to be horizontal and directional in the third quarter, representing 95 percent of all wells drilled in Canada and 94 percent of the average number of rigs operating per day in the US (Sources: Daily Oil Bulletin and Baker Hughes).
For the nine-month period ended September 30, 2019, the Corporation increased consolidated revenue by 19 percent to $268.2 million as compared to the $224.8 million reported in the same 2018-period. Consolidated operating days were flat in the 2019-period at 19,221 days for both 2019 and 2018-periods. The average consolidated revenue per day, excluding the motor rental division in the US and the Stream division, for the 2019 nine-month period was $13,290, an increase of 16 percent compared to the average of $11,414 in the 2018-period. Improvements in revenue for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2019 were primarily attributable to the greater capacity of high performance technologies and higher activity levels in the US division. US and international revenue were 74 percent and 6 percent, respectively, of total consolidated revenue for the 2019 nine-month period relative to 64 and 7 percent, respectively, for the 2018-period.
Operating Costs and Expenses
(Stated in thousands of dollars except percentages)
Three-month periods ended September 30, Nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019 2018 % Change 2019 2018 % Change Direct costs 77,090 69,478 11 228,141 197,796 15 Gross profit as a percentage of revenue 17% 18% 15% 12% Depreciation & amortization drilling and other
equipment (included in direct costs) 9,894 9,505 4 30,178 29,613 2 Depreciation & amortization right-of-use asset
(included in direct costs) 896 - n.m. 2,641 - n.m. Gross profit as percentage of revenue excluding
depreciation & amortization 29% 29% 27% 25% n.m. – not meaningful

Direct costs are comprised of field and shop expenses, and include depreciation and amortization on the Corporation’s equipment and right-of-use assets. Depreciation on right-of-use assets relates to the impact of adopting IFRS 16 Leases as at January 1, 2019, which required capitalizing the Corporation’s office, shop and vehicle leases.

For the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019, direct costs rose 11 percent and 15 percent, respectively. In both 2019-periods, primarily due to increased activity levels in the US segment, the Corporation incurred greater overall labour costs, volume of equipment repair expenses, and equipment rentals.
For the three-month period ended September 30, 2019, gross profit as a percent of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization, was 29 percent, which was the same percentage as in the 2018-quarter. For the nine-month period ended September 30, 2019, gross profit as a percent of revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization, was 27 percent in comparison to 25 percent in the 2018-period. Improved profitability thus far in 2019 is primarily due to increased activity and revenue per day in the US segment.
(Stated in thousands of dollars except percentages)
Three-month periods ended September 30, Nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019 2018 % Change 2019 2018 % Change Selling, general & administrative (“SG&A”) costs 10,616 12,983 (18) 35,212 30,765 14 Cash-settled share-based payments (included in
SG&A costs) 1,078 2,925 (63) 5,108 4,076 25 Equity-settled share-based payments (included in
SG&A costs) 160 342 (53) 559 1,201 (53) Onerous contracts lease payment (included in
SG&A costs) - (122) n.m. - (270) n.m. SG&A costs excluding equity and cash-settled
share-based payments and provision for onerous
contracts as a percentage of revenue 10% 12% 11% 11% n.m. – not meaningful

For the three-month period ended September 30, 2019, SG&A costs decreased by 18 percent to $10.6 million from $13 million in the 2018-quarter primarily due to lower cash-settled share-based payments in the 2019-quarter. For the nine-month period ended September 30, 2019, SG&A costs increased by 14 percent primarily due to higher cash-settled share-based payments as well as higher personnel costs in the 2019-period as compared to 2018-period.

Cash-settled share-based payments relate to the Corporation’s Retention Award Plan and are measured at fair value. For the three-month period ended September 30, 2019, cash-settled share-based payments decreased 63 percent to $1.1 million from $2.9 million in the 2018-quarter. For the nine-month period ended September 30, 2019, cash-settled share-based payments increased 25 percent to $5.1 million from $4.1 million in the same 2018-period. Changes in cash-settled share-based payments in the respective periods can be mainly attributed to fluctuations in the Corporation’s share price period-over-period.
Equity-settled share-based payments relate to the amortization of the fair values of issued options by the Corporation using the Black-Scholes model. For the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019, equity-settled share-based payments were 53 percent lower in both periods due to previously granted options that fully vested in the 2018 and 2019-years.
Due to adoption of IFRS 16 Leases as of January 1, 2019, onerous contracts lease payments are no longer recorded.
(Stated in thousands of dollars)
Three-month periods ended September 30, Nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019 2018 % Change 2019 2018 % Change Research & development expense 1,193 837 43 2,973 2,506 19

Research and development (“R&D”) expenditures for the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019 were $1.2 million and $3 million, respectively, as compared to $0.8 million and $2.5 million in the same 2018-periods. PHX Energy continues to focus on R&D efforts aimed at developing new technologies, improving reliability of equipment, and decreasing costs to operations. In both 2019-periods, the increase in R&D expenditures mainly related to prototype expenses to further enhance Velocity’s operational performance.
(Stated in thousands of dollars)
Three-month periods ended September 30, Nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019 2018 % Change 2019 2018 % Change Finance expense 306 264 16 1,090 929 17 Finance expense lease liability 622 - n.m. 1,897 - n.m. n.m. – not meaningful

Finance expenses relate to interest charges on the Corporation’s long-term and short-term bank facilities. For the three and nine-month periods ending September 30, 2019 the Corporation’s finance expense grew to $0.3 million and $1.1 million, respectively, an increase of 16 percent and 17 percent, respectively. Higher finance expenses are primarily due to higher average long-term borrowings as a result of increased capital expenditures in the respective 2019-periods compared to the same 2018-periods.

Finance expense lease liability relates to interest expenses incurred on lease liabilities, as a result of the adoption of IFRS 16 Leases in 2019.
(Stated in thousands of dollars)
Three-month periods ended September 30,
Nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019 2018 2019 2018 Net gain on disposition of drilling equipment (514) (2,358) (3,390) (6,209) Foreign exchange losses (gains) 44 (86) 557 (304) Provision for (Recovery of) bad debts 62 (8) 388 (15) Other income (408) (2,452) (2,445) (6,528)

Net gain on disposition of drilling equipment typically result from insurance programs undertaken whereby proceeds for the lost equipment are at current replacement values, which are higher than the respective equipment’s book value. The recognized gain is net of losses, which typically result from asset retirements that were made before the end of the equipment’s useful life and self-insured downhole equipment losses. For the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019, the Corporation realized a $0.5 million and $3.4 million gain on dispositions, respectively, compared to $2.4 million and $6.2 million gain on dispositions in the corresponding 2018-periods. For both 2019-periods, there were fewer instances of high value downhole equipment losses and more occurrences of asset retirements relative to the 2018-periods.
Foreign exchange losses (gains) relate to unrealized and realized exchange losses in the period. For the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019, the Corporation recognized $44 thousand and $0.6 million in losses, respectively, relative to $0.1 million and $0.3 million gains in the corresponding 2018-periods. Losses in the 2019-periods were mainly due to settlement of US-denominated intercompany payables in the International segment.
Provision for bad debts for the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019 primarily relate to bad debt provisions for a few customers in the US division.


(Stated in thousands of dollars, except percentages)
Three-month periods ended September 30, Nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019 2018 2019 2018 Provision for (Recovery of) income taxes 1,086 180 1,830 (77) Effective tax rates 30% 5% n.m. 11% n.m. – not meaningful

Provision for income taxes for the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019, were $1.1 million and $1.8 million, respectively, as compared to $0.2 million and a recovery of income taxes of $0.1 million in the respective 2018-periods. Deferred taxes in the 2019-periods was impacted by unrecognized deferred tax assets with respect to deductible temporary differences in the Canadian jurisdictions, which were recognized in the corresponding 2018-periods.

Segmented Information
The Corporation reports three operating segments on a geographical basis throughout the Canadian provinces of Alberta, Saskatchewan, British Columbia, and Manitoba; throughout the Gulf Coast, Northeast and Rocky Mountain regions of the US; and internationally, in Russia and Albania.
Canada
(Stated in thousands of dollars)
Three-month periods ended September 30, Nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019 2018 % Change 2019 2018 % Change Revenue 19,123 25,646 (25) 54,651 66,307 (18) Reportable segment profit (loss) before tax 1,571 1,831 (14) 616 (1,469) n.m. n.m. – not meaningful

The Canadian industry continued to experience challenges in 2019, despite these obstacles PHX Energy remained focused on maintaining market share, controlling costs and improving profitability. For the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019, PHX Energy’s Canadian revenue was $19.1 million and $54.7 million, respectively, in comparison to revenue of $25.6 million and $66.3 million in the corresponding 2018-periods, a decrease of 25 percent and 18 percent, respectively. Lower revenue in PHX Energy’s Canada segment was due to declining drilling activity, however, this was partially offset by slightly higher revenue per day. For the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019, average revenue per day was $8,648 and $8,644, respectively, compared to $8,408 and $8,227 in the corresponding 2018-quarter.

For the three-month period ended September 30, 2019, the Corporation’s Canadian operating days declined 30 percent to 2,056 days, compared to 2,923 days in the relative 2018-quarter. The decline in the Canadian segment’s activity was slightly less than the decline in industry activity. The industry’s horizontal and directional drilling activity contracted 34 percent as measured by drilling days shrinking from 18,462 days in the 2018-quarter to 12,201 days in the 2019-quarter (Source: Daily Oil Bulletin).

During the third quarter of 2019, oil drilling, as measured by drilling days, represented approximately 49 percent of PHX Energy’s Canadian activity and the Corporation remained active in the Montney, Wilrich, Charlie Lake, Duvernay, Cardium, and Notekiwin areas.
For the nine-month period ended September 30, 2019, operating days declined 23 percent to 5,890 days, compared to 7,694 days in the same 2018-period. The Canadian industry activity declined 32 percent to 33,973 horizontal and directional drilling days reported in the nine-month period of 2019 as compared to 50,145 horizontal and directional drilling days in 2018 (Sources: Daily Oil Bulletin).
Despite the lower revenue and activity levels that have resulted from the challenges faced in the Canadian industry, the Corporation’s Canadian segment generated reportable segment profit before tax of $1.6 million and $0.6 million for the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019, respectively. The Canadian operations were able to maintain profitability as a result of generating higher average revenue per day and lower overall costs in the 2019-periods relative to the same 2018-periods.
Stream Services

Included in the Canadian segment’s revenue is the Stream division, which generated $1.3 million and $3.7 million of revenue in the three and nine-month periods ending September 30, 2019, respectively, as compared to $1.1 million and $3 million of revenue in the corresponding 2018-periods. Stream continued to increase activity in 2019, resulting in higher operating days for both 2019-periods. For the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019, Stream’s operating days increased to 2,043 days and 6,612 days, respectively, from 1,613 days and 4,354 in the comparable 2018-periods. The increase in operating days in the 2019-periods is slightly offset by lower average revenue per day as compared to the 2018-periods as Stream provided a higher share of lower rate services in 2019 in alternative markets. In the third quarter of 2019 the average revenue per day was $658 as compared to $662 in the 2018-quarter and in the 2019 nine-month period average revenue per day was $566 as compared to $690 in the same 2018-period.
As a result of higher operating days and disciplined cost management, reportable segment losses before tax decreased to $0.3 million and $1 million for the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019, respectively, as compared to $1 million and $3.2 million in the 2018-periods, respectively.
United States
(Stated in thousands of dollars)
Three-month periods ended September 30,
Nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019 2018 % Change 2019 2018 % Change Revenue 68,265 54,129 26 198,399 143,842 38 Reportable segment income before tax 4,975 3,219 55 10,802 2,937 268

Thus far in 2019, the Corporation’s US operations have experienced a rising demand for its high performance technologies, which have increased in capacity during the year. This combined with targeted marketing efforts and the superior operational performance of personnel and equipment has led PHX Energy’s US division to once again outperform the industry.
For the three-month period ended September 30, 2019, US revenue was $68.3 million, a 26 percent increase compared to the $54.1 million in the corresponding 2018-quarter. The 2019 third quarter revenue was the highest quarterly revenue since the fourth quarter of 2014. Average revenue per day, excluding the Corporation’s motor rental division, increased by 13 percent in the 2019-quarter to CAD $17,032 as compared to CAD $15,083 in the 2018-quarter. The higher average revenue per day relates to premiums and surcharges for the Corporation’s high performance technologies, particularly those resulting from increased RSS activity. The US segment’s operating days increased by 10 percent in the 2019-quarter to 3,850 days as compared to 3,506 days in the 2018-quarter. Reportable segment income was $5 million in the 2019-quarter, up 55 percent when compared to the $3.2 million in the 2018-quarter.
In contrast to the Corporation’s US segments results, the US industry rig count decreased by 12 percent quarter-over-quarter. There were an average of 868 active horizontal and directional rigs per day in the third quarter of 2019 compared to an average of 988 active horizontal and directional rigs per day in the 2018-quarter (Source: Baker Hughes). Horizontal and directional rigs represented 94 percent of the average number of US rigs running per day (2018 – 94 percent). The Permian basin continued to be the dominate play in the US industry, representing 47 percent of the average operating rigs per day in the 2019-quarter (2018 quarter – 46 percent); although, the Permian did see a 10 percent decline in activity that was in line with the overall rate of decline in the US rig count. (Source: Baker Hughes). During the three-month period ended September 30, 2019, the Permian basin represented approximately 78 percent of the wells drilled by the Corporation and nearly all of PHX Energy’s US activity was oil well drilling. In addition to the Permian basin, Phoenix USA continued to be active in the Eagle Ford, Granite Wash, SCOOP/STACK, Marcellus, Bakken Utica and Niobrara basins.
For the nine-month period ended September 30, 2019, US revenue rose to $198.4 million, a 38 percent increase, compared to $143.8 million recognized in the 2018-period. Operating days for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2019, increased 18 percent to 11,502 days as compared to 9,741 days in the same 2018-period. PHX Energy’s activity again outpaced the industry’s horizontal and directional rig count, which showed a slight decline, 3 percent. In the nine-month period there were an average of 930 horizontal and directional rigs running on a daily basis as compared to 958 rigs in the comparable 2018-period (Source: Baker Hughes). Permian basin activity represented 78 percent of Phoenix USA’s activity in the first nine months of 2019.
For the nine-month period ended September 30, 2019, revenue per day, excluding the Corporation’s motor rental division, increased 13 percent to CAD $16,465, relative to CAD $14,520 in the corresponding 2018-period. For the nine-month period ended September 30, 2019, a reportable segment income of $10.8 million was realized as compared to $2.9 million in the same 2018-period. Higher profitability in the period is mainly attributable to higher revenue per day and operating days in the period.
International
(Stated in thousands of dollars)
Three-month periods ended September 30, Nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019 2018 % Change 2019 2018 % Change Revenue 5,711 5,258 9 15,154 14,651 3 Reportable segment income before tax 304 1,221 (75) 369 831 (56)

For the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019, the international segment’s revenue was $5.7 million and $15.2 million, respectively, as compared to $5.3 million and $14.7 million in the corresponding 2018-period. The improvement in revenue in both periods was primarily due to higher operating days in Albania.
For the three-month period ended September 30, 2019, PHX Energy’s Russia division’s revenue was $3.5 million, 7 percent lower compared to the $3.7 million in the 2018-quarter. PHX Energy’s Russia division realized higher operating days in 2019-quarter, generating 455 days compared to 406 days in the 2018-quarter. However, this increased activity was offset by a higher share of lower priced services and a general decline in market day rates.
For the three-month period ended September 30, 2019, PHX Energy’s Albania division recognized revenue of $2.3 million as compared to $1.5 million in the same 2018-quarter. The Albania division operated on three rigs in the third quarter of 2019 compared to two rigs in the 2018-quarter. Operating days increased 55 percent to 269 days in the 2019-quarter relative to 173 days in the corresponding 2018-quarter.
The international segment recognized reportable segment income for the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019 of $0.3 million (2018 - $1.2 million) and $0.4 million (2018 - $0.8 million), respectively. The lower margins were primarily due to lower activity in Russia for some key clients and the general decline in market day rates.
Investing Activities
For the three-month period ended September 30, 2019, PHX Energy used $4.5 million of net cash in investing activities as compared to $2.4 million of net cash from investing activities in the 2018-quarter. During the 2019-quarter, the Corporation received proceeds of $5.8 million primarily from the involuntary disposal of drilling equipment in well bores, relative to $3.2 million received in 2018. PHX Energy spent $8.4 million on capital expenditures of drilling and other equipment in the 2019-quarter compared to $8.1 million in the 2018-quarter. 2019-quarter expenditures were comprised of:
$4.9 million in MWD systems and spare components;
$2.4 million in downhole performance drilling motors, and
$1.1 million in RSS, machinery and equipment and other assets.
The capital expenditure program undertaken in the period was financed generally from cash flow from operating activities. Of the total capital expenditures in the 2019-quarter $6.8 million was used to grow the Corporation’s fleet of drilling equipment and the remaining $1.6 million was used to maintain the current fleet of drilling and other equipment.
The change in non-cash working capital balance of $1.6 million (use of cash) for the three-month period ended September 30, 2019, relates to the net change in the Corporation’s trade payables that are associated with the acquisition of capital assets. This compares to a $2.5 million (source of cash) for the three-month period ended September 30, 2018.
Financing Activities
The Corporation reported cash flows used in financing activities of $6.1 million in the three-month period ended September 30, 2019 as compared to $6.2 million in the 2018-quarter. In the 2019-quarter, the Corporation:
repurchased 1,414,400 shares for $4 million under the NCIB,
made net repayments of $1.3 million to its syndicated facilities; and
made payment of $0.8 million towards it lease liability in line with the newly adopted IFRS 16 Leases standard.
Capital Resources
As of September 30, 2019, the Corporation had $15 million drawn on its syndicated facility, $6.6 million drawn on its operating facility, and a cash balance of $6.7 million. As at September 30, 2019, the Corporation had approximately CAD $43.4 million and USD $15 million available to be drawn from its credit facilities. The credit facilities are secured by substantially all of the Corporation’s assets.

As at September 30, 2019, the Corporation was in compliance with all its financial covenants. On July 29, 2019, the Corporation extended the maturity date of the syndicated loan agreement to December 11, 2022. The Corporation also increased the borrowing amounts in the syndicated facility from CAD $48 million to CAD $50 million and in the US operating facility from USD $5 million to USD $15 million.
Cash Requirements for Capital Expenditures

Historically, the Corporation has financed its capital expenditures and acquisitions through cash flows from operating activities, debt and equity. In the third quarter of 2019, the Board approved an increase to PHX Energy’s 2019 capital expenditure program from $30 million to $35 million. The increase to the capital expenditure program was primarily dedicated to purchasing long lead items required to further expand the Atlas Motor and Velocity fleets for activity in 2020.
These planned expenditures are expected to be financed from a combination of one or more of the following: cash flow from operations, the Corporation’s unused credit facilities or equity, if necessary. However, if a sustained period of market uncertainty and financial market volatility persists in 2019, the Corporation's activity levels, cash flows and access to credit may be negatively impacted, and the expenditure level would be reduced accordingly. Conversely, if future growth opportunities present themselves, the Corporation would look at expanding this planned capital expenditure amount.
Outlook
Profitability continued to strengthen in the third quarter, building upon the improvements that began earlier in 2018. In the quarter, the Corporation achieved the highest quarterly adjusted EBIDTA since the third quarter of 2014 and the highest consolidated quarterly revenue since the first quarter of 2015. These ongoing achievements were made despite Canadian and US industry activity declining and are a result of the Corporation’s strategic focus on the US market and the initiative to build a fleet of differentiating high performance technologies that deliver higher margins.
The Corporation’s US segment continues to be the engine driving the improved financial performance, despite a weakening in the industry. In the third quarter, revenue achieved in the US was the highest quarterly revenue since the fourth quarter 2014. Despite the lower rig counts, the US remains the most significant area of growth for the Corporation. Even with the gains achieved over the past year there is still potential for PHX Energy to capture more market share. Operators in this market are strongly focused on drilling performance and are insisting on specific high performance technologies as they continue to push for faster and more efficient drilling. This trend of high grading drilling technologies is strengthening and PHX Energy is well positioned to capitalize on this demand. PHX Energy will continue to expand its Velocity, Atlas Motor and PowerDrive Orbit RSS fleets, increasing capacity to fuel further growth. As PHX Energy continues to execute on its US growth and technology development strategies, the Corporation is optimistic that US operations will continue to outpace the US industry.
The third quarter in Canada was consistent with the first half of the year, with declining rig counts persisting. The issues related to market access, public perception of the energy sector and political agendas are haunting the energy sector and it appears there will be no change to this environment in the near term. Despite these challenging times, the Corporation is focused on maintaining a viable business in Canada and has adapted its operations to this new norm. As in the US market, the Canadian segment is utilizing the performance and financial advantages created by its fleet of high performance technologies. Additionally the Corporation is leveraging its infrastructure and expertise in Canada to support the growth in the US. Although PHX Energy does not anticipate an uptick in activity which typically comes with the winter drilling season in the fourth and first quarters, it believes that it can maintain the level of performance achieved in the third quarter with its strong marketing relationships, industry leading operations, premium technologies, and strategies to support its continued growth in the US.
In the third quarter, PHX Energy’s international operations increased activity quarter-over-quarter and Albanian operations generated increased revenue as it remained active on three rigs in the country. In Russia however, revenue slightly declined as a result of a larger portion of lower priced services being provided and overall pricing pressure in the industry. PHX Energy believes that there are opportunities for growth in Russia and is implementing operational and marketing strategies to capitalize on these in future quarters.
Technology Update

High performance technologies have proven the significant positive impact they can have on Operator’s drilling operations and this has led Operator’s to become more specific and targeted with their requirements. With the lower rig counts competition has intensified, and Operators can demand a directional provider deploy specific technologies in order to be awarded the work. This boasts well for PHX Energy and its high performance fleet, and the Corporation must remain at the forefront of technology development.
The impact the current high performance technologies have made on profitability, market share and performance is one of the most significant in the Corporation’s history. This is the result of an unwavering commitment over the past number of years to differentiate PHX Energy as a leading provider of downhole technologies. Today, the Corporation is laser focused on this objective, allocating its capital expenditure program to increase its capacity while continuing its engineering and development efforts towards improved technologies. PHX Energy is steadfast on protecting its position in the market as a top tier technology leader.
The Corporation has built its financial position to be one of the more favorable in the sector, with a strong balance sheet and relatively low debt levels. PHX Energy is committed to a conservative approach to its financial management and further strengthening this position. In an environment where it is increasingly difficult to reward shareholders through valuations, PHX Energy is in a unique position to utilize strategies, such as the NCIB, to help create shareholder value.
Michael Buker, President
October 30, 2019
Non-GAAP Measures
Adjusted EBITDA

Adjusted EBITDA, defined as earnings before finance expense and finance expense lease liability, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, impairment losses on goodwill and intangible assets, equity share-based payments, and unrealized foreign exchange gains or losses, does not have a standardized meaning and is not a financial measure that is recognized under GAAP. However, Management believes that adjusted EBITDA provides supplemental information to net earnings that is useful in evaluating the results of the Corporation’s principal business activities before considering certain charges, how it was financed and how it was taxed in various countries. Investors should be cautioned, however, that adjusted EBITDA should not be construed as an alternative measure to net earnings determined in accordance with GAAP. PHX Energy’s method of calculating adjusted EBITDA may differ from that of other organizations and, accordingly, its adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to that of other companies.
The following is a reconciliation of net earnings to adjusted EBITDA:
(Stated in thousands of dollars)
Three-month periods ended September 30, Nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019 2018 2019 2018 Net income (loss) 2,594 3,743 (494) (591) Add (deduct): Depreciation and amortization drilling and other
equipment 9,894 9,505 30,178 29,613 Depreciation and amortization right-of-use asset(1) 896 - 2,642 - Provision for (Recovery of) income taxes 1,086 180 1,830 (77) Finance expense 306 264 1,090 929 Finance expense lease liability(1) 622 - 1,897 - Equity-settled share-based payments 160 342 559 1,201 Unrealized foreign exchange (gain) loss (22) (100) 259 (360) Adjusted EBITDA as reported 15,536 13,934 37,961 30,715 (1) Cash payment on leases included in IFRS 16 for the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019 was $1.4 million and $4.3 million, respectively. These were recorded as rental expenses in direct costs and SG&A in the 2018-periods.

Adjusted EBITDA per share - diluted is calculated using the treasury stock method whereby deemed proceeds on the exercise of the share options are used to reacquire common shares at an average share price. The calculation of adjusted EBITDA per share on a dilutive basis does not include anti-dilutive options.
Funds from Operations

Funds from operations is defined as cash flows generated from operating activities before changes in non-cash working capital, interest paid, and income taxes paid. This non-GAAP measure does not have a standardized meaning and is not a financial measure recognized under GAAP. Management uses funds from operations as an indication of the Corporation’s ability to generate funds from its operations before considering changes in working capital balances and interest and taxes paid. Investors should be cautioned, however, that this financial measure should not be construed as an alternative measure to cash flows from operating activities determined in accordance with GAAP. PHX Energy’s method of calculating funds from operations may differ from that of other organizations and, accordingly, it may not be comparable to that of other companies.
The following is a reconciliation of cash flows from operating activities to funds from operations:
(Stated in thousands of dollars)
Three-month periods ended September 30,
Nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019 2018 2019 2018 Cash flows from operating activities 9,721 6,027 40,665 15,871 Add (deduct): Changes in non-cash working capital 4,699 4,808 (6,756) 7,935 Interest paid 172 94 668 442 Income taxes paid (received) 77 532 (23) 128 Funds from (used in) operations 14,669 11,461 34,554 24,376

Funds from operations per share - diluted is calculated using the treasury stock method whereby deemed proceeds on the exercise of the share options are used to reacquire common shares at an average share price. The calculation of funds from operations per share on a dilutive basis does not include anti-dilutive options.
Debt to Covenant EBITDA Ratio

Debt is represented by loans and borrowings. Covenant EBITDA, for purposes of the calculation of this covenant ratio, is represented by net earnings for a rolling four quarter period, adjusted for finance expense and finance expense lease liability, provision for income taxes, depreciation and amortization, equity-settled share-based payments, impairment losses on goodwill and intangible assets, onerous contracts, and IFRS 16 adjustment to restate cash payments to expense, subject to the restrictions provided in the amended credit agreement.
Working Capital

Working capital is defined as the Corporation’s current assets less its current liabilities and is used to assess the Corporation’s short-term liquidity. This non-GAAP measure does not have a standardized meaning and is not a financial measure recognized under GAAP. Management uses working capital to provide insight as to the Corporation’s ability to meet obligations as at the reporting date. PHX Energy’s method of calculating working capital may differ from that of other organizations and, accordingly, it may not be comparable to that of other companies.
Net Debt

Net debt is defined as the Corporation’s loans and borrowings and operating facility borrowings less cash and cash equivalents. This non-GAAP measure does not have a standardized meaning and is not a financial measure recognized under GAAP. Management uses working capital to provide insight as to the Corporation’s ability to meet obligations as at the reporting date. PHX Energy’s method of calculating working capital may differ from that of other organizations and, accordingly, it may not be comparable to that of other companies.
About PHX Energy Services Corp.

The Corporation, through its directional drilling subsidiary entities, provides horizontal and directional drilling technology and services to oil and natural gas producing companies in Canada, the US, Russia and Albania. PHX Energy also provides electronic drilling recorder (“EDR”) technology and services.
PHX Energy’s Canadian directional drilling operations are conducted through Phoenix Technology Services LP. The Corporation maintains its corporate head office, research and development, Canadian sales, service and operational centres in Calgary, Alberta. In addition, PHX Energy has a facility in Estevan, Saskatchewan. PHX Energy’s US operations, conducted through the Corporation’s wholly-owned subsidiary, Phoenix Technology Services USA Inc. (“Phoenix USA”), is headquartered in Houston, Texas. Phoenix USA has sales and service facilities in Houston, Texas; Denver, Colorado; Casper, Wyoming; Midland, Texas; Bellaire, Ohio; and Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. Internationally, PHX Energy has sales offices and service facilities in Albania and Russia, and administrative offices in Nicosia, Cyprus; Dublin, Ireland; and Luxembourg City, Luxembourg.
PHX Energy markets its EDR technology and services in Canada through its division, Stream Services (“Stream”), which has an office and operations center in Calgary, Alberta. EDR technology is marketed worldwide, outside Canada, through Stream’s wholly-owned subsidiary Stream Services International Inc.
The common shares of PHX Energy trade on the Toronto Stock Exchange under the symbol PHX.
For further information please contact:
John Hooks, CEO; Michael Buker, President; or Cameron Ritchie, Senior Vice President Finance and CFO
PHX Energy Services Corp.
Suite 1400, 250 2nd Street SW
Calgary, Alberta T2P 0C1
Tel: 403-543-4466 Fax: 403-543-4485 www.phxtech.com
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position
(unaudited)
September 30, 2019 December 31, 2018 ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 6,667,910 $ 3,643,418 Trade and other receivables 90,827,920 103,987,716 Inventories 30,529,040 27,558,003 Prepaid expenses 3,294,154 2,428,221 Current tax assets 55,941 625,964 Total current assets 131,374,965 138,243,322 Non-current assets: Drilling and other equipment 85,031,445 94,164,880 Right-of-use asset 31,602,910 - Intangible assets 20,138,047 22,301,680 Goodwill 8,876,351 8,876,351 Deferred tax assets 568,299 594,049 Total non-current assets 146,217,052 125,936,960 Total assets $ 277,592,017 $ 264,180,282 LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY Current liabilities: Lease liability $ 2,823,969 $ - Operating facility 6,568,072 13,348,562 Trade and other payables 59,775,517 64,578,428 Total current liabilities 69,167,558 77,926,990 Non-current liabilities: Lease liability 40,839,263 - Loans and borrowings 15,000,000 11,821,000 Deferred tax liability 2,993,562 2,886,606 Provision for onerous contracts - 1,832,000 Deferred income - 1,300,007 Total non-current liabilities 58,832,825 17,839,613 Equity: Share capital 256,566,776 265,760,391 Contributed surplus 11,148,473 10,631,982 Retained earnings (133,869,411 ) (125,385,208 ) Accumulated other comprehensive income 15,745,796 17,406,514 Total equity 149,591,634 168,413,679 Total liabilities and equity $ 277,592,017 $ 264,180,282


Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income/Loss

(unaudited)
Three-month periods ended September 30, Nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019 2018 2019 2018 Revenue $ 93,099,227 $ 85,032,830 $ 268,203,575 $ 224,800,407 Direct costs 77,089,805 69,477,782 228,140,741 197,795,786 Gross profit 16,009,422 15,555,048 40,062,834 27,004,621 Expenses: Selling, general and administrative expenses 10,615,982 12,983,042 35,212,139 30,765,451 Research and development expenses 1,193,183 836,752 2,972,786 2,506,363 Finance expense 306,097 264,046 1,089,722 929,017 Finance expense lease liability 622,196 - 1,896,879 - Other income (407,597 ) (2,452,247 ) (2,445,385 ) (6,528,264 ) 12,329,861 11,631,593 38,726,141 27,672,567 Earnings (loss) before income taxes 3,679,561 3,923,455 1,336,693 (667,946 ) Provision for (Recovery of) income taxes Current 121,492 1,388,630 590,276 3,315,087 Deferred 964,563 (1,208,674 ) 1,239,976 (3,391,862 ) 1,086,055 179,956 1,830,252 (76,775 ) Net earnings (loss) 2,593,506 3,743,499 (493,559 ) (591,171 ) Other comprehensive income (loss) Foreign currency translation 1,001,351 (2,541,426 ) (1,660,718 ) 753,944 Total comprehensive income (loss) for the period $ 3,594,857 $ 1,202,073 $ (2,154,277 ) $ 162,773 Earnings (loss) per share – basic $ 0.05 $ 0.06 $ (0.01 ) $ (0.01 ) Earnings (loss) per share – diluted $ 0.05 $ 0.06 $ (0.01 ) $ (0.01 )



Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(unaudited)

Story 15
Y’all have a busy week ahead. This week, you can watch your favorite films during the Scottsdale International Film Festival, show your support for local film talent at Soul West Fest, or learn a little history from the experts during Drunk History. For more things to do, visit Phoenix New Times’ calendar.
Get ready for a good time at Gracie’s. New Times Archive
‘Disgraceful Halloween!’
Gracie’s Tax Bar is a truly fine establishment that has been frequented by many a Phoenix New Times staff member. But if you need more proof of its greatness, you need only swing by this Halloween. The bar’s “Disgraceful Halloween!” will feature live music from Treasure Mammal, Jake Stellarwell, and Djentrification. There will also be a haunted maze, Purdy Lite’s live visuals, tarot card readings, and an ample amount of tacos.
This free party (not counting your booze) goes down from 8 p.m. to 2 a.m. on Thursday, October 31, at 811 North Seventh Avenue. And if you come across a staffer, please be extra nice. Chirs Coplan
Arizona Cardinals
Halloween night is going to be quite frightful for the Arizona Cardinals. On Thursday, October 31, the unstoppable San Francisco 49ers, who are 7-0 as of this writing, will invade State Farm Stadium, 1 East Cardinals Drive in Glendale, like a deranged Jason Voorhees busting into a cabin at Camp Crystal Lake.
San Francisco boasts one of the best records in the National Football League and has slashed their way through teams like the Cleveland Browns, Pittsburgh Steelers, and Los Angeles Rams. This doesn’t bode well for the Cardinals, who have squeaked out three wins this season and might wind up getting slaughtered by the 49ers. Then again, upsets are always known to happen.
If you’d like to see if Arizona can somehow slay the beast, kickoff is at 5:20 p.m. Tickets start at $34. Benjamin Leatherman
It's time to whip out the zombie costumes. Ben Garcia
Night of the Living Dead
Horror meets social commentary as PHX Film Collective screens the 1968 cult classic Night of the Living Dead at Phoenix Center for the Arts, 1202 North Third Street. The $5 screening kicks off at 8 p.m. on Thursday, October 31, with a talk about the zombie film’s impact on the horror genre and its ongoing relevance in contemporary society.
Costumes are encouraged, and prizes will be awarded in two categories: best overall costume and best movie-themed costume. So now is the time to rock your best zombie face paint and tattered clothing, as if you’re one of the ravenously hungry undead stalking strangers trapped in the movie’s farmhouse. Lynn Trimble
The Nightmare Before Christmas
It’s hard to improve on a classic, but we’ll gladly give a pass to the Phoenix Symphony during their live scoring of The Nightmare Before Christmas on Halloween since they’ll add something extra to the beloved animated film.
The orchestra’s musicians will bring Danny Elfman’s legendary soundtrack to life during a screening of the 1993 classic on Thursday, October 31, inside Symphony Hall, 75 North Second Street. Costumes are encouraged, particularly those depicting characters from the film.
Start time is 7:30 p.m. and tickets are $25-$93. Additional performances take place through November 3. Benjamin Leatherman
EXPAND A toast to fossils, perhaps? Melissa Fossum
Fossil Fest
Maybe you think fossils are all those relatives who love sharing stories of life before computers and cell phones. Scientists have a different perspective, which means you might learn some cool facts if you head over to Fossil Fest at Arizona Science Center, located at 600 East Washington Street, on Friday, November 1.
This is part of the Science With A Twist series, so you have to be at least 21 to attend the event, which runs from 6 to 10 p.m. It’s a chance to sip cocktails surrounded by science, watch live demonstrations, enjoy hands-on activities, and listen to DJ-spun music. A $12 ticket also gives you access to all four floors of the Arizona Science Center, but you’ll pay extra for planetarium or giant screen theater offerings. Lynn Trimble
Scene from Marriage Story. Netflix/Wilson Webb
The Scottsdale International Film Festival
The Scottsdale International Film Festival kicks off on Friday, November 1, at Scottsdale Center for the Performing Arts, 7380 North Second Street in Scottsdale. The 10-day event starts with a screening of Marriage Story, which features Adam Driver and Scarlett Johansson as a couple working to navigate their divorce and a custody arrangement for their son.
The film was written, directed, and co-produced by Noah Baumbach, whose other films include Frances Ha and The Squid and The Whale. It got significant buzz during film festivals in Toronto and Telluride. The evening kicks off with a dessert reception at 7 p.m., followed by an 8 p.m. screening of the film. Buy tickets online for $25 through October 31. After that, you’ll pay $28 at the center’s box office. Lynn Trimble
Get inspired for your next piece. New Times Archive
Phoenix Tattoo Expo
Whether you’ve got a small heart tattoo on your ankle or the Sistine Chapel across your shoulders, you may be inclined to celebrate all things tattoo. At the very least, you’re looking for an opportunity to add to your total square ink-age. The Phoenix Tattoo Expo features 100 national artists ready to permanently scar your body with both walk-up and booked appointments available, or you can also just peruse the art and culture of tattoos with other exhibitors and vendors.
The expo runs from Friday, November 1, to Sunday, November 3, at the Delta Hotels by Marriott, 200 North Centennial Way in Mesa. Tickets range from $15-35. Chris Coplan
EXPAND Raúl Yañez gets jazzy. Raúl Yañez/The Nash
Raúl Yañez Quartet
Some people walk right past the purple building in Roosevelt Row during First Fridays, without venturing inside to see what it’s all about. The building is home to The Nash, 110 East Roosevelt Street, a jazz venue where the walls are often lined with works by local artists. Head over on Friday, November 1, if you want to check it out.
There’s a free concert starting at 7:30 p.m. featuring the Raúl Yañez Quartet playing music from Latin jazz greats including Eddie Palmieri, Tito Puente, and Ray Barretto. It’s a great chance to take a seat and relax for a while with local musicians and jazz fans amid your gallery-hopping. Visit thenash.org. Lynn Trimble
Soul West Fest
In recent years, quite a few film and multimedia festivals have come to the Valley — likely because cold, dark theater spaces are A-1 around these parts. Among those outings is the Soul West Fest, a spotlight for urban talent emanating from the heart of central Phoenix. The third annual proceedings kick off Friday with a TBA concert series. On Saturday, the festival proper begins with multiple screenings, including What Marilyn Didn’t Know, Family Box, Monsters In Havasu, and My Father, Belize, among others. Then, everything wraps up Sunday with a filmmaker’s award brunch. Along the way, there’ll be a slew of local eateries and vendors for mid-marathon snacking and shopping.
The festival runs from Friday, November 1, to Sunday, November 3, at the John Paul Theater at Phoenix College, 1202 West Thomas Road. Tickets range from $29 to $199 for various packages. Chris Coplan
Art meets walking at SMoCA. Sean Deckert
The Museum of Walking
The Museum of Walking, founded by local artists and based in Tempe, is coming to Scottsdale Museum of Contemporary Art, 7374 East Second Street. Walking can be an art practice, according to Museum of Walking director Angela Ellsworth. Learn more during the free Museum of Walking event at SMoCA, which starts at 9 a.m. on Saturday, November 2.
You’ll gain insights into the relationships between contemporary art, land, walking, community, health, and history. Wear comfortable shoes, since you’ll be walking near the museum. It’s a great way to create connections with other people and the environment while embracing principles like healthy living and divergent thinking. Lynn Trimble
EXPAND Jake Atlas will be there. Zealot Pro Wrestling
Zealot Pro Wrestling
Professional wrestling and horror flicks have more than a few things in common. Both feature creepy characters, over-the-top plots, and intense action. So the fact that Zealot Pro Wrestling’s latest supercard, You’ll Float Too, takes its title from It doesn’t seem strange. Just don’t expect to see Pennywise doing piledrivers at the event, which happens on Saturday, November 2, at Sun Studios of Arizona, 1425 West 14th Street in Tempe.
“Nah, it’s just because it’s around Halloween, we wanted a fun name, and It is really popular,” says ZPW’s Casey Van Buren.
The event will feature seven matches, including a few involving indie stars Chris Bey, Tony Deppen, and Jake Atlas, the latter of whom was recently signed by WWE. Bey will battle “American Kaiju” Devin Sparks for the Zealot Championship in the main event, while Atlas faces Slice Boogie and Deppen wrestles Mike Camden.
Bell time is 7 p.m. Tickets start at $10. Benjamin Leatherman
Here's where the podcast magic will happen. Lynn Trimble
So You Want to Be a Podcaster
If the only thing standing between you and making your mark as the next great podcaster is knowing how the whole podcaster thing works, you’re in luck. There’s a workshop called So You Want to Be a Podcaster happening at Scottsdale Civic Center Library, 3839 North Drinkwater Boulevard in Scottsdale, from 11 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. on Saturday, November 2.
The free workshop is being taught by Jared Duran, who hosts a cultural podcast called Limited Engagement. He’s also co-publisher for an independent publishing company called Hoot n’ Waddle. He’ll be sharing tips, techniques, and creative ideas to help you launch your own podcast phenomenon. Lynn Trimble
EXPAND Colorful attendees of Rainbows Festival 2015 at Heritage Square. Benjamin Leatherman
The Rainbows Festival
The Rainbows Festival returns to Heritage Square, 115 North Sixth Street, during the first weekend in November. Head over to the free event on Saturday, November 2, between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. to celebrate the diversity of the local LGBTA+ community. It’s a family-friendly and pet-friendly event filled with performances, community group displays, food trucks, craft cocktails, and more. Saturday’s entertainment lineup includes Desert City Jazz, Prince Poppycock, and more.
This year’s event will feature two stages and over 150 groups presenting everything from art to educational resources. Most of all, it’s a chance to join fellow community members in elevating the importance of diversity in creating and sustaining a thriving city. Lynn Trimble
Nerd out. Courtesy of London Snow/Burlescapades
‘Nerdlesque’
Can nerd culture be sexy? There’s only one way to find out for sure: by attending “Nerdlesque.” Already in its sixth year, the event features the “dirtiest nerds” dressing up as beloved pop-culture characters, including Gaston from Beauty and the Beast and Wonder Woman, before stripping down for a burlesque show as steamy as its tremendously geeky. Will this ruin your perception of certain beloved pop icons? Maybe! Could this prove to be existentially confusing? Anything’s possible! But at least you can indulge your inner dweeb by creating a canon where all this naughtiness makes sense.
The 18-and-over show begins at 8 p.m. on Saturday, November 2, at Phoenix Center for the Arts, 1202 North Third Street. It’s $25 for reserved seating, $30 for the second row, and $35 for front row/VIP. Chris Coplan
Drunk History
Perhaps you’ve watched Drunk History on TV but now’s your chance to live it — and not just by getting smashed on pinot and reading through The Art of War. No, this is actually a concert by the local Mill Avenue Chamber Players, who will perform selections of Hans Abrahamsen, Darius Milhaud, and others as an “aural” journal through history. Along the way, “Hip Historian” Marshall Shore will share some Arizona-centric stories to help history truly come alive. And you can totally grease that squeaky wheel with plenty of great beer and wine pairings.
Your journey through olden times begins at 3 p.m. on Sunday, November 3, at Changing Hands Bookstore, 300 West Camelback Road. Chris Coplan
EXPAND Checking out works by David Knorr. Lynn Trimble
‘The Journey Circles Back’
If you’ve never paused to ponder the amazing ways shapes from nature make their way into architecture and other elements of everyday life, there’s an exhibit that might change your perspective. “The Journey Circles Back” features artwork by David Knorr, who creates totems and other sculptures using biometric forms. They’re both strange and familiar, and they’ll help you see the world around you in fresh ways.
See his artwork, along with a solo exhibition of paintings by Alma Telibecirevic, at the Central Gallery inside Burton Barr Library. The gallery is free, and it’s open on Monday, November 4, during library hours from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Stick around awhile if you want to see other works of art on view throughout the library. Lynn Trimble
Exploring prints by Marco Albarran and Monica Gisel. Arizona State University
‘Tintas e Impresiones’
Creating prints has long been a way for artists to share their images and ideas with a broad range of people. Prints by local artists are often included in exhibitions at various Arizona State University galleries. Now, you can see prints by Marco Albarran and Monica Gisel, two longtime staples of the Phoenix arts scene, on view inside the Fletcher Library at ASU West, 4701 West Thunderbird Road in Glendale.
For their exhibition titled “Tintas e Impresiones” they’re showing works reflecting multiple themes and print techniques, which convey the diversity, power, and accessibility of the medium. The free exhibit is open from 7:30 a.m. to 7 p.m. on Tuesday, November 5. Lynn Trimble
Bring a healthy appetite. New Times Archive
‘Stews and Stories’
November is officially Native American Heritage Month. It’s a great opportunity to honor this essential component of Arizona’s rich history and culture. South Mountain Community College is offering the “Stews and Stories” event. As you might have already gathered from the name, guests will chow down on free stew and fry bread from Emerson Fry Bread Food Truck as they’re regaled by tales from storyteller Barnaby Lewis (Gila River Indian Community), author/educator Iris PrettyPaint (Blackfoot/Crow), and author Violet Duncan (Plains Cree). The only thing you need to bring? Blankets, chairs, and a healthy appetite.
Storytime begins at 6 p.m. on Wednesday, November 6, at the lawn of the performing arts center at SMCC, 7050 South 24th Street. For more information, you can email liz.warren@southmountaincc.edu. Chris Coplan

Story 16
CLOSE
Children’s Emergency Resources held its second annual Clays for Kids event at Quail Creek Plantation in Okeechobee on Sept. 28.
Event proceeds will help pay for health care to uninsured or underinsured income-eligible Martin County children to enable their full participation in academic and social development.
Clays for Kids award winner Rich Rhatgan, center, first place in male category, with Joe Flanagan, left, and Larry Green. (Photo: Contributed photo by Laura McBride)
Clays for Kids award winner Sylvia Godbehere, center, first place in female category, with Joe Flanagan, left, and Larry Green. (Photo: Contributed photo by Laura McBride)
Clays for Kids award winner Andrew Desplaines, center, first place in youth category, with Joe Flanagan, left, and Larry Green. (Photo: Contributed photo by Laura McBride)
“For 39 years, our goal has been to provide families with the means to quickly deal with medical situations affecting their children," said Joe Flanagan, board president of Children’s Emergency Resources. "Partnering with other nonprofits allows maximum efficiency for committed funds addressing the medical needs of school-aged children of Martin County. This was our second Clays for Kids event and we could not have asked for a better turn out.”
Main sponsors of the clay shoot included Wallace Auto Group; Saelzer/Atlas Wealth Management Group of Raymond James; Bonnie C. Landry & Associates; Anthony George, attorney of the law firm of Fox McCluskey Bush Robison PLLC; Erneston Produce; Indiantown Marina, and Ampersand Graphics.
The clay shoot also was supported by AAA Lath and Stucco Inc., Air Plus Air Conditioning, All Creatures Animal Hospital, Architectural Plantation Shutters, Balanced Body Works, Cavalier Plumbing, Colorado Pawn Shop, Dave’s Plumbing, Dr. Leo Hart at Complete Care Chiropractic and Wellness, Greenridge Stables, M.E. Glennon Insurance & Associates, Elaine Hobbins, Law Office of Stephen M. Lewen, Lively Orthodontics, Protect-A-Child, Jose Ramirez Landscaping, Titan Electrical Contractors, and Mr. & Mrs. Dan Wiley.
The Clays for Kids event included a buffet lunch, silent auction, raffles and awards ceremony.
About Children’s Emergency Resources
Children’s Emergency Resources Inc. has no office, no salaried employees and minimal overhead so almost all money raised goes directly to providing services for the children of Martin County. A continuous updating and monitoring of medical service providers allows for families receiving services to benefit from assistance while having minimal to no financial impact to the organization or the family.
2019 Clays for Kids participants, from left, Alicia Stover, Art Stover, Matt Price, Tylor Melton, John Reddick Sr., Eugene Caiazzo, John Reddick Jr., Mark Howe, Kenneth Desplaines, Andrew Desplaines, Tom Thompson, Dave Kenny and Amy Kenny. (Photo: Contributed photo by Dulce Cheney)
The medical needs of students that are assisted by Children's Emergency Resources range from dental to required medication, open heart surgery to glasses, vision/hearing tests and equipment, and a variety of medical issues. Most often working through the Martin County Health Department nurses assigned to each school, children are identified with specific needs by the school’s health assistant or guidance counselor.
For more information, visit childrensemergencyresources.org, call 772-223-0979 or email childrensemergencyresources.cer@gmail.com.
CONSIDER SUBSCRIBING TODAY: Help support our local journalism
Children's Emergency Resources Board members, from left, Willie Gore Jr., Greg Moody, Laura McBride, Joe Flanagan, Alicia Stover, Debra George, Lisa Kieffer, Sheila Moore and Larry Green at the 2019 Clays for Kids event at Quail Creek Plantation in Okeechobee. (Photo: Contributed photo by Dulce Cheney)
Read or Share this story: https://www.tcpalm.com/story/specialty-publications/luminaries/martin-county/2019/10/28/okeechobees-quail-creek-plantation-hosts-successful-clays-kids-event-childrens-emergency-resources/2492513001/

Story 17
Falling interest rates, weak loan growth, and hefty compensation costs are expected to dent the annual profits of ANZ Bank, Westpac and National Australia Bank, with the big four's combined earnings forecast to fall to about $27 billion.
With three of the four major banks set to unveil full-year earnings over the next fortnight, analysts predict weaker revenue growth and the impact of compensation payouts will take the big four's combined profits for 2019 to about $27 billion, from $29.5 billion last year.
NAB, ANZ Bank and Westpac report their annual profits over the next two weeks. Credit:Karl Hilzinger
The market is bracing for "messy" results, due to divestments and already-announced provisions for customer refunds. Another focal point for investors will be whether profit margins are being crunched by the decline in lending rates.
ANZ Bank is first to report profits on Thursday, with several analysts pencilling in cash earnings of about $6.5 billion for the year to September, with no change in the dividend.

Story 18
WITH US TARIFFS on EU goods hitting Irish exports such as butter and Baileys earlier this month and Brexit still limping towards a finale, Irish businesses are looking further afield for export opportunities.
Fora spoke to industry experts about the potential opportunities, and obstacles, when casting a wider net.
Since the Brexit vote in 2016, Enterprise Ireland has been pushing diversification strategies for Irish businesses. Its Global Ambition plan wants to grow exports by €5 billion per annum – and a 50% increase in exports to the eurozone – ultimately bringing two-thirds of Irish exports outside of the UK.
Earlier this year, the body reported that Irish companies hit a target to reduce reliance on UK exports two years ahead of schedule – even if was by just 1% to 33%.
Though 40% said they were negatively impacted by Brexit, more than half of 2,000 respondents said they were investing in market diversification to Brexit-proof their businesses.
Despite overall market growth internationally in 2018, there’s still a need to push diversification in Irish exports – Brexit or no Brexit. In the case of the eurozone, some see it as a largely under-exploited market when it comes to what we trade overseas.
But despite these opportunities, there’s undeniably an element of risk when branching out.
Europe
In a survey of 70 people by the Irish Exporters Association (IEA) for August 2019, almost 37% said that Germany was the main European market they were looking to – followed by France and Belgium – in the case of a no-deal Brexit.
“Naturally it is Germany because of the size of its market and the strength of its market,” Pascal Koenig, public affairs manager at the IEA, said.
While Irish whiskey and Guinness are famous the world over, Koenig said that smaller beer-makers might find it tough to crack these markets because of local saturation – and they could do better in Spain or Italy.
On the other hand, manufactured goods – like car parts – do well in Germany and France, as do agricultural products like dairy – mainly butter – and to some extent beef.
The eurozone holds “a lot of untapped opportunity for Ireland”, according to Anne Lanigan, regional director for the eurozone with Enterprise Ireland.
“Why do we have a single market? Why do we have a single currency? It was all about creating one big market where we could all trade where there weren’t the complications of currency, tariffs, barriers, regulations,” she said.
The body is encouraging Irish companies to view the eurozone as an extension of the domestic market.
“We joined the EU way back in 1973 but we never really exploited the opportunity that was sitting right on our doorstep,” she said.
In 2018 Enterprise Ireland clients exported €4.8 billion worth of goods to the eurozone while their exports to the UK were almost €8 billion – “despite the fact that there’s more than five time the population in the eurozone”, she added.
Despite opportunities, Irish companies may experience challenges in language barriers, travel times and regional preferences or legislation.
For example, Bavaria in Germany has a purity law, meaning only certain types of beer can be sold there. Fresh produce like dairy and meat also don’t travel well over long distances – making eastern European countries harder to tap into with these.
“However, if you compare that to a global scale, where you have to go through tariffs, customs procedures, different rules, regulations and procedures, you can’t really see that as much of an obstacle to trade,” Koenig said.
Source: SIPA USA/PA Images
Asia
In the last decade Bord Bia’s clients’ food exports to China have increased from €100 million to €1 billion, according to Martin Murray, executive director at Asian-Irish business think tank Asia Matters.
He added that in the Brexit-fuelled push for diversification away from legacy markets – the UK and US – there are huge opportunities for Irish businesses in Asia.
“When Irish companies look at China, they have to think, ‘Why is my product or service relevant to China?’ The second question is, ‘Which China (in a country of 33 provinces)?’ and the third is, ‘How do I find the right strategic partner in the market?’” he said.
Earlier this year, Bord Bia was looking for ways to promote Irish dairy in particular in the Chinese market – to highly educated and social-media savvy parents. After the UK, China is Ireland’s biggest export market for dairy, with premium powdered infant formula in the top spot.
Irish beef is also already a strong export into China, with products available online and targeted at upper-middle-class customers.
In China the focus can often be on speed and scale of delivery, while in Japan the emphasis is often on perfection, trust and long-term relationships, Murray explained.
Despite being among the obvious top choices, China and Japan aren’t the only markets with ample opportunity.
“By the end of next year Indonesia will have spent $360 billion in infrastructure, including 64 smart cities and they’re doing a big push now and up-skilling a population of 260 million people,” he said.
For Irish companies exporting into Asia, there are opportunities in agriculture and food, fintech, training, education and smart cities, he added.
Murray advised that Irish companies that want to enter these markets and launch products in them should consider working with trading partners who can set up the supply chain for them and who already have trusted trading relationships in their own countries.
As in Europe, language can be an obstacle when trading in Asia, but there is also the added issue of customs and tariffs.
“There are lots of obstacles and there are lots of companies that can help you. Any Irish companies that want to export, there are Japanese companies like Mitsui – they’ll take your product, deal with all the customs, collect your product from the factory floor and deliver it into the Asian market – so you don’t even have to get involved with customs,” Murray said.
But he added that companies “pay accordingly” for this kind of service. This may make it difficult for smaller business trying to break into the market.
May figures from Enterprise Ireland reported that exports to the region were down 0.2% since 2017.
Source: Shutterstock/Dima Sobko
Middle East
A report launched last week by the Arab Irish Chamber of Commerce highlighted “significant opportunities for Irish businesses in the Arab region”.
It looked at Algeria, Bahrain, Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Morocco, Oman, Palestine, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Sudan and the United Arab Emirates – which are considered to have the greatest export potential for Ireland.
The first report like this was commissioned in 2013 – but it “takes on a whole new level of significance today”, said Enda Corneille, chairman of the group.
“In the environment that we’re operating in, companies are looking to de-risk, they’re looking to expand into new markets,” he said, adding that the Arab states present an “enormous opportunity for Irish businesses”.
According to the report, the value of Irish exports to the region, which is highly reliant on imports, is expected to more than double in the next 15 years and reach almost €12 billion by 2033.
Soft drinks, baby formula, pharmaceuticals and computers currently make up 70% of Irish goods exports to the region. Dairy more generally is worth some €140 million in exports – growth of 37% since 2013.
For the future, the report listed food, pharma and medical, agriculture, construction, education, renewables, infrastructure, aviation and tourism as the main areas for growth opportunities for Irish businesses.
According to Corneille, Arab countries are seeking quality, value and innovation from their imports.
“If they’re (Irish businesses) delivering quality, value and innovation, they’re pushing an open door,” he said.
Source: Shutterstock/Gorodenkoff
Africa
Exporting to Africa isn’t for the faint-hearted, according to Enterprise Ireland’s director of the Sub Saharan Africa region Fred Klinkenberg.
“If people think that it’s all very simple and we bring our European experience with us, then it tends not to work,” he told Fora.
Finding a trading partner and just signing a contract, won’t cut it. “Africa is a challenging place to do business, you need to invest in it (both) in terms of time and money.
“Very often it will be based on your ability to find the right partner for you to work and trade with,” Klinkenberg said.
For Klinkenberg the exporter most suited to the continent is a “mature” one who has already established trade relations with the UK, Europe or the North American market.
The attractiveness of the continent for business include the fact that a lot of people speak English, the time zone is also in line with Europe and there is a growing middle class, Klinkenberg outlined.
The state agency’s clients traded €400 million worth of goods with the continent last year and some of the sectors that do considerably well there include fintech, agri-tech and the pharmaceutical devices.
When it comes to the fintech space, Klinkenberg explains that Africa has a strong adaptation of technology and there are lots of opportunities for tech integration, particularly in the banking and insurance industries.
“Perhaps contrary to belief, banks in Africa, and particularly Nigeria, are well-regulated with strong balance sheets,” he explained.
Agri-tech is another area of interest with companies like Monaghan-based Combilift, selling to the region.
CSO figures show that South Africa receives the highest number of Irish exports, receiving €233 million worth of goods between January and July this year.
With two well-developed ports of Durban and Cape Town, Klinkenberg said the country is the gateway to the continent. Irish products are first shipped to either Rotterdam or Hamburg.
Source: Niall Carson
Canada
If you want to do well in Canada you need to have a physical presence there, according to the director of Ireland’s arm of the World Trade Center Rani Dabrai.
“The Canadians really would only work with a company that’s got a local established presence in the country,” she explained.
“We have a member here that just got back from a trip to Montreal and they’ve learned that themselves. They’ve realised that actually the investment that they need to make to get into the market is significantly higher because they need to be physically there,” she said.
Dabrai outlined that the people are very friendly and the Canadian market is a favourable country to do business with, ranking 22nd out of 190 economies in the World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business yearly report.
Between January and July of this year, Ireland exported €830 million worth of goods to the country, according to CSO figures.
Relationship building is crucial, and Dabrai notes that some Irish business people have an advantage because 4.3 million Canadians claim some Irish ancestry.
Ireland’s top exports to the country include medical equipment, chemical products, alcohol and machinery, she outlined.
According to figures from the World Trade Center body, $70.5 million worth of spirits were exported from Ireland and $29.9 million worth of beer.
Dabrai also outlined that people wishing to export to the country should brush up on their knowledge of the different provinces – as well as French.
“Much like the variability between US states, Canada’s provinces are quite varied and so business tactics that do well in Vancouver, for example, many not translate (literally) to Quebec City, where they speak French and uphold a more European culture,” she said.
Source: Shutterstock/R.M. Nunes
The Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) provisionally applied in 2017 between the EU and Canada has eliminated 98% of tariffs between both trading blocs, which means there are less work travel restrictions, and mutual conformity between product standards.
Exporters who would like to cut their teeth in the market need to think outside the box, Dubrai said.
She described Canada as a “highly sophisticated market”, saying products that are just compete on price won’t be successful here.
Central and South America
Irish dairy producers will find a great market in Mexico for their products, according to founder of LatinAmerica.ie Adam Fulham. He said both Kerry Group and Glanbia have a presence there.
The other good news is that a EU-Mexico free trade agreement, reached “in principle” but yet to be ratified, will remove 99% of tariffs on trade between Ireland and the South American country, making it easier for other companies to enter the market.
“At the minute 40% of all trade between Ireland and Latin America is with Mexico and at the moment the tariff is 45% on cheese products, for example, can reach 45%. However, with the new trade deal, this will be reduced to 0%,” Fulham said.
Source: SIPA USA/PA Images
Between January and July of this year, the CSO recorded that Ireland exported €844 million worth of goods and services to Mexico, which is currently its largest trading partner in the region.
Next in line is Brazil, with €182 million worth of goods and services exported there in the same period.
When it comes to other regions in South America, newly opened Irish embassies will make trade relationships easier, Fulham said.
“Brexit is the best thing that ever happened to Ireland and Latin America, because for a long time … there were very few government resources put toward the region and very few companies focused on the region.
“But because of Brexit, there are new Irish embassies in Chile and Colombia so that’s really going to help with trade to those countries,” he explained.
The thirst for Irish drinks extends to the southern hemisphere, with Fulham noting “the likes of Guinness and Jameson whiskey can be found across the continent too”.
Fulham said the largest barrier to trade in the region is the language one.
“I think a lot of companies, because of the language barrier, don’t even think of considering Latin America in the first place,” he said.
That hasn’t deterred some, such as fruit company Fyffes and packaging company Smurfit Kappa from setting up shop across the region.
In terms of logistics, there are no companies shipping directly from Ireland to the region.
“There has been talk about direct shipping between Mexico and Ireland in the future when there is more demand and trade,” Fulham explained.
Get our Daily Briefing with the morning’s most important headlines for innovative Irish businesses.
Clarification: This article has been amended to clarify that a reference to Mexican tariffs referred specifically to Irish cheese.

Story 19
PUBLIC NOTICE

UNAPPROVED - RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE TOWN OF WHEATLAND A regular meeting of the Council for the Town of Wheatland, Platte County, and State of Wyoming was held at Town Hall on Monday, October 14, 2019 pursuant to the law. Mayor Graves called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. The following were present at roll call: Councilmen Madsen, Ashenhurst and Schindler. Clerk/Treasurer Candy Wright and Attorney Doug Weaver were also present. Councilman Madsen motioned, seconded by Councilman Schindler, to accept the agenda as presented. Motion passed 3-0. Mayor Graves presented the consent agenda. Councilman Madsen motioned, seconded by Councilman Schindler, to accept the consent agenda as presented and place on file. Motion passed 3-0. September vouchers approved by Council are as follows: A & M ELECTRIC, 598.98, repair, AIRGAS, 1,410.35, supplies fire dept, ALBERTSONS/SAFEWAY INC, 105.78, office supplies, ALEXANDER CONSTRUCTION, ,690.04, street milling, ALLEN’S PARTS SUPPLY, 64.24, parts, ALSCO, 89.21, mat rental, ANTON COLLINS MITCHELL LLP, 13,500.00, annual audit, ASHENHURST, THANE, 150.00, town council, ATLAS OFFICE PRODUCTS INC, 599.19, office supplies, AWWA CUSTOMER SERVICE, 324.00, dues, AXON ENTERPRISES INC, 3,160.00, taser payment, BANISH, DEB, 20.00, uniform alterations, BLACK HILLS ENERGY, 472.93, heat, BLOEDORN LUMBER, 336.42, supplies, BLUE TARP FINANCIAL, 111.48, parts, BORDER STATES ELECTRIC SUPPLY, 1,872.13, electric supplies, BRANDON GRAVES, 750.00, town council, BRITZ, WILLIAM R, 300.00, town council, C.O.R.E./FRESHMAN IMPACT, 500.00, freshman impact, CAPITAL BUSINESS SYSTEM INC., 625.48, copier usage, CAPITAL BUSINESS SYSTEMS INC, 25.00, shop printer, CAROLINA SOFTWARE, 200.00, support, CENTURYLINK, 384.22, phone, CHEMSEARCH, 107.69, supplies, CITY OF TORRINGTON, 13,601.20, sanitation disposal, CLARK, AMY, 136.17, office supplies, CONTRACTORS MATERIAL INC, 51.00, paint, CRA PAYMENT CENTER, 57.21, filters, CRESCENT ELECTRIC, 299.89, electric supplies/water supplies, CROELL REDI-MIX INC, 1,533.45, hot mix asphalt, DBT TRANSPORTATION SERVICES LLC, 225.00, weather data services, DIVING BOARD SOLUTIONS, 8,532.54, diving boards, DOOLEY OIL, INC., 761.01, 15w/40 drum, DRUBE’S SUPPLY, 231.53, supplies, ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS CONSULTANTS, 15,085.91, scada upgrade, ENERGY LABS, INC., 761.00, water/wastewater samples, ENGINEERING ASSOCIATES, 1,840.00, engineering – wells & water tower, ENGINEERING ASSOCIATES, 1,583.10, sewer line, FAT BOYS TIRE & REPAIR, 3,517.60, tires & repair, FERGUSON WATERWORKS #1701, 1,388.63, water parts & auto gun repair, FIRED UP, 19,497.00, supplies, FIRST BANKCARD, 5,272.08, school/google/travel/supplies, FIRST STATE BANK, 100,000.00, health claims, FRONTIER FURNITURE & FLOORING,109.00, blinds, FUSION CLOUD SERVICES LLC, 38.37, phone, H & H ELECRIC LLC, 3,024.18, fuses, HAVARD, DEBRA, 300.00, fence repair, HEIMSOTH, TRAVIS,750.00, electrical inspector, HERDT, RUTH, 200.00, office cleaning, HORTON FUELS LLC, 7,581.54, fuel, IIMC, 195.00, membership, INTERMEDIA.NET INC, 690.54, phone, INTERSTATE BILLING SERVICE INC, 329.22, parts, J HANGIN H TRUCKING LLC, 550.00, hauled asphalt, J. J. KELLER & ASSOCIATES, INC, 156.12, forms, JOHN DEERE FINANCIAL, 681.90, supplies, KYCN RADIO, 200.00, advertising, LAMBERT, MICHALE, 200.00, cleaning shop, LAW ENFORCEMENT SYSTEMS,INC., 79.00, dog warnings, LINGO COMMUNICATIONS, 180.75, phone, LONG’S TREE SPAYING LLC, 1,987.20, tree spraying, MADSEN, ALAN, 300.00, town council, MCELMURRY, JEANIE R, 325.00, cleaning town hall, MERITAIN HEALTH, 36,772.37, health premiums, MERITAIN HEALTH, 34,304.11, health premiums, MORGAN, DEVONNA, 87.83, safety, NEBRASKA PRINTWORKS LLC, 92.96, abandoned vehicle tags, O’REILLY AUTOMOTIVE INC, 72.93, parts/supplies, P.C. LEGACY HOME, 100.00, Halloween candy, PARTSMASTER, 470.48, degreaser, PAUL REED CONSTRUCTION, 308,780.58, runway reconstruction, PETERBILT OF WY, 437.93, parts/supplies, PH CONSULTING LLC, 625.00, office supplies, PITNEY BOWES INC, 800.00, postage, PLATTE #1,95.00, drug/alcohol testing, PLATTE COUNTY ASPHALT, 38,213.62, asphalt, QUILL CORPORATION, 60.35, office supplies, SCHINDLER, JAMIE, 300.00, town council, SHORT LINE STRIPING, 1,000.00, striping, SNYDER INDUSTRIES, 14,550.00, trash cans, SOUTHWEST PLUMBING & MECHANICAL, AC repair/parts, SPARKLETTS & SIERRA SPRINGS, 164.31, cooler rental & water, STATE LANDS & INVESTMENTS, 74,978.30, lagoon loan payment, STATE OF WY,17,314.43, utility sales tax, STEVENSON, TERRY, 200.00, emergency management, STREETS, MARK, 500.00, fire inspector, SUPERIOR EXCAVATING LLC, 722.50, hauled asphalt, TDS COLLECTION SERVICE INC., 5,217.90, rolloff, THE TIRE SHOP, 43.10, tire repair, THRIFTY FOODS, 94.07, office supplies, TITAN MACHINERY, 2,496.53, parts/supplies, TOWN OF GUERNSEY, 5,252.22, weed spray and inspector hours/mileage, TRANSUNION RISK AND ALTERNATIVE, 50.00, financial checks, TRAVELERS, 3,186.00, Commercial Insurance, TRIHYDRO CORPORATION, 1,154.00, landfill monitoring, TRUGREEN, 7,903.52, weed spraying, USA BLUE BOOK, 30.22,parts/supplies, VALLI INFORMATION SYSEMS INC, 834.03, mailing of bills, VERMEER SALES AND SERVICE, 304.93, parts, WWQ&PCA, 340.00, training/conference, WAMCAT, 130.00, membership, WEAVER, DOUGLAS, 6.80, certified mailing, WESCO RECEIVABLES CORP, 130.00, electric supplies, WESTERN UNITED ELECT SUPPLY, 9,906.96, transformers, WHEATLAND AUTOMOTIVE, 920.73, parts, WHEATLAND CO-OP ASSN, 27.25, twine, WHEATLAND R.E.A., 10,768.18, power purchased/safety, WYDOT,29.45, Citation pads, WYOLOGIC INC,2,134.75, IT, WYOLOGIC INC, 2,074.75, IT, WY MACHINERY CO,171.44, parts, WY MUNICIPAL POWER, 229,285.85, power purchased, WY RETIREMENT SYSTEM, 17.54, WY retirement, WY RETIREMENT SYSTEM, 285.00, firemen’s retirement, WY WIRELESS INTERNET,150.00, internet, WY WORKERS COMPENSATION,189.97, firemen’s worker’s comp, WY.COM,20.00, Fire Dept web hosting Payroll, $181,865.20, SPET – Engineering Associates $2,155.30, Capital - WY State Safe & Lock $11,594.00 Total $1,230,221.67 Councilman Schindler motioned, seconded by Councilman Madsen, to pay $1,000 to Candice Boersma for damages to her property. Motion passed 3-0. Councilman Ashenhurst motioned, seconded by Councilman Madsen, to appoint Planner Amy Clark to the Wheatland Historic Preservation Commission. Motion passed 3-0. UNFINISHED BUSINESS: Josh Morris from T-O Engineers presented an update on the runway reconstruction project. Councilman Schindler motioned, seconded by Councilman Ashenhurst, to assess liquidated damages to Paul Reed Construction per the contract documents. Motion passed 3-0. Councilman Madsen motioned, seconded by Councilman Schindler, to move into Executive Session at 8:00 p.m. for the purpose of discussion on personnel issues. Motion passed 3-0. Council adjourned out of Executive Session at 8:30 p.m. No action was taken. With nothing further to come before the Council the meeting was adjourned at 8:31 p.m. S/N: Mayor Brandon Graves Attest: S/N: Clerk Candy Wright

Public Notice No. 10575. To be published in the Platte County Record - Times October 30, 2019.

Story 20
PODGORICA (Montenegro), April 15 (SeeNews) - Montenegro's Deposit Protection Fund (FZD) has picked four banks to pay the guaranteed deposits to the eligible customers of insolvent Atlas Banka [MNG:ATBA], it said.
The four banks are Societe Generale Montenegro, Hipotekarna banka, NLB banka Podgorica and Crnogorska Komercijalna Banka, the FZD said in a statement on Friday.
"Depositors and the public will be notified in a timely manner about the date of commencement of the payment of guaranteed deposits, the address and working time of the payment locations," FZD said.
Earlier this month, Montenegro's central bank launched insolvency proceedings against Atlas Bank after a public call for the recapitalisation of the lender drew no bids. The bank's interim administrator, Tanja Teric, said no investors had subscribed for any of the 88,710 new ordinary shares of Atlas Banka under the public call for recapitalisation until the expiry of the deadline set on March 29.
On March 11, the interim administrator launched a public call for a 22 million euro ($24.9 million) recapitalisation, inviting investors who are not existing shareholders of Atlas Banka to subscribe for shares from the new issue.
Montenegro's central bank placed Atlas Banka and Invest Banka [MNG:IBMN] under its temporary administration in December due to their poor financial condition, after an audit showed that the capital of the two lenders did not meet the minimum risk requirements.
($ = 0.8838 euro)

Story 21
Desperate for data on its competitors, Facebook has been secretly paying people to install a “Facebook Research” VPN that lets the company suck in all of a user’s phone and web activity, similar to Facebook’s Onavo Protect app that Apple banned in June and that was removed in August. Facebook sidesteps the App Store and rewards teenagers and adults to download the Research app and give it root access to network traffic in what may be a violation of Apple policy so the social network can decrypt and analyze their phone activity, a TechCrunch investigation confirms.
Facebook admitted to TechCrunch it was running the Research program to gather data on usage habits.
Since 2016, Facebook has been paying users ages 13 to 35 up to $20 per month plus referral fees to sell their privacy by installing the iOS or Android “Facebook Research” app. Facebook even asked users to screenshot their Amazon order history page. The program is administered through beta testing services Applause, BetaBound and uTest to cloak Facebook’s involvement, and is referred to in some documentation as “Project Atlas” — a fitting name for Facebook’s effort to map new trends and rivals around the globe.
Seven hours after this story was published, Facebook told TechCrunch it would shut down the iOS version of its Research app in the wake of our report. But on Wednesday morning, an Apple spokesperson confirmed that Facebook violated its policies, and it had blocked Facebook’s Research app on Tuesday before the social network seemingly pulled it voluntarily (without mentioning it was forced to do so). You can read our full report on the development here.
An Apple spokesperson provided this statement. “We designed our Enterprise Developer Program solely for the internal distribution of apps within an organization. Facebook has been using their membership to distribute a data-collecting app to consumers, which is a clear breach of their agreement with Apple. Any developer using their enterprise certificates to distribute apps to consumers will have their certificates revoked, which is what we did in this case to protect our users and their data.”
Facebook’s Research program will continue to run on Android. [Update 2/21/19: Facebook will pull Onavo from the Google Play store and eventually shut it down. It will also cease to recruit users for the Android version of its Research app, though it plans other paid research initiatives.
Facebook’s Research app requires users to ‘Trust’ it with extensive access to their dataWe asked Guardian Mobile Firewall’s security expert Will Strafach to dig into the Facebook Research app, and he told us that “If Facebook makes full use of the level of access they are given by asking users to install the Certificate, they will have the ability to continuously collect the following types of data: private messages in social media apps, chats from in instant messaging apps – including photos/videos sent to others, emails, web searches, web browsing activity, and even ongoing location information by tapping into the feeds of any location tracking apps you may have installed.” It’s unclear exactly what data Facebook is concerned with, but it gets nearly limitless access to a user’s device once they install the app.
The strategy shows how far Facebook is willing to go and how much it’s willing to pay to protect its dominance — even at the risk of breaking the rules of Apple’s iOS platform on which it depends. Apple may have asked Facebook to discontinue distributing its Research app.
A more stringent punishment would be to revoke Facebook’s permission to offer employee-only apps. The situation could further chill relations between the tech giants. Apple’s Tim Cook has repeatedly criticized Facebook’s data collection practices. Facebook disobeying iOS policies to slurp up more information could become a new talking point.
“The fairly technical sounding ‘install our Root Certificate’ step is appalling,” Strafach tells us. “This hands Facebook continuous access to the most sensitive data about you, and most users are going to be unable to reasonably consent to this regardless of any agreement they sign, because there is no good way to articulate just how much power is handed to Facebook when you do this.”
Facebook’s surveillance app
Facebook first got into the data-sniffing business when it acquired Onavo for around $120 million in 2014. The VPN app helped users track and minimize their mobile data plan usage, but also gave Facebook deep analytics about what other apps they were using. Internal documents acquired by Charlie Warzel and Ryan Mac of BuzzFeed News reveal that Facebook was able to leverage Onavo to learn that WhatsApp was sending more than twice as many messages per day as Facebook Messenger. Onavo allowed Facebook to spot WhatsApp’s meteoric rise and justify paying $19 billion to buy the chat startup in 2014. WhatsApp has since tripled its user base, demonstrating the power of Onavo’s foresight.
Over the years since, Onavo clued Facebook in to what apps to copy, features to build and flops to avoid. By 2018, Facebook was promoting the Onavo app in a Protect bookmark of the main Facebook app in hopes of scoring more users to snoop on. Facebook also launched the Onavo Bolt app that let you lock apps behind a passcode or fingerprint while it surveils you, but Facebook shut down the app the day it was discovered following privacy criticism. Onavo’s main app remains available on Google Play and has been installed more than 10 million times.
The backlash heated up after security expert Strafach detailed in March how Onavo Protect was reporting to Facebook when a user’s screen was on or off, and its Wi-Fi and cellular data usage in bytes even when the VPN was turned off. In June, Apple updated its developer policies to ban collecting data about usage of other apps or data that’s not necessary for an app to function. Apple proceeded to inform Facebook in August that Onavo Protect violated those data collection policies and that the social network needed to remove it from the App Store, which it did, Deepa Seetharaman of the WSJ reported.
But that didn’t stop Facebook’s data collection.
Project Atlas
TechCrunch recently received a tip that despite Onavo Protect being banished by Apple, Facebook was paying users to sideload a similar VPN app under the Facebook Research moniker from outside of the App Store. We investigated, and learned Facebook was working with three app beta testing services to distribute the Facebook Research app: BetaBound, uTest and Applause. Facebook began distributing the Research VPN app in 2016. It has been referred to as Project Atlas since at least mid-2018, around when backlash to Onavo Protect magnified and Apple instituted its new rules that prohibited Onavo. Previously, a similar program was called Project Kodiak. Facebook didn’t want to stop collecting data on people’s phone usage and so the Research program continued, in disregard for Apple banning Onavo Protect.
Ads (shown below) for the program run by uTest on Instagram and Snapchat sought teens 13-17 years old for a “paid social media research study.” The sign-up page for the Facebook Research program administered by Applause doesn’t mention Facebook, but seeks users “Age: 13-35 (parental consent required for ages 13-17).” If minors try to sign-up, they’re asked to get their parents’ permission with a form that reveal’s Facebook’s involvement and says “There are no known risks associated with the project, however you acknowledge that the inherent nature of the project involves the tracking of personal information via your child’s use of apps. You will be compensated by Applause for your child’s participation.” For kids short on cash, the payments could coerce them to sell their privacy to Facebook.
The Applause site explains what data could be collected by the Facebook Research app (emphasis mine):
“By installing the software, you’re giving our client permission to collect data from your phone that will help them understand how you browse the internet, and how you use the features in the apps you’ve installed . . . This means you’re letting our client collect information such as which apps are on your phone, how and when you use them, data about your activities and content within those apps, as well as how other people interact with you or your content within those apps. You are also letting our client collect information about your internet browsing activity (including the websites you visit and data that is exchanged between your device and those websites) and your use of other online services. There are some instances when our client will collect this information even where the app uses encryption, or from within secure browser sessions.”
Meanwhile, the BetaBound sign-up page with a URL ending in “Atlas” explains that “For $20 per month (via e-gift cards), you will install an app on your phone and let it run in the background.” It also offers $20 per friend you refer. That site also doesn’t initially mention Facebook, but the instruction manual for installing Facebook Research reveals the company’s involvement.
Facebook seems to have purposefully avoided TestFlight, Apple’s official beta testing system, which requires apps to be reviewed by Apple and is limited to 10,000 participants. Instead, the instruction manual reveals that users download the app from r.facebook-program.com and are told to install an Enterprise Developer Certificate and VPN and “Trust” Facebook with root access to the data their phone transmits. Apple requires that developers agree to only use this certificate system for distributing internal corporate apps to their own employees. Randomly recruiting testers and paying them a monthly fee appears to violate the spirit of that rule.
Once installed, users just had to keep the VPN running and sending data to Facebook to get paid. The Applause-administered program requested that users screenshot their Amazon orders page. This data could potentially help Facebook tie browsing habits and usage of other apps with purchase preferences and behavior. That information could be harnessed to pinpoint ad targeting and understand which types of users buy what.
TechCrunch commissioned Strafach to analyze the Facebook Research app and find out where it was sending data. He confirmed that data is routed to “vpn-sjc1.v.facebook-program. com” that is associated with Onavo’s IP address, and that the facebook-program.com domain is registered to Facebook, according to MarkMonitor. The app can update itself without interacting with the App Store, and is linked to the email address PeopleJourney@fb.com. He also discovered that the Enterprise Certificate first acquired in 2016 indicates Facebook renewed it on June 27th, 2018 — weeks after Apple announced its new rules that prohibited the similar Onavo Protect app.
“It is tricky to know what data Facebook is actually saving (without access to their servers). The only information that is knowable here is what access Facebook is capable of based on the code in the app. And it paints a very worrisome picture,” Strafach explains. “They might respond and claim to only actually retain/save very specific limited data, and that could be true, it really boils down to how much you trust Facebook’s word on it. The most charitable narrative of this situation would be that Facebook did not think too hard about the level of access they were granting to themselves . . . which is a startling level of carelessness in itself if that is the case.”
[Update: TechCrunch also found that Google’s Screenwise Meter surveillance app also breaks the Enterprise Certificate policy, though it does a better job of revealing the company’s involvement and how it works than Facebook does.]
“Flagrant defiance of Apple’s rules”
In response to TechCrunch’s inquiry, a Facebook spokesperson confirmed it’s running the program to learn how people use their phones and other services. The spokesperson told us “Like many companies, we invite people to participate in research that helps us identify things we can be doing better. Since this research is aimed at helping Facebook understand how people use their mobile devices, we’ve provided extensive information about the type of data we collect and how they can participate. We don’t share this information with others and people can stop participating at any time.”
Facebook’s spokesperson claimed that the Facebook Research app was in line with Apple’s Enterprise Certificate program, but didn’t explain how in the face of evidence to the contrary. They said Facebook first launched its Research app program in 2016. They tried to liken the program to a focus group and said Nielsen and comScore run similar programs, yet neither of those ask people to install a VPN or provide root access to the network. The spokesperson confirmed the Facebook Research program does recruit teens but also other age groups from around the world. They claimed that Onavo and Facebook Research are separate programs, but admitted the same team supports both as an explanation for why their code was so similar.
However, Facebook’s claim that it doesn’t violate Apple’s Enterprise Certificate policy is directly contradicted by the terms of that policy. Those include that developers “Distribute Provisioning Profiles only to Your Employees and only in conjunction with Your Internal Use Applications for the purpose of developing and testing”. The policy also states that “You may not use, distribute or otherwise make Your Internal Use Applications available to Your Customers” unless under direct supervision of employees or on company premises. Given Facebook’s customers are using the Enterprise Certificate-powered app without supervision, it appears Facebook is in violation.
Seven hours after this report was first published, Facebook updated its position and told TechCrunch that it would shut down the iOS Research app. Facebook noted that the Research app was started in 2016 and was therefore not a replacement for Onavo Protect. However, they do share similar code and could be seen as twins running in parallel. A Facebook spokesperson also provided this additional statement:
“Key facts about this market research program are being ignored. Despite early reports, there was nothing ‘secret’ about this; it was literally called the Facebook Research App. It wasn’t ‘spying’ as all of the people who signed up to participate went through a clear on-boarding process asking for their permission and were paid to participate. Finally, less than 5 percent of the people who chose to participate in this market research program were teens. All of them with signed parental consent forms.”
Facebook did not publicly promote the Research VPN itself and used intermediaries that often didn’t disclose Facebook’s involvement until users had begun the signup process. While users were given clear instructions and warnings, the program never stresses nor mentions the full extent of the data Facebook can collect through the VPN. A small fraction of the users paid may have been teens, but we stand by the newsworthiness of its choice not to exclude minors from this data collection initiative.
Facebook disobeying Apple so directly and then pulling the app could hurt their relationship. “The code in this iOS app strongly indicates that it is simply a poorly re-branded build of the banned Onavo app, now using an Enterprise Certificate owned by Facebook in direct violation of Apple’s rules, allowing Facebook to distribute this app without Apple review to as many users as they want,” Strafach tells us. ONV prefixes and mentions of graph.onavo.com, “onavoApp://” and “onavoProtect://” custom URL schemes litter the app. “This is an egregious violation on many fronts, and I hope that Apple will act expeditiously in revoking the signing certificate to render the app inoperable.”
Facebook is particularly interested in what teens do on their phones as the demographic has increasingly abandoned the social network in favor of Snapchat, YouTube and Facebook’s acquisition Instagram. Insights into how popular with teens is Chinese video music app TikTok and meme sharing led Facebook to launch a clone called Lasso and begin developing a meme-browsing feature called LOL, TechCrunch first reported. But Facebook’s desire for data about teens riles critics at a time when the company has been battered in the press. Analysts on tomorrow’s Facebook earnings call should inquire about what other ways the company has to collect competitive intelligence now that it’s ceased to run the Research program on iOS.
Last year when Tim Cook was asked what he’d do in Mark Zuckerberg’s position in the wake of the Cambridge Analytica scandal, he said “I wouldn’t be in this situation . . . The truth is we could make a ton of money if we monetized our customer, if our customer was our product. We’ve elected not to do that.” Zuckerberg told Ezra Klein that he felt Cook’s comment was “extremely glib.”
Now it’s clear that even after Apple’s warnings and the removal of Onavo Protect, Facebook was still aggressively collecting data on its competitors via Apple’s iOS platform. “I have never seen such open and flagrant defiance of Apple’s rules by an App Store developer,” Strafach concluded. Now that Facebook has ceased the program on iOS and its Android future is uncertain, it may either have to invent new ways to surveil our behavior amidst a climate of privacy scrutiny, or be left in the dark.
Additional reporting by Zack Whittaker. Updated with comment from Facebook, and on Wednesday with a statement from Apple.

Story 22
After 11 seasons playing professionally for Major League Lacrosse, Paul Rabil said he thought there was a better way forward.
Lacrosse has become one of the fastest-growing team sports over the last 15 years, at a time when other sports are declining in participation.
Rabil, one of the biggest stars in lacrosse, was inspired to take action with his brother, Mike, a former football star at Dartmouth College, to create the Premier Lacrosse League. Mike now serves as the league's CEO. Rabil wants to change the "customer experience" for fans, increase player pay and take advantage of social media and new distribution methods to help grow the league.
Rabil thinks PLL's competition with Major League Lacrosse will make the sport better off.
"A lot of people are having conversations around the professional game and the upside of the industry," he says. "In the long term, there will only be one winner."
Paul Rabil said he is busier than ever – pulling 16- and 18-hour days as he is both a player for the Atlas team, along with his duties as league co-founder. He has been working on creating the league's business model, recruiting top players, even partnering with NBC Sports on valuable television rights.
"If we can do what David Stern in the NBA did in the 1980s or what Dana White and the Fertitta brothers did more recently to MMA with UFC in the 2000's … then we can turn a traditionally bottom-up sport and unlock meaningful revenue, commercial viability and viewership, in line with a lot of the core sports we have grown to love," said Rabil.
PLL has a tour-based model, with six teams all traveling to the same cities each weekend across the country. The league runs from June to September, starting off in Boston last weekend and New York City this weekend. Rabil secured funding from top-name investors including the Chernin Group, Creative Artists Agency and investment bank Raine Group.
One priority Rabil focused on was attracting top talent to the PLL. To do this, he had to convince investors to build a business model that increased player salaries from their competitor league. The average player salary in MLL was $8,000 last year. In PLL this year, it's $35,000. In addition to the salary, players are offered health-care benefits and stock options in the league, which is a first for any pro sports league.

Story 23
There's been an uptick of short-notice sick leave among the pilots who deliver your Amazon Prime packages, according to a Friday ruling from the US Court of Appeals in Washington, DC.
These pilots work for Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings, a cargo airline that contracts to Amazon, the US military, DHL, and others.
Union leadership for the pilots "categorically" denies encouraging the pilots to call in sick, saying that increased pressures at Atlas instead destroyed the pilots' health and ratcheted up their stress levels.
In court affidavits provided to Business Insider, pilots described why they took sick leave with short notice. One said the Boeing 737 he was assigned to work in was "well over 100 degrees" and he ended up "violently ill." Atlas later depicted his short-notice sick leave as a work-stoppage activity.
The pilots and their employer have been in a 3-1/2-year battle over securing a new work contract. Their pay is considerably lower than what pilots at cargo carriers like UPS and FedEx earn.
Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.
The pilots who fly some Amazon packages are locked in a contentious battle with the airline that employs them over union negotiations, and the fight is getting ugly.
Pilots at Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings, a Purchase, New York-based airliner company that leases 22 of its 114 aircraft to Amazon, have been fighting for 3 1/2 years to secure a new work contract. The labor relations are so shaky that Amazon has threatened to cut its business with Atlas.
The efforts of Atlas pilots to push on their employers for a new contract have reached the US Court of Appeals in Washington, DC — one of the most important courts in America.
On Friday, the DC Circuit ruled in favor of Atlas when it unanimously upheld a preliminary injunction against Teamsters Local 1224 and the union's efforts to push the pilots' employer on a new work contract. This ruling was previously reached at the district-court level.
One apparent tactic the court called out in its 27-page ruling was the uptick of pilots calling in sick with little notice. Atlas said pilots were illegally pressuring the company by calling in sick hours before scheduled flight times, while pilots said the short-notice sick calls were a result of increased overtime and stress at work.
Same-day sick calls jumped by 42%
Pilots don't fly every day, and usually they call several days in advance to get sick leave. Calling the day of a flight can destabilize flight schedules and requires the company to quickly find a replacement.
Before contract negotiations started in January 2016, according to information Atlas presented to the DC Circuit, only 14.4% of sick calls from pilots were made the same day pilots were scheduled to fly. That number jumped to 20.4% in the period of February 2016 to September 2017. Sick calls made at least two days in advance dropped as well.
Though the share of same-day calls jumped, sick calls in general did not change through this period.
"(We) categorically reject the fact that that that we did anything to influence the number of sick calls or the type of sick calls," the Atlas Air pilot Daniel Wells, the president of Teamsters Local 1224, told Business Insider.
Atlas says the pilots' union "went beyond merely reminding pilots not to work sick." On the day that Teamsters notified its members of contract renegotiations, according to the court case:
"The host of a CBA Chat told viewers he had called in sick because of a high fever, then pulled a hot water bottle from under his shirt. The Chat closed with this reminder: 'It's your CBA. They signed it. You use it.'"
Wells, however, said the increased stress pilots had during 2016 and 2017 — including more inexperienced pilots and increased pressure to take on additional overtime — most likely drove more and more pilots to call in sick.
Read more: Pilots who fly for Amazon Air earn 33% less than their colleagues at UPS and FedEx for flying the exact same planes
"When those schedules are completely thrown about and turned about on a daily basis, it definitely has, not only a psychological but a purely medical impact on our crew members," Wells said. "The increased stress and tempo of the operation absolutely leads to an increase in sick calls, no question about it. That's a proven fact across the industry, and there was no direction whatsoever from us to do any such thing."
These pilots fly for Amazon, which leases 20 of Atlas' 112 aircraft, as well as the US military, DHL Express, and Nippon Cargo Airlines. Amazon is Atlas' largest customer, owning 20% of Atlas' stock warrants. Amazon is also authorized to designate a nonvoting observer to Atlas' board.
Amazon, which does not directly employ these pilots and contracts their labor through Atlas Air and other carriers, had no comment on the DC Circuit ruling.
Some pilots say they called out sick because of taxing working conditions
In several affidavits provided to Business Insider by the union, pilots described why they took off sick leave with short notice. Atlas had highlighted the pilot's cases to the DC Circuit as evidence that the pilots' union had intentionally pushed for a sick-out, even though the pilots who made these early sick calls did not face disciplinary actions at any point.
One pilot, whose name was redacted, said the Boeing 737 in which he was assigned to work lacked air-conditioning in late July, driving the cockpit's temperature "well over 100 degrees." As he described to the DC Circuit:
"After about ten minutes in the cockpit working on my pre-flight duties and sweating profusely, I got very nauseous. I therefore decided to step outside to see if that helped alleviate my nausea. It did help a little bit, but as soon as I got back upstairs and in the cockpit, which was still extremely hot, I began to feel sick again. After a few minutes I became violently ill in the lavatory, where I was projectile vomiting. The captain made sure I didn't need an ambulance then I called in sick for the flight. The company made sure that I received transport to the hotel and offered to send a doctor if I wanted one."
According to the affidavits, Atlas later depicted this same-day sick call as one that was motivated by union-driven work-stoppage activities. The company, however, had not previously punished the pilot for the sick call.
"Having felt like I had spewed my entire stomach out in the aircraft lavatory and still feeling the effects of the extreme heat, there was no way that I could have safely performed my operating duties," the pilot said in the affidavits. "I did not call out sick on account of pilot or peer pressure, as part of a plan or plot by the Atlas pilots, instructions from the Union, or pressure from the Union or any of its representatives."
Another Atlas pilot, whose name was redacted, was operating a flight from the US to Germany with 340 passengers on board. He said in the affidavit provided to Business Insider that several unexpected schedule changes occurred prior to the flight and he was not able to get adequate rest.
The pilot called in fatigue. "Until Plaintiffs (Atlas) filed the complaint in this case, Atlas has never questioned the legitimacy of my fatigue callout," the pilot said in the affidavit. "If Atlas thought that I had intentionally falsified my callout, it could have initiated both counseling and disciplinary proceedings against me."
He added: "How (Atlas Air senior vice president of flight operations) Jeff Carlson can now hold this fatigue call against me and the Union is beyond me. To me, it seems like he is directly going against his own, published guidance, promoting unsafe operations."
Atlas Air Worldwide CEO Bill Flynn told Business Insider in a statement that the case was not steeped in any individual case but rather was centered on "the significant spike in fatigue calls," of which he said many "were factually questionable — and supported by comparative data."
"Compounding this was the heavy volume of communications from Union Leaders to pilots encouraging them to not fly sick or fatigued in the context of labor negotiations," Flynn said in the statement.
Ultimately, he noted, the DC Circuit unanimously upheld the preliminary injunction from lower courts to halt Teamsters from encouraging workers to pressure Atlas into negotiating a new work contract.
A lengthy, contentious legal battle for a new contract
Atlas Air Worldwide has been locked in a contentious collective-bargaining-agreement battle since January 2016 with its pilots, who are represented by Teamsters. The pilots are in two company departments owned by Atlas Air Worldwide: Atlas Air and Polar Air Cargo Worldwide. The contract sets pilots' wages and other crucial work rules for at least five years.
Contract negotiations have stretched halfway into their third year. Pilot union negotiations are often lengthy — FedEx's most recent pilot labor negotiations lasted two years, while UPS' went on for 3 1/2 years.
But those pilot contract negotiations, unlike Atlas' battle, normally don't lead to the DC Circuit — often called the most important court in America outside the Supreme Court.
Pilots who fly on behalf of Amazon picketed outside Amazon's annual shareholder meeting in May. Airline Professionals Association
In Atlas' official contract-negotiations information website the company says that following its acquisition of Southern Air in 2016, the pilot union has not followed the merger provisions that would result in a joint collective bargaining agreement for Atlas and Southern pilots. Union leadership said the agreement, negotiated by arbitration, would hamper the group's ability to negotiate better pay and working conditions.
"Had the Union Leaders simply followed the terms of the contract, pilots would have had a substantially increased total compensation package by now," an Atlas Air Worldwide representative told Business Insider in a statement.
Atlas pilots make considerably less than their peers at other airlines
A shortage of pilots has recently forced massive pay bumps at airlines like Alaska, FedEx, and Delta. But because the contract for Atlas pilots has not been renewed since 2016, they have not seen a pay raise since in more than three years.
Pilots flying for Atlas have told Business Insider the lack of pay bumps has led to subpar new applicants to the airline and the loss of experienced pilots.
"It's having the very obvious impact of causing the company to not be able to maintain an adequate supply of pilots to expand, let alone even hold down, their current operation," Wells told Business Insider in July.
ABX, ATI, and Atlas are the three contract air cargo companies that fly Amazon Air. FedEx and UPS are the two largest cargo airliners in the US. Airplane Pilot Central; Andy Kiersz/Business Insider
Atlas first officers with the maximum level of experience flying Boeing 767s earn $125 an hour. At UPS and FedEx, that same level earns, respectively, $219 and $222 an hour.
Captains at Atlas with the maximum level of experience flying Boeing 767s earn $179 an hour. FedEx captains with the same stature earn $313 an hour, and $309 an hour at UPS.
"There is no standard compensation package in the aviation industry — is true in both the passenger and air cargo segments," an Atlas representative told Business Insider. "Carriers have different business models — compensation packages reflect the nature of those models."
The person added:
"We are committed to negotiating a contract for our pilots that pays them competitive 'at market' rates. The market is based on companies with similar business models, revenue streams, workforce size, and operating models. We have a dramatically different business model and revenue stream, and do not compete with FedEx and UPS. We are a $3 billion company, with a pilot workforce of 2,000. FedEx and UPS are much larger in terms of revenues and work force. We compete with a separate set of competitors who also don't pay at the same rates as FedEx and UPS because of their size, revenue streams and business model."
But, as one Atlas Air pilot pointed out on Twitter, Atlas makes much more per employee than its more famous package carriers. According to Fidelity's stock-comparison tool, Atlas earns 85 cents of revenue per employee — compared with 15 cents at UPS and FedEx.

Story 24
This rusty patched bumble bee was spotted during a bee survey near the Twin Cities. USFWS Midwest Region/CC by 2.0
The rusty patched bumblebee is in a pickle. Over the past few decades, according to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS), the population of the chunky, fuzzy species has fallen by nearly 90 percent. Bombus affinis once buzzed around 28 states, plus D.C. and two provinces of Canada, but by 2017, the FWS reported that there were only “small, scattered populations” in 13 states and a single province. Some of these clusters are fairly sizable—including ones around Minnesota’s Twin Cities, in particular—but the agency noted that other populations “are so small that it is unclear whether they still exist.” The FWS attributed the bee’s unsteady state to a combination of dwindling grassland habitats, disease, and pesticides, and that same year, B. affinis became the first bumblebee listed under the Endangered Species Act.
Things are starting to look a little less doomy and gloomy for the rust-colored insect. In the Midwest, at least, last year’s observations “were encouraging,” says Tamara Smith, a biologist at the FWS’s Twin Cities field office. The bee was spotted in larger groups than in recent years, and sometimes seen in places where it hadn’t been noticed before. Now, as of May 2019, Minnesota is doing more to boost its ranks.
Officials recently crowned the little creature with the warm-and-fuzzy title of “state bee,” and put financial muscle behind efforts to buoy it. The state budget bills freshly signed by Governor Tim Walz include $900,000 earmarked for bee-friendly spaces. From that coffer, the government will foot the bill for some residents who are game to sow a meadow of plants handpicked to enchant bees.
Purple prairie clover—like this, photographed near Madison, Wisconsin—is attractive to bees. Joshua Mayer/CC By-SA 2.0
Plenty of experts are already waging campaigns against patches of uninterrupted and highly manicured grass. These swaths aren’t particularly enticing to bees and other pollinators—plus, they’re fussy. Lawns demand to be mowed and fertilized, and they’re thirsty, hankering for regular soakings even when a community is in the midst of a drought and urged to use as little water as possible. Instead, some apian enthusiasts champion yards brimming with small flowers, trees, and shrubs. In the Midwest, the FWS service encourages people to plant anemones and wild lupine, bee balm and purple prairie clover, and goldenrod and New England aster for a smattering of blooms that will welcome pollinators throughout spring, summer, and fall.
Under the funding program, the state will reimburse homeowners for 75 to 90 percent of the cost of installing bee-friendly gardens, according to the Star Tribune—but the paper reports that the state Board of Water and Soil Resources, which will administer the initiative, is still hashing out specifics about how to apply and what fits the bill. State Representative Kelly Morrison told the Star Tribune that she hopes that project will be up and running by spring 2020. When it’s a go, “we think that abundant and diverse floral resources will translate to larger and healthier rusty patched bumblebee colonies,” Smith says. And the landscape will look pretty, to boot.

Story 25
Pierre Francois Fallourd became the CEO of Atlas Pearls Ltd (ASX:ATP) in 2014. First, this article will compare CEO compensation with compensation at similar sized companies. After that, we will consider the growth in the business. Third, we’ll reflect on the total return to shareholders over three years, as a second measure of business performance. The aim of all this is to consider the appropriateness of CEO pay levels.
View our latest analysis for Atlas Pearls
How Does Pierre Francois Fallourd’s Compensation Compare With Similar Sized Companies?
At the time of writing our data says that Atlas Pearls Ltd has a market cap of AU$4.7m, and is paying total annual CEO compensation of AU$274k. (This is based on the year to June 2018). While this analysis focuses on total compensation, it’s worth noting the salary is lower, valued at AU$240k. We took a group of companies with market capitalizations below AU$295m, and calculated the median CEO total compensation to be AU$357k.
So Pierre Francois Fallourd is paid around the average of the companies we looked at. This doesn’t tell us a whole lot on its own, but looking at the performance of the actual business will give us useful context.
The graphic below shows how CEO compensation at Atlas Pearls has changed from year to year.
Is Atlas Pearls Ltd Growing?
Over the last three years Atlas Pearls Ltd has shrunk its earnings per share by an average of 66% per year (measured with a line of best fit). In the last year, its revenue is down -5.7%.
Sadly for shareholders, earnings per share are actually down, over three years. This is compounded by the fact revenue is actually down on last year. So given this relatively weak performance, shareholders would probably not want to see high compensation for the CEO.
Has Atlas Pearls Ltd Been A Good Investment?
Given the total loss of 67% over three years, many shareholders in Atlas Pearls Ltd are probably rather dissatisfied, to say the least. This suggests it would be unwise for the company to pay the CEO too generously.
In Summary…
Pierre Francois Fallourd is paid around the same as most CEOs of similar size companies.
Returns have been disappointing and the company is not growing its earnings per share. Suffice it to say, we don’t think the CEO is underpaid! If you think CEO compensation levels are interesting you will probably really like this free visualization of insider trading at Atlas Pearls.
Important note: Atlas Pearls may not be the best stock to buy. You might find something better in this list of interesting companies with high ROE and low debt.
We aim to bring you long-term focused research analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material.

If you spot an error that warrants correction, please contact the editor at editorial-team@simplywallst.com. This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. Simply Wall St has no position in the stocks mentioned. Thank you for reading.

Story 26
The "spoiled" Frenchman is by far Africa’s highest paid coach, while his staff receive higher salaries than most of Africa’s coaches.
Rabat – How much does Morocco’s Royal Football Federation (FRMF) pay Herve Renard for his services with the Moroccan football team? The answer may further irritate his rapidly expanding circus of critics.
Ahead of last year’s World Cup in Russia, reports indicated that Renard was by far the highest paid coach in Africa. At the time, Renard was reportedly paid MAD 800,000 (€ 80,000) per month.
However, recently updated figures by Al Massae, the same Arabic language newspaper that revealed last year’s statistics, show that Morocco almost doubled the Frenchman’s salary ahead of the ongoing continental football contest. The current number, €120,000, maintained Renard in his, by now familiar, status as the African coach with the highest remuneration, and royal treatment.
Far behind Renard stood the now sacked Javier Aguirre of Egypt (€108,000), Cameroon’s Clarence Seedorf (€96,000), South Africa’s Stuart Baxter (€62,300), and Algeria’s Djamel Belmadi (€50,000).
Renard’s Assistants better paid than most head coaches
Al Massae also revealed that the coaching staff of the Atlas Lions was overall the most “spoiled” at the ongoing Africa Cup of Nations (CAN). Renard’s two assistants, the French Patrice Beaumelle and the Moroccan Mustapha Hadji, were more handsomely paid than most head coaches at the tournament.
Beaumelle’s reported €55,000 salary puts him well above Algeria’s Belmadi, whereas Hadji’s €30,000 put him on equal footing with Guinea’s Belgian head coach, Paul Put, who according to the Guinean football federation is the fifth highest paid coach in Africa.
Besides the glaring disconnect between the Moroccan staff’s princely treatment and its meager results, the most arresting detail for Atlas Lions fans may be that Beaumelle’s salary is superior to that of Belmadi, who has so far had a fabulous CAN with Algeria.
(Belmadi has done wonders with the Algerian team since coming on board in August of last year. Under his tenure, Algeria has put to rest the series of disappointments that followed their brilliant world Cup in Brazil five years ago. Algeria, now the grand continental favorite, is playing today, July 11, in the CAN quarterfinals against Ivory Coast. Whatever happens in today’s game, though, there is already a robust sense among the whopping majority of CAN watchers that Belmadi’s Algeria has produced the most tactically mature and ruthlessly clinical football in Egypt, something many Moroccan fans expected from their Renard-coached Lions.)
Renard’s dilemma
The news of Renard’s stupendous salary demands comes as Morocco’s spirit-dumping elimination from the ongoing Africa Cup of Nations is quickly turning into a live trial for both the players and the coaching staff.
Increasingly—and predictably—the team’s head coach has become the living embodiment of the monumental failure in Egypt, with questions now flying from everywhere to scrutinize the massive disparity between his priceless treatment and his lukewarm results with the Moroccan national team.
With this Al Massae report, many critics may feel further emboldened to ask for radical changes in high places of Moroccan football. But while Renard’s job is obviously on the line, the Frenchman has so far reacted with surprising composure.
“I have a contract with the [Moroccan] federation until 2021, and I intend to honor it,” he said immediately after the last-16 debacle against Benin. Most recently, he has said that he is “taking the necessary time” to reflect on his future with the team.
Will Renard stay? Months ago, Moroccans’ response to that question would be an energetic, “He should” or a gigantic, wholehearted, “YES! We love our coach, for God’s sake…”
This time around, though, almost no one, even Renard’s harshest critics or loudest supporters (and they are not many at this point), seems rushing to say the obvious. Not that he should stay, but that yes, it has been a lovely journey, but can we please part ways here, to avoid hard feelings should this last longer than it really should?
So Renard is left alone in his thinking, with most Moroccans hoping, and critics inaudibly but no less aggressively demanding that he make the right choice.
Renard seems to have heard it all, the silent entreaties that he not make this more awkward than it already is. With the unmistakable uneasiness among Moroccan fans and the sinking feeling of an establishing pattern of what ifs and disastrous near-misses, it will be of little surprise if, in the following days or weeks, both the federation and Renard resort to severing ties.
Renard could say for example: “Everyone could see that we were the better team in all of our matches; that we were and deserved being among the most serious contenders for this year’s CAN; that we played with our hearts out but lacked the bit of luck that could have made the difference, all the difference. I am sorry to have disappointed you, but I am proud to have been part of this amazing journey. I feel that it is perhaps time to try something else with somebody else. Thank you for everything.”
Or he may not.
But should he, Moroccan football fans will most probably call for a “man of the country” to manage the Atlas Lions, some sort of a Moroccan version of Belmadi– to inspire rupture and change where a series of the most kingly treated European coaches have failed.
But who will be Morocco’s Belmadi? Again Rachid Taoussi or Badou Zaki, whose good but not entirely satisfying results paved the way for Renard’s appointment in the first place? Or rather Jamal Sellami, the coach of the local national team, whose CHAN exploits remain the sole, tiny silver lining in four decades of fiascos of successive Moroccan teams?
“To stay or not to stay,” that was Renard’s question months ago as his team’s underwhelming but brave World Cup performance revealed glimpses of fissures in the FRMF-Renard romance. But times have changed, and very dramatically so. “To resign or be pushed out,” is the new question.

Story 27
More than a dozen current and former pilots who have flown for Amazon Air told Business Insider about a culture of overwork and underpay at their employers, which provide contract air services to Amazon.
ABX, ATI, and Atlas pilots, who fly your Amazon Prime packages, all make considerably less than pilots at other cargo airlines, including FedEx and UPS.
"Amazon is doing everything possible to keep their shipping expense low because it's ballooning," one analyst told Business Insider.
The pilots who deliver your Amazon Prime packages are paid considerably less than their peers at other air-cargo carriers.
Business Insider interviewed 13 current and former pilots who have worked for third-party airfreight companies that fly Amazon Air-branded planes. The pilots worked for subsidiaries of Air Transport Services Group (ATSG) and Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings. All are based in the US and fly both domestically and internationally.
These airline companies provide Amazon with leasing, staffing, maintenance, and insurance. The pilot groups who work with Amazon are ABX Air, Air Transport International (ATI), and Atlas Air. ABX and ATI are owned by ATSG, and Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings owns Atlas Air.
These pilots are all unionized. ABX and Atlas pilots are in Teamsters Local Union 1224, while ATI pilots are in Air Line Pilots Association International (ALPA).
Read more: An Amazon Air plane crashed in February, killing all 3 people on board. Weeks earlier, several pilots said they thought an accident was inevitable.
Amazon did not respond to repeated requests for comment from Business Insider.
In a statement regarding other issues at ATSG, a spokesperson told Business Insider about pay and union negotiations, "Contract negotiations continue to be conducted under the auspices of the National Mediation Board, and we look forward to their satisfactory conclusion."
Bill Flynn, Atlas Air Worldwide CEO, told Business Insider in a statement five days after this story was published:
Any alleged delay in getting to the next pilot contract has been a direct result of the union’s refusal to adhere to its contractual commitments, which provide for an orderly and timely resolution of unresolved contractual issues. Had union leadership followed the CBA, the pilots would have had a new contract by now.
Even a first-year captain at FedEx earns more than a captain who flies for Amazon Air and has been with the company for decades
Boeing 767 captains with the maximum years of company tenure at ATSG and Atlas earn up to $246 an hour, according to their labor contracts and information posted on the salary-report website Airline Pilot Central.
But serving as a captain on the same plane with the maximum years of company tenure is much more lucrative at other cargo airlines.
Pilots with the maximum years of experience earn $313 an hour at FedEx and $309 at UPS. (Maximum experience at UPS and FedEx is 15 years, while it's capped at 12 years at Atlas, ABX, and ATI.)
Even smaller cargo airlines, such as Kalitta Air, pay better than ATSG and Atlas. Kalitta 767 captains earn $273 an hour. No other airlines flying 767s had salary information publicly available.
Read more: Amazon took over the $176 billion market for cloud computing. Now it's using the same playbook in logistics.
So the average Amazon Air captain makes about 33% less than FedEx and UPS captains on average for flying the same plane once reaching the maximum years of experience. The split in pay is so remarkable that even a first-year captain at FedEx earns more than a captain at Amazon Air who has been with the company for decades ($258 an hour at FedEx).
For those who are starting as first officers or copilots, there's a similar discrepancy in pay.
The average first officer with maximum years of experience at an Amazon Air contractor earns $148 an hour — nearly $100 less than their peers at FedEx and UPS.
ABX and Atlas pilots have not received raises in a decade
Pilots are almost universally unionized. Even pilots at FedEx, whose labor force is not completely unionized, are in a union. Meanwhile, an ongoing pilot shortage has forced airlines across the spectrum to raise wages.
"In the last two to three years, we've seen really significant salary increases," Bob Seidel, the CEO of Alerion Aviation, previously told Business Insider. "People are desperate to keep their airplanes staffed."
But ABX Air and Atlas Air pilots have not received raises in nearly a decade.
The union contracts at ABX and Atlas have been amenable since 2015, meaning they are still in effect but available to be negotiated. Negotiations, which are reaching their fifth year, have been challenging, according to each pilot Business Insider spoke with. Pilot union negotiations are often lengthy — FedEx's most recent pilot labor negotiations lasted two years, while UPS's went on for 3 1/2 years.
However, the ABX and Atlas contracts now in place were negotiated during the financial crisis, and pilots said the contract was "concessionary" in many ways. They allowed their pensions and healthcare matches to freeze, gave up vacation days, and took pay cuts. Pilots said that was to save the airlines, which were struggling financially. Atlas Air had declared bankruptcy several years before.
ATI pilots, who also fly for Amazon Air, won a new labor contract in 2018. The new union contract had average wage increases of 41% to 51% for captains and 45% to 55% for first officers. Still, pilot pay is lower than other cargo airlines — ATI captains with decades of company experience earn 27% less than captains with the same experience flying the same jet at FedEx.
To keep Amazon as a customer, the pressure is high on Atlas and ATSG to keep labor costs minimal. (Amazon recently hit the headlines for ditching another third-party logistics company.)
"Amazon is doing everything possible to keep their shipping expense low because it's ballooning," Marc Wulfraat, the president and founder of supply-chain consultancy MWPVL International, told Business Insider.

Story 28
It pays to pollinate in Minnesota.
Minnesota's state budget celebrated pollinators last month by crowning the endangered rusty-patched bumblebee the state bee. And, to protect the plump pollinator, the state earmarked $900,000 dollars for bee-friendly spaces, according to Atlas Obscura.
From that money, the state government will pay the gardening bill for residents who are willing to turn their lawn into bee-friendly spaces, by planting flowers known to attract bees, like creeping thyme, self-heal and dutch white clover.


"When people look at these flowers, they see a nuisance, they see a weed. I see a forage for pollinators," said James Woflin, a graduate student at the University of Minnesota's Bee Lab, as CBS Minnesota reports. While the flowers of these plants will attract all bees, the state is particularly interested in the rusty-patched bumblebee, a fat and fuzzy bee that pollinates apples and tomatoes. The new state bee has faced years of declining populations and is on the brink of extinction while making a last stand in Upper Midwest cities, according to Atlas Obscura. The state's Board of Water and Soil Resources will reimburse homeowners 75-90 percent of the cost for converting a lawn to bee-friendly plants and to have a yard with a diverse set of flowers, shrubs and trees, Star Tribune said. It will cover up 90 percent of the cost in areas with a high potential to support rusty-patched bees. The Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) published a guide for gardeners looking to plant flowers that will attract the rusty-patched bumblebee. The guide encourages people to plant anemones and wild lupine, bee balm and purple prairie clover, and goldenrod and New England aster for consistent blooms through the growing season that will entice pollinators throughout spring, summer and fall, Atlas Obscura reported.

Story 29
Last week, when the popular payments startup Stripe made some waves with its first move into money lending through the launch of Stripe Capital, we reported that the company was also soon going to be launching a credit card. Now, that news is official. Today, the company is doubling down on financing with the launch of corporate cards for business customers.
Announced officially today to coincide with the company’s developer event Stripe Sessions, the Stripe Corporate Card — as the product is officially called — is a Visa that will be open to businesses that are incorporated in the U.S., although they can operate elsewhere.
Notably, users are expected to pay their balance in full each month, so for now there is no interest rate, or fee, to use the card, with Stripe making its money by way of the interchange fee that comes with every transaction using the card.
“We’re not freezing cards based on late or no payments,” Cristina Cordova, the business lead overseeing the launch, said in an interview. “A pretty common reason for non-payment is that a person switched bank accounts and forgot to update the information. But we think we’ll have fewer problems because we have banking information for accepting revenue, by way of our payments business.”
The move is another major step ahead for Stripe as it continues to diversify its business and bring on more financial products to become a one-stop shop for e-commerce and other companies for all the transactions they might need to make in the course of their lives. It is a little ironic that it’s taken years for credit cards to get added into the mix, considering Stripe’s earliest homepages and marketing efforts were built around the design of a credit card (a reference to taking payments online, not issuing credit, of course).
In any case, the list of products now offered by Stripe is long — longer, you might say, than it takes to incorporate a Stripe service into a developer workflow. In addition to its API-based flagship payments product — which is available as a direct service or, via Stripe Connect, for third parties via marketplaces and other platforms — it offers billing and invoicing, in-person payment services (via Terminal), business analytics, fraud prevention on transactions (Radar), company incorporation (Atlas) and a range of content around business strategy.
Some of these Stripe products are free to use, and some come at a price: The main point for offering them together is to build more engagement and loyalty from customers to keep them from migrating to other services. In that regard, credit cards are a cornerstone of how businesses operate, to handle day-to-day expenses in a more accountable way, and this is an area that is already well-served by others, including startups like Brex but also a plethora of challenger and traditional banks. So as much as anything else, this is a clear move to help stave off competition.
At the same time, it underscores how Stripe is leveraging the huge amount of data that it has amassed about its users and payments on the platform: It’s not just about enabling single services, but about using the byproducts of those services — data — to put fuel into new products.
Today, to underscore its global ambitions in that regard, Stripe is adding some expansions to several of its existing products. For example, it will now allow businesses to make payouts in local currencies in 45 countries (an important detail, for example, for marketplaces and network-based companies like ridesharing businesses).
The credit card product will follow a model similar to that of Stripe Capital. As with the lending product, there is a single bank issuing the credit and the card. Amber Feng, head of financial infrastructure for Stripe, confirmed to me that it is actually the same bank that’s providing the cash behind Stripe Capital. Stripe is still declining to name the bank itself, but hints that we may hear more about it soon, which leads me to wonder what news might be coming next.
(Funding perhaps would make sense? The company has raised a whopping $785 million to date and has a valuation of $22.5 billion at the moment. Given that Stripe has made indications that a public listing is not on the cards soon, that might imply, with the launch of these new financing products, that more capital might be raised soon.)
Also similar to Stripe Capital, the underwriting of the card is based on Stripe data. That is to say, business users are verified and approved based on turnover (revenues) as measured by the Stripe payments platform itself; and in cases where applicants are “pre-revenue,” they can be evaluated based on other data sources. For example, if they have used Stripe Atlas to incorporate their businesses, the paperwork supplied for that is used by Stripe to vet the customer’s suitability for a credit card.
Notably, the cards will be delivered in the spirit of instant gratification: If you are applying and get approved, you can within minutes download a virtual card to your Apple Wallet as you await the physical card to arrive in the post.
Stripe is big on data in its own business, and it’s bringing some of that into this product with spending controls that can be set by person and by category; real-time expense reporting by way of texts; rewards of 2% back on spending in the business’s most-used categories; and integration with financial software like QuickBooks and Expensify.

Story 30
PILOTS who fly for Amazon Air are protesting against poor working conditions and pay today sparking possible delivery chaos.
The demonstration comes after numerous pilots claimed they were overworked and underpaid, with the majority saying they have been asked to fly on their day off.
2 Amazon Air pilots are protesting against poor working conditions Credit: AP:Associated Press
Pilots for Atlas Air, Southern Air, and ABX Air, carriers that power Amazon Air, will be joining the protest at Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky International Airport.
It comes two months after an Amazon Prime Air cargo plane from Atlas Air crashed in Texas, killing all three on board.
Atlas Air and Southern Air are owned by Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings, while ABX Air is a subsidiary of Air Transport Services Group (ATSG).
Their major customers include Amazon, DHL, and the armed forces.

STRAINED WORKING CONDITIONS
Amazon Air pilots have been in contract disputes with their employers over working conditions for nearly five years.
The union said that "pilots at the three carriers say they face serious operational problems that are exacerbated by labour contracts far below industry standards."
"In order to fill customers' needs, the companies ask pilots to fly last-minute flights around the globe; a recent survey conducted by the pilots' union found that more than 65 per cent of respondents have been asked to fly on their days off in the last year," the statement said.
LOW PAY
Pilots at Atlas Air have claimed that their pay is 48 per cent lower than for captains and first officers at UPS.
They say that strained working conditions have fuelled low morale and high turnover amid a mounting pilot shortage in the US and worldwide.
In November last year, Atlas hired 288 new pilots in the year to date while 145 pilots had left.
A spokesman for Atlas Air said: “Atlas values our pilots and is eager to increase their pay.
"Any delay in completing the next pilot contract has been a direct result of the union leadership's refusal to adhere to its contractual commitments, which provide for an orderly and timely resolution of remaining contractual issues.
“Had union leaders followed the collective bargaining agreement, the pilots would have had a new contract -- and a raise -- by now.
“We remain committed to working collaboratively with union leadership to complete an agreement for our pilots.
AIRLINES FIGHT WITH UNION
“Our customers play no role in labour negotiations, including pilot pay and work rules, contrary to what the Union continues to suggest.
“The protest event that the Union has planned, like prior such events, is an attempt to gain additional leverage in the current negotiations.”
SunOnline has contacted Amazon and Southern Air for comment.
ATSG, the parent company of ABX, responded with a statement saying: "ATSG has always been and will remain committed to the highest standards of safety throughout all of our operations.
“Our airlines are in compliance with the rules of their current Collective Bargaining Agreements, including work rules.
“Regarding staffing, ATSG has had no issues in finding qualified candidates to support its growth.
“Contract negotiations continue to be conducted under the auspices of the National Mediation Board, and we look forward to their satisfactory conclusion."
AMAZON'S OWN DELIVERY NETWORK
As Amazon’s growth skyrocketed, the online retail giant decided to lessen its reliance on third-party delivery companies.
The shopping behemoth now has its own in-house delivery network that includes trucks, trains, container ships and planes.
Amazon has 40 Boeing 767s, with reported plans for 10 more.
It currently has 760 cargo flights per week, according to Marc Wulfraat, president and founder of the supply-chain consultancy MWPVL International Inc.
Analysts said Amazon could scale to 100 planes by 2025.
The pilot protest comes more than a year after a Mirror investigation claimed Amazon employees are exposed to such gruelling working conditions that they fall asleep on their feet.
MOST READ IN NEWS FRIGHT NIGHT Britain to freeze in -4C temperatures on Halloween before SNOW sweeps country Exclusive AMAZIN! Students sting Amazon for THOUSANDS after discovering reusable discount code glitch 'BRAVE MAN' Family of man who died on top of chimney reveal he was struggling with 'trauma' IN FOR THE KILL Moment US Special Forces storm ISIS leader Baghdadi's lair in dramatic raid Exclusive COSTA LOT NHS 'cost cutter' lounges in Spanish mansion while charging taxpayer £2,000 a day Exclusive HORROR BY BARRACKS Soldier has acid thrown in his face and is slashed with blade near base
Bone-weary workers reportedly have just nine seconds to process a package during the long-hours at the online store warehouse.
The investigation claimed employees are suffering panic attacks as they struggle to keep up with demand.
According to the news outlet, one worker even had to be taken to hospital by an ambulance when they collapsed on the job.
2 Amazon Air pilots have been in contract disputes with their employers over working conditions for nearly five years Credit: Getty - Contributor

Story 31
Pilots demonstrating for better working conditions people who fly planes for Amazon.com and Atlas Air Worldwide picket outside Amazon.com's annual shareholders meeting, May 22, 2019, in Seattle, Washington. Ted S. Warren | AP Photo
In the decade since the U.S. emerged from the recession, many industries, including airlines and automakers, have enjoyed a near uninterrupted streak of profits. U.S. airlines, better known for their boom and bust cycles, are headed for their 10th straight year of profitability. The top four biggest airlines and three biggest automakers in the country brought in more than $25 billion in profit last year. Now, across the U.S., workers who assemble cars, fly planes, prepare airplane food, clean hotel rooms and stock grocery store shelves, just to name a few — many of them unionized employees in the middle of contract talks — are determined to get a bigger cut of the spoils.
Avoiding strikes
The contracts currently under negotiation between the United Auto Workers and Big Three Detroit automakers expire in September and will set the wages and benefits for about 158,000 employees for the next few years. The more than 37,000 pilots at the three largest U.S. airlines — Delta, United and American — are seeking higher pay and better retirement benefits after cuts in past downturns. "Our goal is to reach an agreement that continues to recognize the contributions of our pilots toward our company's success while also positioning Delta to continue its momentum," Delta said in a statement. After 35 years of shrinking union participation rates across the U.S., non-unionized employees at JetBlue, Amazon, Uber and Lyft are increasingly making demands for higher pay or trying to organize — emboldened by the tight labor market, low corporate taxes, healthy company profits, and rising living costs. Grocers owned by Kroger and Albertsons in Southern California, including Albertsons, Vons, Pavilions and Ralph's, are deep in negotiations with local members of the United Food and Commercial Workers in hopes of staving off their own strike. The region's last grocery strike, fifteen years ago, reportedly cost the grocers $1.5 billion in sales. "You can't reverse 40 years of inequality in one to two years," said Dean Baker, senior economist at the Center for Economic and Policy Research.
Wage growth lags
The root of the tension, economists say, is that wage growth has not kept pace with an increase in productivity and the cost of living, despite a recent uptick. That comes as U.S. unemployment is near a 50-year low and companies need those workers. "That means someone is getting more of the money," said Nobel Prize-winning economist Joseph Stiglitz. "It is totally understandable why workers say 'we ought to do something.' I think the fear is: As bad as things are now they could get worse and that if we don't do something preemptively we're in for even more difficulties." Weekly wages in the U.S. increased an average of 2.6% each year from 2008 to 2018, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Workers are now seeking not only higher pay but better working conditions, health benefits and better retirement packages, just as some companies are bracing for lower economic growth forecasts and the impact of tariffs.
Making ends meet
"The American worker ... has been stretched further and further and further to make ends meet," said labor leader and United flight attendant Sara Nelson, president of the Association of Flight Attendants-CWA, which represents some 50,000 flight attendants at 20 airlines. "That's an impossible hamster wheel to stay on." Labor unions are now arguing that their members deserve higher pay as their employers are flush with profits. Their ranks had been hit by layoffs, furloughs, pay, pension and benefit cuts as their employers struggled in recessions and bankruptcy. United Auto Workers President Gary Jones made it clear last month that union members expect to be rewarded for past work during contract negotiations this year with the Big Three in Detroit, even though U.S. auto sales this year are expected to fall below 17 million vehicles for the first time since 2014. The drop would mark the second decline in U.S. industry sales since the record of 17.55 million vehicles sold in 2016.
Amazon protest
The unionized workers aren't the only company employees demanding better pay and working conditions. Non-unionized workers at JetBlue and Delta have recently organized or are considering organizing, despite company messages against it. In May, Uber and Lyft drivers in cities from London to Los Angeles demonstrated for higher wages, some of them shutting off the ride-hailing apps during the strike. Drivers at Lyft and Uber recently won pay increases in New York. At Amazon, warehouse workers have used the online retailer's two-day Prime Day sale to demand higher wages. In Minnesota in July, Amazon workers held signs that read: "We're human; not robots" during their strike. Amazon workers in Europe also held strikes. The demonstrations took place after Amazon workers raised the minimum hourly wage it pays U.S. workers to $15 last year. The company last month said it is spending $700 million to retrain 100,000 U.S. workers as current job functions become more automated. Other companies have increased pay recently. Bank of America, for example, raised its workers' minimum pay to $20 an hour in March. Investors aren't always receptive. When American Airlines announced pay increases in April 2017 for its pilots and flight attendants, not tied to contract negotiations, shares fell more than 5% that day.
Record profits
"We're seeing record profit for our American companies, it's sad to say those gains aren't really translating to our members," United Auto Workers' president Jones said during an event last month to officially start collective bargaining at Ford's headquarters in Dearborn, Mich. "In this time of corporate prosperity, labor is still being asked to take concessions … This must stop now." Aviation workers are also clamoring for more pay and benefits. They argue they still haven't fully recovered from cuts since the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks that roiled air travel demand and sparked a wave of airline bankruptcies. "You don't go through bankruptcy and win things," said Dennis Tajer, a Boeing 737 captain at American and spokesman for the Allied Pilots Association, which represents American's pilots. "It's like a massage with a cheese grater: It hurts." Tensions between company management and some of their employees have grown so severe that disputes are ending up in courtrooms as companies allege workers are disrupting operations to gain leverage in contract talks.
Pleasing Wall Street
Unions have argued their companies are aiming to please Wall Street instead of their own employees. Companies in the S&P 500 are reporting what is set to be their ninth-straight quarter of profit growth — bolstered by President Donald Trump's 2017 corporate tax cuts. Companies have spent a lot of that windfall to buy back their own shares, to the chagrin of workers seeking higher wages. In the first quarter, S&P 500 companies spent $205.8 billion on buybacks, the second-biggest sum on record after the previous quarter and 9% more than a year earlier, according to an analysis from S&P Dow Jones Indices. United, Southwest, American and Delta's buybacks are among the top 150 largest in the S&P over the past decade through the first quarter of this year, according to S&P Dow Jones Indices. United spent close to $3.9 billion buying back its own shares over the last two years, the data show. The Chicago-based airline's net income in the last two full calendar years was $4.2 billion, according to FactSet.
Profit sharing
UAW members, meanwhile, get a slice of the automakers' profits through profit-sharing bonuses. However, the union is still trying to make up for concessions it gave up during the last economic downturn, including a decade of stagnated wages prior to 2015. The union agreed to cut benefits and receive more substantial profit sharing in lieu of annual wage increases as a result of the Great Recession and the government-backed bankruptcies of General Motors and then-Chrysler in 2009. Under the current four-year deals, the automakers have paid more than $4 billion in profit-sharing bonuses to UAW members. The record payments, which are based on each company's annual earnings in North America, have averaged roughly $20,500 per worker at Fiat Chrysler, $33,400 at Ford and $45,500 for GM since 2015.
First raises in years
UAW members also received their first raises in a decade four years ago. Starting pay for hourly production workers is roughly $17 to $30 an hour based on seniority — well above other unionized workforces. The profit-sharing bonuses and stagnant wages have helped the automakers control fixed costs and put labor expenses more in line with non-unionized competitors — something executives hope to continue with these negotiations. "We cannot, we will not, repeat those actions that put us in those dangerous financial positions," Mark Stewart, chief operating officer of FCA - North America, said last month at the company's headquarters in Auburn Hills, Mich. "We cannot return to our old ways of doing business or we're risking the same result."
Decades of bankruptcies
Airline unions, whose members weathered decades of bankruptcies and their aftermath, are now seeking more for their workers in cockpits, cabins and maintenance hangars. The strong U.S. economy is propelling travel demand and putting the country's carriers on track this year for their 10th-straight year in the black. That's a sharp turnaround for a capital-intensive industry known for its boom-and-bust cycles that inspired recently born-again airline evangelist Warren Buffett to tell shareholders in 2008: "Indeed, if a farsighted capitalist had been present at Kitty Hawk, he would have done his successors a huge favor by shooting Orville down." Between the peak in 2001 and 2011, at the depths of airline industry turmoil, the sector had shed about 28% of its workforce or 145,000 jobs, according to the Department of Transportation. Full-time equivalent airline employees are back up to more than 440,000 jobs but off the pre-9/11 peak of more than 530,000 positions. A decade of consolidation that left four big airlines in control of most of the U.S. market and strong economic growth helped domestic carriers rake in nearly $90 billion in profits since 2010, according to Airlines for America, an industry group. "There's money to get," said Orley Ashenfelter, a Princeton University economics professor who specializes in labor relations and wages. "When the company's losing money it's hard to say you're important."
Nasty fights
Some labor tensions have grown so sour they're ending up in courtrooms. American Airlines, for example, said in a lawsuit this spring that it had to cancel hundreds of flights because the unions that represent its more than 12,000 mechanics were engaged in an illegal work slowdown. The unions are demanding better pay and stronger limits on how much maintenance work the airline can outsource to workers overseas and have denied the allegations. A federal court in Texas in June ordered the unions to notify workers not to engage in activities that could hurt the airline. Pilots for Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings, one of the cargo carriers that operates Amazon's package-delivery airline Amazon Air, in July lost their appeal to overturn an injunction against what Atlas called excessive sick calls and an illegal worker slowdown. The company said the labor dispute contributed to its disappointing quarterly earnings, which pushed down its stock 25% after it reported on Aug. 1. Pilots there have complained about grueling work hours and low pay compared with their counterparts at rivals. Earlier this year, Southwest had a similar dispute with its mechanics, but later reached a contract with the group, their first in more than six years, and a higher pay raise than Southwest offered in previous rounds of negotiations. Even workers that have relatively good relations with their employers are demanding better conditions. United Airlines flight attendants last winter picketed at United's hubs around the country after the company reduced staffing on board to FAA minimums (American and Delta were already staffed at that level), saying it compromised their safety, particularly as airlines fit more seats on board.
Protest in D.C.

Story 32
Dividend paying stocks like Atlas Arteria Limited (ASX:ALX) tend to be popular with investors, and for good reason – some research suggests a significant amount of all stock market returns come from reinvested dividends. Yet sometimes, investors buy a popular dividend stock because of its yield, and then lose money if the company’s dividend doesn’t live up to expectations.
With a goodly-sized dividend yield despite a relatively short payment history, investors might be wondering if Atlas Arteria is a new dividend aristocrat in the making. We’d agree the yield does look enticing. Some simple analysis can offer a lot of insights when buying a company for its dividend, and we’ll go through this below.
Click the interactive chart for our full dividend analysis
Payout ratios
Companies (usually) pay dividends out of their earnings. If a company is paying more than it earns, the dividend might have to be cut. So we need to form a view on if a company’s dividend is sustainable, relative to its net profit after tax. Atlas Arteria paid out 212% of its profit as dividends, over the trailing twelve month period. Unless there are extenuating circumstances, from the perspective of an investor who hopes to own the company for many years, a payout ratio of above 100% is definitely a concern.
We also measure dividends paid against a company’s levered free cash flow, to see if enough cash was generated to cover the dividend. Atlas Arteria paid out 386% of its free cash last year. Cash flows can be lumpy, but this dividend was not well covered by cash flow. Paying out such a high percentage of cash flow suggests that the dividend was funded from either cash at bank or by borrowing, neither of which is desirable over the long term. As Atlas Arteria’s dividend was not well covered by either earnings or cash flow, we would be concerned that this dividend could be at risk over the long term.
Dividend Volatility
Before buying a stock for its income, we want to see if the dividends have been stable in the past, and if the company has a track record of maintaining its dividend. Looking at the data, we can see that Atlas Arteria has been paying a dividend for the past six years. The company has been paying a stable dividend for a while now, which is great. However we’d prefer to see consistency for a few more years before giving it our full seal of approval. During the past six-year period, the first annual payment was AU$0.048 in 2013, compared to AU$0.30 last year. Dividends per share have grown at approximately 36% per year over this time.
The dividend has been growing pretty quickly, which could be enough to get us interested even though the dividend history is relatively short. Further research may be warranted.
Dividend Growth Potential
While dividend payments have been relatively reliable, it would also be nice if earnings per share (EPS) were growing, as this is essential to maintaining the dividend’s purchasing power over the long term. Earnings have grown at around 5.4% a year for the past five years, which is better than seeing them shrink! Although per-share earnings are growing at a credible rate, virtually all of the income is being paid out as dividends to shareholders. This is okay, but may limit growth in the company’s future dividend payments.
We’d also point out that Atlas Arteria issued a meaningful number of new shares in the past year. Trying to grow the dividend when issuing new shares reminds us of the ancient Greek tale of Sisyphus – perpetually pushing a boulder uphill. Companies that consistently issue new shares are often suboptimal from a dividend perspective.
Conclusion
Dividend investors should always want to know if a) a company’s dividends are affordable, b) if there is a track record of consistent payments, and c) if the dividend is capable of growing. We’re a bit uncomfortable with Atlas Arteria paying out a high percentage of both its cashflow and earnings. Unfortunately, there hasn’t been any earnings growth, and the company’s dividend history has been too short for us to evaluate the consistency of the dividend. Using these criteria, Atlas Arteria looks quite suboptimal from a dividend investment perspective.
Earnings growth generally bodes well for the future value of company dividend payments. See if the 4 Atlas Arteria analysts we track are forecasting continued growth with our free report on analyst estimates for the company.
Looking for more high-yielding dividend ideas? Try our curated list of dividend stocks with a yield above 3%.
We aim to bring you long-term focused research analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material.

If you spot an error that warrants correction, please contact the editor at editorial-team@simplywallst.com. This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. Simply Wall St has no position in the stocks mentioned. Thank you for reading.

Story 33
In a legal victory for cargo airline Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings, Inc., (NASDAQ:AAWW) an arbitrator late August 26 denied Atlas’ pilots request to negotiate their next contract and instead imposed an arbitrated contract process.
The award by George Nicolau, who has long experience in arbitrating airline disputes, was what Atlas sought. (The company did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the award.) The carrier has said the long-stalled talks could move forward once the carriers’ pilots submitted a merged seniority list of pilots at Atlas and at Southern Air, a cargo carrier which Atlas acquired in early 2016 but which has yet to be integrated. The two carriers operate separately under their respective federal airworthiness certificates.
“The reality is that the union leaders have significant control over the timing of the new contract for our pilots,” the company said in an August 23 statement. “In connection with Atlas Air’s pending merger with Southern Air, the union need only tender the company an integrated seniority list, which would start the clock on a contractually defined period of bargaining after which any unresolved issues would be submitted” for arbitration.
Teamsters union Local 1224, which represents nearly 1,800 Atlas pilots, said it would be happy to furnish a merged list once pilots vote on and ratify a contract proposal and the two federal airworthiness certificates are combined. Southern has about 300 pilots.
In an August 23 phone interview, Capt. Robert Kirchner, who heads the council representing Atlas’ pilots, said he expected Nicolau to reject straight bargaining in favor of an arbitrated settlement. In the interview, Kirchner said producing merged seniority lists prior to a contract being voted on and ratified gives Atlas too much leverage over the livelihoods of the combined pilot workforces.
Arbitrated settlements rarely end well for airline labor because they result in sub-standard agreements, Kirchner said. The pilots have said they are paid 33 percent less than pilots at carriers like FedEx Corp. (NYSE:FDS) flying the same equipment.
Pilots were put at a disadvantage during the 2009-2011 timeframe when a settlement was imposed on pilots of Atlas and Polar Air Cargo, which Atlas acquired in 2001, Kirchner said. Then, the pilots agreed to Atlas’ demands for work-rule changes in return for better pay and, perhaps more important, job security. Management’s promises were never kept, he said.
Kirchner also expressed concern that discussions could now drag on for an indefinite period. Under the current contract, the two sides have nine months to bring a settlement forward for arbitration, he said. If that fails to occur, the dispute is turned over to another arbitrator, who would not be operating under a timetable or deadline. Two peak shipping seasons – 2019 and 2020 – could pass before a contract is arbitrated and takes effect, he said.
In the interview, Kirchner acknowledged that the union was behind the legal eight-ball, and that he was hoping for an “epiphany” at Atlas that would compel management to bargain in earnest. Currently, the two sides meet 3.5 days out of a month – they are meeting this week in Virginia – but only about four hours of that time is spent in serious bargaining, Kirchner said.
The parties are about one-third to 40 percent through the process, and Kirchner said a contract could be hammered out in three weeks if they met every day. The pilots’ priority is job security, Kirchner said.
Atlas recently posted subpar second-quarter results that it blamed in part on labor-related disruptions. A federal appeals court upheld a lower court decision enjoining the pilots from engaging in disruptions such as taking excessive sick days and refusing to work overtime, actions that management said were undermining its operations. Pilots have charged Atlas with deliberately understaffing its pilot rolls, overworking and underpaying its crews, and failing to understand the changes in flying demands triggered by e-commerce delivery requirements.
E-commerce is a new phenomenon for a company like Atlas, which has spent most of its history flying heavy international cargoes for airlines, freight forwarders and big shippers. It allocates about 20 percent of its 127-plane fleet to Amazon Air, a unit of e-tailing giant Amazon.com, Inc. (NASDAQ:AMZN)
In an August 26 statement, the union local said it “will pursue all remaining legal options to avoid a contract that is resolved by an arbitrator and that robs pilots of their right to vote on it and ratify as needed. Noting that the impasse, which has lasted more than three years, is taking its toll on the pilots, the company’s operations and finances, and investors’ patience, the union local said Atlas must do right by all invested parties – current pilots, future pilots and investors – and settle a fair, industry-standard contract now.”

Story 34
Union Ordered to Promptly Participate in Merger Process for
New Joint Collective Bargaining Agreement
Positive Step Toward Company’s Goal of Increasing Pilot Pay as Soon as Possible
PURCHASE, N.Y., June 13, 2019 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings, Inc. (Nasdaq: AAWW) today confirmed that its subsidiary, Southern Air, Inc., has prevailed in an important arbitration against the union that represents Southern Air’s pilots, the Airline Professionals Association, Teamsters Local 1224.
The June 12, 2019, arbitration decision orders the union to promptly proceed with contractually required negotiations for a new joint collective bargaining agreement (JCBA) in connection with the merger of Southern Air and Atlas Air, Inc. While union leaders have extensively said publicly that the company has delayed negotiations, the decision states that:
“We can conclude with some certainty, however, that there has been a delay inspired by the Union’s misapprehension of the contractual requirements and that they must now respond vigorously to the Company’s request to proceed.”
This is a positive step in the company’s goal of completing a new JCBA that increases pay for Southern Air and Atlas Air pilots as soon as possible.
“Had the union leaders honored their contractual commitments when we announced the merger back in 2016, Southern Air and Atlas Air pilots would have already had their new contract – and a pay increase – by now,” said Atlas Air Worldwide President and Chief Executive Officer William J. Flynn. “We hope the union will agree that it is time to end unnecessary delays and make progress for our pilots.

“We value the dedication of our crews, and we look forward to further recognize their significant contributions to the development and growth of our business. We are committed to working with the union for a JCBA that enhances overall pay and benefits for our more than 2,000 Southern Air and Atlas Air pilots.”
For more information about the arbitration decision, the contract negotiations process and future updates, please visit AtlasAir5YPilots.com and follow @AtlasAir5Y on Twitter.
About Atlas Air Worldwide:
Atlas Air Worldwide is a leading global provider of outsourced aircraft and aviation operating services. It is the parent company of Atlas Air, Inc., Southern Air Holdings, Inc. and Titan Aviation Holdings, Inc., and is the majority shareholder of Polar Air Cargo Worldwide, Inc. Our companies operate the world’s largest fleet of 747 freighter aircraft and provide customers the broadest array of Boeing 747, 777, 767, 757 and 737 aircraft for domestic, regional and international cargo and passenger operations.
Atlas Air Worldwide’s press releases, SEC filings and other information may be accessed through the company’s home page, www.atlasairworldwide.com.
Debbie Coffey (Media) – (914) 701-8951
Dan Loh (Investors) – (914) 701-8200

Story 35
CLOSE
170 laid off on Friday after company closed 2 local plants
Buy Photo Dan Gonzales talks to Patricia Gerber, a retirement planner from Ashley Retirement Services, during Monday's job fair for former employees of Atlas Industries. (Photo: Craig Shoup/The News-Messenger)
FREMONT - Tears rolled down Dan Gonzales' face Friday as leadership from Atlas Industries announced they were closing the door.
Without advance notice, Gonzales' job as a machine setup man was gone and he said he wasted the last 20 years of his life.
"I mean, it was decent money," Gonzales said. "But now I have to start all over again. It's heartbreaking."
MORE: Atlas Industries closes Fremont, Tiffin plants
Gonzales, 50, of Fremont, like many of his 110 Atlas co-workers, visited the OhioMeansJob office Monday as the Sandusky County branch hosted a job fair to help pair the men and women of Atlas with new employment.
The job fair came in response to Atlas Industries closing its Fremont plant.
Support local journalism. Subscribe to the News-Messenger today and get a special offer of 3 months for just $1 at offers.thenews-messenger.com.
In Tiffin, around 60 people lost their jobs, according to Carol Kern, business service consultant for OhioMeansJobs Seneca County.
On Monday, more than three dozen employers from Sandusky County and Seneca County had tables set up with plenty of job seekers looking for work for the first time, in some cases, 41 years.
Jane Quaintance, the workforce development administrator for OhioMeansJob Sandusky County, said area employers are "hungry" for a workforce they can rely on.
Buy Photo For some Atlas Industries employees, Monday's job fair was their first one ever. Some employees had up to 41 years at Atlas. All 110 employees lost their jobs Friday after the company announced it was closing the doors at its Fremont plant. Another 60 Atlas workers lost their jobs in Tiffin. (Photo: Craig Shoup/The News-Messenger)
"They are looking for people with work ethic and that can pass drug and background checks," Quaintance said. "Most people are hiring right away. And these employers would die for these employees."
Several area companies including Stylecrest, ABC Inoac, Century Die, Revere Plastics, Crown Battery and manufacturers from Tiffin were available Monday to job seekers.
With employees ranging from seven months to 41 years of service at Atlas, Quaintance said employees who lost their jobs Friday should have no trouble finding new work.
Gonzales said everyone was in "disbelief" after leadership from the company called a special meeting Friday. He said there was no indication that the plant was closing, though he said it was strange that the meeting was scheduled after the company had incoming and outgoing shipments stopped Wednesday and Thursday.
Now some employees who were just years from retirement are out of a job and needing to polish off a dusty resume or create a resume for the first time ever.
Gonzales thinks it will be easy to find another job, but said his fear is whether he will like what he does or if physically he can handle a new job.
"If I get a new job and don't like it and quit then I don't get unemployment," Gonzales said.
Now being unemployed brings new challenges for Gonzales and his family.
The 50-year-old said he went home Friday worried about how he would provide for his family, pay his bills and cover the cost of medical expenses.
"I'm diabetic and I had a doctor’s appoint coming up," he said. "I called them and said I don't have insurance anymore, so I can't come."
Thankfully for Gonzales, his doctor's office is allowing him to take the appointment without the worry of paying out of pocket.
But some employees will not be that lucky and will have to figure out where money will come from to pay bills and provide food for their families.
And for some, the company closing means starting over in a job market they are not used to, Quaintance said.
Buy Photo Employers from Sandusky and Seneca counties meet with Atlas Industries employees who were let go after the company announced its closure on Friday. (Photo: Craig Shoup/The News-Messenger)
"Some of these people don't have a resume, or know how to submit for unemployment," she said.
Gonzales was one of the many that did not have a resume, having no need for one after working 20 years at the same manufacturing plant.
Atlas employees are trying, though, Quaintance said, with several workers from the company taking advantage of the job store in setting up resumes, going through benefits and Medicaid enrollment, with some going to OhioMeansJobs Friday after they were let go.
Atlas Industries made its name in the 1940s for producing crankshafts for engines, pumps and compressors.
The company expanded production to include air intakes, balance shafts, cylinder heads, exhaust manifolds, motor shafts and other machine parts.
The Fremont plant has been expanded four different times with 58,000-square-feet of additions made to the facility. The plant now covers 138,000-square-feet on a 32-acre site.
Quaintance said federal law often forces companies to provide 60 days' notice of closure, but not in the case of Atlas, she said, because they were trying to secure capital to continue buying supplies and running the company.
Gonzales said he knew the company was trying to get money from various banks to continue operations, but there was no indication made by the plant, where corporate headquarters is located, that the company would close.
Kerri Pollock, a human resources service leader for Stylecrest, said the company has jobs that share similarities with Atlas.
"We have maintenance, and extrusion tech jobs that are relatable to what Atlas does," Pollock said.
There can be hundreds of jobs within a 30-mile radius of Sandusky County.
For the 110 Atlas employees seeking a new job, finding a decent paying job should not be an issue.
The issue is learning an all-new job and starting from the bottom and working their way up to accrue vacation, high hourly pay and the comfort of knowing most of their co-workers.
cshoup@gannett.com
419-334-1035
Twitter: @CraigShoupNH
Read or Share this story: https://www.thenews-messenger.com/story/money/companies/locally-in-business/2019/09/09/local-man-picking-up-pieces-after-losing-atlas-industries-job/2262057001/

Story 36
Pilots who fly your Amazon Air packages have been negotiating with their employers for years to secure a new labor contract.
One of those employers is Atlas Air, which acquired another air cargo company called Southern Air in 2016.
On August 26, an arbitration board ruled that Southern and Atlas pilots must merge their seniority lists.
Atlas Air said the decision was a win for the company, while its pilots said the legal choice "will do nothing to restore shareholder confidence or more importantly, pilot morale."
Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.
The pilots who fly your Amazon Prime packages all over the United States just weathered another loss in their quest to secure a new labor contract.
These pilots do not work for Amazon but they are employed at cargo carriers including Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings and ATSG. They have appeared at Amazon shareholder meetings and at the e-commerce behemoth's upcoming air hub to protest against their working conditions, a fight that has been ongoing for the last 3 1/2 years.
On Aug. 26, an arbitration board ruled that Southern Air and Atlas Air pilots must merge their seniority lists.
Southern Air is an air cargo company that Atlas acquired in early 2016.
Combining seniority lists, pilots say, would hurt their ability to create a new contract as it would lead to further negotiations to occur under arbitration. Atlas leaders say the merging is necessary for "a new, competitive contract with enhanced pay and benefits."
A federal ruling in July determined that the Atlas and Southern pilots were engaging in an illegal work slowdown, telling those workers to stop calling in sick "excessively" and refusing overtime work. Atlas claimed same-day sick calls from pilots jumped by 42% since union negotiations began.
The reaction from Atlas and pilots
Atlas said in a press release on August 27 that Teamsters Local 1224, which represents Southern Air and Atlas Air pilots, was violating its collective bargaining agreement by insisting that the two pilot groups remain separated.
"Now, with these decisions behind us, the path forward is clear and we are positioned for real progress," Atlas Air Worldwide CEO William Flynn said in a press release.
Read more: Truckers say Amazon's new logistics empire is being underpinned by low, 'ridiculous' rates — and some are refusing to work with them
The pilots' Teamsters leadership, on the other hand, denounced the ruling. Captain Robert Kirchner, who is a recently retired Atlas Air pilot and the executive council chairman for Atlas Air pilots of Teamsters Local 1224, said in a statement sent to Business Insider that the union will continue to pursue any additional legal avenues to avoid arbitration, which is a condition of combining the pilot groups.
"(T)his is a company in complete turmoil, and this ruling will do nothing to restore shareholder confidence or more importantly, pilot morale," Kirchner said. "Atlas Air has waged a vicious legal battle with its pilots for more than three years and squandered opportunities of reaching a reasonable agreement through direct, good-faith negotiations."
Flynn emphasized that Teamsters had to hand over the integrated seniority list of Southern and Atlas pilots. "In order to advance negotiations and provide our pilots with the new contract they deserve, the Union has important responsibilities as part of this process," he added in the statement.
Here's the implication for your Prime packages
Amazon, which is not a direct employer of these pilots, does not customarily comment on labor battles. Atlas Air pilots fly for Amazon, as well as the US military, DHL Express, Nippon Cargo Airlines, and other customers.
But the e-commerce giant has a larger control of Atlas than that might imply. Amazon, which is mentioned 33 times in Atlas' most recent quarterly earnings statement, has a warrant to acquire a whopping 30% of Atlas' stock. These stock warrants have not been exercised, though Atlas issued them to Amazon as."incentives for future growth of the relationship."
Amazon leases 19 of Atlas' 111 aircraft, and is also authorized to lease an additional 15 planes by 2021. (Amazon previously leased 20, but one Amazon Air plane crashed in February, killing all three pilots on board.)
The National Transportation Safety Board is investigating that fatal crash as one caused by pilot error, according to a March Wall Street Journal report. Atlas Air pilots Capt. Ricky Blakely and First Officer Conrad Jules Aska, as well as Mesa Airlines Capt. Sean Archuleta, who was riding in the jump seat, died in the crash.
Pilots who fly for Amazon.com's Prime Air picket outside Amazon.com's annual Meeting of Shareholders, Tuesday, May 23, 2017, in Seattle. Ted S. Warren/AP
Meanwhile, pilots who fly for Amazon Air, including Atlas pilots, told Business Insider in the weeks before the crash that an accident was inevitable. They alleged that Amazon has put pressure on Atlas and its other subcontractors to hire more pilots and move more packages; eleven pilots said training standards have eroded.
Capt. Daniel Wells, an Atlas Air pilot and the president of Teamsters Local 1224, told Business Insider in January that the check airmen — who oversee new hires for training and safety — are forced to work at "full speed or over speed."
"I can honestly say, if you had all the check airmen in the room and we've done this, saying, who believes that it's likely that there would be an accident in the next year," Wells said, describing a hypothetical situation, "nearly 100% of the people will raise their hands."
Read more: An Amazon Air plane crashed in February, killing all 3 people on board. Weeks earlier, several pilots said they thought an accident was inevitable.
The labor unrest at Atlas and ATSG, which manifested in protests and even a strike, has not gone unnoticed at Amazon. The labor relations are so shaky that Amazon has threatened to cut its business with Atlas. That's because ongoing pilot issues could cause disruptions in your Prime package delivery.
"If it ends up that the service level becomes inconsistent because you can't find the labor to fly the planes and you're constantly having labor-disruption issues, that's going to have a direct impact on their ability to provide that two-day delivery," Marc Wulfraat, the president and founder of supply-chain consultancy MWPVL International, told Business Insider.
One Atlas pilot who spoke on condition of anonymity agreed.
"Right now, they're barely keeping it together," the person added. "And when I say 'barely,' it's right there. They're going to run out of people."

Story 37
Pierre Francois Fallourd has been the CEO of Atlas Pearls Ltd (ASX:ATP) since 2014. This report will, first, examine the CEO compensation levels in comparison to CEO compensation at companies of similar size. Then we’ll look at a snap shot of the business growth. And finally we will reflect on how common stockholders have fared in the last few years, as a secondary measure of performance. This process should give us an idea about how appropriately the CEO is paid.
Check out our latest analysis for Atlas Pearls
How Does Pierre Francois Fallourd’s Compensation Compare With Similar Sized Companies?
At the time of writing our data says that Atlas Pearls Ltd has a market cap of AU$6.4m, and is paying total annual CEO compensation of AU$274k. (This is based on the year to June 2018). While we always look at total compensation first, we note that the salary component is less, at AU$240k. We looked at a group of companies with market capitalizations under AU$278m, and the median CEO total compensation was AU$355k.
So Pierre Francois Fallourd is paid around the average of the companies we looked at. Although this fact alone doesn’t tell us a great deal, it becomes more relevant when considered against the business performance.
You can see, below, how CEO compensation at Atlas Pearls has changed over time.
Is Atlas Pearls Ltd Growing?
Over the last three years Atlas Pearls Ltd has shrunk its earnings per share by an average of 66% per year (measured with a line of best fit). Its revenue is down -5.7% over last year.
Unfortunately, earnings per share have trended lower over the last three years. And the impression is worse when you consider revenue is down year-on-year. So given this relatively weak performance, shareholders would probably not want to see high compensation for the CEO. We don’t have analyst forecasts, but shareholders might want to examine this detailed historical graph of earnings, revenue and cash flow.
Has Atlas Pearls Ltd Been A Good Investment?
Given the total loss of 50% over three years, many shareholders in Atlas Pearls Ltd are probably rather dissatisfied, to say the least. This suggests it would be unwise for the company to pay the CEO too generously.
In Summary…
Pierre Francois Fallourd is paid around what is normal the leaders of comparable size companies.
Returns have been disappointing and the company is not growing its earnings per share. Most would consider it prudent for the company to hold off any CEO pay rise until performance improves. Whatever your view on compensation, you might want to check if insiders are buying or selling Atlas Pearls shares (free trial).
If you want to buy a stock that is better than Atlas Pearls, this free list of high return, low debt companies is a great place to look.
We aim to bring you long-term focused research analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material.

If you spot an error that warrants correction, please contact the editor at editorial-team@simplywallst.com. This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. Simply Wall St has no position in the stocks mentioned. Thank you for reading.

Story 38
CLOSE
A former employee of a Fort Collins company has been ordered to pay more than $2 million for trademark infringement, misappropriation of trade secrets and breach of fiduciary duties.
U.S. District Court Judge Christine Arguello issued the judgment Monday against Thomas Kutrubes and Peak Serum of Wellington.
The judge found that Kutrubes, while an employee and part owner of Atlas Biologicals Inc., formed Peak Serum to compete with his employer, emailed confidential documents to himself including customer contact lists, solicited business from Atlas customers, misrepresented Peak Serum as a "sister company" and falsely told customers that Atlas was no longer conducting international business and that Peak Serum would be assuming those customers.
Atlas said Kutrubes' actions cost the company $1 million in business.
Kutrubes resigned from Atlas Biologicals in December 2014, two months after he filed articles of organization for Defendant Peak Serum LLC with the Colorado Secretary of State. The limited liability company was later dissolved and incorporated as Defendant Peak Serum, according to documents.
A federal judge has ordered Peak Serum of Wellington, which provides fetal bovine serum to researchers throughout the U.S., to pay $2 million to Atlas Biologicals of Fort Collins for trade infringement. (Photo: Peak Serum)
Atlas sued Kutrubes and Peak Serum in 2016 in federal court. The case went to trial in March 2018.
Peak Serum referred all questions to its attorney, Kevin William Ward of Wick & Trautwein in Fort Collins.
"Peak Serum Inc. continues to be a growing company in the serum industry both nationally and internationally," Ward said in an email. "Our client will continue to focus on growth and quality service for its customers."
Ward said Peak Serum did not anticipate any change to its Wellington operation. No decision has been made on whether to appeal the court's decision, Ward said.
In addition to the $2.04 million judgment, the court issued a permanent injunction preventing Peak Serum from using any Atlas trademarks, trade secrets, logos, product names or intellectual property Kutrubes took before he resigned.
Atlas Biologicals president Rick Paniccia said his company plans to seek an additional $500,000 in court costs and attorneys' fees.
"This has taken four years and 10 months off my life ... I just want to forget about this and move on with our lives," Paniccia said.
Atlas, which employs seven to 10 workers, does $3 million to $4 million in sales a year, Paniccia said.
The company specializes in the production of bovine serum-based products used for cell culture and research in the medical, veterinary and biological sciences. It is widely used in scientific research.
Peak Serum moved into a 3,000-square-foot building at 6598 Buttercup Drive in Wellington in 2017.
Pat Ferrier is a senior reporter covering business, health care and growth issues in Northern Colorado.
Editor's note: An earlier version of this story cited the wrong year for the trial. It was in 2018.
Loading...
Read or Share this story: https://www.coloradoan.com/story/money/2019/09/24/colorado-company-ordered-pay-2-m-trademark-infringement/2430982001/

Story 39
William McInnes
Australian shares closed the session higher on Thursday despite fading from a strong start through the day.
The S &P/ASX 200 Index closed 20.5 points, or 0.3 per cent, higher at 6693.6.
BHP Group led the market gains, rising 1 per cent to $35.75 while CSL added 0.8 per cent to $252.75 and Woodside Petroleum firmed 2.4 per cent to $32.50.
JB Hi-Fi soared 6.8 per cent to $36.45, Star Entertainment jumped 5.4 per cent to $4.70 and Webjet advanced 4.1 per cent to $11.03.
Newcrest Mining was the main weight on the market, declining 1.6 per cent to $32.02.
Qantas shares were hit heavily after warning the revenue environment was weak, tumbling 3.7 per cent to $6.28.
WiseTech Global dropped 6.8 per cent to $26.58 and Nearmap slid 5.1 per cent to $2.82.

Story 40
UPDATE: Aug. 1, 2019: TreeHouse Foods announced it has completed the sale of its snacks division to Atlas Holdings.
Dive Brief:
TreeHouse Foods is selling its snacks division to private investment firm Atlas Holdings for $90 million, according to a release. The deal is expected to close in the third quarter of 2019.
The division is one of the biggest manufacturers and distributors of private label healthy snacks in North America. TreeHouse predicted the division would bring in net sales of about $670 million in 2019.
The division employs 800 workers and currently operates three plants in North Carolina, Texas and Alabama. A fourth plant in Minnesota is scheduled to close this year, impacting 120 jobs.
Dive Insight:
After another difficult year of plummeting sales and job cuts, TreeHouse is continuing to cut costs by selling this division. But it isn't surprising news. When the company announced plans to close the Minnesota facility, it said the division continued to underperform and a strategic review of its premium nuts and trail mix business was underway.
TreeHouse has been reportedly shopping around its to sell its trail mix segment, which has been a drag on earnings, since late last year. In its most recent earnings report, the company's $1.3 billion revenue declined 12% from last year, part of which was driven by volume loss in its snacks division. Steve Oakland, CEO and president of TreeHouse Foods, called the division's financial performance "challenging" and "disappointing" in a May earnings call.
"The sale of the Snacks Division is a key step in optimizing TreeHouse's overall product portfolio," Oakland said in the release announcing the deal.
TreeHouse has long been working to streamline its underperforming snacks operations. As the division has struggled to lift sales, plants have closed. In addition to the Minnesota facility, the company also announced last year it would close a pretzel and snack plant in California by the end of the first quarter of 2019, impacting nearly 300 workers.
Atlas will pay $90 million for the portfolio of premium nuts, trail mixes and other healthy snacks, which has with expected sales of $670 million in 2019, according to TreeHouse's projections. This could be a lucrative acquisition for Atlas if the division performs better — or they can resell it for more money.
Given that TreeHouse paid $860 million to buy the business formerly known as Flagstone Foods in 2014, Atlas seems to have gotten a good deal with potential for growth. Private label remains a profitable business, with U.S. retail sales dramatically increasing in 2017 to $138 billion, according to a report from the Food Marketing Institute and IRI.
This sale follows the company's mission to refocus its business. Last year, TreeHouse hired a new CEO. The company is also working through a restructuring plan. Oakland has led the company for about a year now, and the private label food manufacturer has continued that mission by closing plants, further reducing its SKUs and changing how it thinks about business in order to reverse a multi-year decline in sales.
It is also divesting brands that do not fit with its core private label mission, and the snacks sector was not the first cut. In May, TreeHouse announced it had reached an agreement to sell its ready-to-eat cereal business to Post Holdings. TreeHouse plans to use the net proceeds of this latest sale to pay down debt and help get the company back on track.
The acquisition is an interesting one for Atlas Holdings, which owns several other businesses in very different sectors. Other holdings include building materials — including plywood mill New Wood Resources — New Hampshire-based power company Granite Shore Power, and steel companies under the BF Holdings banner. Some of Atlas's companies are in the food packaging business, but not food manufacturing or CPGs. It will be interesting to see what this owner plans to do with the snacks division, and if it's going to become the next private equity power player in the food business.

Story 41
Boston Dynamics has been teaching its old bots new tricks — Atlas, its humanoid robot that walks on two legs, can now do a surprisingly elegant gymnastics routine, tumbling into a handstand, followed by cartwheels and including a jump twist. This level of athleticism (can a robot express “athleticism”?) is incredibly impressive, given that this is a 330 lb robot that could “barely walk” in 2013 when the prototype was first developed.
Atlas’ movement in this routine is at once incredibly human-like, and also something beyond human — especially when it turtles in preparation for its first somersault. This isn’t the first time that Atlas has displayed parkour skills, but Boston Dynamics says that it is using new techniques to make the process of programming these maneuvers much easier — by translating automatically (using a newly developed optimization algorithm) descriptions of the movements involved into motions that the robot can actually manage, given its mobility limitations.
This allows them to create new routines much faster than was possible previously, and it’s able to complete the routine as intended around 80% of the time — pretty good odds, even for a human gymnast.

Story 42
Amazon Air relies on cargo airlines like Atlas Air and ABX Air to transport its packages.
But pilots from those airlines say they're getting fed up with pay and benefits that they say are below industry standards.
A survey of pilots at those carriers, conducted by the Teamsters Local 1224 union of the Airline Professionals Association, found that 60% of respondents said they plan to leave their current airline.
Pilots working for the group of airlines responsible for making Amazon Air deliveries aren't happy, a recent union survey found.
And a lot of them are considering leaving the airlines that Amazon Air relies on, according to a recent survey from the Teamsters Local 1224 union of the Airline Professionals Association.
The survey, which wrapped up on Monday and featured responses from more than 1,200 pilots, found that 60% said they plan to leave their current airline. The survey was sent out to all 2,170 crew members at Atlas Air, Southern Air, and ABX Air, via email.
These pilots don't work for Amazon directly.
Amazon Air is a brand that operates through cargo airline subsidiaries of Atlas Air Worldwide and the Air Transport Services Group, including Atlas Air and ABX Air.
As part of the arrangement between these companies and the tech giant, pilots from these airlines operate Amazon Air's branded aircraft in order to make deliveries. Those airlines also cater to DHL, a division of the German logistics company Deutsche Post DHL. Southern Air, which is a subsidiary of Atlas Air Worldwide, flies exclusively for DHL.
"They have to start all over again at the carrier they go to," Captain Robert Kirchner told Business Insider. Ted S. Warren / AP Images
Switching airlines can set back a pilot's career
This isn't the first rumble from the pilots, though. There have been a number of strikes and protests. But the fact that so many pilots are considering quitting is still striking, according to Captain Robert Kirchner, Atlas pilot and executive council chairman of Teamsters Local 1224.
That's because the airline industry operates on a seniority-based system, he said.
"When a captain leaves here after 10 or 15 years, he or she is leaving 15 years behind," Kirchner told Business Insider. "They have to start all over again at the carrier they go to."
Kirchner said even though a captain "may be the most experienced person at the airline," they must start from the bottom when they join a new carrier. Moving around can therefore be detrimental to a pilot's career.
Kirchner said quitting an airline could amount to a "big sacrifice" and that he's seen captains with 18 years of experience walk away from Atlas.
"If you're a doctor or a business person, then you can go to another company and get your current job or higher," he said. "In the airline industry, you can't do that. There's less pay, you don't get the schedules you want, you don't get the vacation you want, until you start getting higher up."
The survey indicated that morale is low among pilots at ABX Air, Atlas Air, and Southern Air. Michael Sohn / AP Images
Pilots are feeling 'disenfranchised'
Kirchner said Atlas' partnership with Amazon brought about an expansion that the airline couldn't keep up with. Amazon, which owns a 20% stake in Atlas and is one of its most important clients, could fix the problem by telling the airline to up its standards, according to Kirchner.
A spokesperson for Amazon Air told Business Insider that questions about the working environment at Atlas Air, Southern Air, and ABX Air could be directed to the airlines themselves, and said the company was pleased with the carriers' performance and ability to scale.
But Kirchner described an atmosphere of frustration and apathy among pilots.
"A lot of the pilots coming in here, because of that, feel disenfranchised and aren't committed to the business or to the company," Kirchner told Business Insider. "They say, 'I'm only going to stay for a couple of years until I get my qualifications up. And then I'm going on to FedEx, UPS, United.'"
He said Atlas currently has a "tremendous turnover rate" because the airline offers salaries and benefits that pilots say are beneath the industry standard. He said that 72% of Atlas pilots have been with the carrier for less than five years.
When asked in the survey if they felt that morale was high among their fellow pilots, 86% of ABX pilots, 76% of Atlas pilots, and 51% of Southern pilots said they "strongly disagreed."
"I've had crew members on my flights, and they'll just come out and tell me that they really don't care," Kirchner said. "'I don't care about this company. I don't care if it survives. I don't care if Amazon's packages get to where they're supposed to go. I just don't care.' And that's a sad situation."
A spokesperson at Atlas Air Worldwide said the company valued its pilots' right to express their opinions.
"The commentary from the pilot union, however, is part of an overall campaign to put public pressure on the company with respect to our next labor contract," the spokesperson said. "The union's campaign has included the dissemination of false and/or misleading statements."
A spokesperson for the Air Transport Services Group said that the company appreciated its employees' professionalism and dedication.
"ATSG's airlines are currently at their target staffing levels, employing flight crews for all of the aircraft for which they are committed under commercial arrangements with their respective customers," the spokesperson said.
"There's nothing like experienced employees," Kirchner said. Ted S. Warren / AP Images
Pilots worry about their airlines' ability to recruit and retain talent
The survey also found that 80% of the pilots strongly disagreed when asked if they were happy with their pay and benefits, while 91% said they felt their airline's pay and benefits didn't meet industry standards.
Kirchner said about 100 pilots quit Atlas in 2015. That number jumped to 198 in 2017. This year, Kirchner estimated that the number would approach 300.
"They tried to hire 379 pilots in 2018," he said. "They only got 285 to show up to class, which is unheard-of in the industry."
At ABX, Atlas, and Southern, 81% to 87% of pilots reported that they strongly agreed that they were worried about their carrier "being able to recruit and retain experienced pilots."
In the survey, 65% of respondents said they'd been asked to fly on their off-days in the past year. And Kirchner said Atlas pilots receive fewer vacations than pilots at their competitors when they begin working for the company.
"We've never seen this much flying on days off at the airline, which is further proof of how short they are in the pilot ranks," Kirchner said.
Kirchner said he didn't believe that the situation at Atlas Air or Air Transport Services would erode industry standards across the board. He singled out UPS and FedEx for providing their pilots with appropriate compensation and time off. And in the survey, 83% to 74% of respondents said they'd like to fly for FedEx or UPS.
"There's nothing like experienced employees," Kirchner said. "Companies like Amazon and DHL need on-time, reliable service — and we're already seeing that deteriorate. As long as they keep turning a blind eye to this, the problem is going to get worse and worse and worse."
Here's the full statement from Atlas Air Worldwide:
"We value the service of our pilots and appreciate their right to express their opinions. The commentary from the pilot union, however, is part of an overall campaign to put public pressure on the company with respect to our next labor contract. The union’s campaign has included the dissemination of false and/or misleading statements. It also included an illegal slowdown that the union was ordered to stop a year ago by the U.S. federal court in Washington, D.C. That injunction remains in place today. As background, our business has grown substantially over the past several years, during which we have not only created hundreds of new pilot jobs but have also met our customer demands with highly reliable service. As our business continues to grow and develop, with opportunities to expand in existing and new markets, we continue to provide pilots opportunities for ongoing career growth and advancement. We will continue to address work rules, pay and time off with our pilots as we work through our contract negotiations. We remain committed to negotiating one competitive collective-bargaining agreement for all of our pilots in accordance with the terms of our existing labor agreements, which recognizes our pilots' valued contributions."
Here's the full statement from the Air Transport Services Group:
"ATSG's airlines are currently at their target staffing levels, employing flight crews for all of the aircraft for which they are committed under commercial arrangements with their respective customers.
We appreciate the professionalism and dedication of all of our employees in providing the best possible service to our customers, and we make every effort, every day, to make that service even better."
Are you a pilot working at Atlas Air, Southern, Air, ABX Air, or another airline that counts Amazon as a client? Email acain@businessinsider.com.

Story 43
Royale finds pay in California’s Rio Vista field
8/28/2019
SAN DIEGO - Independent exploration and production company Royale Energy, in partnership with California Resources Production Corporation (CRPC), drilled the CRC RVGU 4-3 well to a total depth of 7,000 ft. in the Rio Vista field. The well has encountered a total of 246 ft. of pay defined as probable and possible in the Domengine, Capay, and Mokelumne River formations.
The CRC RVGU 4-3 is the fifth well of a possible 30 well, three year drilling joint venture between Royale Energy and California Resources Production Corporation.
This well has the highest calculated net pay that Royale and CRPC have drilled to date under the drilling joint venture in the Rio Vista Field. Production casing has been set and completion operations are expected to begin by the end of the month.
Royale Energy owns approximately 26.5% working interest in the CRC 4-3 well at an 80% Net Revenue Interest.
The CRC RVGU 33-3, the 6th well of this program, was determined to be a dry hole on August 23rd.
Related News ///
FROM THE ARCHIVE ///

Story 44
Online careers portal Gehalt.de analyzed a huge amount of data on the salaries of workers in Germany over the course of last year to find out which jobs pay the most — and the least.
As part of the firm’s 2019 Gehaltsatlas (salary atlas), the firm also looked at how the different regions of the country play a role when it comes to an employee's income, and the pay gap between men and women.
SEE ALSO: The Local Jobs - English-language jobs in Germany
SEE ALSO: 10 ways to optimize your application for the German job market
Here are the jobs that made it out on top in this year's study, listed in terms of median gross income per year.
Top 10 best paid jobs
1. Senior physician - €115,317
2. Mergers and acquisitions specialist - €99,635
3. Fund manager - €83,641
4. Medical specialist - €80,722
5. Account manager - €75,671
6. Regional sales manager - €74,528
7. Actuary - €71,042
8. Sales management - €67,699
9. Security trader - €64,784
10. Business developer - €62,551
As is the case in many other countries, some of the highest paid professions in Germany are in the medical and financial industries.
Traditionally, senior doctors have always been well paid in Germany and nowadays they earn about €115,300 a year, according to the research. That's compared to €116,900 last year.
To put this in perspective, kitchen workers in restaurants and hotels — which is the lowest paid job in Germany according to the study — earn over than €90,000 less than senior doctors.
Fund managers take the second spot with a median salary of €83,640, followed by medical specialists who earn a median salary of about €75,670.
The other professions on the list involve the financial, sales and business industries.
According to the study, most top jobs require some sort of a degree, while jobs filled by unskilled workers tend to be on the lower end of the pay scale.
Here are the jobs in Germany with the smallest salaries, listed according to median annual gross income.
Top 10 lowest paid jobs
1. Kitchen worker - €21,907
2. Hairdresser - €23,202
3. Waiter/waitress - €23,619
4. Call centre worker - €25,200
5. Receptionist - €25,372
6. Cashier - €26,572
7. Cook - €27,195
8. Dental assistant - €27,993
9. Carer - €28,002
10. Commercial driver - €28,436
Again, similarly to other countries, most of the lowest paid jobs in Germany belong to the service industry.
Kitchen workers receive a low pay on average in Germany. Photo: DPA
SEE ALSO: 'Language is a huge barrier': What it's like for internationals working in Germany
Large differences in pay across Germany
How much workers earn doesn’t just come down to their profession — it also depends on the state they live in.
Employees in the south of Germany are paid significantly higher salaries than the rest of the country, according to the the Gehaltsatlas (Wage Atlas) which analyzed more than 490,000 pieces of data as part of its research.
This could be down to many factors, including the cost of living in particular regions.
The highest salaries are paid in Hesse, according to researchers. On average, salaries in the central German state are at €51,435 — that's 14 percent higher than the national average salary of €45,000.
In fact, workers in Hesse can look forward to an average of more than 39 percent more income than an employee in the nor Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, where the average salary is €34,155.
It's mainly thanks to the banking metropolis of Frankfurt and strong pharmaceutical industry that Hesse is in the top position.
Baden-Württemberg is in second place with an average salary level of €48,870, 8.6 percent above the average, followed by Hamburg (€47,655, 5.9 percent above), and then Bavaria (€47,295 and 5.1 percent over).
North Rhine-Westphalia, which has a strong aviation and telecoms industry, is also around the national average, with €45,360.
The remaining nine federal states are below the national average salary. At the bottom end of the scale are the eastern German states.
Graphic courtesy of Gehalt.de.
With 94.5 percent, the capital Berlin achieves a high salary level compared to the other eastern federal states. Employees here receive an average income of €42,525. However, the cost of living is also higher here, Philip Bierbach, managing director of gehalt.de, said.
"Berlin's attractiveness is leading to ever higher rents and an increasing number of commuters in the capital," he added.
Hesse top state for young graduates
The study also compares the salaries of young professionals — and here, too, Hesse is the most attractive federal state, again followed by Baden-Württemberg, Hamburg and Bavaria. At the bottom of the table are the eastern states, with Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania lagging behind.
According to the study, university graduates in Hesse receive an average gross annual salary of €52,657 in the first three years of their career. Meanwhile, employees in the state who've completed an apprenticeship or trainee course earn an average of €35,117.
A graduate in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, on the other hand, receives an average salary of €35,057 in his or her first few years in the job, and employees who've completed an Ausbildung (training) earn on average €23,380 per year.
Pay gap differences
The study took into account a range of factors, including the so-called unadjusted pay gap between men and women (this means that variables were not taken into account), which is currently around 22 percent in favour of men.
Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania scores particularly well in terms of gender equality. At 16.4 percent, the pay gap is the lowest here – and 2.7 percent lower than in the previous year.
The highest gender pay gap is in Baden-Württemberg, where the salaries of women and men differ by 26.5 percent.
SEE ALSO: In eastern Germany, the gender pay gap favours women
The Bundesrepublik, which will celebrate 30 years of reunification in 2020, is well known for having salary differences between the east and west of the country.
The pay gap is however, shrinking. The gap between east and west is 23.9 percent — but has dropped by 1.3 percentage points compared to 2017.
The average salary in the east is €39,567 and in the west it's €47,320.
The median salaries for Germany. Graphic courtesy of Gehalts.de.
The east-west divide is also evident within one occupational group: skilled workers. For example, an environmental engineer in the east earns around €39,400, the study shows, while his or her colleagues in the west receive around €54,000 a year.
Stuttgart is top-earning state capital
Compared to all the other state capitals across Germany, Stuttgart fares best when it comes to employee wage levels. The Baden-Württemberg capital's wage levels are around 124.8 percent, meaning salaries are 24.8 percent above the nationwide average.
Trailing closely behind is Munich in second place (124.4 percent). Düsseldorf in North Rhine-Westphalia comes further down in third place (117.7 percent), followed by Wiesbaden in Hesse (115.6 percent), Mainz in Rhineland-Palatinate (105.1 percent) and Hanover with 103.7 percent.
SEE ALSO: Six golden rules for creating the ideal German cover letter and resume
The rest of the state capitals were all under the national average.
At the bottom of the list were capitals in eastern Germany. In Schwerin in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, wage levels are 78.3 percent of the nationwide average. Potsdam is in 15th place (84.2 percent) and Erfurt in Thuringia in 14th position, had a similar percentage.
The leading sectors in Germany when it comes to income
If you're curious to know which industries in Germany lend themselves to the highest salaries in the country, among the most attractive nationwide are professions in the pharmaceutical, automotive and banking industries.
In Hesse, the top sectors when it comes to salary levels are jobs in banking, pharmaceuticals, financial services and aviation.
SEE ALSO: Where are the vacant jobs in Germany & which industries are most in demand?
In Bavaria and Baden-Württemberg, professions involving computers and office machines as well as the electronics, investments, aviation and automotive industries fare best when it comes to high income.
Sectors such as pharmaceuticals, telecommunications, process engineering and banking lend themselves well to high-paying jobs in the country's most densely populated state, North Rhine-Westphalia.
Meanwhile in Berlin, the biotechnology, pharmaceuticals, aviation, banking, and environmental sector, including energy and water, offer jobs that are typically well paid.
Across most federal states, on the other hand, the industries that tend to be the worst paid include jobs in retail, tourism, call centres, bars, hotels and restaurants, in the crafts and trades as well as in the social care sector.

Story 45
Jeff Bezos on Thursday issued a challenge to other retailers, not naming which ones specifically, to match Amazon's pay and benefits.
"Today I challenge our top retail competitors (you know who you are!) to match our employee benefits and our $15 minimum wage. Do it! Better yet, go to $16 and throw the gauntlet back at us. It's a kind of competition that will benefit everyone," Bezos wrote in his annual letter to shareholders, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Amazon's biggest retail competitors in the U.S. today, Walmart and Target, have been making investments in pay, but they're still behind Amazon.
Target just last week said it would be increasing its its minimum hourly wage by a dollar, to $13, in June, part of its already announced goal to hit $15 an hour by the end of 2020.
Target's minimum is higher than Walmart's $11 an hour, set in January 2018, but is still below Amazon's, which was hiked to $15 in November. Walmart has said its average worker earns $17.55 an hour with wages and benefits.
Target declined to comment further beyond its recent announcement.
Walmart's EVP of Corporate Affairs Dan Bartlett responded to Amazon's challenge by sharing an article on Twitter Thursday morning about Amazon paying $0 in federal taxes on more than $11 billion in profits last year. He wrote: "Hey retail competitors out there (you know who you are) how about paying your taxes?"
With U.S. unemployment at its lowest level in nearly 50 years, retailers have been finding it more difficult to attract skilled workers, and so raising pay is one way they hope to be more competitive in the marketplace for talent. Some of these companies have also received criticism in the past for poor pay and unhealthy working conditions. Amazon has faced protests from some of its Prime Air pilots and outside activist groups in the past, for example. And on Thursday, pilots for Atlas Air, Southern Air, and ABX Air — carriers that power Amazon Air — are expected to protest.
In addition to hiking pay, companies including Target and Walmart are also adding other perks like extra parental leave, special training programs and educational opportunities. Walmart even eased its dress code to allow staff in stores to wear blue jeans. Bezos on Thursday talked about Amazon's "Career Skills" program, as an incentive, that trains hourly workers on how to build out their resumes, use a computer and "communicate effectively."
Meantime, House Democrats are championing a bill to raise the federal minimum wage to $15 an hour, from $7.25, but it's unlikely to pass. Six states have approved laws phasing in a $15 minimum wage. The District of Columbia has the highest minimum wage at $13.25, and it's set to rise to $14 an hour on July 1.
Read Bezos' 2018 annual letter here.
— CNBC's Amelia Lucas contributed to this story.

Story 46
Grapeshot Games' pirate MMO Atlas is setting sail finally for Xbox One, and it's releasing rather soon. The MMO will hit Xbox One on October 8th. More interestingly, Atlas will include cross play with PC players.
Made by many of the same devs who worked on Studio Wildcard's hit game Ark: Survival Evolved, Atlas is an open world survival, pirate themed MMORPG that sees players creating guilds and building bases, claiming land and then fighting over said land claims, and more importantly - building massive pirate ships to sail the world. After multiple delays and an experience that includes an outrageous grind to get anything done, Atlas has seen its player base go from a peak of almost 60K concurrent players to just over 1500, according to Steamcharts.
Grapeshot Games is certainly hoping the Xbox release can inject some life into the MMO, as it will hit Microsoft's console on October 8th. Moreover, it will include cross play with PC, so it could be a way to bring new life to the waters of Atlas. You can check out more on the Atlas website. Additionally, the team was on Inside Xbox yesterday talking about the upcoming Xbox Version. Be sure to catch the archive on Mixer.

Story 47
Google Pay is winning the race in enabling digital payments powered by India’s state-run platform.
The real-time payments app powered 59.75% of all United Payments Interface (UPI) transactions logged in August 2019, much higher than Flipkart-owned PhonePe’s 24.91% and Paytm’s 5.93%, show data from Razorpay, a Gurugram-based payment gateway.
Google Pay’s lead comes on the back of a 14.6% month-on-month growth in its UPI transaction volumes. In contrast, the government’s own BHIM app witnessed a decline in the number of UPI transactions in August.
A Paytm spokesperson, however, said RazorPay’s numbers don’t reflect the market trend: “The numbers…are based on transactions recorded on their (RazorPay’s) platform and is not a true representation of the market, especially in acquiring customers on UPI platform. Paytm is already the largest UPI acquirer in the country.”
Closing the gap
UPI was launched three years ago by the state-owned National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI), the umbrella organisation that manages most digital payments in the country. It is now fast closing the gap with cards, which remains the leading payments mode in the country, according to Razorpay’s analysis.
UPI had a 40.78% share of all payments made India in August. Cards, on the other hand, accounted for 44.1% of payments in the month.
“Transactions for August indicate how UPI could soon be a stepping stone for sustainable growth for an interoperable digital payments ecosystem,” said Harshil Mathur, CEO and co-founder, Razorpay.
What’s encouraging is that UPI transactions grew 12.87% in August compared to a decline of 3.26% in the previous month.
Small by value
Yet, UPI still lags behind other modes in terms of average transaction value, as it is yet to find favour with consumers for high-ticket payments.
“Customers are clinging to old ways of making large value transactions because they are used to it, or they are concerned about the security in UPI transactions,” said Mathur.
Regional-uptake of UPI
Tier 1 cities such as Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Mumbai, and Chennai are powering the digital economy. Together, these cities, accounted for 66.43% of UPI transactions in the country in August.
Further, Karnataka, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh states command a lion’s share of all UPI transactions. “Karnataka has been pushing the right buttons encouraging adoption of digital transactions. The southern state is the numero-uno in UPI transactions,” said Mathur.
IT hub Bengaluru lives up to its name as India’s Silicon Valley, accounting for 40.06% of all UPI transactions. The next big adopters of digital payments are Hyderabad and Pune with a share of 11.9% and 8.7%, respectively.

Story 48
The mysterious rock, spotted in its natural habitat. Fred Tanneau/Getty Images
If stones could speak, what would they say? According to one rock in a small village in France, “ROC AR B…DRE AR GRIO SE EVELOH AR VIRIONES BAOAVEL.” If those garbled letters mean anything to you, you might find yourself pocketing a few thousand dollars in cold, hard, rock-deciphering reward cash.
The village of Plougastel-Daoulas in Brittany, France, has just posted a reward of 2,000 euros ($2,240) for anyone who can translate this very cryptic message on a very mysterious rock, according to Agence France-Presse. The stone in question stands on the outskirts of Plougastel-Daoulas. Most of the day, it lurks submerged by the Atlantic Ocean, revealing itself only at low tide. The stone was first spotted three or four years ago, but the mystery of its etchings has stumped the local academics who attempted to crack the code, CNN reports.
Approximately the size of an average person (whatever that means), the rock is covered on one side with an inscription almost entirely in capital letters, according to AFP. All the letters come from the French alphabet, but their combinations have proved unreadable. “There are people who tell us that it’s Basque and others who say it’s old Breton,” Dominique Cap, the town’s mayor, told AFP. The rock also boasts two dates, 1786 and 1787, that hint at its age. These years correspond with the years that the town constructed artillery batteries to protect the nearby city of Brest, as Véronique Martin, who is leading the search for a translator, told AFP. The rock also bears a drawing of a sailboat.
Locals frequently compare the rock to one of the world’s most famous mineral mysteries, the Rosetta Stone. The stone, which contains the same decree written in hieroglyphs, Demotic, and Ancient Greek, was discovered in Egypt in 1799. It took 23 years before the French scholar Jean-François Champollion cracked the code of the hieroglyphs. Unfortunately for the future of Plougastel-Daoulas’s particular mysterious rock, Champollion could not be reached for comment or translation, having died in Paris in 1832.
As it awaits translation, the boulder at Plougastel-Daoulas joins a cherished clique of untranslatable stones. In Los Lunas, New Mexico, the 80-ton Decalogue Stone bears inscriptions that still stump scientists and have even convinced some that the rock is a hoax. In Berkeley, Massachusetts, the Dighton Rock hosts elaborate petroglyphs that scholars have attributed to the Vikings, Native American communities, and one Portuguese explorer. In Calva, North Carolina, the Judaculla boulder boasts an intricate web of symbols that still elude translation.
Hopefully this French rock’s more recent provenance will assist any would-be code-crackers in their quest. People have until November 30, 2019, to submit their guesses, at which point a jury from the town will decide which translation is most probable and award the prize. When asked to comment on the contest, the mysterious rock said in a statement, “R I OBBIIE: BRISBVILAR … FROIK … AL.”

Story 49
Starting in 2026, this will be one lucky (or extremely bored) worker’s everyday reality, thanks to a government-funded conceptual art project in Gothenburg, Sweden. The employee in question will report to Korsvägen, a train station under construction in the city, and will receive a salary of about $2,320 a month in U.S. dollars, plus annual wage increases, vacation time off and a pension for retirement. While the artists behind the project won’t be taking applications until 2025, when the station will be closer to opening, a draft of the help-wanted ad is already available online, as Atlas Obscura reported on Monday.
The job’s requirements couldn’t be simpler: An employee shows up to the train station each morning and punches the time clock. That, in turn, illuminates an extra bank of fluorescent lights over the platform, letting travelers and commuters know that the otherwise functionless employee is on the job. At the end of the day, the worker returns to clock out, and the lights go off. In between, they can do whatever they want, aside from work at another paying job. They’re not even obligated to stay at the station all day long. They can quit or retire and be replaced by another worker anytime they want; otherwise, their employment is guaranteed for life. No specific qualifications are needed, and the artists overseeing the project assured Atlas Obscura that anyone in the world could apply.
AD
AD
“The position holds no duties or responsibilities, other than that it should be carried out at Korsvägen,” the job description states. “Whatever the employee chooses to do constitutes the work.”
Titled “Eternal Employment,” the project is both a social experiment and a serious political statement. In early 2017, Public Art Agency Sweden and the Swedish Transport Administration announced an international competition for artists interested in contributing to the new station’s design. The winner would get 7 million Swedish krona, the equivalent of around $750,000. Simon Goldin and Jakob Senneby, a pair of Swedish artists whose previous work was inspired by offshore banking, entered and suggested eschewing the typical murals and sculptures that adorn most transit hubs.
Instead, they wrote, they would use the prize money to pay one worker’s salary and give them absolutely nothing to do all day.
AD
AD
“In the face of mass automation and artificial intelligence, the impending threat/promise is that we will all become productively superfluous,” their proposal said. “We will all be ‘employed at Korsvägen,’ as it were.”
The pair also cited French economist Thomas Piketty’s theory that accumulated wealth has typically grown at a rate that outpaces increases in workers’ wages. The result, Piketty argues, is an ever-widening gap between the extremely rich and everyone else. Using that same calculation, Goldin and Senneby predicted that by creating a foundation to prevent the prize money from being taxed, then investing it in the market, they would be able to keep paying that employee’s salary for “eternity” — which they defined as 120 years.
A 2017 financial analysis conducted by Sweden’s Erik Penser Bank, which the artists submitted as part of their application, concurred. The artists had proposed paying the worker 21,600 Swedish krona a month, the equivalent of roughly $2,312, or $27,744 a year. Factoring in annual salary increases of 3.2 percent, consistent with what Sweden’s public sector employees receive, the bankers concluded that there was a 75 percent chance that the prize money would earn enough interest from being invested in an equity fund to last for 120 years or more.
AD
AD
“In this sense the artwork can function as a measure of our growing inequality,” Goldin and Senneby wrote.
Deeming the idea to be humorous, innovative and “an artistic expression of great quality,” the jury that had been convened to judge the competition decided to award them the prize. There was an “uproar” in Sweden in October when officials announced that Goldin and Senneby’s proposal had won, Brian Kuan Wood, a board member for the Eternal Employment foundation, wrote in the art journal e-flux, with outrage coming from politicians on all sides.
“Old Social Democrats accused them of using financial realism to mock the transcendental accomplishments of the welfare state,” he recalled. “Neoliberal ‘progressives’ accused them of wasting taxpayers’ money to stage a nostalgic return to that same welfare state.” Lars Hjälmered, a member of parliament from Gothenburg who belongs to Sweden’s center-right Moderate Party, decried the conceptual artwork as “stupidity” in the news magazine Dagens Samhälle.
AD
AD
In their own writing, Goldin and Senneby fully acknowledge that paying someone to show up at a train station twice a day and punch a time clock is unproductive and thoroughly worthless. That’s the idea. Many people believe that art is supposed to be useless, they point out. They also suggest that the pointless job could lead to the creation of a new idiom expressing apathy, indolence and boredom: You’re working “as though you were at Korsvägen.”
More from Morning Mix:
AD

Story 50
There has been a sevenfold increase in the number of states implementing value-based payment (VBP) systems over the course of five years, according to a study commissioned by Change Healthcare. The follow-up 50-state review highlighted state governments’ efforts to implement these models.
Today, 46 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico are implementing some sort of value-based model. Thirty-four or more states are two years or more into implementation, and eight states are in the early development of a new model.
Only Georgia, Mississippi, Indiana and West Virginia have yet to launch an official value-based care (VBC) model.
Free Daily Newsletter Like this story? Subscribe to FierceHealthcare! The healthcare sector remains in flux as policy, regulation, technology and trends shape the market. FierceHealthcare subscribers rely on our suite of newsletters as their must-read source for the latest news, analysis and data impacting their world. Sign up today to get healthcare news and updates delivered to your inbox and read on the go. SUBSCRIBE NOW
“What we did see is that there was significant growth in the number of states implementing VBP models since 2013,” Angela Evatt, manager of state policy strategy at Change, told FierceHealthcare. “A seven-fold growth between 2013 and 2015, which was around the time federal VBC efforts ramped up, including several programs aimed at hospitals (such as Hospital Value-Based Purchasing Program), as well as CMS Innovation Center SIM awards (beginning when recipients of Round One announced in February 2013) through to MACRA and the Value Modifier Program in 2015.”
So what do these VBC models look like? Half of the programs are multipayer. And 23 states have VBP targets or mandates that payers and providers have agreed upon.
Another 22 states have adopted or are considering the adoption of accountable care organizations (ACOs) to help manage costs and deliver better care, and 16 states are considering adopting episodes of care or bundled payment programs.
“As our report notes, every state is unique. States are the ideal places to test out VBP models, to understand what works and what doesn’t within their diverse environments, in terms of the health of the population, the healthcare workforce, infrastructure, economic environment,” Evatt said.

RELATED: Humana launches value-based model for oncology
According to the data, New York, Pennsylvania and Vermont are leading the transition to VBP.
New York, through a SIM grant and waiver from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, has tested a Medicaid pay-for-performance model and risk-sharing arrangements with managed care organizations. It’s also at the forefront of testing maternity care, HIV/AIDS and integrated primary care models.
Pennsylvania has complementary strategies for reform such as multipayer bundles for acute care, global payments for enhanced primary care through patient-centered medical homes (PCMHs) and a global budget for rural hospitals.
Vermont began its transition as early as 2011 and started with a PCMH strategy. Today, the state uses strategies such as an all-payer ACO, bundles for Medicaid members and health homes.
“A total of 56 payers participate across the regions including Aetna, BCBS, UnitedHealthcare and other commercial carriers. The multipayer approach allows for more streamline efforts where participating practices are likely to have a diverse payer mix,” Evatt said.
Medicare has been one of the leaders in implementing VBC, rolling out several initiatives including the creation of the Health Care Payment & Learning Action Network (HCP-LAN), a partnership for the healthcare system at large, and Congress had passed legislation that requires VBP in Medicare. However, most of the responsibility still lies at the state level.

RELATED: Study: Payers slowly migrating toward value-based insurance
“Politics or policy that could negatively impact CMS’ ability to advance state-specific models that support state innovation and allow state flexibility could also slow down states’ efforts,” Evatt noted.
This analysis finds that more than 40 states are investing in value-based strategies, and six states—Alabama, Alaska, Florida, North Carolina, South Carolina and South Dakota—are pursuing reimbursement entirely outside of the SIM and CPC+ programs.
Overall, 69% of states are pursuing SIM grants to help design innovation plans that involve multipayer reform efforts, and 16 states have implemented bundled payment programs. More than 35% of states have adopted or are considering the adoption of ACOs or ACO-like entities to help manage costs and deliver better care.
Of all of the VBP programs being implemented, Maryland’s stood out for Evatt within this study.
“While a unique state in terms of implementation of VBP models, Maryland, in January of 2019, transitioned to implementing its Total Cost of Care Model,” she said. “The multipayer program seeks moves from a hospital-focused model to a system-wide model; where instead of demonstrating hospital savings Maryland will now be measured on total cost of care; care received outside of the hospital.
"Community practice transformation is essential for total system alignment; therefore, Maryland implemented its Primary Care Program which provides support to practices as they transition to VBC,” she said.
Looking forward, Evatt believes a lot of VBP success will be tied into the progression of social determinants of health.
“We will likely continue to see this grow in the future as states find ways to integrate social supports (i.e., housing stability, food security and transportation) into VBC programs," she said.

Story 51
CCJ Innovators profiles carriers and fleets that have found innovative ways to overcome trucking’s challenges. If you know a carrier that has displayed innovation, contact CCJ Editor Jeff Crissey at jcrissey@ccjmagazine.com or 800-633-5953.
Five years ago, Taylor, Mich.-based Atlas Trucking had a downtime problem.
Servicing a fleet of 71 trucks on the company’s dirt lot, and using shipping containers for workshops and parts storage, was a slow and sloppy process.
“When it rained, [Atlas Director of Safety Marc Scibilia] and his guys were on their backs in a mud puddle fixing lights on a trailer or crawling around under a tractor,” says Atlas’ Senior Director of Transportation Jeffery Bronson. “It had just gotten to the point that it wasn’t professional. It was dangerous.”
The private fleet for Eaton Steel Bar Co., soon leased a small shop space about 5 miles from the terminal “and started doing service with a roof over our head on our trucks,” Bronson says, adding local owner-operators and nearby fleets frustrated with the local truck service network then began to inquire about the carrier taking on their maintenance needs.
“When we went to outsource what we didn’t want to do in-house, it was a 3 or 4 week wait just to get it looked at,” Bronson says, “which in my world is totally unacceptable. It was actually getting to the point that I was leasing a couple tractors just to keep the company drivers creating revenue because I pay them whether they run or not.”
While Atlas graduated its maintenance department to a roughly 4,000 square-feet, four bay shop, it was offsite and not large enough to take on the level of outside repair work that Bronson believed potentially available. He had his eye on a piece of property closer to the trucking company that would allow the carrier to expand service capacity, and last May the trucking, logistics and now service provider closed on the 11 acre site.
Atlas Fleet Services was born.
“Me and Marc looked at each other and said, ‘What are we going to do with this,’” Bronson recalls. “’How do we offset our costs?’ The answer is we service the public because there’s a big need out there.”
The “Garage Mahal”
Atlas Fleet Services opened its 73,000 square-feet, three-shift, 24-hour commercial repair facility in January in the shadows of its namesake truck fleet and its Eaton Steel Bar Co., parent.
Today, 15 technicians not only service the company’s growing fleet of trailers and mixed trucks – now up to 130 units from various OEMs – but they also provide around-the-clock for-hire maintenance service for the trucks of their Detroit Metro area competitors, owner-operators throughout the region and handle overflow work from local dealerships.
The facility features 10 service bays, an alignment bay, a multi-purpose bay and has the capacity for 32 tractors. Minor repairs can be handled in Atlas’ Rapid Assessment Bay in “a couple of hours,” Bronson says.
The larger facility has slashed Atlas Trucking’s downtime by upwards of 80 percent, “at least,” Scibilia says. “We have so much more control now than we did when we worked out of the containers. Being that we were in a dirt lot, we couldn’t do anything that required a sterile environment. We couldn’t do transmissions and clutches. We couldn’t do brakes.”
With an investment of around $4 million, Bronson says Atlas Fleet Services wasn’t looking to cut corners and wanted to get into the business “the right way.”
“We could just service trucks with Atlas on the door and pay our bills,” he says. “From the aspect of get everybody you can get and charge as high as you can charge, we don’t have that mentality because we don’t have to be like that for any reason. Our goal is to service the customer as best we can, charge a fair wage and hopefully they come back.”
The company invested in multiple diagnostic platforms to accommodate a customer base operating everything from heavy-haul trucks to expediter vans, and hand-selected technicians and specialists to handle the work.
“We went out and bought the best equipment we knew to buy,” Bronson says. “We’re doing everything as first class as we know how to do it. When an owner operator comes in and hands you his keys, he’s handing you the keys to his livelihood. If you screw it up, it’s going to cost him.”
But there’s more to providing service than just turning wrenches, and a fleet providing public service has to go all-in in every conceivable way.
“We have a customer lounge that’s extremely nice. We have leather furniture, a TV, whatever drinks you want, personal restrooms so the mechanics are not sharing a restroom with a customer,” Bronson says. “It’s the closest thing to a dealership experience without the cost of a dealership.”
Diversification strategy
Bronson has worked to diversify much of Atlas’ interests beyond simply hauling for Eaton Steel Bar.
The company’s logistics arm has grown from handling primarily steel shipments for its parent company to a full 3PL service working with a variety of shippers and carriers to move freight across the U.S. and Canada with more than 500 customers.
“We have a sustained model here with Atlas Trucking and Atlas Logistics we’ve been constantly working so that most of our revenue is not all Eaton-based shipments,” Bronson says.
Outside customers account for about 35 percent of Atlas Fleet Services’ monthly revenue and that grows at rate of about 5 percent each month. Bronson says his goal is for outside service customers, which includes local dealerships, to eventually reach 70 percent.
Atlas’ around-the-clock capability has lead local truck dealers to hand over much of their leasing and rental equipment maintenance, “because that allows them to extend their service without putting up any capital on their end,” Scibilia says.
For the first two years, Bronson expects Atlas Fleet Services to account for upwards of 25 percent of the company’s overall revenue and has a goal of growing it to more than a third.
Balancing customer service and competition
Atlas Fleet Services openly solicits new maintenance business from its competitors, which Scibilia says has caused some “strange looks” along the way, but he says there’s enough freight to move for all parties to be successful, adding if he can convince a would-be customer to visit the shop he’s certain Atlas can earn their business.
“We’re trying to develop different relationships than I think anybody else in the industry. We’re all in the same game” Scibilia says. “There’s enough of it to go around. In fact, there’s more than enough to go around.”
Bronson says the fleet services business doesn’t weight Atlas Trucking with any priority over its public customers. In fact, they have gone to great lengths to ensure that customers wouldn’t feel like there’s any risk in their equipment being shuffled to the end of the line.
“We’ve been pretty proactive with our maintenance on the Atlas side, and we do keep a couple spares on-hand so owner-operators and the outside customers can take priority,” Scibilia says. “If I can pull a guy off an Atlas piece of equipment that’s not in dire need to put them on a customer piece of equipment I will, because I know that I’ve got spare Atlas equipment to utilize if need be.”
“We try to push the Atlas equipment out of the way for the direct customer needs,” Bronson adds.
The goal for everyone, Bronson says, is always 0-percent downtime, adding his company has cultivated a relationship with at least one local customer that allows them to email his service department when a truck has an issue on its route.
Atlas technicians on the second shift will pick up the tractor when they arrive for work and drive it to the shop for the second and third shift to address. In many cases, the repaired unit is delivered back to the lot and in service by the next morning.
“When this works out, they can literally go from whatever downtime they had using outside vendors to zero downtime,” Bronson says.

Story 52
In Greek mythology, Atlas was a titan who the Gods condemned to carry heaven on his shoulders. In educational terms, an atlas is a map. And, in Warframe, Atlas is an Earth elemental with the power of a pissed-off tectonic plate. If you buy him through Prime Access, you’ll be able to take him for a spin on October 1.
He is, of course, not the Atlas who debuted in Warframe’s October 2015 update, but a powerful Prime version. These are rare versions of characters, weapons, and accessories coveted throughout the Origin System for their boosted performance, representing technology as it was during the height of the Orokin Era. It was a great era.
Ordinarily, Atlas uses rock and stone-themed attacks to drive enemies’ faces into the dirt, summons elemental mates for strength in numbers, and collects some craggy rubble to wear as armour. Prime Atlas delivers all this and more, with altered mod polarities for greater customization. That includes accessories such as cloth garment the Massif Syandana, an Atlas Prime signature; fetching Prime Glyphs, and new attachments for your Sentinel pet.
Despite being the game’s 26th Prime Warframe, and the 67th overall, our boy Atlas keeps it fresh with a bunch of potent abilities. He can freeze people in place and bowl them over with a massive boulder, and with every crumbly punch sounds like a moderately-sized building collapsing. He’s not alone either.
Take his companion Dethcube, now in Dethcube Prime form. Picture a violent Rubik’s Cube and you’re halfway there. This bloodthirsty wingman supports your rage with words of encouragement, only these words take the form of bullets. Lots and lots of bullets. Dethcube can enter assault or vaporise mode, and wields a Prime Deth Machine Rifle to make short work of enemies. Do not cross Dethcube.
Atlas himself carries the Tekko Prime, which are basically a pair of razor-edged boxing gloves that use crushing force to obliterate foes. They sacrifice status effect chance for an increased focus on delivering hit after critical hit. Letting loose all these powers should be a joyous, stress-busting experience – unlike the aforementioned Greek version of Atlas, who literally carried the weight of the world on his shoulders.
As for how to obtain him, you’ll need Prime Access, a rotating programme that offers discounts on the latest Prime Warframes, gear, and other items. The current headline act available with Prime Access is Wukong Prime, a tricky conjurer who cloaks and clones himself, but he’ll leave the programme when Atlas arrives. If you’d prefer not to pay, you can go through Warframe’s in-game Relic hunting system, but it’ll obviously take a little longer.
Atlas Prime comes to Warframe on October 1.

Story 53
Illustration: Mike Kiev
Even as it's influencing our behavior, Amazon is transforming our physical world. José Holguín-Veras, a logistics and urban freight expert at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, estimates that in 2009, there was one daily internet-derived delivery for every 25 people. By 2017, he calculates, this had tripled. “The number of deliveries to households is now larger than the number of deliveries to commercial establishments,” Holguín-Veras says. “In skyscrapers in New York City where 5,000 people live, it’s 750 deliveries a day.”
Think of the difference between one trip to the grocery store for the week, and five or ten trips from the warehouse to your house. Our streets are too narrow and our traffic too plentiful to handle that additional traffic without crippling congestion. Plus, every idling car, and every extra delivery truck on the road, spews more carbon into the atmosphere. Our cities are not designed for the level of freight that instant delivery demands.
More deliveries also means more people staying indoors. “One thing I think about is how much we overlook the community and democracy value of running errands,” says Stacy Mitchell of the Institute for Local Self-Reliance. “These exchanges—chatting with someone in line, bumping into a neighbor on the street, talking with the store owner—may not be all that significant personally. But this kind of interaction pays off for us collectively in ways we don’t think about or measure or account for in policy-making.”
In These Times asked Frank McAndrew of Knox College, who has researched social isolation, whether Amazon’s perfect efficiency could be alienating. He wasn’t ready to make a definitive statement but did see some red flags. “I do think we’re sort of wired to interact with real people in face-to-face situations,” McAndrew says. “When most of our interactions take place virtually, or with Alexa, it’s not going to be satisfying.”
For most of our history, Americans didn’t require a personal digital assistant to answer our every whim. Why are we now reordering our social and economic lives, so one man can accumulate more money than anyone in the history of the planet?
One answer is that Amazon has paid as much attention to capturing government as it has to captivating customers. Amazon’s lobbying spending is among the highest of any company in America. After winning a nationwide procurement contract, over 1,500 cities and states can buy office items through the Amazon Business portal; a federal procurement platform is on the way. Amazon Web Services has the inside track on a $10 billion cloud contract to manage sensitive data for the Pentagon, something it already does for the CIA. That’s part of the reason why Amazon moved its second headquarters (after an absurd, game show-style bidding war that gave the company access to valuable data on hundreds of cities’ planning decisions) to a suburb of Washington, D.C., the seat of national power.
Making the directors of the regulatory state dependent on your services is a genius move. What political figure would dare crack down on the behavior of a trusted partner like Amazon?
In fact, Amazon has relied on government largesse since day one. No sales taxes for online purchases gave it a pricing advantage over other sellers (while a 2018 Supreme Court ruling changed that, the damage had been done). No carbon taxes helped Amazon build energy-intensive businesses dependent on fossil fuels for transportation and server farms. A lack of antitrust enforcement created a path for Amazon to super-size into an e-commerce monopoly. Weak federal labor rules let Amazon stamp out collective bargaining and rely on independent contractors. Mandatory arbitration locked third-party sellers inside Amazon’s private appeals process. Favorable tax law allowed Amazon to apply annual losses in previous years to its past two tax returns, paying no federal taxes on billions in income.
Of course, these rules helped all corporate giants and made executives filthy rich, often at the expense of workers. But Amazon tests the laissez-faire system in unique ways. In a future where Amazon broadens its control over our lives such that citizens have nowhere else to shop, businesses have nowhere else to sell, workers have nowhere else to toil, and governments have no other way to function, then who actually holds the power in our society? Avoiding that dark future requires leaders with the political will to stop it.
Elizabeth Warren’s plan to break up Amazon would rein in what she sees as unfair competition by preventing Amazon from selling products while hosting a website platform for other sellers. Warren also suggests splitting off Whole Foods and the online retailer Zappos, which Amazon bought in 2017 and 2009, respectively.
Fostering competition is a good start, but regulation must also prevent Amazon from bullying suppliers and partners. Lawmakers must force Amazon to pay for the externalities associated with its carbon-intensive delivery network. The company must pay a living wage to its workers, including its so-called independent contractors. It must be accountable to the legal system rather than a corporate-friendly arbitration process. It must not profit from spying on its customers.
If Amazon has caused this much upheaval today, when online shopping is still only 16 percent of retail sales, the future is limitless and grim. We have time to reverse this transfer of power and make it our world instead of Amazon’s. It’s an opportunity we cannot afford to squander.
David Dayen is the executive editor of The American Prospect. He was a 2018-2019 Leonard C. Goodman Institute for Investigative Reporting Fellow.
Never miss a story. Subscribe to the free In These Times weekly newsletter:
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.

Story 54
In the writ Bensons alleges Atlas has made large advances to Steller, including a $61 million first mortgage loan. Steller is the high-profile development group founded by Melbourne businessmen Nicholas Smedley and Simon Pitard. The pair recently decided to split their partnership and unwind the business. They are now selling off chunks of the $4.2 billion pipeline they had accumulated in residential, mixed-use and commercial projects. Work has stopped at developer Steller's Continental Hotel project in Sorrento on the Mornington Peninsula. Credit:Eamon Gallagher The pair recently tipped a 543-square-metre site at 200 Wells Street in South Melbourne on the market for which they had agreed to pay $23.4 million less than two years ago.
Steller also invested in the redevelopment of Sorrento's Continental Hotel and purchased the Greyhound Hotel site in St Kilda. "The plaintiffs do not know the precise details of the Steller advances," the writ states. "The best particulars that the plaintiffs can presently provide are that Atlas Funds advanced about: (a) $68,000,000 with first mortgage security; (b) $101,000,000 in unsecured notes," it says.
Atlas did not reply to a request by The Age and Herald for clarification of details in the writ. Court documents show Bensons will pay 12.5 per cent interest over three years, or 13.5 per cent if longer than three years, to Atlas to borrow the $33 million which was meant to pay for development land at 1 Warde Street and a separate parcel at 10 Moreland Street in Footscray. Bensons settled on the Warde Street site for $10 million in May having earlier settled the Moreland Street property in April for $8.25 million. The properties were revalued and Bensons alleges Atlas agreed to fund first mortgages for both sites at a loan-to-value ratio of 75 per cent on their agreed revaluation: $27 million for Warde and $18 million for Moreland. Bensons alleges the agreements were made in writing via email and conversations between Mr Jreissati and Michael Burstin from Atlas.
"Mr Burstin said that Atlas wanted to lend to Bensons the amounts shown in the January 31 email on the dates shown in that email by procuring an Atlas Fund to subscribe for the new notes," the writ states. Two other fund trustees, AET and Perpetual, that administer Atlas' investment trusts, are named as defendants in the action. In February, Atlas paid a $3,465,000 portion of the first mortgage funding followed by a further $500,000 two weeks later out of the agreed funding of $20.52 million for Warde Street. A further $2 million was paid in May. "Since April 17, 2019, Atlas has failed and refused to procure AET, Perpetual or the custodian of any Atlas Fund (Atlas Custodian) to advance the outstanding balance of the first mortgage funding," Bensons alleges in the writ. Mr Jreissati declined to comment when contacted.
A Bensons spokesman said, “We’re hoping this is a commercial delay that will get resolved very quickly. "It’s been very inconvenient because the facilities are documented, terms agreed, partly signed, partly funded and the securities are in place." At this stage, Bensons is understood to be funding the Footscray development itself. Construction has started on the Warde Street complex which will have 353 apartments. About 120 have been presold. The 26-level Moreland Street project - the first high-rise to gain approval in Footscray's Joseph Road precinct - will have around 200 apartments.

Story 55
Atlas Capital has not, until today, settled its obligations arising from the investment and ancillary services provided to its clients.
The saga around Atlas Capital Financial Services Ltd, also known as ACFX has seen some development today, as the Cyprus Securities Exchange Commission (CySEC) posted an announcement informing the public of the launch of a compensation payment process by the Investor Compensation Fund for Clients of Investment Firms (ICF).
Atlas Capital’s CIF authorisation has been withdrawn as of February 2017. Back then, CySEC noted the Company’s non compliance with:
Section 28(1) of the Law, as it fail to comply with the authorization and operating conditions of:
section 18(2)(a) of the Law and paragraph 13, sub paragraphs (2) and (9), of Directive DI144-2007-01 of 2012 for the Authorisation and Operating Conditions of the Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission of the Cyprus Investment Firms (‘the Directive’), as the Company had failed to establish, implement and maintain effective procedures for the reasonable and prompt handling of complaints received from its clients and for their full investigation.
section 18(2)(c) of the Law as, due to the Company’s failure to submit evidence for actions taken, CySEC is not in a position to establish whether the Company has taken all measures necessary to ensure continued and regular performance of its services.
section 18(2)(f) of the Law as, due to the Company’s failure to submit evidence for actions taken, CySEC is not in a position to establish whether the Company has effective procedures for identifying, managing, monitoring and reporting of the risks.
section 18(2)(j) of the Law and paragraph 18(1)(f) of the Directive as, due to the Company’s failure to submit evidence for actions taken, CySEC is not in a position to establish whether the Company has taken all necessary measures and adequate arrangements to safeguard its clients’ assets.
In today’s announcement, the Cypriot regulator said ACFX has not settled its obligations arising from the investment and ancillary services provided to its clients.
CySEC has ascertained that the company is unable to fulfill its duties towards its clients in the near future, for reasons that do not consist of a temporary lack of liquidity that can be dealt with instantly.
Following this announcement, the ICF. will publish, in at least two newspapers of national coverage, an invitation to submit compensation applications, designating the procedure for the submission of the relevant applications, the deadline for their submission and their content. The said publication will be also posted on CySEC’s website.
All affected clients (covered clients of the Company) are invited to study Directive DI87-07 (R.A.D. 76/2019) as well as the information for the submission of compensation applications and take all appropriate actions for the submission of their claims.

Story 56
Plenty of restaurants are offering free food and discounts for federal employees during the government shutdown. José Andrés is even setting up an emergency kitchen to feed workers and their families who are missing paychecks. Want to make your own small gesture? There’s now a fund making it easy for anyone to buy furloughed workers a beer.
Mess Hall food incubator founder Al Goldberg and food writer Nevin Martell came up with the idea for “Pay It Furloughed” while lamenting the feeling of helplessness surrounding the government shutdown at dinner last week.
“It just seems like this big monolithic problem that certainly can’t be solved by your average every day American,” Martell says. Meanwhile, Goldberg noted that breweries have also suffered from the shutdown as government approval for new beer labels has come to a halt.
Why not marry those ideas, they thought?
“If I was sitting next to somebody at a bar and they were griping to me about having to work without being paid, I would probably buy them a beer,” says Martell. (Full disclosure: Martell is a Washingtonian contributor and a friend.)
Goldberg and Martell worked with app development agency 3Advance to get a website up quickly and collectively added $1,000 of their own to get the fund started. Within 24 hours, more than 450 total beers have been donated.
Donors can fund beers at payitfurloughed.com for $7.50 a pop. (The price includes the beer itself, sales tax, credit card processing fee, and the fund’s site maintenance.) Any federal government employee or contractor can then head to one of the participating breweries—which so far include Atlas Brew Works and DC Brau—to redeem as many beers as they want. (Don’t forget to tip!) Goldberg and Martell are working to get additional breweries on board and possibly also some kind of food option.
If the beer fund has money left when the shutdown ends, federal employees will still be able to continue to get brews for seven days after they receive back pay. And if there’s still money left after that? It will remain for the next shutdown, Martell says, “which sadly will probably be sooner rather than later.”
Get Our “Brunches This Weekend” Newsletter The best breakfasts and brunches to try every weekend, plus our most popular food stories of the week. Or, see all of our newsletters. By signing up, you agree to our terms
Join the conversation!

Story 57
Amazon Air pilots are picketing the company's annual meeting on Wednesday, saying that low pay and benefits are leading to higher turnover and potential safety issues.
The union representing the pilots of three carriers said they've been without a contract since 2016 and the companies are dragging their feet.
Amazon, in response to a question from Business Insider, threatened to change its "allocation" of cargo if the issues are not resolved.
Since 2016, pilots who operate cargo flights for three companies on behalf of Amazon Air have been without a contract.
Now, in the face of more protests at the e-commerce giant's annual shareholder meeting on Wednesday, the company has threatened to take its business elsewhere if a new agreement cannot be reached.
The pilots, represented by the Airline Professionals Association, say the cargo airlines Atlas Air, Southern Air, and Air Transport Service Group — which are the three airlines that perform many of Amazon Air's daily operations — have dragged their feet on negotiating a new contract. As a result, the pilots say, staffing is being stretched thin and talented recruits are opting to fly for competitors instead.
In response to a question from Business Insider about those pilots' fears that more incidents, like the plane crash in Houston earlier this year, could occur because of short staffing and inexperienced pilots, an Amazon spokesperson said it may rethink its future investments and carriers.
"We are disappointed with the current state of relations between Atlas and their pilot union," a spokesperson said. "Neither side seems willing to work towards a reasonable compromise. This is contrary to the interests of Atlas, the pilots, and the customers they both serve. We repeatedly hear claims made by the union regarding Atlas's service for Amazon that when investigated are factually inaccurate."
"The continued inability of Atlas and their pilot union to resolve these negotiations could result in a change to the allocation of our current and future aircraft. We have an obligation to deliver to our customers, and so do they," the spokesperson continued (emphasis added).
Read more: An Amazon Air plane crashed in February, killing all 3 people on board. Weeks earlier, several pilots said they thought an accident was inevitable.
That sentence is key in Amazon's statement. In its agreement with Atlas, Amazon has the option to "at its discretion" place up to 15 more 737-800 freighter aircraft into service by 2021, according to regulatory filings. It's not clear exactly what changes might result from the company's allocation changes, but it could have a significant influence on Atlas' revenue and operations.
Pilots are skeptical that Amazon's relationship with Atlas and the other two carriers is on-paper only. In an interview with Business Insider, the executive council chairman for Atlas Air's pilots' union said he suspects the company plays a larger role in operations than it leads on.
"What Amazon is going to say is 'that's our contractor and we don't have anything to do with their operation,'" he said. "That's not true. They have a complete shadow flight-operations system set up in the headquarters. They're exercising control and making an operational decision throughout the Atlas network."
An Atlas Air spokesperson accused the union and its pilots of spreading misinformation.
"These protest efforts are common tactics that are often used by unions to spread misinformation and gain leverage in contract negotiations," the spokesperson said. "The fact is Atlas is committed to its pilots. We have an uncompromised commitment to the safety and well-being of our pilots — and our practices meet or exceed all regulatory requirements and industry standards."
Another pilot, Capt. Michael Russo, said the company's statements to that effect won't deter efforts to fight for better pay and benefits in a new contract. After all, this problem has been around for years and doesn't appear to be ending anytime soon. Because of federal labor laws, pilots can't go on strike without presenting their case before a judge or being released by a national mediation board.
"Now, after several years of losing pilots to airlines like FedEx, UPS, and Delta, we find ourselves basically with a staffing crisis," he said. "We just have to keep shining light on the way that they're doing business and really trying to subvert as I said our legal right to negotiate and a new contract."
Following the original publication of this article, an Atlas Air spokesperson sent along another statement, citing what they said was more "inaccurate" information from the pilots and their union:

Story 58
A group from the Delft University of Technology in the Netherlands shared its vision for Hyperloop pods, called Atlas 02, and stations that could one day be used to transport passengers long distances at ultra high speeds, with a panoramic concept video showing what the passenger experience would look like.
It's anyone's guess how long it will take for Elon Musk's Hyperloop dream of an ultra high-speed transit system to become reality. But with SpaceX's annual Hyperloop Pod Competition taking place on Sunday — where teams from colleges and universities around the world compete with their prototypes of high-speed transportation pods — at least one group of designers is already offering a conceptual look at what the high-speed system could eventually look like.
...as well as the inside of an eventual Hyperloop pod, including stylish seats in a glass-topped pod complete with digital screens displaying the date and weather on what the team envisions would be a 30-minute ride between Amsterdam and Paris (a trip that currently takes over three hours via train).
The pods through move through tubes at hundreds of miles per hours.
Musk unveiled early plans for a multibillion-dollar Hyperloop concept in 2013, with a goal of significantly cutting travel time between major cities. For instance, Musk has said the project could eventually reduce the time for a train trip between San Francisco and Los Angeles from several hours to just 30 minutes. The concept involves sending self-propelled transportation pods through low-pressure vacuum tubes at speeds greater than 700 MPH.
Since then, SpaceX, Musk's aerospace company, built a test track near its Hawthorne, California headquarters. In 2017, Musk said he ran a test with a Tesla-branded Hyperloop pod that reached a top speed of 220 MPH.
SpaceX has also looked for an open source solution to Musk's Hyperloop dream, with the company inviting teams of designers and engineers from around the world to submit their ideas for prototypes of the high-speed transportation pods that would one day make a Hyperloop system possible. SpaceX launched its annual Hyperloop Pod Competition in 2015.
The Delft Hyperloop's team of 40 students worked to design a self-propelled pod that will compete against 20 other college teams from around the world on Sunday with prototype test runs on the SpaceX track, which is roughly one mile long. The Delft Hyperloop team's goal is to eventually reach a top speed of 1,000 kilometer-per-hour (or, roughly, 620 MPH), though the team that won last year's SpaceX Hyperloop Pod Competition, from the Technical University of Munich, did so after reaching a top speed of about 290 MPH.
Elon Musk is not the only billionaire working to develop hyperloop technology, as Richard Branson's Virgin Group partnered with Hyperloop One in 2017 with the goal of opening the first hyperloop to passengers by the "mid-2020s", the company said in 2018. Virgin Hyperloop One even reportedly reached a top speed of 240 MPH in a 2018 test run.
Meanwhile, Amtrak president Richard Anderson said in 2017 that high-speed hyperloop pods replacing traditional train travel is unlikely to happen anytime soon. "I don't think it's realistic right now," he told CNBC.
Don't Miss:
Elon Musk's next Hyperloop test — will aim for half the speed of sound, could easily turn pod into 'shredded metal'
Tesla's Model 3 ranked 'most satisfying' car, more than Porsche or Corvette
Like this story? Subscribe to CNBC Make It on YouTube!

Story 59
Decked in a jaunty pirate hat, BurkeBlack’s brow furrows in concentration. His character stands on the deck of a ship crowded with other players. “Galleon’s moving again,” someone says over voice comms, and there’s the dull roar of a cannon firing. “Alright,” Burke says, calm and in command. “Let’s get sails to 50 percent and — what the shit?” A ship collides with a whale.
At first, the encounter seems like it could be just a natural occurrence, but there are too many whales choking the ocean. This is the handiwork of Black Butterfly, a notorious hacking company that spawned dozens of whales via an administrator account to damage and impede ships. Later, Black Butterfly’s hacks — and their access to an administrator account — will threaten to light the Atlas community aflame. For now, the players are still wrapping their heads around the impossible sight before them. BurkeBlack laughs and marvels, but eventually roars an order to “light ’em up!” His disbelief is punctuated by the percussion of cannons — dozens of rule-breaking whales or not, he still has to win this battle.
Welcome to the world of Atlas, the pirate-themed survival MMO from Studio Wildcard’s Grapeshot Games. The game has been wracked by controversy and criticism since its rough early access launch at the end of 2018. A successor (and competitor) to Ark: Survival Evolved, Atlas has players fighting both a hostile environment and other bands of players to claim land under their banner, build shipyards, and amass fortunes to fund pirate adventures.
The players who stayed aboard through launch issues, hardcore requirements, and frustrating progression have built their own fun. While the game is clearly in early access, riddled with errors, often exploited, and a repetitive time sink, it still offers something special to the players who enjoy it. Atlas mimics colonial politics, with leaders, vassals, and sprawling empires.
Unlike history books, Atlas’ world is significantly sillier on its surface. One of the largest global powers in the North American PVP server the Kraken’s Maw is the Sexy Cats Alliance, which borders the Big Dick Boys Alliance. Much darker are the veins of nationalism and racism that run throughout the community, spurred by an ongoing war between the game’s Asian and Western player bases.
Polygon spoke to a selection of players and influencers from around the world to create a history of Atlas’ origins, plots, and politics on its North American PvP server.
The objectives of Atlas
Atlas, by its very nature, encourages a fragmented and hostile player base, who band together in groups called companies. In Atlas, players must claim land in order to use it as a base. That land can be contested and stolen, especially if its owner is offline.
With a map 1,200 times bigger than that of Ark, Atlas’ developers claim that the map can handle 40,000 people at once. While it’s a large map, it’s separated into a grid. Each square of the grid can contain land or ocean, and can only hold a finite amount of players — 150 in theory, less in practice if server issues kick in. Players can build ships, ranging from rafts and sloops to mighty galleons, and customize them. Holding land allows players to build bases, construct more ships, tame animals, and acquire resources.
In a way, Atlas is circular. When companies acquire and hold land, they can rent it to vassals, who pay taxes. Growth leads to more growth, and companies often end up joining massive alliances to keep their share of land and holdings.
Over time, these alliances clash. Sometimes, there are internal struggles as companies within an alliance violate non-aggression pacts or step on each others’ toes. Other times, alliances and companies fight against foes to defend their bases or expand into enemy territory, claiming their land and turning it to their company’s holdings. Players track each others’ time zones and fill their companies with global crews so they can strike while their enemies sleep. Smart tacticians marshal forces into a grid to fill it and force opposition out via a player cap or lag.
Battle in Atlas is messy, chaotic, and heavily reliant on exploiting the game’s jankiness. Battle ranges from the psychological, such as customizing a ship’s sails to taunt your enemies in a series of racist, nationalist taunts, to the outright bizarre, like a hacker using an administrator account to spawn fighter planes and whales on their foes. Some players fill their pockets with comical amounts of crafting materials, then board enemy ships to sink them with the weight.
All of the above combined has pushed away many players. Those who remain have learned to roll with the punches, and have committed to fight over the vast map.
Early rush
Darren, a player who sunk 80 hours into Atlas before his wife became pregnant, told me that the game’s launch was full of issues.
“Freeports [the game’s starting safe zones] were clogged with sleeping players [avatars in-game] tanking performance,” Darren said. “There were constant disconnects. Anyone who logged in after work found everything claimed.”
Another problem with Atlas’ early development was that the Ship of the Damned, a powerful NPC that haunted the seas by attacking rafts with powerful cannons. Players had to leave the freeports and find land, but they couldn’t afford to be picky. They needed to stop and build and refresh themselves before hitting the seas again.
There was a second barrier to entry for casual players, which was much more complicated. The game’s Chinese player base quickly gained a reputation among English speaking players as being incredibly coordinated. Many Chinese players entered the game in groups established from other games, and they were playing to earn early advantages.
The reaction to these players ranged from awe to outright racism, according to Darren. “People called the Chinese [players] locusts. You would land on an island and find it completely strip mined of resources and claimed, or they’d immediately sink you.”
Between all of these obstacles, Atlas’ first few days were a constantly running loop of sprinting, stopping, sprinting, stopping. Players were forced to settle where they could amid the lag, and build their empires from there.
Planting their banners
I spoke to two leaders of successful company The Federation, who go by Captain Church and Lustria Church in Atlas. Captain Church is a streamer with a curated community, and Lustria has organized initiatives in other games like Fallout 76 under the handle SatelliteJedi.
The original core of players that made up the Federation made their way through Ships of the Damned and the dangers of the sea to find land — any land that was unclaimed and not hostile.
“We got to [our first] island with 20 or 30 people, and there was already an established alliance set up,” says SatelliteJedi. A larger tribe, named Black Snow, had brought smaller groups in under their banner, claiming the land and bringing its denizens to heel. Anyone who wanted to stay on the their land had to pay a high tax and pledge their future fleets to any military cause Black Snow chose.
The core group played along with it for a couple of days, but SatelliteJedi and Church scouted the other small companies on the island to see who would agree with a coup. Finally, at an in-game “state of the island” meeting called by Black Snow’s leader, things came to a head.
SatelliteJedi and Church made their demands for power and freedom within Black Snow, and their leader stood firm in denying them. “Everyone else here is on the same page,” he said.
“Actually, they’re not,” said SatelliteJedi, and the bloody coup began. Because the avatars were all assembled, it was a violent, hand-to-hand coup where players hacked those loyal to Black Snow to death with rudimentary weapons. Once their opposition was dead, banished back to starting Freeports, their holdings could be torn down and their land claimed.
Every player who participated in tearing down the existing power structure was brought into the Federation, a company that offered a fair alternative where folk could sail equally.
Brewing tensions
While smaller companies like The Federation started to build, the Chinese territory was expanding over Atlas’ map. North American and European players shared their concerns about this power dynamic, with many companies entering Alliances to protect their land.
One company, Make Atlas Great Again — MAGA for short — was particularly flagrant with its nationalist rhetoric. It made for an uncomfortable tension, and the community’s moderators had to work to keep the subreddit clean of racist speech and imagery from players. Posts could sometimes call on wartime propaganda and rhetoric, or contain a call to arms to protect Western lands from Asian invaders.
One post made on the Atlas subreddit shortly after the game’s launch by user VexusGaming is titled “We’ve begun to fight back.” In it, an armored avatar stands next to a skeleton, killed by hanging. The skeleton belongs to a player from CSTG, a Chinese company.
Despite these displays, the situation was more complex than Western players depicted. TPG and No No No are two companies with Chinese members where Western and Asian members work together against the larger, all-Chinese companies. “Chinese players call out the TPG and No No No,” said SatelliteJedi. “They call them race traitors, and blood traitors.”
“I will play any game where I can win.”
From the outside, many Western players perceive these groups as a monolith. Atlas displays Chinese characters as unreadable blocks for players using the English language client, furthering the illusion of a faceless group. Taiwanese and Japanese companies, to their displeasure, are often grouped in with the Chinese companies by Western players.
I spoke to four Chinese players who asked to be kept anonymous via email with the aid of a translator. Two of them admitted to being in companies that had exploited the game somehow, justifying it as a necessary cost of war to beat Western rivals. Tensions and racist attacks further justified it to these players. I asked, were Grapeshot to provide a new server for Asian players, whether they would transfer over. They all answered no.
To them, the competition with global players isn’t just part of the fun — it’s largely the point. During ship battles and naval encounters, Chinese players fill global chat with endless displays of national pride. Their ships’ sails are often emblazoned with “CHINA #1.” It’s a brag they intend to prove. “I will play any game where I can win,” said one Chinese player I spoke to.
In response, companies like MAGA swelled with new numbers, but that player base ran unchecked. They quickly gained a nasty reputation among even Western players, partially for the way they represented themselves, and partially for their conduct.
MAGA attacked Western companies. At times, they would offer non-aggression pacts or alliances, and then wait until their new allies logged off to attack and loot. They were a force of chaos that embraced the current political rhetoric, and despite their antagonistic nature, they portrayed themselves in community outlets like the subreddit and Discords as a patriotic force out to protect the West from the “Red menace”.
“The acronym is not the only thing that pissed people off,” said Church. “The way they played pissed everyone off, until they were being attacked on the outside and eventually on the inside as well.”
MAGA’s eventual collapse came at its own hands. A player who had been granted administrator access by the company leader used his control to demolish the MAGA bases, freeing up their land and destroying their ships, storage, and buildings before kicking everyone out of the company.
These controls are granted to administrators for base building logistics and ship caps. A company can only have so many ships active at a time, and players often need to be able to build defenses or arrange bases, even if the original player who constructed something is offline.
Ultimately, MAGA collapsed when an admin kicked everyone from the company and demolished the company’s bases, causing the remaining members to scatter to the winds. MAGA had not been a vast empire, but they had carved a chunk of land out for themselves on the global map, and dozens of hours were lost. The frustration was enough to get most of the players aligned with MAGA to quit the game.
According to Julian, a European Atlas player I spoke to, that wasn’t necessarily a good thing. “MAGA acted as a quarantine,” he explained over Discord. “They were shit, but they were all shit together.”
At times, Grapeshot Games has stepped in to revert hacks or ban accounts that have exploited the game, but the developers have not remarked on the in-game politics or the ways they are expressed through ship customization and game chat. Grapeshot Games did not respond to multiple requests from Polygon to comment on hacking, in-game moderation, or community policies.
“In the game’s current state, it’s geared towards big tribe combat,” says Church. “It’s too hard for a small tribe. Griefing is where the game is now. The things that net you the most rewards are griefing, then twenty other things, then taking over land.”
Management and leadership
In January, the Federation was still a relatively small group, but it had one big advantage: It had sunk one of the first Chinese galleons while it was still in dock before it had set sail. The Federation’s leadership took to social media to advertise the sinking and turned it into a recruitment drive.
“It didn’t matter that we were only a 30- or 40-man company at the time,” says SatelliteJedi. “We were recruiting and acting like we were one of the big guys already. Before anyone realized we weren’t, we were.”
“I play Atlas in Discord. play it on the maps, I play it on Reddit, I am not in the ground in the game a whole lot anymore.”
Running a company like the Federation is largely done out of game, via channels like Discord and Google Drive. Many of the other companies, due to their past in other games, have this infrastructure already built and tested.
Once people are in the company, they must be vetted. The Federation has a strong anti-racism policy, and welcomes Asian players from around the globe into their ranks. This presented them with a problem — they had earned their initial reputation by sinking a Chinese galleon, and they didn’t hide their pride in that accomplishment. But they didn’t want to welcome MAGA players and let those with similar, hostile mindsets into their community.
Church notes that, moral principles aside, anything other than inclusion would be “stupid” from a tactical advantage. Having a global crew allows the Federation to maintain a watch over every time zone, even if it is more difficult to manage.
Tensions further deepened between the community — and the developers themselves — when Black Butterfly pulled off their hacking spree.
The Black Butterfly incident
In January, live producer and lead community manager Jatheish Karunakaran took to the forums to explain a series of incidents. Naval battles were being assaulted by dozens of whales, World War II aircraft fell from the sky, and, worse yet, this was being done from a developer’s account.
“Earlier today, an admin’s Steam account was compromised and used to cause some devastation on our Official NA PvP Network,” Karunakaran wrote. “To be clear this was not caused by a hack, third party program, or exploit. We have taken the appropriate steps to ensure this does not happen again.”
The community was outraged. Karunakaran’s statement was seen as a dodge. For many in the community, a hacking incident so egregious, so over the top, required complete transparency from the developers. What’s worse is that these players saw this as a repeat offense. Black Butterfly had immigrated to Atlas from Ark, where they played under the name TEA.
TEA had done the exact same kind of exploiting and hacking, and players alleged that Snail Games, the Chinese owner of Studio Wildcard, had protected them. The in-game damage done by TEA was so profound that Ark developer Studio Wildcard disowned their large-scale PvP servers and abdicated the responsibility to Snail Games.
This wasn’t the first or only time that hacking had happened in Atlas. Players reported hacks and illegal spawns shortly after the Black Butterfly incident ... but this incident remains the most infamous and damning among the community.
According to SatelliteJedi, the developers are in an impossible situation. “I don’t think people give [Grapeshot] enough credit. They got [anti-cheat software] BattleEye up and running, they went and dev-wiped grids of companies they verified was cheating. I think they are taking some of the right steps. I am concerned with how they treated the Black Butterfly thing, but that might be because Black Butterfly knew what they were doing.”
While the player base eventually moved on to complain about things like elephant carry weight and stone durability, the Black Butterfly incident showed that Atlas — and the entire in-game experience — isn’t really about, well, Atlas. It’s about the people in the game and the competition; Atlas is just a stage, and one that is often compromised. Even in skirmishes, SatelliteJedi reports incidents like multiple headshots on fast-moving aerial targets from low-level players in a matter of seconds. Cheating is just part of the game now.
Shadow cabals and Discord servers
For the leaders of Atlas, the fight rarely takes place in-game anymore. “I play Atlas in Discord,” says SatelliteJedi. “I play it on the maps, I play it on Reddit, I play it talking to members of my crew and members of companies, be they enemies or potential renters or allies… but personally, I am not in the ground in the game a whole lot anymore.”
“Gaming isn’t just gaming anymore,” adds Church. “This isn’t blackjack that you play with your friends. It’s an everyday, eight- to 10-hour addiction that we have.”
The future of Atlas remains uncertain. The game’s player count has dropped since launch, and its subreddit is often more about players asking for features or complaining about bugs rather than sharing tales of their exploits. Mega alliances control the map, and many of the most dedicated players are spending more time out of game than in it.
By using shadow companies, vassals, secondary accounts, and deception, practiced companies can evade the long arm of developer law. The way to get around these unfair advantages, for players who don’t turn to hacking, is time, coordination, leadership, and willpower. According to Darren, that’s not something he has anymore.
“I loved Atlas and its politics, but when my wife got pregnant, I obviously knew I wouldn’t have enough time for it anymore,” he said. “There are some games that you can play with a family and a baby. Atlas isn’t one of them. I don’t think, with the player base it has now, it can ever be one of them.”
For players like Julian, the feeling of being part of something larger is part of the appeal.
“Atlas doesn’t feel like a pirate game,” he said. “It feels like a colonial kind of game. Sometimes we get a ping on Discord and we all log on to be the fastest ones into a grid. I watch Netflix and farm metal for the company.
“Atlas isn’t really a game-game.”
If it’s not a game, I ask him, what is it? He pauses. “It’s like a history novel or military campaign, except all of the nations are named dumb shit like the OwO Empire, and everyone involved is kind of an asshole,” Julian said. “But I get to be there and be a part of it, and that makes it worth it.”

Story 60
Yes, it does have the same thick bezels, but it doesn't use Pixelbook's rare 3:2 aspect ratio -- it uses the more common 16:9 instead. Its model placeholder right above the keyboard says "ProductName" rather than "G," which Google prototypes are typically marked with. In addition, the laptop has a power key where the Pixelbook has a hamburger key.
A second video shows more of the keyboard that stands out far too much against the device's dark coloring, and it couldn't be farther from the Pixelbook's scheme. Finally, its hinges definitely don't look like a convertible's, though that might be because Google already has a horse in that race.
Another factor that casts doubt upon any claim of a Pixelbook successor is the murky future of Google-branded Chromebooks. Back in 2017, some vague wording by the company's SVP for hardware Rick Osterloh gave rise to reports that Mountain View is no longer making Chromebooks. A more recent Business Insider report also claims that the tech giant is scaling down its laptop and tablet teams.

Story 61
Want to participate in a short research study? Help shape the future of investing tools and receive a $20 prize!
Dividends play a key role in compounding returns over time and can form a large part of our portfolio return. Historically, Atlas Arteria Limited (ASX:ALX) has paid a dividend to shareholders. It currently yields 3.4%. Does Atlas Arteria tick all the boxes of a great dividend stock? Below, I’ll take you through my analysis.
Check out our latest analysis for Atlas Arteria
5 checks you should do on a dividend stock
If you are a dividend investor, you should always assess these five key metrics:
Does it pay an annual yield higher than 75% of dividend payers?
Has it paid dividend every year without dramatically reducing payout in the past?
Has dividend per share amount increased over the past?
Can it afford to pay the current rate of dividends from its earnings?
Will the company be able to keep paying dividend based on the future earnings growth?
How does Atlas Arteria fare?
ALX currently pays out twice what it is earning, according to its trailing twelve-month data, meaning that the dividend is predominantly funded by retained earnings. Going forward, analysts expect ALX’s payout to fall to 127% of its earnings. Assuming a constant share price, this equates to a dividend yield of around 5.3%. Moreover, EPS should increase to A$0.19, meaning that the lower payout ratio does not necessarily implicate a lower dividend payment.
When considering the sustainability of dividends, it is also worth checking the cash flow of a company. A company with strong cash flow, relative to earnings, can sometimes sustain a high pay out ratio.
If dividend is a key criteria in your investment consideration, then you need to make sure the dividend stock you’re eyeing out is reliable in its payments. Unfortunately, it is really too early to view Atlas Arteria as a dividend investment. It has only been consistently paying dividends for 6 years, however, standard practice for reliable payers is to look for a 10-year minimum track record.
In terms of its peers, Atlas Arteria generates a yield of 3.4%, which is on the low-side for Infrastructure stocks.
Next Steps:
After digging a little deeper into Atlas Arteria’s yield, it’s easy to see why you should be cautious investing in the company just for the dividend. But if you are not exclusively a dividend investor, the stock could still be an interesting investment opportunity. Given that this is purely a dividend analysis, you should always research extensively before deciding whether or not a stock is an appropriate investment for you. I always recommend analysing the company’s fundamentals and underlying business before making an investment decision. There are three essential aspects you should further research:
Future Outlook: What are well-informed industry analysts predicting for ALX’s future growth? Take a look at our free research report of analyst consensus for ALX’s outlook. Valuation: What is ALX worth today? Even if the stock is a cash cow, it’s not worth an infinite price. The intrinsic value infographic in our free research report helps visualize whether ALX is currently mispriced by the market. Dividend Rockstars: Are there better dividend payers with stronger fundamentals out there? Check out our free list of these great stocks here.
We aim to bring you long-term focused research analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material.

If you spot an error that warrants correction, please contact the editor at editorial-team@simplywallst.com. This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. Simply Wall St has no position in the stocks mentioned. Thank you for reading.

Story 62
Lyra is a handheld games console with a twist. It doesn't come with any games, you put it together yourself (or pay a little extra for pre-built) and it can double as a personal computer and a Raspberry Pi experimentation platform. It's a quirky offering that could appeal to the classic console fan who loves to tinker.
Creoqode has a history of smashing a love of games, programming and tinkering together into a single idea, having successfully funded a number of Arduino-powered kit products for the cool geek about town. An open-source game console called 2048 with a 64 x 32 LED matrix screen, a DIY AI robot head called Nova, and a tiny 128 x 160-pixel DIY game console called Pyxa. The company also launched a hackable speaker kit designed to teach simple coding called Audx that seemed cool but failed to reach its crowdfunding goal.
Now the company has come up with Lyra, which has already passed its crowdfunding target. It's a different, perhaps more mature product that still maintains a certain appeal for tinkerers. This time, Creoqode has opted for Raspberry Pi as the platform (CM3 Lite) over Arduino and has limited the build-this-yourself aspect to a 15-minute assembly job that requires no soldering or special skills beyond being able to use a screwdriver and an Allen key.
Tinkerers can save themselves £30 (US$37) and order the assemble-it-yourself version Creoqode
London-based Creoqode claims Lyra can virtually emulate any game console of the classic era, making it possible to carry hundreds of them in your pocket. It would be good to see how well it does at this, considering the history of game emulation software and hardware. While the idea of a handheld, retro-game-emulating device isn't new, they've rarely been awesome. Looking at the promo video for Creoqode's Lyra, it seems the Raspberry Pi engine might more suited to the task than earlier Android-based attempts at the same kind of thing.
The problem with emulation systems is threefold. Firstly, you need to download games from somewhere in ROM (Read Only Memory) form and upload this to your device. Secondly, the ROMs aren't always great and quite a few don't work as expected. And thirdly, there's the legal aspect. While there are many great video game ROMs out there that are unlicensed (and therefore legal to own), a lot of games are still protected by the ESA and are illegal to distribute. So, as they say, caveat emptor.
The Lyra, however, is a little more than a portable gaming console. It can easily be plugged into your HDMI-enabled TV (with a couple of controllers) to enable some head-to-head gaming with your friends. But if reliving your sniggering-teen Duke Nukem obsession isn't enough, Creoqode has built in a little extra utility into the device. Attach a monitor and keyboard and use it as a computer to surf the web, or – if you're a tinkerer – access the Raspberry Pi CM3L through the exposed GPIO pads and create your own mad projects using up to eight sensors or external components.
Plug the Lyra into your HDMI-enabled TV, add a couple of joysticks, and you've a retro-games console for everyone to enjoy Creoqode
Specs wise, the Lyra sports a Raspberry Pi CM3L, a 1.4-GHz 64-bit quad-core ARM CPU, 1 GB of RAM, 16 GB of (upgradable) SD Card storage, a 5-inch, 800 x 480-pixel TFT display, and a 3,000-mAh lithium-polymer battery. Audio is provided via the integrated speaker or a standard 3.5 mm audio jack, while video is supplied via DPI Interface and HDMI.
As you'd expect – or hope, for the less-technically confident among us – this elegant little device comes with a comprehensive tutorial series on the hardware, software and assembly, as well as instructions for installing your operating system of choice, and how to download and run video games. Just remember the legal aspects of ROM downloading.
The Lyra handheld game console, personal computer, entertainment system and tinkerer's plaything is available on Kickstarter, with pledges beginning at £149 (US$185) for the assemble-it-yourself version, or £179 (US$223) for the ready-to-go version. Worldwide shipping is available and the first orders are expected to begin around December this year.
Check out the promo video below to see Lyra in action.
Source: Kickstarter via Creoqode

Story 63
Janet Burns
Retail and delivery giants are raising the stakes in the ongoing, high-octane battle for consumer loyalty.
In May, Amazon and Walmart announced one after the other plans to offer one-day delivery, adding to shoppers' already plentiful options for fast, customized, increasingly on-demand products and services, from carrots and bottled water to bedroom suites.
Amazon also drew press that month for offering to "buy out" employees to help them start their own delivery operations in its network; both Amazon and Walmart have experimented is this area before, known as "last-mile" delivery (and Walmart + FedEx + Pizza Hut, among others; Amazon offered buy outs before, too).
In June, FedEx announced that it will no longer provide express shipping for Amazon, which has also made competitive gestures higher up in the delivery chain (e.g. its $1.5 billion-priced air hub). Uber also announced that its Chief Operating and Marketing Officers will depart, giving CEO Dara Khosrowshahi even more power over its vast Rides and Eats divisions.
They're the latest in a series of leaps that retail- and transport-geared firms have taken in recent years as booms in e-commerce, app-enabled services, and digital advertising have turned consumerism on its head. With their new ventures and investments, such companies seem to demonstrate belief that no price is too high for securing consumer loyalty (or, put another way, consumer dependence) while feeling out supply chains of the future.
See also: Amazon's Latest Targets Are Space, Shareholders, Musicians, And The Amazon
At its core, the ongoing delivery battle revolves around logistics: companies like Amazon, Wayfair, Uber, Walmart, and Target have recognized that, regardless of who actually creates the products they sell, the most powerful role in today-and-tomorrow's markets is having control over how those products get delivered, when, and to whom.
Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos, for one, seems to see no reason to change course. As CNBC reported, Bezos "quipped" onstage last week about the 10-year outlook of Amazon's e-commerce business, “Nobody’s going to say Jeff, I love Amazon, I just wish you’d deliver a little more slowly. I love Amazon, I just wish your prices were a little higher."
Such delivery programs do seem effective at netting customers. As the Motley Fool noted this month, eMarketer estimates that Amazon.com's market share has gone from 32% in 2016 to 38% this year; Walmart, the world's largest retailer when you're counting brick-and-mortar sales, grew its digital sales 40% last year, potentially bringing its market share from 3% to 4% since 2016.
According to some of the various kinds of workers who fulfill those orders, and to people tracking transport patterns, however, this trend may actually be taking investors and the public on a path toward greater income inequality, corporate disinterest, and eco-calamity — in other words, accelerating some of society's gravest threats at a cost we can't afford.
Janet Burns
Digital systems and easy-to-use customer interfaces aside, the process of actually getting the ordered items from A to B is an incredibly complicated, multifaceted one. It involves various kinds of workers performing tasks in different facilities along a carefully plotted timeline, with environmental factors, public safety and law, and many other issues taken into account.
And the fact is, there's a lot we don't know about how these companies plan to operate, what they've undertaken already, and what the impacts of these ventures will be. Seemingly, firms are still sorting out a lot of that for themselves.
Amazon, Walmart, Uber, and numerous others have described plans to cut down their operations' emissions and use street-friendly drones and/or robots in the decades to come. As of now, however, key technological and regulatory details for those plans, and data on the current and forecast carbon emissions of their operations, remain mostly unavailable.
Meanwhile, traffic studies in major US cities have consistently suggested our streets are increasingly clogged, and that many commercially used vehicles aren't optimized on the road. That includes vehicles used for transportation network companies like Uber and Lyft, but also trucks and other delivery vehicles, whose routes could either save customers time and exhaust or actually add to shoppers' carbon emissions, especially in lower-income neighborhoods where products tend to be stored.
See also: Uber And Lyft Won't Admit What They Are
When contacted about the environmental, traffic, and other impacts of their escalating delivery services, a representative for Target pointed to the Sustainable Operations section of the company's website, which describes its waste-reducing strategies and participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project, among other things. Uber and Wayfair did not respond to requests for comment.
Amazon, which has opted against participating in the Carbon Disclosure Project but recently announced its own system, supplied a comment for this article after it published.
“We’ve been able to expand the Prime 1-day offering because we’ve built our network over 20 years powered by incredible employees and state-of-the-art technology like Amazon Robotics to supercharge fast delivery, increase efficiency, lower prices and improve workplaces around the world,” it said.
“We are on a path to becoming the most sustainable retailer and cloud provider in the world, and will release our carbon footprint later this year.”
By email, a Walmart corporate spokesperson commented,
Over the last year, we’ve been focused on ensuring we have the right products in the right fulfillment centers based on where customers are located and what they are shopping for in order to get those items to them faster ... The proximity of these assets means we can cover less distance, use low-cost ground shipping without sacrificing speed, and offer customers more choices for how they want to receive their online orders – delivery to home or pick up in our stores. In terms of the cost benefit, we can’t disclose the financials, but our NextDay delivery is designed to cost us less. By mirroring our assortment and shipping from a single fulfillment center located closest to the customer, we can ship all the items in one box (or as few boxes as possible) and cover a shorter distance with our inexpensive ground shipping partners.
Workers also voice serious, escalating concerns about how Amazon, Uber, and others have attempted to jump into the logistics field. With each passing year, workers' calls for improved conditions and meaningful oversight seem to grow louder.
They include food delivery workers, drivers for TNCs like Uber and Lyft, and factory or warehouse workers for retailers like Amazon and Walmart. In the past few months, pilots who fly planes for Amazon Air also picketed twice over the difficult conditions they say they've had to endure since their airlines contracted with the e-commerce giant.
In April, members of the Airline Professionals Association Teamsters Local 1224 launched a new campaign website, Pilots Deserve Better, and formed a picket line near one of their hubs in Florence, Kentucky. In May, pilots for Atlas Air also picketed outside of Amazon's annual shareholder meeting, bearing the message that all this extra freight is pushing workers to the brink, and may even be pushing down wages in their industry.
(Courtesy Pilots Deserve Better)
It's not the first time that Amazon has been accused of having less-than-positive impacts on pay. As journalist Michael Sainato noted last year for The Guardian, for example,
In a 2017 corporate filing, Amazon reported that the median salary of its employees is $28,446, or roughly $13.68 an hour for full-time employees. Jeff Bezos makes more than that every nine seconds. In fact the very presence of Amazon warehouses in a given area may drive down local warehouse wages, according to the Economist, which cited declines of more than 30% in Lexington county, South Carolina, 17% in Chesterfield, Virginia, and 16% in Tracy, California.
In response to such criticisms, Amazon announced late last year that it would raise its minimum wage for all US employees to $15 per hour, and boost wages in the UK. “We listened to our critics, thought hard about what we wanted to do, and decided we want to lead,” Bezos stated at the time. “We’re excited about this change and encourage our competitors and other large employers to join us.”
Sainato, an investigative reporter who follows labor issues as well as large employers, recently detailed the steps and workers in Amazon's supply chain for Gizmodo. Among other things, he found that Amazon often relies on contracted and third-party workers for multiple steps in its chain, and uses leased spaces on airplanes and cargo ships to transfer its goods around the world; he also reported on multiple third-party job postings for work delivering Amazon packages, with pay rates below the $15-an-hour mark.
Sainato said in a Twitter message that the flip side of companies' fast service is the disservice it does to workers, in his view. "The delivery competition between Amazon, Wal-Mart, Uber, and other companies is entirely customer-centric," he wrote.
"That means workers will suffer most in the race to the bottom to minimize labor costs through mis-classifying workers as independent contractors, tip stealing, which numerous delivery companies have already been exposed in doing, and luring a workforce under false pretenses of decent wages when expenses like gas, mileage, and wear and tear are passed onto the employee, effectively reducing those wages to minimum-wage levels."
“We don’t recognize these allegations as an accurate portrayal of working at or with Amazon," Amazon responded in a comment for this article after it published. "Amazon is proud to have created thousands of roles – these are good jobs with highly competitive pay and full benefits. One of the reasons we’ve been able to attract so many people to join us is that our number one priority is to ensure a positive and safe working environment."
See also: While Uber Invests In Lobbying And AI, Drivers Are Fighting For Decent Pay
In response to US pilots' protests, Amazon suggested that it might have to reconsider its cargo contracts.
Atlas Air pilot Michael Russo, who also serves as strike chairman for the Airline Professionals Association, explained by phone that his employer's the one who needs to raise wages and improve working conditions, but that Amazon and others must acknowledge their role in workers' well-being, too.
"Amazon is either the most or one of the most powerful corporations in world history, and yet they seem to overly rely on gig or contract workers," Russo said. "Maybe that’s acceptable in certain segments of the industry — no disrespect to warehouse workers or truck drivers — but it takes many years of training, checking, and apprenticeship to become an airline pilot over the course of a career."
"Amazon is our biggest and most important customer, but they’re still the customer; we get paid by Atlas, and we want to participate in the success of that organization. The e-commerce revolution is being done on our backs, not to mention the backs of warehouse workers."
Unlike passenger airlines, Russo said, cargo airlines are also facing a unique set of problems with the rise of product delivery, as well as a continuing surge in work to be done.
For example, there's all those free returns. "People returning merchandise is a huge part of e-commerce, so what used to be the holiday rush or 'fourth quarter push' now extends all the way to February. This means working really difficult schedules, in the darkest times of year, in the worst weather."
See also: Amazon Boycott Unites Workers, Gamers, Shoppers For Prime Day Protest
Getty
For several years, airlines have also been having a harder time staffing cargo flights, Russo said. "The way that our companies have tried to keep up with everything is to stretch the operations thinner and thinner. A lot of the older pilots are retiring, and bigger airlines offering better work packages, like FedEx, United, Delta, and UPS, are taking nearly all of our younger, highly trained and educated crews."
The result, he said, is that cargo flights tend to having minimal crews of workers who are just starting out, aren't used to the demanding schedules and labor, and are unfamiliar with the airline employment standards of an earlier era. "This type of flying is not entry-level," Russo said.
"We’re also starting to have concerns about not just the viability of the operation, but pilot safety. The planes are old, and need a lot of maintenance. Our crews are fatigued, and they're being asked to work on their days off. That’s right now — not even during the holiday rush."
Russo went on, "If Amazon is serious about become a major logistics operator — they're extending projects into space, into the oceans, into airlines — they're going to have to broaden their sense of what it takes to staff that sort of an operation. It may be possible to find success with spending $10,000 to have guys drive a van around, but you can't do that with airlines, and it seems like how they get around [this fact] is by splitting up their contracts."
"My concern as an employee of the airline industry is that it has been captivated by what they call the 'Amazon effect' … [CEO Jeff] Bezos is not afraid to experiment and fail. This feels like a big experiment to me, which has got a lot of us along for the ride, and if it fails, we’re the ones that pay that price."
See also: Amazon Supplier Still Violating China Labor Laws, From Wages To Food, Watchdog Says
Russo also reflected on Amazon's ongoing expansion into empty shopping malls, which, like many warehouses being snapped up by retailers in major cities at present, it plans to use to store its available goods. "It seems a bit cynical to me," he added. "Soon your refrigerator will know what you need and place an order for someone to fill it, but in the meantime, people need to be able to go buy toilet paper and bread."
"I think what Amazon is trying to do in the airline industry is literally revolutionary," he added. "It's not like FedEx and UPS, where you're delivering to the customer. Amazon is essentially delivering to themselves: they're just moving merchandise around."
Iain Gold, Director of Strategic Research and Campaigns for the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, also emphasized by phone that companies' broader push for faster service doesn't always reflect what's involved in making 'on-demand everything' a reality.
"What you don't see, what isn't transparent, is what it takes to get that product to you to satisfy your convenience," said Gold, whose union includes thousands of UPS and DHL delivery workers. "If you knew the story behind the supply chain and the people who fill your order, you might think differently about your need to have it delivered in 48 hours or less."
"While Amazon continues to experiment with being able to have more control over the delivery of products, and not relying on the dominant delivery providers like USPS, UPS, and FedEx, what you’re seeing is growth," Gold explained.
See also: Drivers Plan Global Strike In Honor Of Uber's IPO
"So they’re relying on everybody else while also experimenting with new ways of delivering product and expanding their own network's delivery options that they have more control over; that includes testing different last-mile delivery options, whether it’s Flex, creating small businesses, or using small regional players."
The impact of holding up such giant operations is apparent for pilots and independent delivery associates, but also professional delivery drivers, Gold said. "[Drivers] under pressure face tough working conditions, high [road] speeds, bald tires on their vehicles; we see this in regional operators that are comparatively weak links in the chain, because they’re dealing with Amazon, Walmart, whoever. We monitor all these kinds of developments."
Because for now, at least, human hands and feet are very much necessary for delivering products to consumers and bringing passengers to their doors. As are small, medium, and individual operators, even within the operations of some of the world's largest and wealthiest companies.
Overall, Gold said, "Amazon is not afraid to pay a premium to disrupt an industry until it falls apart, and then ratchet up the prices. [The company] is trying to get everyone attached, and then once you're used to it, you’re already hooked."
It seems clear, in any case, that a growing number of large companies and their leaders may feel that way — about bold experiments and disrupting extant industries, the need to keep customers coming back, and the price they're willing to see us pay to get them there.
Janet Burns
[Updated at 6:00pm EDT to include a statement from a Walmart corporate spokesperson]
Correction: An earlier version of this story incorrectly characterized FedEx’s change to its shipping relationship with Amazon in June. It will no longer provide express shipping service for Amazon. Also, unions in Poland, not pilots for Amazon flights in that country, threatened strike action for higher pay in Amazon distribution centers. An incorrect sentence has been removed.

Story 64
(CNN) How can you help a friend who's going through a tough time? Offer to buy the next round of drinks, of course.
Now, you can do the same for federal employees forced to work -- or not work -- without pay during the partial government shutdown.
Pay it Furloughed is a crowdfunded website that lets anyone donate a beer for an impacted federal worker. As long as there are beers available, anyone with a government ID who can legally drink can down as many as they want at partner locations across Washington.
"Free beer makes everything a little bit better -- even a shutdown," the organization tweeted, along with a photo of "some furloughed federal employees enjoying free beer."
Free beer makes everything a little bit better -- even a shutdown. Here are some furloughed federal employees enjoying free beers @AtlasBrewWorks courtesy of your donations to @payitfurloughed. Thanks for your generosity! @MessHallDC @erickmsanchez @3advance #PayItFurloughed pic.twitter.com/cPdc6SZZjz — payitfurloughed (@payitfurloughed) January 15, 2019
Each beer costs $7.50, which covers the price of a drink, plus 10% for sales tax, credit card processing fees and website maintenance, according to the site, which tracks the number of available donations in real time.
Read More

Story 65
We took everything that we loved about ARK and put it in the largest game world ever for an action-based MMO. Jesse Rapczak
Studio Wildcard, the creator of survival game poster child ARK: Survival Evolved, is making a pirate-themed sandbox MMO where you can capture and govern entire islands, build and sail galleons, and then fight in massive sea battles against other players. It's EVE Online mashed with ARK, and it's releasing on Steam Early Access on December 13 for $30.
Atlas was just announced live onstage at The Game Awards, but I got the chance to visit Studio Wildcard earlier this month and experience it firsthand.
"We took everything that we loved about ARK and put it in the largest game world ever for an action-based MMO," Studio Wildcard co-founder Jesse Rapczak tells me. We're sitting in the conference room of Studio Wildcard's Seattle office, debriefing after an explosive fleet battle that ended when the last enemy player accidentally loosed a fire arrow at his own feet and burned to death. It's then that Rapczak says something I didn't expect: "We built some new technology that stitches together a world that's 1,200 times the size of a single ARK server."
That's Atlas at its simplest: A pirate-themed successor to ARK stretched over a massive swathe of ocean home to hundreds of islands. But Atlas' ambitions far exceed anything ARK tried to achieve. For one, it's truly an MMO where thousands of players can exist in one space together—and I mean together in the EVE Online sense of the word where everyone plays on one server, with some small caveats. Atlas will only have one PvP and one PvE server for each major region, so players won't be arbitrarily segregated across hundreds of identical servers as in World of Warcraft.
With just two choices of server to choose from, Rapczak is hoping that Atlas' PvP server will eventually mirror the smörgåsbord of political scheming and bloody warfare that makes EVE Online so fascinating. "We really expect people to take advantage of the large size of the world to stake their claim on parts of the map, establish a government, and build ships and outposts," Rapczak says.
But unlike EVE, you won't need to wrestle with an arcane user interface just to play it. For all that Atlas does, it's still deeply rooted in the first-person survival experience of ARK. That means chopping trees, taming wildlife, and managing basic systems like thirst and hunger while out at sea. That'll undoubtedly disappoint those who already don't like ARK—I was always indifferent to it—but once I took the helm of a brigantine, I didn't mind those similarities nearly as much.
A pirate's life for me
Atlas' simulation of life aboard a ship is about as authentic as it gets while still being fun. Similarly to Sea of Thieves, Atlas finds joy in emulating the little tasks that make a ship actually sail. Players can personally man cannons, unfurl and turn sails, or patch holes in their ship. On bigger ships, you'll need a coordinated team to manage everything, but Atlas also will let players hire NPC crew members to boss around. "A big part of the game is recruiting crew and keeping them paid and fed so you can actually drive these ships around," Rapczak explains. "And we've got a bunch of cool systems in the game for simplifying controls of your shipmates."
It's a system that builds off of ARK's dinosaur management feature to give you that same degree of control over your AI crew and their various stats. From the helm or lieutenant's post of my brigantine, I can command my crew to fire, repel invaders, and more. This theoretically makes Atlas more approachable to players who prefer to go it alone, but everyone can benefit from having a few AI squadmates on their ship.
Image 1 of 5 Image 2 of 5 Image 3 of 5 Image 4 of 5 Image 5 of 5
A big part of the game is recruiting crew and keeping them paid and fed so you can actually drive these ships around. Jesse Rapczak
While you can still build bases on land much like you would in ARK, Atlas' ships are just as customizable. At launch, there will be five size templates to choose from ranging from pitiful rafts all the way up to enormous galleons. Each template provides the base structure of the ship but players are free to customize parts of it how they can please. On the brigantine, for example, the deck had more than enough space to erect a watchtower or high walls that shield the crew from incoming fire. Likewise, players can carve out the space below the deck with stairs, ladders, and crew cabins in whatever layout they choose. Artistic minded players can go all out painting their ships crazy colors, while a special tool will let you import an emblem to proudly display anywhere you like (my brigantine sported PC Gamer's logo on its flags).
Just don't get too attached to your ship. If EVE Online taught me one lesson, it's that all good things come to a fiery, tragic end. During our mock battle, six ships squared off on a serene seas. While we maneuvered, cannons poked holes in each others' hulls until one by one ships started sinking. Exchanging cannon volleys and delegating repairs was fun, but it was much more exciting when two ships neared each other and each respective crew invaded the other ship. There's a bit of strategy to how PvP battles go down because dead players can always resurrect in beds hidden below deck. Destroying those beds first is always a good idea.
From the helm, I was given a bird's eye view of the chaos while I struggled to steer, which itself is no easy task. Rotating the sails to catch the wind is critical to keeping a ship's momentum going, and even though on-screen indicators display all of that information, it was still a tough challenge to properly steer. More than once I'd act as if I was playing Assassin's Creed Odyssey and try to turn my ship on a dime only to lose the wind entirely and end up a sitting duck for enemy ships. It's easy to see how skill and strategy will play a role in determining Atlas' most skilled captains.
Our battle out at sea was particularly cool because of the level of black-magic trickery going on behind the scenes to make Atlas work as a single server MMO. It's entire world is more like 1,200 different ARK servers stitched together on a grid spanning several biomes that range from frozen arctic wastes to white sand mediterranean beaches. Each grid contains a few individual, handcrafted islands and when you sail away from those to another grid of different islands you are also seamlessly transferring to a different server node. It's a setup similar to EVE Online's galaxy of New Eden only without hidden loading screens.
The end result is an enormous map that I imagine will be more than big enough to house the 50,000 players Atlas can support at one time if they're all spread out. Rapczak explains that this system also lets his team handle enormous battles more elegantly too. If players all pile into one grid to fight, Studio Wildcard can simply restrict access to that specific area for a time, forcing those late to the party to spread out and fight elsewhere. It's a problem that EVE Online has historically failed to solve. I'm not convinced that Atlas will fare any better if enough players decide it's time to brawl, but I'm keen to see what happens.
Here be monsters
When players first start a new character, they'll spawn into a one of a few freeport towns that double as a safe zone so they can learn the ropes and build a ship without immediately being blown up. Make no mistake, though: Atlas is a sandbox MMO in the true sense that there is little in the way of a linear story that players must follow.
Wildcard Studio co-founder Jeremy Stieglitz tells me that there's a main quest that involves travelling the entire scope of the world to collect nine artifacts and bring them to the center of the map where players can fight an enormous sea demon aboard their ships. Just don't expect to roll into villages and see a dozen golden checkmarks adorning the heads of its residents. "We're not going to [beat] Blizzard in terms of making content," Stieglitz says. "We're not the kings of making content, and I'd rather focus our capabilities on building systems, both gameplay systems and systems for players to own the world themselves."
Stieglitz mentions that Atlas will launch with a basic government system where players can claim ownership over a piece of land and prevent other players from building there. Within that domain, governing players can set taxation rates that automatically deducts a portion of all resources and treasure gathered there straight into their bank. "There's a real reason to become a benevolent government and own a huge swath of the world map but invite players to come in and ally with you and become serfs," Stieglitz says as an example.
If owning land isn't your thing, there's plenty of smaller distractions you can occupy your time with. At one point during our demo, we discovered a bottle with a randomly generated treasure map inside of it that led us on an adventure to the next island over. With our ships all but sunk, we constructed a raft and all piled on with one person manning the single sail while the rest of us used our keyboards to play musical instruments to pass the time. That's when a bunch of ghost ships appeared through the fog and began chasing us, leading to a tense fight that we barely survived aboard our rickety raft armed with a single cannon.
It was a very Sea of Thieves kind of moment, to be sure, but it felt different knowing this was happening in one tiny slice of a persistent, handcrafted world where our actions had consequences. If we lost the fight, there wouldn't be a new raft waiting for us when we respawned. I can't imagine the pain some players will feel watching dozens of hours of hard work slowly sink beneath the sea.
There's plenty of other PvE pursuits too. Like ARK, you can tame and ride various animals, build yourself a nice home, or explore the massive world and discover all manner of secrets or rare resources to trade with other players. And because Atlas is in Early Access, new features will hopefully arrive at a steady pace.
It's here, talking about the future of Atlas, that both Rapczak and Stieglitz get the most excited. After they explain some of the batshit absurd plans they have, I can see why. For example, players in Atlas will age and eventually die if they get too old, forcing players to start a new character. But Stieglitz tells me the second phase of that feature will include a full systems where players can mate and birth children that they can "transfer" their stats to and take control of when they reach a certain age. Studio Wildcard is also working on a tarot card-based magic system, and land ownership will be expanded so players can even establish specific laws that have to be followed while in their territory. The idea is that, one day, players will log into Atlas and find a populated and lively world driven entirely by the whims of its players.
Appealing to their community's whims is especially notable because Studio Wildcard will also be releasing all of the dev tools for Atlas so that players can make their own servers—an extremely uncommon thing for an MMO. Using either a provided dev kit or the Unreal Engine, players can resculpt the landscape, create their own mods, and host their own Atlas servers at no extra charge beyond the cost of server hosting.
Blood in the water
Of course, it's hard not to talk about Studio Wildcard without being mindful of how many times they pissed off their community. Whether it was sudden changes in the price of ARK , the release of paid-DLC when ARK was still in beta , or just the ongoing struggle to get it to run passably well , Studio Wildcard consistently courted controversy in the two years it took ARK to actually launch. Are players ready to start over with an entirely new Early Access game?
When asked, Stieglitz and Rapczak don't try and wiggle away from the question. "We made snap decisions without discussing them with the community first," Stieglitz admits of ARK's turbulent development. It's a mistake he doesn't want to make again, which is why Studio Wildcard is being more upfront with their long term plans for Atlas.
The world of Atlas is obviously going to grow, but it should grow for everybody. Jeremy Stieglitz
Stieglitz says Atlas will likely be in Early Access for two years or longer. It will not have any paid DLC or expansions because "the world of Atlas is obviously going to grow, but it should grow for everybody." To help cover the cost of development, though, Atlas will eventually add cosmetic microtransactions before leaving Early Access. The idea, at this time, is that players will be able to buy outfits and decorations but in-game methods will be available to "grind" for these items. And though Atlas only costs $30 right now, it will eventually cost $60 when it leaves Early Access.
As for performance, Stieglitz contends that "at launch Atlas will run better than ARK does now" and will continue to improve from there. Part of that is due to improvements made to both the Unreal Engine and Studio Wildcard's own code, but Rapczak also says that, no surprise here, open sea is a lot easier to render than dense jungles.
We'll have to wait until December 13 to find out whether Stieglitz's claim about Atlas' performance is true. But any reservations I have about Studio Wildcard are eclipsed by the enormous potential Atlas has to do something interesting and new in an increasingly stagnant genre. I've seen firsthand the kind of wonderful and bizarre stories players create in ARK—and that was just on a single server with 50 people. If Atlas proves just as popular, I can't imagine what kind of wild shenanigans 50,000 players will get up to.
Atlas will launch on Steam Early Access on December 13. Check out its Steam page here.

Story 66
A low-income apartment complex in Charleston, South Carolina. Cities in the Southeast has the lowest rates of social mobility in the U.S., according to the "Opportunity Atlas" developed by Harvard economist Raj Chetty. Robert Ray/AP
A low-cost program created by Raj Chetty’s Opportunity Insights research group shows dramatic improvements in social mobility for low-income families in Seattle.
Housing vouchers help millions of American families weather the crushing experience of poverty. With housing choice vouchers, low-income households receive federal aid to pay their rent. Also known as Section 8, the program has been a simple and effective alternative to America’s troubled experiment with public housing. But Section 8 is showing its age. Landlords hold a great deal of sway over the system: They decide who signs a lease (and who doesn’t). When a woman in McKinney, Texas, shouted at black children at a public pool to “Go back to your Section 8 homes!” in 2015, it offered a typical illustration of how bias can undermine the program. While housing vouchers are supposed to allow recipients to be able to choose where to live, most of the 2.2 million families who receive housing choice vouchers are packed into high-poverty areas.
A new study from Seattle, co-authored by economist Raj Chetty and led by his Harvard-based research team Opportunity Insights, offers a research framework for overcoming the barriers faced by voucher holders. An experiment conducted by the researchers with public housing agencies in Seattle shows that just by adding a few additional services, implemented at low cost, vouchers can work much more effectively as a bridge to opportunity. The findings could point to a brighter future for low-income families, especially those headed up by single parents. The results are impressive: The Seattle experiment, part of an ongoing project called Creating Moves to Opportunity, shows a 40 percent boost in the share of families with vouchers who were able to move to better neighborhoods. Access to opportunity is a towering obstacle for voucher holders. In American cities that have become ever-more segregated by race and wealth, good schools, green spaces, lower crime, and public amenities tends to cluster in exclusive and mostly white bastions of privilege. That exclusivity has serious impacts, especially on the lives of children: Exposure to better neighborhoods (as opposed to exposure to poverty) makes a world of difference in a child’s future earnings and education level. But so far, moving vulnerable families into higher-opportunity neighborhoods has proved to be a formidable challenge. A 10-year demonstration conducted by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development in the 1990s called Moving to Opportunity showed that families with vouchers who moved to low-poverty areas enjoyed mental health benefits and a better economic outlook for their children. However, the HUD experiment required families to move to low-poverty areas; it did not show why families might choose not to, or what forces might keep them out.
In reality, landlords often steer tenants with vouchers elsewhere, or families with vouchers have decided to stay away, remaining instead in districts with concentrated poverty or little opportunity. Instead of offering a solution, housing vouchers have been subsumed by the same vicious cycles of poverty and structural segregation. The Seattle experiment offers hope for a way forward. By educating both tenants and landlords about the possibilities under the federal vouchers program, the researchers show a massive uptick in the number of families who choose to rent in high-opportunity neighborhoods—and in the share of landlords willing to rent to families with vouchers. Cities are changing fast. Keep up with the CityLab Daily newsletter. The best way to follow issues you care about. Subscribe Loading... Working with the Seattle Housing Authority and King County Housing Authority, researchers at Opportunity Insights set up a randomized control trial. Some low-income families coming off the waitlist for a first-time housing voucher would participate in the intervention, receiving assistance at various levels. Other similar families would simply get the voucher: business as usual. The families, predominantly headed up by single parents, had average household incomes of $19,600. Housing Choice Vouchers recipients pay 30 percent of their income toward the rent, while the voucher makes up the rest—in this case, an average of $1,500 per month. (More than 2.8 million families are on waitlists for vouchers.) Just 14 percent of the control group of families who received only the voucher moved into high-opportunity neighborhoods in Seattle over a one-year period. But among families participating in the trial, 54 percent moved into high-opportunity neighborhoods—a whopping 40 percent improvement. Chetty calls it the largest effect he has ever seen in a social science demonstration. “Research has shown this tremendous disparity in the likelihood of living out the American dream across space,” says Christopher Palmer, assistant professor of finance at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. “There’s tremendous differences in where you grow up that help determine the likelihood that you will have a higher standard of living than your parents did when you grow up.”
Palmer adds, “It just begs the question: What can be done? Isn’t there something we can do?” The Creating Moves to Opportunity intervention has two faces, with services designed for families and others for property managers. The family-facing services include information about the benefits for children who grow up in high-opportunity areas. So-called family navigators provide coaching for families when they’re filling out rental applications and searching for houses. These staffers help families build a rental resume to tell their housing history, and to explain difficult circumstances such as eviction or irregular income that might ward off potential landlords. And the intervention provides cash: cash for application fees, cash for rental insurance, cash for security deposits, cash for first or last months’ rent, cash for whatever’s needed to overcome barriers. “We’re learning that there’s something that can be done, and the status quo doesn’t have to curtail these families’ freedom.” For the landlord-facing services, the researchers contracted with Interim, a Seattle nonprofit community development authority and housing justice organization, to reach out to property managers in the area. Landlords hold any number of misgivings about housing vouchers, from fears that the inspections process might be too onerous to dread over dealing with a federal bureaucracy. (Racial bias is a problem as well, of course.) Housing navigators act as a go-between, dealing with the families, housing agencies, and landlords, giving everyone involved a phone number to call. The Creating Moves to Opportunity experiment offers landlords a loss-mitigation fund. Housing navigators explain to landlords in high-opportunity neighborhoods that losses not covered by a tenant’s security deposit would be covered through the fund. Landlords also learn about discrimination based on source of income, which is illegal in Washington and many other jurisdictions. (Illegal, but difficult to enforce.) These educational interactions double as a strategy to build a pool of landlords willing to rent to voucher holders, a resource that further facilitates moves.
The program cost is low—$2,600 per family per voucher issued, on average. That’s just a fraction of the cost of the voucher itself. Given an average voucher tenure of 7 years for families with children, the cost of the program as a share of the overall lifetime cost of a voucher is 2.2 percent—a bargain, especially if you consider the massive benefit that families receive. “The intervention is close to paying for itself,” co-author Peter Bergman of Teachers College, Columbia University said in a statement. Giving families with vouchers access to greater opportunity doesn’t necessarily mean moving into areas that are exclusive (although some of the families in Seattle did so). Neighborhoods that look demographically similar may offer vastly different outcomes, based on surface-level indicators but also social-cohesion factors that are harder to quantify. A voucher-mobility experiment can only tell so much about the actual, direct, lived experiences of the low-income families involved. To learn from families who have made the jump, the study also features a qualitative assessment. Many of the families who participated in the Seattle experiment also joined the qualitative study, an effort to figure out what worked and why. Using mixed research methods helps to determine what features work best for families, says Stefanie DeLuca, sociology professor at Johns Hopkins University (and a leading researcher on landlord bias toward the Section 8 program). The Moving to Opportunity study of the 1990s showed that there could be mental health benefits from moving out of neighborhoods with high poverty, for example, but it didn’t explain why families make the choices they do or what factors might guide their decisions. In the HUD trial, participants were given modest counseling, but little assistance beyond that. Multigenerational poverty isn’t a problem that can be reduced to a single variable; data alone can’t describe all the factors involved.
“This kind of interview treats families who are part of the program as experts who we are able to learn from,” DeLuca says. The qualitative study was built on narrative interviewing: a semi-structured conversational method that incorporates research questions. The researchers also conducted intake sessions with staff. “We hope it feels like the opposite of a survey,” DeLuca says. “We don’t want there to be a couple of answers we’re hoping to hear. We want to hear answers we never even thought of.” What’s striking so far, DeLuca says, is how much relief Seattle families report from working with staff on the difficult problem of finding a place to live. Many participants come to the voucher program feeling pessimistic and defeated, especially those with poor credit histories and experience with discrimination from landlords. Most of the families involved in the Seattle trial (62 percent) report a “very high” level of satisfaction with their neighborhood moves compared with those in the control group (29 percent). “These experiences create a ‘boost’ in confidence, as a couple of moms called it, where they feel that they can actually call landlords and know what to say,” DeLuca says. On the landlord-facing side, the housing navigators who broker with landlords and property managers say that landlords appreciate simply being able to call knowledgable administrators. Just as families respond well to feeling support and respect in situations that are often demeaning, landlords like dealing with staff who can answer their questions about vouchers.
The Seattle study has enormous ramification for how policymakers can improve housing aid. For researchers, the next step is to further refine the study, to see whether any single factor is more associated with moves to opportunity—whether landlord education is the ticket, for example, or a combination of approaches that works best. Extending the research to other jurisdictions is important to fine out whether there’s some “secret sauce” in Seattle that made such large gains possible, Palmer says. In 2018, Congress passed the Housing Choice Voucher Mobility Demonstration Act, which authorizes public housing agencies around the country to conduct housing mobility pilots. Opportunity Insights has a good idea of where these demonstrations will bear fruit: The organization’s “Opportunity Atlas” maps out troves of data on household income, race, and neighborhood characteristics. Other research shows just how segregated the distribution of housing vouchers really is. A mapping tool from the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities and the Poverty & Race Research Action Council reveals that while voucher-affordable rental units can be found all over most metro areas, families with vouchers tend to live in neighborhoods with limited access to jobs, quality education, or public transit. There are any number of ways that policymakers can shore up the Section 8 program. Using Small Area Fair Market Rents (as opposed to median income) to calculate voucher value is one way to make vouchers go further. Banning landlord discrimination based on source of income is another. Helping voucher users and landlords figure out how to use these vouchers is still another. At least one of the Democratic candidates running for president, former HUD Secretary Julián Castro, wants to turn Section 8 into an entitlement, meaning that everyone who qualifies would receive housing aid.
To be sure, some current leaders appear determined to make other, less helpful changes to the program. The Trump administration’s threats to cut its budget have pushed housing authorities to cap the value of vouchers or hold back on issuing new vouchers as families exit the program. HUD Secretary Ben Carson’s plan to eject families with mixed citizenship status from housing aid could displace more than 55,000 children who are U.S. citizens. More than one-third of the families in the Seattle trial are headed by immigrants. One of the central criticisms of the Moving to Opportunity study in the ‘90s is sometimes lobbed at Chetty’s work: namely, that telling people where to live ignores all the reasons they might prefer to stay put. Quality-of-life factors like community, history, and roots are hard to measure. With the Creating Moves to Opportunity project in Seattle, it’s still up to families to decide where they live. The goal was to give them more options. “Maybe there’s a set of constraints and obstacles and frictions and barriers that are preventing [families with vouchers] from really having this choice and opportunity to live in such a place,” Palmer says. “Or maybe they just really like living where they live, and who are we to say that they shouldn’t live there just because we measure one particular dimension of neighborhood quality that seems to suggest that some neighborhoods are better than others?”
He adds, “If there are frictions and barriers that can be solved that would lead people to make different choices, that’s tremendously exciting from a policy perspective. In that case, we’re learning that there’s something that can be done, and the status quo doesn’t have to curtail these families’ freedom.” The researchers will next try to duplicate their success in Seattle in a very different city: Charlotte, North Carolina. Back in 2014, when Chetty first released his geographic study on intergenerational mobility, Charlotte ranked dead last among large cities in the U.S.: 50 out of 50. So the city assembled a task force to address its social mobility challenges and along the way partnered with Chetty to design a follow-up experiment. “What we’ve discovered is that [Charlotte] is a great place to move to, but not a great place to be born if you’re born into a low-income community,” says Brian Collier, executive vice president at the Foundation for the Carolinas.
Charlotte’s experiment will test the Seattle framework in a region with distinct poverty challenges. In Chetty’s study, the South as a whole and the Southeast in particular showed very few bright spots in terms of mobility; Charlotte ranked worst, but not much worse than cities such as Atlanta or Memphis. In Charlotte in particular, racial segregation follows a different pattern. Instead of an urban core surrounded by inner-ring poverty and then suburban affluence—a typical modern configuration—Charlotte has something like a continuous wedge of affluence cutting through the city.
“You can literally drive home to work in many cases and never see areas of real poverty,” Collier says. “One, you have a perception issue in the community that poverty doesn’t exist. Two, you have this highly, highly segregated community, where the schools are highly segregated, the housing is highly segregated, which in my opinion leads to these really negative results.” He adds, “You contrast that with a national perspective that Charlotte is a desirable place to move to and to raise a family.” Addressing the poverty crisis in America is a task that underscores most (if not every!) challenge cities face today. Recent research on gentrification finds that, in New York, displacement is a reality for low-income families and vulnerable children, whether they’re born into neighborhoods that gentrify or not. Across the country, original residents who stay in improving neighborhoods (in terms of wealth and safety) enjoy the benefits of lower exposure to poverty. Many do not get the chance. Chetty’s research has shown that only half of Americans born after 1980 are better off than their parents, economically speaking.
Poverty has stratified opportunity across America. Halting efforts of the federal government to break the grip of segregation haven’t worked. The Seattle findings show that with just a small boost, housing vouchers could be a much more useful tool to ensure that low-income families don’t slide further into multigenerational poverty. Enabling more low-income families to move into better areas is a way to combat the worst winner-take-all effects of segregation, gentrification, and displacement. “What makes it effective is not just that the money is provided but that it’s administered in just the right way,” DeLuca says. “The word that comes to mind is ‘relief.’”

Story 67
Updated 8:00 p.m. Eastern with NASA statement.
WASHINGTON — SpaceX has filed a protest over the award of a launch contract to United Launch Alliance for a NASA planetary science mission, claiming it could carry out the mission for significantly less money.
The protest, filed with the Government Accountability Office (GAO) Feb. 11, is regarding a NASA procurement formally known as RLSP-35. That contract is for the launch of the Lucy mission to the Trojan asteroids of Jupiter, awarded by NASA to ULA Jan. 31 at a total cost to the agency of $148.3 million.
The GAO documents did not disclose additional information about the protest, other than the office has until May 22 to render a decision. NASA said that, as a result of the protest, it’s halted work on the ULA contract.
“NASA has issued a stop work order on the agency’s Lucy mission after a protest of the contract award was filed with the Government Accountability Office,” agency spokesperson Tracy Young said Feb. 13. “NASA is always cognizant of its mission schedule, but we are not able to comment on pending litigation.”
SpaceX confirmed that the company was protesting the contract. “Since SpaceX has started launching missions for NASA, this is the first time the company has challenged one of the agency’s award decisions,” a company spokesperson said in a statement to SpaceNews.
“SpaceX offered a solution with extraordinarily high confidence of mission success at a price dramatically lower than the award amount, so we believe the decision to pay vastly more to Boeing and Lockheed for the same mission was therefore not in the best interest of the agency or the American taxpayers,” the spokesperson added. ULA is a joint venture of Boeing and Lockheed Martin.
NASA said at the time of the award that it was a competitive procurement, but did not disclose the number or identity of bidders. SpaceX did not comment at that time if it submitted a bid, although industry sources, speaking on background, said that SpaceX proposed launching the mission on a fully expendable Falcon 9 rocket in order to maximize performance.
A key factor in the decision to award the contract to ULA was schedule certainty. Lucy has a complex mission profile with a series of flybys in order to visit several asteroid either leading or following Jupiter in its orbit around the sun. That results in a launch window that is open for only about 20 days in October 2021. Should the launch miss that window, the mission cannot be flown as currently planned.
ULA emphasized its adherence to schedule in its announcement of the contract. “This mission has a once-in-a-lifetime planetary launch window, and Atlas V’s world-leading schedule certainty, coupled with our reliability and performance provided the optimal vehicle for this mission,” Tory Bruno, president and chief executive of ULA, said in a Jan. 31 statement about the launch award.
“ULA entered into an open competition for NASA’s Lucy spacecraft and was honored to be awarded this important science mission,” ULA said in a Feb. 13 statement to SpaceNews. “This interplanetary mission has an extremely narrow launch window in order to reach all of the desired planetary bodies and accomplish the science objectives. If Lucy misses this launch window, the full mission cannot be accomplished for decades.

Story 68
Families of Atlas Air victims return to plane crash site to pay respects, lay wreath
As an investigation into the crash continues, family members of those three on board went to the crash site near Anahuac and laid three wreaths in the murky water Wednesday. As an investigation into the crash continues, family members of those three on board went to the crash site near Anahuac and laid three wreaths in the murky water Wednesday. Photo: Chambers County Sheriff's Office Photo: Chambers County Sheriff's Office Image 1 of / 55 Caption Close Families of Atlas Air victims return to plane crash site to pay respects, lay wreath 1 / 55 Back to Gallery
Family members of the three men killed in the Amazon plane crash laid wreaths in memory of their loved ones in Trinity Bay.
Capt. Sean Archuleta, First Officer Conrad Jules Aska and Capt. Ricky Blakely were all killed when Atlas Air flight 3591 plunged into Trinity Bay around noon Saturday. They were the only people onboard the plane.
As an investigation into the crash continues, family members of those three on board went to the crash site near Anahuac and laid three wreaths in the murky water Wednesday.
"Our thoughts and prayers are with families," the Chambers County Sheriff's Office said in a Facebook post.
As of Thursday afternoon, only the bodies of Archuleta and Aska were recovered and positively identified. Authorities have recovered a third set of remains, although they have yet to be positively identified.
Jay R. Jordan covers breaking news in the Houston area. Read him on our breaking news site, Chron.com, and our subscriber site, HoustonChronicle.com | Follow him on Twitter at @JayRJordan | Email him at jay.jordan@chron.com | Text CHRON to 77453 to receive breaking news alerts by text message

Story 69
Federal investigators at the site in Houston where an Atlas Air 767 crashed in February. Photo: NTSB
A few weeks ago a Boeing jet was maneuvering near an airport when it abruptly nosedived and plowed into the ground at tremendous speed, killing everyone aboard. This was not the Ethiopian Airlines crash on March 10 that has transfixed the world, however. It was an American plane, a 767, and its destruction in a muddy bay near Houston remains even more mysterious and, consequently, potentially more disturbing in its long-term implications.
At 12:30 p.m. on February 3, Atlas Air Flight 3591 was near the end of a flight from Miami to Houston’s George Bush Intercontinental Airport, carrying cargo for Amazon and the U.S. Postal Service. Two pilots were at the controls and another was riding as a passenger. A band of stormy weather lay across the route, and as the plane was descending from 8,500 feet, air traffic control advised the pilots to turn left from a northerly heading, in order to get around a band of precipitation. A different controller then said that they’d be given vectors to clear skies. One of the pilots replied, “Okay.”
A few seconds later, the plane hit a patch of rough air. For reasons that are unknown, the flight crew throttled the engines up to full thrust, and then after the plane pitched slightly up, pushed the controls sharply forward until the plane was descending at a 49-degree angle — about what you’d encounter on the steepest of ski runs. The plane kept diving, even as cockpit warning systems called for the pilots to pull up. Security-cam footage shows the plane plummeting from 6,000 feet:
Eighteen seconds after the trouble started, the plane smashed into the muddy waters of Trinity Bay, killing everyone aboard.
A preliminary report by the National Transportation Safety Board on the incident caused a stir when it cited “control input” as the cause for the steep dive. Was this a case of pilot suicide, like the Germanwings pilot who programmed his Airbus A320 to fly into the side of a mountain in 2015? But it’s hard to imagine that, in the midst of trying to maneuver through and around bad weather, a pilot suddenly decided to commit suicide.
A revised version of the NTSB report changed the language to “a nose-down elevator deflection,” which seemed to move responsibility away from the human pilots and raised the possibility that a malfunction, perhaps of the autopilot, could have been responsible. But there are no known autopilot modes that would behave like this.
In online pilot discussion forums, a third idea has been gaining adherents: that the pilots succumbed to a phenomenon called somatogravic illusion, in which lateral acceleration due to engine thrust creates the sensation that one is tipping backward in one’s seat. The effect is particularly strong when a plane is lightly loaded, as it would be at the end of a long flight when the fuel tanks are mostly empty, and in conditions of poor visibility, as Atlas Air 3591 was as it worked its way through bands of bad weather.
The idea is that perhaps one of the pilots accidentally or in response to wind shear set the engines to full power, and then believed that the plane had become dangerously nose-high and so pushed forward on the controls. This would cause a low-g sensation that might have been so disorienting that by the time the plane came barreling out of the bottom of the clouds there wasn’t enough time to pull out of the dive.
It has been speculated that this might have been the cause of another bizarre and officially unsolved accident from three years ago: Flydubai Flight 981, which crashed 2016 in Rostov-on-Don, Russia. That plane had been returning Russian vacationers from Dubai when it encountered bad weather and was unable to land. After circling for an hour and a half, the pilots attempted to land, then aborted the attempt, came around again for another attempt, and then aborted again. After climbing sharply, the plane pitched forward into a steep dive and smashed into the edge of the runway, killing all 62 people aboard.
The crash of two 737 Max airplanes — Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302 and Lion Air Flight 610 — in quick succession is horrific, but in a way, this kind of disaster shows how the system is supposed to work: a mishap occurs, officials determine what happened, and then the problem is fixed so that future air travel will be safer. While it’s still too early to draw any kind of conclusions about Atlas Air 3591, the possibility exists that a firm conclusion will never be drawn — and if it is, the cause could turn out not to be a design flaw or software malfunction that can be rectified, but a basic shortcoming in human perception and psychology that cannot be fixed as long as humans are entrusted with the control of airplanes.

Story 70
Pemex could receive $7 billion to pay ballooning debt
By Nacha Cattan on 3/24/2019
MEXICO CITY (Bloomberg) -- Bankers in Guayaberas huddled in Acapulco to roll out a new online payment system and to pledge financial inclusion. But all anyone could talk about in the corridors was the nation’s ailing oil company, Pemex, and a new plan to try and save it.

It began with news reports that Mexico would dip into a stabilization fund to pay some Pemex debt. Then Deputy Finance Minister Arturo Herrera told Bloomberg News this would give the state-owned oil producer as much as $7 billion to face debt obligations over the next year and a half.

Central bank Governor Alejandro Diaz de Leon was bombarded with questions from media about the fund story, which graced the front pages of financial newspapers Friday, and it was followed by research notes from banks. The new payment system known as CoDi became second-tier news. Diaz de Leon chose to respectfully deflect reporters’ queries until more details were on hand, which are expected in about two weeks. He told Bloomberg News he’s looking for "sustainable" solutions to Pemex’s ballooning debt load.

Finally, Finance Minister Carlos Urzua explained that he’ll seek to change the law so that the Oil Revenue Stabilization Fund can be used to prevent Pemex from having to go to market to refinance its debt this year at high costs. Bond yields have soared following a two-level credit downgrade by Fitch Ratings in January as the oil major’s debt load hit $108 billion.
Click here to read more about Pemex's problems.
Read about AMLO's efforts to save Pemex
‘Isn’t the best’

This could mean using $6 billion to $7 billion from the fund, Urzua said, although the plan is still being considered. After all, if rescue announcements themselves help Pemex bonds, refinancing might end up being more doable this year. Longer term, Urzua said Pemex must produce a credible business plan, which he expects late in April or early May.

"Pemex must show that it really has a very robust business plan in the mid- and long-term," Urzua said. "At this point, the risk perception that global investors have about Pemex isn’t the best," he said.

The reaction to the plan has been mixed. Banorte said in a research note that using the fund known as FEIP will help generate confidence among public investors and the $7 billion would cover 73% of 2019 maturities. JPMorgan Chase & Co. wrote it represents a longer-term aid for the company but implications for Pemex’s credit ratings remains uncertain.

While it may delay downgrades "we do not believe that this support is sufficient to justify a re-notching of Pemex ratings higher relative to the sovereign at either Fitch or Moody’s," JPMorgan writes. "It is insufficient to allow for further investment in upstream capex to maintenance levels, appears to be a one-off capital injection or liquidity boost rather than a structural reduction in the onerous government take, and does not increase confidence therefore that production declines may stabilize."

Yields fell on Pemex dollar bonds due in 2027 to as low as 6.20%, the lowest in five months
Related News ///
FROM THE ARCHIVE ///

Story 71
Amazon has rapidly expanded its internal shipping services as the company shifts toward one-day delivery shipping from its default two-day shipping service. The company is pledging to spend $800 million this quarter to achieve one-day delivery as the default shipping option for all prime members. But this planned growth has incited concerns from workers, contract delivery carriers, and logistics analysts over how Amazon is seeking to dominate another sector of the economy.
“Jeff Bezos wants Amazon to be the core infrastructure on which everyone depends, and then use this power to exclude competitors and privilege his own businesses,” said Matthew Stoller, a fellow at the anti-monopoly non-profit Open Markets Institute, on Amazon’s business model. “He doesn’t seek to run a business, but to govern all commerce.”
On Amazon’s Time At the beating heart of Amazon’s unstoppable ecommerce expansion is a very basic promise: jobs. Read more
Stacy Mitchell, co-director of the non-profit advocacy group Institute for Local Self Reliance, added, “This is essentially a company that’s set out to be and own the infrastructure for 21st century commerce and the shipping is another piece of that.” She cited Amazon’s current relationships with manufacturers and retailers enable it to have leverage in compelling the same businesses to use its shipping services.
This quest for dominance furthers concerns over the economic power Amazon exerts over its workers, its competitors, and the foundations of the online retail marketplace as a whole.
Last-mile delivery
The existing shipping infrastructure owned by Amazon already includes ocean shipping licenses from China to the U.S, a recently launched shipping trucking brokerage platform, and last-mile gig delivery operations such as Amazon Flex services, Amazon Fresh, Prime Now, Shipping with Amazon, and food delivery services primarily conducted by independent contractors.
Advertisement
Shortly after Amazon announced plans in April 2019 to expedite shipping to customers, Amazon announced incentives of $10,000 and three months salary for current employees to quit and start up their own package delivery service in partnership with the company’s delivery service partner program.
“As soon as we clock in, we’re pushing our bodies and minds to the limit on these machines, feeling like robots a lot of the time getting the stuff out.”
“Amazon, by not employing the small business owners directly, has a lot of leverage over them,” said Mitchell, who noted that Amazon’s use of independent contractors is undercutting unionized, higher paid workforces at UPS and the United States Postal Service. “It’s not an independent business. You can only use those Amazon trucks to do Amazon delivery. Your only client is Amazon. It’s a way for Amazon to get this work done at an arm’s length with the contractor relationship.” (After publication Amazon asked us to clarify that they are legally an independent business.)
Many of those independent contractors who have driven for divisions of Amazon delivery services have already experienced the negative impacts of Amazon’s leverage over independent contractors completely reliant on them for business.
Several contractors around the United States are advertising jobs to deliver for Amazon that list wages lower than $15 an hour, despite Amazon setting a $15 minimum wage last year for all employees, including seasonal and workers hired through temp agencies.
Advertisement
A former driver for an Amazon delivery contractor in New Jersey noted many of the jobs that list hourly wages of $15 an hour or more are often much less. The driver noted the contractor paid workers a flat rate per day and regardless of the hours worked, the daily pay rate always stayed the same. Current job listings for contractors delivering Amazon products cite daily pay rates and note “your wage is up to you!”
In 2016, Vanessa Boggs started working as an Amazon Flex driver in Tampa, Florida, when the service was first introduced to the region. She explained when the flex service first started, drivers received $18 an hour plus tips. Since then, along with the reported absorption of the tips towards drivers’ base pay, Boggs felt that there were myriad reasons why the work opportunity became less advantageous.
“As they hired on more people, it became harder to get work. I had to pay to get someone to get me shifts.”
“I loved driving when I did the two hour prime deliveries. But as they hired on more people, it became harder to get work. I had to pay to get someone to get me shifts,” Boggs said. Then the tips were taken away by Amazon, and Amazon began shifting work from delivery restaurant orders to delivery larger loads of Amazon products. She quit in early 2018, as the lack of tips, longer routes, and larger delivery loads made it untenable to continue driving. “Amazon doesn’t take care of their drivers. We didn’t care too much when the station first opened because we made our money, but then they started screwing us little by little.”
In Seattle, Washington, Philip Hasten stopped driving for Amazon a few months ago after about a year because the $18-an-hour wage wasn’t enough to offset the driving expenses of gas, and wear and tear on his vehicle. “Last time I delivered I made $9 an hour,” he said. “The wear on my car was excessive and they don’t help you do repairs.”
Photo : Getty
Advertisement
Amazon Air
As Amazon has continued to expand its last-mile delivery services, it’s also focusing on growing air cargo services, Amazon Air, to reduce its reliance on third-party carriers such as UPS, Fedex, and the United States Postal Service. FedEx recently declined to renew their shipping contract with Amazon. According to a Morgan Stanley report in December 2018, Amazon could save between $1 to $2 billion in 2019 as a result of handling more of its own air deliveries.
In April 2019, Amazon broke ground on the construction of a $1.5 billion air hub at Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky International Airport, expected to open in 2021. The ceremony included featuring two different types of aircraft used by Amazon, but pilots for Amazon Air, that uses planes leased and operated by Atlas Air, Southern Air, and Air Transport Services Group, argue they’re being shut out of Amazon’s growth as they work to negotiate a new union contract.
“We keep trying to engage the company to negotiate a fair contract so we can recruit enough qualified pilots to continue the expansion Amazon wants, yet the negotiation process continues to be stonewalled.”
“We want to see Amazon Prime Air succeed, we just want to be a part of that success. Up to this point, we feel shut out of the entire process,” said Captain Michael Russo, a pilot at Atlas Air for 15 years. Amazon Air pilots are represented by APA Teamsters Local 1224, which has called on the contractors to negotiate a new union contract to address concerns over low pay and working conditions. “We keep trying to engage the company to negotiate a fair contract so we can recruit enough qualified pilots to continue the expansion Amazon wants, yet the negotiation process continues to be stonewalled. We don’t understand how Atlas Air can serve a really big, important customer like Amazon and not include pilots in that process.”
Atlas Air pilot of nearly 20 years, Captain Bob Kirchner, cited that the contractor is expected to increase the number of aircraft for Amazon Air from 24 to 44 planes over the next year.
“Our competitors, who pay 60 percent or more, who have better working conditions and retirement plans, are taking away many of the experienced pilots at Atlas and its creating real stresses in the business,” Kirchner said. “Because the airline is not growing and people are leaving, we feel these are unachievable numbers right now. Unless they come in and fix it, we feel that Amazon is putting so much pressure on contractors, driving the cost down and putting financial pressure on them its becoming a safety problem.”
Advertisement
An Amazon spokesperson told me in an email, “We are disappointed with the current state of relations between Atlas and their pilot union. Neither side seems willing to work towards a reasonable compromise. This is contrary to the interests of Atlas, the pilots, and the customers they both serve.”
The pilots launched a website, PilotsDeserveBetter.org and have held several protests near the Amazon hub construction site to push their contract carriers to improve working conditions to meet Amazon Air’s expansion.
Ocean and trucking freight services
Amazon first acquired a license from the Federal Maritime Commission to transport goods from China to the United States in 2016, and have since taken steps towards controlling their whole supply chain.
From Amazon’s purchasing power to its widespread network of distribution centers, Amazon has significant advantages over competitors as it seeks to grow its shipping and logistics network.
Steve Ferreira, the CEO of Ocean Audit, recently noticed Amazon frontloaded its shipments from China to avoid paying tariffs raised by President Trump last month.
“Amazon tactically ordered 4 to 5 times it’s normal order pattern of the items it sells on Amazon.com, and imported them ahead of the Trump tariffs so that it can avoid having to pay the extra China tariff/duties that most customers, that don’t have the buying power or distribution space,” said Ferreira in an email. He noted Amazon now has the option to either pass the savings onto customers or sell those products at higher profits.
Advertisement
“This is essentially a company that’s set out to be and own the infrastructure for 21st century commerce and the shipping is another piece of that.”
Rather than owning ships themselves, Amazon has contracts with steamship lines to transfer goods and sells freight space to their customers, similar to their air cargo services and the trucking freight brokerage platform they launched earlier this year. XPO Logistics, one of the largest logistics companies in the United States, estimated a revenue loss of $600 million in the coming year as Amazon is insourcing the majority of its business with the company.
“Their goal is to create the ‘world’s most customer-centric company’—what better way to do this than to control their supply chain,” Cathy Roberson, founder of Atlanta based Logistics Trends & Insights, told me in an email. “I believe they will always have a need for their logistics partners and will not drop them entirely. However, because of the volumes, Amazon likely commands big discounts on shipping costs. How many of their logistics partners will be willing to do this is hard to say.”
How shipping expansion will impact Whole Foods and Amazon warehouses
Other sectors in Amazon’s business have felt the squeeze to increase the company’s market share. At Whole Foods, which Amazon acquired in 2017, changes to expedite shipping services are kept under tight wraps by management, though workers have reported store space has increasingly become focused on Amazon Prime business.
Photo : New Amazon Kiosk at Whole Foods. Photo sent in by an employee wishing to remain anonymous. Used with permission.
An anonymous Whole Foods worker in the Pacific Northwest who has worked for the company for several years explained the grocery store chain has shifted into a retail outpost for Amazon to push online sales and prime memberships. They provided a photo of a new Amazon kiosk, which are being constructed at several stores around their region. Amazon declined to provide further information on Amazon’s plan to expand prime services at Whole Foods.
Advertisement
A spokesperson for Amazon told me in an email, “We’ve been able to expand the Prime 1 day offering because we’ve built our network over 20 years powered by incredible employees and state-of-the-art technology like Amazon Robotics to supercharge fast delivery, increase efficiency, lower prices and improve workplaces around the world.”
At Amazon fulfillment centers, where workers over the past few years have reported widespread abuses and robotic, inhumane working conditions, it remains unclear how faster and insourced shipping services will impact warehouse workers, but labor unions and workers have criticized Amazon for working to expedite shipping without addressing working conditions.
“As soon as we clock in, we’re pushing our bodies and minds to the limit on these machines, feeling like robots a lot of the time getting the stuff out,” said William Stolz, a picker who gathers products for orders at an Amazon fulfillment center in Minneapolis, Minnesota who has worked there for about two years. “Amazon’s working conditions have to change if they’re going to actually start treating us like human beings with dignity. A lot of the jobs they have are still temporary. We want Amazon to provide safe and reliable jobs. Right now it’s not the case.”

Updated 06/21/2019 5:50pm: An Amazon spokesperson sent the following statement regarding the impact of one-day shipping on associates in Whole Foods and Amazon warehouses: “Increasing delivery speeds for customers did not change any individual performance expectations for associates in our Fulfillment and Delivery operations.” On working conditions, an Amazon spokesperson sent the following statement: “We don’t recognize these allegations as an accurate portrayal of working in our buildings. Amazon is proud to have created thousands of roles – these are good jobs with highly competitive pay and full benefits. One of the reasons we’ve been able to attract so many people to join us is that our number one priority is to ensure a positive and safe working environment. We encourage anyone to come see for themselves what it’s like to work at an Amazon fulfillment center by taking a tour.”
Corrections: Amazon has not eliminated the use of third parties in their shipping supply chain as previously stated, but have taken steps to further control it. After the publication of this article, Amazon stated that they do not “lease” space on ships but that they “have contracts” with freight services.
Advertisement

Story 72
Getty
It's that time of the year — and it's a good one if you dream of getting into the travel industry. Summer's here and companies around the world are posting openings for dream travel jobs and internships that will actually pay you to travel as well as contests that will give you the chance to travel the world for free. A handful of opportunities for aspiring travelers caught our attention. But don't delay: They won't be around for long. And keep checking back: I'll be adding more opportunities to the list.
READ MORE: "Ranked: The Best And Worst Airlines In America In 2019"
Getty
Shop Until You Drop
RetailMeNot is hiring its very first Shopping Specialist, a new position that will literally pay you to shop. The lucky shopaholic that gets the position will be given $5,000 to spend at top retailers while using and testing coupon codes and cash back offers from the RetailMeNot app and website. The best part: You can keep everything you buy. More information can be found here. Applications will be accepted until August 9, 2019.
Drink Rosé in France
Rosé All Day is casting for a new Rosé Influencer who will win $10,000 and go on a trip to France to stay in the brand’s chateau in the Languedoc region and take pictures of themselves drinking rosé. Running through Labor Day weekend, the casting takes place on Instagram and can be entered by anyone over 21. Those interested in participating need to follow @Rose_All_Day and tag the account in any rosé-related photos. The brand is looking for beautiful imagery, personality and clever captions. There is no limit to the number of entries: The more you choose to post about Rosé All Day, the more chances you have to win. Information about the contest can be found here. The deadline for entering is September 2, 2019.
Getty
Test Luxury Products with Hush Hush
Talk about a dream job: HushHush, which calls itself the “world’s leading luxury shopping marketplace,” is looking for a full-time luxury product tester who will get paid a whopping £75,000 ($97,000) per year to test supercars, yachts and private islands before they are put on sale to the public. According to the London-based HushHush, applicants will need to demonstrate "a passion for travel, art and fashion, have a keen eye for detail and an appreciation of the finer things in life." You can enter here.
Getty
Have Eternal Employment in Sweden
Here's another mind-bogglingly cool gig that will pay you approximately $2,320 a month for doing just about nothing for the rest of your life. Swedish artists Simon Goldin and Jakob Senneby have created a conceptual art project, that involves hiring someone to work at Korsvägen, a train station that will reopen in Gothenburg, Sweden, in 2026. According to the job description, there are no duties or responsibilities, other than turning on and off the lights in the station — and you can keep the job as long as you want. The goal of the artists who came up with the idea was for someone to "suffer from severe 'boreout' or embrace a state of perpetual leisure." Applications will be accepted starting in 2025.
Getty
Get Wild with Idaho Wild
Idaho Wild, an adventure-themed real estate and digital marketing company, is looking for someone to become the next "Lady Idaho Wild," traveling around Idaho with a videographer recording fun and unique experiences to share with the world. Experiences will range from rock climbing and zip lining to checking out restaurants and store openings. In addition, the job will include in-studio recording and covering new real estate listings. This is a full-time job, and candidates will also get a competitive salary of at least $40,000 a year, plus an expense account and other benefits. You can find a link to the job site here.
(Editor's note: The following applications have closed.)
Quit Your Job and Travel
When Eagle Creek learned that 700 million vacation hours a year go unused, the travel outfitter wanted to do something about it. Because travel makes you healthier and happier, makes you a more productive worker and makes you twice as likely to get a raise, Eagle Creek is encouraging people to take those vacation days and has built a resource site with sample out-of-office messages, resignation letters and useful tips like how to save for travel and couch surfing etiquette. The company has also launched a Quit Your Job tour, where it's searching for candidates who will do just that — and get to go on a trip in return. The Quit Your Job Tour has two more audition stops to go including Portland (July 13) and San Francisco (July 27). More information can be found here.
Photo courtesy of The Points Guy
Travel the World with The Points Guy
This one-of-a-kind dream travel internship will have you wishing you were a college student or a recent grad – or celebrating the fact that you are. The Points Guy (TPG) is known for equipping savvy travelers with advice on how to jet around the world in high style at minimal cost. Now, the editors are making that luxury lifestyle a reality for one lucky person with the ultimate summer job: You'll fly around the world reviewing flights, hotels, trains and more for TPG’s global audience. In addition to compensation for the position, the intern will earn tons of frequent flyer miles and hotel points enabling them to take a dream vacation — or three — at a later date. You can get more details and apply here.
Photo courtesy of Topdeck Travel
Be Spontaneous with Topdeck Travel
Topdeck Travel, a group tour operator that offers trips all over the world for 18- to 39-year-olds, is giving one lucky traveler a free journey. But here’s the catch: They won’t say where you're going. In the spirit of spontaneity, Topdeck is looking for true thrillseekers, but you'll have to prove it. You have until May 31, 2019, to submit your most spontaneous travel story to Topdeck via Facebook Messenger for your chance at this surprise trip of a lifetime. The winner will hit the road at any point between June and December, and there’s no shortage of possibilities as to where this mystery trip might go. Editor's note: The deadline for entering was May 31, 2019.
Chase the Sun with Days Inn by Wyndham
Do you have a passion for writing, photography and international travel? Get your application in right away for the "Sunternship" program from Days Inn by Wyndham. During this customizable, two week-long dream job, you'll take an international jaunt to a Days Inn destination of your choice and get a whopping $10,000 paycheck, a $150 daily travel stipend and free hotel accommodations and airfare. In return, your photos and travel insight will be featured on the brand's website and its social media channels. All it takes to apply is an original sun-filled photo and a 300-word entry describing your dream destination and why you belong there this summer. Apply here. Editor's note: The deadline for entering was May 24, 2019.
Getty
Sleep for Two Months with NASA
Feeling sleep deprived? You're in luck. NASA is paying people $18,500 to lie in bed for two months straight. It's part of something called AGBRESA (Artificial Gravity Bed Rest Study), which is looking at the impact of artificial gravity on the human body and being conducted with the European Space Agency at the German Aerospace Centre. There are openings for 12 women and 12 men, ages 24 to 55. There's just one hook: You need to speak German. Applications can be emailed to probanden-bit@dlr.de. Editor's note: The deadline for entering was May 24, 2019.
Photo courtesy of Behr Paint
Explore with Behr Paint
Behr Paint is looking for the first-ever Behr Color Explorer, which will offer one lucky candidate $10,000 to travel this summer and name the company's new paint colors. According to Behr, the ideal candidate will be "open to adventure, have a passion for unearthing new hues and fresh color schemes and keep their finger on the pulse of the latest trends." You'll travel across the United States and Canada in order to source inspiration. In addition to the $10,000 stipend, the role includes pre-paid flights, lodging and experiences. Applicants can apply here. Editor's note: The deadline for entering was May 15, 2019.
Fund Your First Journey with Atlas Obscura
Atlas Obscura — the definitive guide to the world’s hidden wonders — has announced First Journey, a contest to celebrate the site's 10th anniversary. The winner will receive $15,000 to take their first true journey, which the brand describes as "a slower, purposeful trip with a clear mission. One should return from both changed and ready to affect change." To enter, you must submit a proposed journey and an explanation of why this mission would be meaningful to you. You can find more information and details on how to enter here. Entrants will be notified in early June if they’ve made it to the semifinalist round and the winner will be announced in late July. Editor's note: The deadline for entering was May 1, 2019.
READ MORE:
• "35 Countries Where Americans Are Most Likely To Get Kidnapped"
• Airline Passenger Arrested After Complaining About Vomit On Seat. What Are Your Rights?
• "Ranked: 10 Happiest And 10 Saddest Countries In The World"
• "Meet The World's First Black Woman Cruise Ship Captain"

Story 73
This feature is a part of "The Dotted Line" series, which takes an in-depth look at the complex legal landscape of the construction industry. To view the entire series, click here.
Contractors know that prompt payment of their pay applications is critical to a construction project’s success. Timely and accurate payments allow them to pay their employees, lower-tier contractors, material suppliers and other vendors as agreed, which not only helps make sure there are no disruptions to the project schedule, but builds loyalty. High-demand specialty contractors, for example, choose to work on projects that pay on time and avoid ones that don’t.
Sometimes late payments from the owner are procedural in nature — perhaps staff members that handle pay applications are inundated with work and just have trouble getting organized enough to process the paperwork on time. In other instances, the owner might have not secured adequate construction financing or may have run into other money troubles.
There are ways, however, to learn if an owner has the financial and organizational capacity to support the project.
Typically, contractors and subcontractors must submit credit references and other proof that they can provide a quality product, as well as adequately staff their scope of work, before they can even bid on a project — or at least before the contract is executed. The requests for background information also can include bank and other financial data.
What some contractors might not realize, though, is that their contracts, including one of the most commonly used forms, might give them the right to ask for proof that the owner has enough financing in place to pay its bills.
When and how should contractors make information requests?
In the American Institute of Architects’ A201-2017 General Conditions of the Contract for Construction, there are two circumstances under which contractors can verify an owner’s financial resources — before starting the project or if certain circumstances arise during a contractor’s performance of the work.
In Section 2.2 of A201, upon written request from the contractor, the owner must provide “reasonable evidence” that it has the ability to finance the project. If the owner doesn’t provide that information, the contractor doesn’t have to start work and is eligible for an extension of the project schedule based on how long it takes the owner to respond to the request.
After work begins, the contractor can ask for proof of the owner’s financial wherewithal if the owner has been late in making progress payments according to the agreed-upon terms of the contract. The contractor can also ask for verification of financing if there is a “reasonable concern” on the part of the contractor that the owner might not be able to meet its financial obligations or if there is a change to the contractor’s scope of work, one that “materially changes” the contract amount.
If the owner doesn’t provide the contractor with the requested information within 14 days under this scenario, the contractor could stop work and bill the owner for demobilization and remobilization costs plus interest. In the case of significant changes, contractors must proceed with the portion of their work that is unaffected by the change.
Additionally, said attorney J. Gregory Cahill of Dickinson Wright in Phoenix, after the owner provides the requested financial information, it cannot materially change loan or other financial arrangements related to the project without notifying the contractor. “The general contractor is allowed to rely on the information that they are provided,” he said.
What constitutes proof?
“Here's one area where the AIA stops short of specifying exactly what is considered reasonable evidence of financing,” said Joshua Atlas, in West Palm Beach, Florida.
“If there's a bonding requirement from either the contractor or their general contractor as part of the issuance of the bond, the contractor's surety is usually going to want to see some kind of evidence of financing before assuming the risk and issuing the bond.” Joshua Atlas Partner, Saul Ewing Arnstein & Lehr
Depending on the type of project, he said, proof could be anything from a commitment letter from a lender, financial statements, bank statements or a bond commitment. “Anything that's got … information that can be verified will probably fall under the category of reasonable evidence,” he said.
Contractors also have to be aware, Cahill said, that the owner can designate the financial information it turns over as confidential, although contractors can share that information with individuals and companies connected to the project like employees, consultants, sureties, subcontractors and their employees, lower-tier contractors and others who have a vested interest in knowing the owner’s financial position. Under those conditions, he said, the information can only be passed along to those who are willing to maintain confidentiality.
What about subcontractors?
Subcontractors must rely primarily on the general contractor’s willingness to ask for financial information, Cahill said, because, even if A201 is incorporated into their contracts, that doesn’t establish the necessary contractual relationship between the owner and subcontractor.
“It does not create an independent right for a subcontractor to demand owner verification of a project's financing,” Cahill said.
However, barring the general contractor’s willingness to ask for the information, subcontractors that must provide performance and payment bonds for the project in question could gain access to the information through that process, Atlas said.
“If there's a bonding requirement from either the contractor or their general contractor as part of the issuance of the bond,” he said, “the contractor's surety is usually going to want to see some kind of evidence of financing before assuming the risk and issuing the bond.”
This is particularly important for contracts with pay-when-paid clauses, he said. These clauses typically mean that the subcontractor will not look to the general contractor for payment until the owner has paid the general contractor. “[Those contracts] expressly shift the risk of payment from the GC to the owner, so, as a subcontractor, you have an interest in making sure the owner can make those payments,” he said.
Should contractors ask for financial details?
“I have seen [the requests for verification of financing] more often as the project is proceeding, especially where disputes arise between owner and contractor,” said attorney John-Patrick Curran, a partner at Sive Paget & Riesel in New York. In one instance, he said, he saw that clause used in an attempt to declare a default when the owner did not respond to the contractor’s request in the specified time.
In general, Curran said, some contractors might be hesitant to ask for the information for fear of creating tension in its relationship with the owner. On the owner side, some try to strike that clause from the contract altogether, asserting that the terms of its project financing are not the contractor’s business.
Curran said he suspects questions around financing in many cases might be resolved more on an informal basis than as a result of an official written request.
Contractors, Atlas said, must make sure that their interests are protected. Depending on the relationship with the owner or developer, a request for financials should be like exercising any other rights under the contract, such asking for sworn affidavits or a list of subcontractors, which contractors in some states are entitled to under mechanic’s lien laws.
Atlas said he looks at it as just doing business — an enforcement of a right. And if a contractor presents it properly in a way that's not adversarial, he said, then the owner should take it that way.
Of course, contractors doing business with long-time customers or ones that always pay on time might not need to ask for this kind of information, but they shouldn’t let the fear of losing a project for an untested customer or one with a negative payment reputation stop them from enforcing their rights.
“It’s one of those buyer-beware [situations],” Cahill said. “If you have an ability to [make the request], and the owner's unwilling to provide the information, why is the owner unwilling to provide the information? That would concern me.”
The Dotted Line series is brought to you by AIA Contract Documents®, a recognized leader in design and construction contracts. To learn more about their 200+ contracts, and to access free resources, visit their website here. AIA Contract Documents has no influence over Construction Dive's coverage within the articles, and content does not reflect the views or opinions of The American Institute of Architects, AIA Contract Documents or its employees.

Story 74
An accountant who specialises in boosting tax returns has been condemned over a 'despicable' ad calling for income tax to be abolished.
Atlas Chartered Accountants posted a photo of a construction worker alongside the words 'Income tax: The fine you pay for the crime of being productive and useful.'
'We make sure all deductions legally available are deducted to minimise your tax... it's not like the government will spend it wisely,' the firm wrote as a caption.
Atlas' Facebook page was flooded with dozens of comments overwhelmingly critical of this sentiment, arguing tax was necessary for Australia to function.
Atlas Chartered Accountants posted a stock photo of a construction worker alongside the words 'Income tax: The fine you pay for the crime of being productive and useful'
But owner Samuel Lee said he stood by the ad and went even further in a detailed criticism of income tax when contacted by Daily Mail Australia.
'Why should a person who made all the right choices in life and put in 50 or 60 hours a week at the expense of his family to earn more money be punished by paying almost half his income in tax?' he said.
Poll Is Australia's tax system unfair? Yes No Is Australia's tax system unfair? Yes 197 votes
No 42 votes Now share your opinion


'Taxes could be better used expanding businesses and hiring more people. The government is just trying to fund its bloated and wasteful programs.'
Under Australia's progressive tax system, individuals are taxed at higher rates the more they earn each year.
Income up to $18,201 is untaxed, money between that and $37,000 taxed at 32.5 per cent, and so on with any income above $180,000 taxed at the top rate of 45 per cent.
Companies are charged a flat rate of 30 per cent on their profits with small businesses charged 27.5 per cent.
Mr Lee not only opposes progressive tax rates, but wants both income and company tax done away with entirely.
'A lot of my clients starting out in their new business could have saved up more to hire more people who need jobs,' he said.
Mr Lee claimed entrepreneurs were fleeing overseas instead of investing in Australia and creating jobs
Atlas' Facebook page was flooded with dozens of comments overwhelmingly critical of this sentiment, arguing tax was necessary for Australia to function
The money man based in Pyrmont, Sydney, claimed entrepreneurs were fleeing overseas instead of investing in Australia and creating jobs.
Owner Samuel Lee said he stood by the ad and went even further in a detailed criticism of income tax - calling for it to be abolished
'Australia has one of the most progressive tax systems in the world and there are so many business owners who have moved to Singapore where the [company] tax rate is only 17 per cent,' he said.
'Now because of the Australian government's greed they are getting zero tax revenue from them.
'High tax rates and regulations make business owners unable to invest in Australia, and instead they go elsewhere.'
Mr Lee instead proposed the GST be doubled to 20 per cent and the Australia Tax Office workforce slashed by 90 per cent.
He claimed this would result in huge savings from largely abolishing the cost of administering the income and company tax systems.
'Then 100 per cent of what you earn, you keep, and you pay taxes when you choose to because you choose when to spend your money (through GST),' he said.
'You have more power and a fairer tax system. You could buy a $30,000 car instead of a $300,000 Maserati and pay less tax.'
Australia's tax system Under Australia's progressive tax system, individuals are taxed at higher rates the more they earn each year. Income up to $18,201 is untaxed, money between that and $37,000 taxed at 32.5 per cent, and so on with any income above $180,000 taxed at the top rate of 45 per cent. Companies are charged a flat rate of 30 per cent on their profits with small businesses charged 27.5 per cent. Taxable income can be cut through deductions that give a portion of your tax back in tax returns, spawning an entire accountancy specialty. The government collected $323bn in income and company tax, $69bn on sales taxes, and $39bn on excises like fuel, tobacco, and alcohol in 2018-19.
Mr Lee acknowledged wealthier people should give back to society, but they should be allowed to do it voluntarily through charitable donations.
The business owner regularly posts both on his personal and Atlas' Facebook pages about the evils of income tax and related issues.
Common targets include penalty rates, the minimum wage, luxury car taxes, 'socialism', and 'government handouts'.
Most of his posts only attracted a few responses, but the anti-tax ad soon had dozens condemning it as 'despicable'.
'You'd be the first to whinge at the understaffing in the ER dept if you were admitted to hospital, or the poor public transport services when you next catch a train, or drive on potholed roads that damage your BMW rims,' one wrote.
'This lack of understanding of how the world works destroys any confidence in your ability to competently manage my tax,' another wrote.
Mr Lee instead proposed the GST doubled to 20 per cent and the Australia Tax Office workforce slashed by 90 per cent
Others pointed out that 'schools, hospitals, fire stations, etc doesn't grow on trees' and taxes were needed to 'take care of the vulnerable and marginalised'.
'Exactly what part of the federal budget do you think we should get rid of? Education? Healthcare? Infrastructure? National defense? Social security?' one asked.
Mr Lee did have some support for the ad, however, as even some of those who thought income tax was needed believed it was too high or should be better spent.
'The amount of tax is excessive. There are many ways in which we could pay a far smaller percentage with greater return on investment in society,' one wrote.
'I'd like to see our government spending our taxes more carefully and not tipping them into their own overinflated pockets, p**sing them away into foreign aid to countries that hate us, and paying for a generation of breeders that contribute nothing to society other than deficit and dependence,' another claimed.
In the 2018-19 financial year, the federal government collected $323 billion in income and company tax, $69 billion on sales taxes, and $39 billion on excises like fuel, tobacco, and alcohol.

Story 75
It looks like an elegant fitness tracker and acts like a smartwatch, yet it has has no buttons nor a screen. It also plays audio when you touch your finger to your ear and is controlled entirely via customizable gestures and voice commands. It's called Get and its creators think it could change the way we connect with each other and our information.
Get is the brainchild of Edoardo Parini, who first conceived of the product in 2015 as part of his diploma course at the University of Art and Design of Lausanne, Switzerland. Two years later, Parini and his twin brother Emiliano took part in the Innovative Enterprise Incubator of the Polytechnic University of Turin, Italy.
Known as I3P the incubator is ranked as one of the best university incubators worldwide. The twins' company, Deed, came out of this process with a clear vision that Get was a viable product with a strong potential market.
Get connects to the Get app on your smartphone via Bluetooth Deed S.r.l.
At first glance, it's a little difficult to figure out just what Get all about. This is due to the fact that it looks so simple – and familiar in a FitBit sort of way – and because it does some novel things, none of which are really entirely new. The true cleverness of Get is how the brothers have brought a range of existing wrist-based functionalities together seamlessly, and in a simple, elegant bracelet.
Now, one of the not entirely new things that makes Get so compelling is the ability to listen to phone calls, messages and other audio – in total privacy – without a speaker or headphones. Instead, Get employs bone conduction technology. To listen, all you do is touch your finger to your ear like a futuristic super-spy. The sound is conducted via the Get bracelet, through the bones of your wrist, to your finger tip, which then conducts it directly to your ear's cochlea via your skull.
With this technology, you can hear and make phone calls, have your messages and appointments read out to you, and even listen to music. Okay, this last bit seems a little far fetched, but the team at Deed teamed up with Spotify in April of this year for the launch of the new album by Italian singer Ultimo. At the event, fans listened to the track Colpa delle favole (Blame the Fairytales) via the Get bracelets. So, while it may not be high-fidelity, listening to music – albeit with your finger stuck in your ear – is entirely possible.
Get connects to your smartphone to provide alerts and connectivity to your apps and data and interacts using either gesture or voice commands – and is also compatible with Siri, Google Assistant, Alexa and Cortana Deed S.r.l.
The other features of the Get may seem to pale in significance – or at least wow factor – to the bone conduction technology, but when bundled together in one device, they become pretty impressive. Get can track your activity, sleep and biometrics, wake you up for work, give you directions via haptic vibrations on your wrist (one vibration to go right, two to go left) and pay for your latte. And you can use it to talk to Siri, Google Assistant, Alexa and Cortana too.
But as we mentioned before, Get has no buttons, and no screen, so how do we control all these features? With voice and gestures of course. A flick of the wrist one way, and Get tells you the time, a different gesture will answer the phone and another will hang it up. All these gestures are easily customizable and Deed's gesture technology has an open API, so that Get can be used with other devices too, it just needs an idea and someone to implement it.
Now paying for your coffee with a bracelet seems pretty cool, but things get lost and stolen all the time. The brothers have a solution to this too, fingerprint security. When you take Get off, the connection to your precious data and accounts is severed. If someone else picks it up and puts it on, it's just a cool but dumb bracelet. Once the owner puts their Get back on, they touch the fingerprint ID sensor, and they're up and running again.
Biometrics during activity are tracked via Get, which is also waterproof to 10 meters (33 feet) Deed S.r.l.
By the way, you may find there are very few occasions when you might want to take Get off anyway, as it's also waterproof to 10 meters (33 ft). For many users, the only time they might take it off would be to charge it, and since a one-hour charge – via the wireless charge base – lasts five days, that won't be too often either.
All in all the brothers at Deed look like they've addressed a lot of issues that have befallen similar wrist-based projects, and with over 50 awards in the last three years, Get could just become the device that sets the standard for wrist-based smart-tech to come.
The project is raising production funds on Kickstarter. Pledges begin at €110 (US$124) for one Get in a choice of sizes and color, plus the wireless charge base, with shipping starting at €25 ($28). If all goes to plan, delivery is estimated to start in March 2020. A video demonstration can be viewed below.
Source: Get, Kickstarter

Story 76
Our team at Atlas Greenhouse has been involved in several greenhouse projects over the years. Recent projects include a new build at Speedling in Bushnell, FL, a project more than two years in the making. We also recently worked with a large grower near Fort Meyers, FL, to help them rebuild after damage from Hurricane Irma.
Advertisement
With each of these projects, and with every other grower project we are involved in, the process starts with two goals that must be addressed:
• How to reduce labor. To improve efficiency and eliminate the need for unnecessary labor, we spend a lot of time looking at ways to help with traffic flow when moving plants in and out of the greenhouse.
• Make sure all the company’s decision makers are on the same page. A construction manager may have different ideas than a grower or a business owner. We try to meet with all of them and get everyone’s ideas in one meeting. This helps us get the best overview of what their plan is and what they’re trying to accomplish.
10 Factors to Consider
If you are in the early stages of planning a greenhouse design project, there are a number of items you’ll want to make note of, or questions you should answer, before meeting with a supplier.
• Have you appointed someone to be the overall project leader for your team?
• What type(s) of crops will you be growing? Will production be seasonal or year-round?
• What is the local climate at your location, and how will that affect the orientation of your greenhouse?
• What will your energy consumption be, and will you have sufficient access to electricity or natural gas?
• How do you want water to flow off of and away from your structure to avoid erosion?
• Will your crops have any additional heating/cooling or irrigation needs?
• How much automation do you want to include in the greenhouse, and what needs will this automation address (plant movement, climate control, irrigation, etc.)?
• What is your overall budget?
• What future expansion plans might you have down the road?
• Will the project require parts in high demand or made overseas? If so, have you scheduled accordingly to account for customs delays, etc.?
Here’s the bottom line: by planning ahead and knowing the answers to all these questions in advance, you should be able to make the challenge of a new build run smoother for both yourself and for your manufacturing partner.

Story 77
If bigger really is better – particularly when it comes to family SUVs – then the 2019 Volkswagen Atlas is certainly one of the best. In a midsize 3-row SUV world dominated by Honda Pilots, Toyota Highlanders and Ford Explorers, the VW Atlas – still fresh on the scene after being all-new last year – possesses a character that's unique among its peers.
Room for your family to grow
The Volkswagen Atlas really is the VW Passat of midsize SUVs: It doesn't have inches of legroom and headroom, it's got acres. And that real estate extends to all three rows of the Atlas, not just the first two. The second-row seats slide and move beautifully out of the way to give wide access in and out of the third row. And that third row? You can put adults – 6-footers – back there and they won't complain. Rear cargo capacity, especially with the third row seatback folded, is ready to take on adolescent hoarders and outdoor adventures.
If calligraphic interiors are your thing, the angular Atlas interior may not thrill you, but it won't be long before you become a fan. The front seats are supportive, the high view out the front is excellent, and the biggish SUV is surprisingly easy to maneuver around town. For the family, Apple CarPlay and Android Auto come standard at every level, as do forward-collision warning with pedestrian detection, blind-spot monitoring with rear cross-traffic alert, post-collision braking (you'd be surprised how important that can be), dual-zone climate control, automatic LED headlights, and roof rails for active families. Move up through the trim levels significantly enhances both your pleasure and safety.
Noble driving manners
Call it a European sensibility, or perhaps a German instinct, that everything on wheels must feel like it has some command of the road. To that end, neither of the Atlas' two available engines – a turbocharged 235-horsepower 4-cylinder and a 276-horsepower V6 – brings this heavy beast to a roar, but they are both mated to an 8-speed automatic transmission that shifts smoothly and does its best harness what power it can find when you put it in Sport mode. That said, the ride is quite good, and even in spirited cornering moments, the Atlas holds its composure better than a 4,500-pound SUV ought to. Front-wheel drive is standard, with all-wheel drive available with the V6.
Pricing and Value
Starting at $31,890 including destination charges, the 2019 Volkswagen Atlas will allow you to move through many trim levels with ever-more desirable features groupings as you keep moving up – to levels as nearly high as $50,000. In our Expert Review of the 2019 Atlas, we assessed all of the equipment and price and concluded, "a good balance of price and equipment would be the SE w/Technology for $38,290 (front-wheel drive)" which includes V6 power and adaptive cruise control.
As a fresh take on midsize-SUVs, the Volkswagen Atlas engages with just enough out-of-the-mainstream character – like standard blind-spot monitoring at every level and a transferable, generous 6-year/72,000-mile warranty – to be worth a look for anybody shopping for comfort combined with capability. For families, however, it's all about big. On that count, the Atlas shines bright enough to be a viable alternative to the monarchy of minivans.
More 2019 Volkswagen Atlas
We're living with a Volkswagen Atlas for 12 months to see how well this SUV as a daily driver over an extended period of time.
Build and price your own 2019 Volkswagen Atlas to see this week's Fair Purchase Price, 5-year Cost to Own and more, or check out the Atlas models for sale today at dealers near you.


Story 78
Subscribe to Nintendo Life on
Starlink: Battle for Atlas is about to receive a lovely sounding dollop of new content. Fasten those Arwing seatbelts, folks.
First up is what Ubisoft describes as a "significant" content update called 'Crimson Moon'. This update will arrive completely free of charge across all platforms and will release on 30th April, coinciding with the launch of the base game's new Windows PC version. Here's what to expect from this free content:
As part of the free update, players can explore the Crimson Moon, theater of the Outlaw Games. Players will be able to compete in all-new single-player and two-player split-screen racing tracks, fight waves of ruthless enemies in the Crimson Coliseum and see their rank and stats on leaderboards. The Crimson Moon will also impact the entire world of Atlas and let players engage with new faction story missions and weekly challenges. Additionally, players will be able to expand their roster and play through the new Crimson Moon content with five new pilots, three new starships and eleven new weapons available separately for digital-only purchase.
Star Fox racing, huh?
Switch owners are getting another treat on top of this, however, with brand new Star Fox content coming exclusively to Nintendo's console. Players will take control of Peppy, Falco, and Slippy as they hunt down the Star Wolf team in a series of missions. Each of the three Star Fox team members come with their own unique abilities and skill tree.
Because you can't have everything in life for free, this content will be a digital purchase that will cost $11.99. Again, this will be available on 30th April.
Excited to see more Starlink: Battle for Atlas content? Will you be jumping in to check it all out? Tell us below.

Story 79
Atlas Air Flight 3591 crashed at 12:45 p.m. on Saturday in Texas, leaving three people dead. The cause of the crash remains unknown.
The cargo flight was contracted by Amazon Air.
Two bodies have been recovered by the police, they said. A search for the third body is underway.
Pilots from Atlas Air, who contracts to Amazon among others, have told Business Insider that fatigue and lack of experience is common in the company.
Three people are dead after an Amazon Air cargo flight, operated by Atlas Air, crashed into a bay on Saturday in Texas. On Sunday, after an investigation, Atlas Air confirmed all three people who were on board are dead.
Two bodies have been recovered by the police, the Chambers County Sheriff's Office said. A search for the third body is underway. One victim has been identified by local media as Capt. Sean Archuleta, a Mesa Airlines pilot who was riding in the jumpseat of the Atlas plane as a commuter.
The cause of the crash remains unknown. The Chambers County Sheriff's Office, the National Transportation Safety Board's "go-team," and the FBI are investigating the crash, the sheriff's office said in a Facebook post. They are looking for the third body, as well as the airplane's black box, which will provide more information on the cause of the accident.
However, extracting the black box may take time as the plane landed in shallow, muddy waters. As the Houston Chronicle reported, black boxes emit ultrasonic signals, but these signals might not be detectable due to the location the plane landed in.
Robert Sumwalt, chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board, said it may be required for the investigative team to deploy scuba divers to comb the area where the plane landed or dredge the muddy surrounds.
"Our thoughts and prayers are with all those who have been affected," Bill Flynn, Atlas Air Chief Executive Officer, said in a statement. "This is a sad time for all of us.
"Our team continues to work closely with the NTSB, the FAA and local authorities on the ground in Houston," Flynn added. "We would like to commend the efforts of all of the first responders. We sincerely appreciate their efforts and support in the investigation."
Chambers County Sheriff Brian Hawthorne described the scene as "total devastation," he told the Associated Press. Sheets, clothing, and cardboard were found around the crash, Hawthorne told local news affiliate ABC-13. The debris extended for three-quarters of a mile.
"Our union stands together as a family and in support of our members' families," Captain Daniel C. Wells, Atlas Air captain and president of the Airline Professionals Association, Teamsters Local 1224, said in a statement. "Our focus is on our friends and colleagues who were on that plane, and we are doing everything we can to support their families."
'A very, very rapid descent'
Atlas Air Flight 3591 was flying from Houston to Miami. According to a statement from the Federal Aviation Administration, the plane lost signal about 30 miles southeast of Houston George Bush International Airport. It fell from 6,525 feet to 3,025 feet in 30 seconds, according to FlightRadar 24. The FAA then issued an alert notice.
There was no distress call.
"I really thought it was thunder," crash witness Candace Dockens Chavez told local news. "Then my son said 'I just heard a plane go down.' I said what do you mean you just saw a plane go down? He's like 'Mom, it went straight down. Let's go to the water and see.'"
"The aircraft was in what I would characterize as a normal descent," Sumwalt said. "When it got to about 6,300 feet, it then began a very, very rapid descent."
"Our thoughts and prayers are with the flight crew, their families and friends along with the entire team at Atlas Air during this terrible tragedy," Dave Clark, Senior Vice President of Worldwide Operations at Amazon, said in a statement. "We appreciate the first responders who worked urgently to provide support."
Atlas Air had a number of operational hiccups in the past year alone
It's not yet known what the cause of the Feb. 23 crash was. But Atlas Air has had a number of questionable incidents in the past year.
In October, a Boeing 747 cargo plane operated by Polar Air, a subsidiary of Atlas Air, veered off the airway at the Northern Kentucky Airport. It came to stop on the soft ground. No other plane on that day had a similar landing.
An Atlas Air Boeing 767 cargo airline had a hard landing in July at the Portsmouth, New Hampshire airport. Creases around the fuselage and "substantial damage to the aircraft" was found after the flight inspection.
A history of labor issues at Atlas Air
Thirteen pilots from the airlines that Amazon Air contracts with have told Business Insider that their pay and benefits are below industry standards. All but one of the pilots said that means those who work with Amazon Air tend to be less experienced. Most of these pilots have asked to remain anonymous for fear of retribution.
"It’s a ticking time bomb," Captain Robert Kirchner, Atlas pilot and executive council chairman of Teamsters Local 1224, told Business Insider weeks before the crash.

Kirchner and other Atlas Air pilots said the company, which contracts to Amazon, DHL, and other carriers, tends to overwork their pilots.
"They don't recognize pilot fatigue," Kirchner previously told Business Insider. "They think it's people goofing off. We have to constantly show them some of these schedules. Ninety-nine percent of the time, we're able to prove to them that this is a fatiguing schedule."
Amazon did not immediately respond to request for comment. An Atlas Air spokeswoman said the company would provide a comment later in the day.
Amazon Air has quickly launched its logistics network
For decades, Amazon moved its cargo through air cargo services from UPS, USPS, and FedEx.
But in 2015, it became clear that Amazon was taking air cargo in-house. Air Transport Services Group and ABX Air told Motherboard that they were leasing two cargo jets each to Amazon, who was building an airhub at Ohio's Wilmington Air Park.
Read more: Amazon's CFO highlighted the power of it perfecting its own delivery capabilities, and it's a clear warning shot to UPS and FedEx
Four years later, it's becoming clear that that air cargo network is crucial for keeping down the company's ballooning shipping expenses. Year over year, Amazon's worldwide shipping costs jumped by 23% in Q4 2018 — from $7.4 billion to more than $9 billion.
Now, Amazon has 40 Boeing 767s, with plans for 10 more. Amazon expanded two-day shipping availability to "almost anywhere" in the US with its additional Amazon Air capacity last year. Free one-day shipping is now accessible for the "majority of Prime members in the US." Three additional Amazon Air gateways are underway in Ohio, Illinois, and Texas.
Are you a pilot who works at ATSG or Atlas Air and fly Amazon Air cargo jets? Contact rpremack@businessinsider.com.

Story 80
Imagine if instead of paying for downtown parking, you could just have your car cruise the streets by itself while you attended to your business, and then return to pick you up when summoned? A new study suggests that's exactly what driverless cars could do – and it may cause a big problem.
According to the University of California, Santa Cruz's Assoc. Prof. Adam Millard-Ball, it would cost car-owners an estimated 50 cents an hour for most self-driving automobiles to cruise city-center streets at typical traffic speeds. That's much cheaper than paying to park at a metered area, or in a lot. Unfortunately, however, all those "circling" cars would also increase traffic congestion.
Additionally, the operating costs would be lower at slower speeds. This could encourage owners to set their vehicles to cruise at such speeds, making the congestion even worse.
Utilizing game theory and a traffic micro-simulation model, Millard-Ball predicts that even just 2,000 driverless cars circling in downtown San Francisco would slow the traffic flow to under 2 mph (3 km/h). He likens the problem to that which occurs at airports' arrivals areas, where drivers slowly circle the area in order to avoid paying for parking.
So, what's the solution? Adam suggests a congestion fee – this could consist of a flat amount that would have to be paid in order to enter the city center, or it could even be based on a combination of factors such as miles driven, cruising speed, time of day, and location.
"As a policy, congestion pricing is difficult to implement," he admits. "The public never wants to pay for something they've historically gotten for free. But no one owns an autonomous vehicle now, so there's no constituency organized to oppose charging for the use of public streets. This is the time to establish the principle and use it to avoid the nightmarish scenario of total gridlock."
A paper on the study was recently published in the journal Transport Policy.
Source: University of California, Santa Cruz

Story 81
The arched hallway to this market pays beautiful tribute to its fruit sellers, farmers, and traders, as well as a few legendary artists.
Despite only having been Interim President of Mexico for a few months in 1832, Melchor Múzquiz is the namesake of a fair few institutions in the country. The most notable of these is probably his birthplace of Santa Rosa, now known as Múzquiz, Coahuila. The market bearing his name in the town of San Ángel, near Mexico City, is the likeliest second. The building housing the market was originally quite plain, typical of Mexico City public works in those years.
For 50 years, the market was little more than a place for locals to buy produce and groceries. During this time, San Ángel would become completely engulfed in Mexico City’s urban sprawl, turning it into the touristic, colonial suburb it is known as today. With the area’s growing reputation as a destination, artist Ariosto Otero Reyes was commissioned by local authorities to transform the outside of the market with murals. His finished work was unveiled in September 2008.
Given free rein to choose the subject matter and medium for his murals, Reyes settled on a mix of folklorist scenes related to the market’s trade and a tribute to his personal heroes. Additionally, the murals break with the Mexican tradition of fresco painting favoring instead an almost collage-like mixed media approach involving rescued materials such as broken porcelain pieces and post-industrial refuse to create something similar to a tiled mosaic.
The murals occupy the inside and outside walls of the market’s front arched hallway and depict 67 people involved in various activities. While the majority of the 46 men and 21 women depicted are anonymous fruit sellers, farmers, and traders, some of the figures are significantly more recognizable. Reyes couldn’t help but add a meta reference to the history of Mexican muralism in the mural itself, including the “Big Three” painters Diego Rivera, David Alfaro Siqueiros, and José Clemente Orozco. You can also find well-known figures such as the singer and classic film star Pedro Infante and writers Carlos Monsiváis and Elena Poniatowska gracing the walls.

Story 82
Pilots for the airline Atlas Air, which operated an Amazon Air flight that crashed and killed all three of its occupants on Saturday, told Business Insider in the weeks before the crash that Atlas tends to overwork its pilots.
Thirteen pilots who work for airlines that Amazon Air contracts with have told Business Insider that their pay and benefits fall below industry standards.
All but one of those pilots said that means pilots on Amazon Air flights tend to be less experienced.
"It's a ticking time bomb," Robert Kirchner, an Atlas pilot and executive council chairman of Teamsters Local 1224, told Business Insider weeks before the crash.
It's still unclear what caused the Amazon Air crash that killed all three of its occupants on Saturday, but pilots for the airline Atlas Air, which operated the flight, told Business Insider in the weeks before the crash that Atlas tends to overwork its pilots.
"They don't recognize pilot fatigue," captain Robert Kirchner, an Atlas pilot and executive council chairman of Teamsters Local 1224, told Business Insider weeks before the crash. "They think it's people goofing off. We have to constantly show them some of these schedules. Ninety-nine percent of the time, we're able to prove to them that this is a fatiguing schedule."
Atlas has contracts with Amazon, DHL, and other carriers.
Thirteen pilots who work for airlines that Amazon Air contracts with have told Business Insider that their pay and benefits fall below industry standards. All but one of those pilots said that means pilots on Amazon Air flights tend to be less experienced. Most of these pilots asked to speak on condition of anonymity for fear of retribution.
"It's a ticking time bomb," Kirchner said weeks before the crash.
Amazon and Atlas Air did not respond to requests for comment.
The crash was preceded by a number of questionable incidents
Atlas Air Flight 3591, the flight that crashed on Saturday, was flying from Houston to Miami. According to a statement from the Federal Aviation Administration, the plane lost signal about 30 miles southeast of Houston George Bush International Airport. It fell from 6,525 feet to 3,025 feet in 30 seconds, according to FlightRadar 24. The FAA then issued an alert notice.
There was no distress call.
Read more: Amazon's CFO highlighted the power of it perfecting its own delivery capabilities, and it's a clear warning shot to UPS and FedEx
It's not yet known what the cause of the February 23 crash was. But Atlas Air has had a number of incidents in the past year.
In October, a Boeing 747 cargo plane operated by Polar Air, a subsidiary of Atlas Air, veered off the airway at the Northern Kentucky Airport. It came to stop on soft ground. No other plane on that day had a similar landing.
An Atlas Air Boeing 767 cargo airline had a hard landing in July at the Portsmouth, New Hampshire, airport. Creases around the fuselage and "substantial damage to the aircraft" was found after the flight inspection.
Amazon is building its logistics network
For decades, Amazon moved its cargo through air-cargo services from UPS, USPS, and FedEx.
But in 2015, Amazon started taking air cargo in-house. Air Transport Services Group and ABX Air told Motherboard that they were leasing two cargo jets each to Amazon, who was building an airhub at Ohio's Wilmington Air Park.
Four years later, it's becoming clearer that that air-cargo network is crucial for keeping down the company's ballooning shipping expenses. Year over year, Amazon's worldwide shipping costs jumped by 23% in Q4 2018, from $7.4 billion to more than $9 billion.
Amazon now has 40 Boeing 767s, with plans for 10 more. Last year Amazon expanded two-day-shipping availability to "almost anywhere" in the US with its additional Amazon Air capacity. Free one-day shipping is now accessible for the "majority of Prime members in the US." Three additional Amazon Air gateways are underway in Ohio, Illinois, and Texas.
Are you a pilot who works at ATSG or Atlas Air and fly Amazon Air cargo jets? Contact rpremack@businessinsider.com.

Story 83
Songwriters usually operate out of the public eye: Even when creating inescapable hits that charge up the charts, they rarely leave the studio. But earlier this month, writers angrily stepped into the spotlight. In an open letter to Spotify, a group of hitmakers spanning generations and genres, from pop-R&B legend Babyface to country stalwart Shane McAnally, declared themselves “hurt and disappointed.” “Do the right thing,” they instructed Spotify, “and drop your appeal of the Copyright Royalty Board rate determination.”
This open letter is the latest escalation in what more than a dozen songwriters and publishers describe to Rolling Stone as an ongoing cold war with Spotify, which is battling them over their second meaningful pay increase in more than a century. In March, Spotify, Amazon, Pandora and Google appealed a ruling by the Copyright Royalty Board, which voted to increase the amounts that songwriters make from interactive streaming by more than 40 percent over five years. In a statement, Spotify, Google and Pandora wrote that the raise “harms both music licensees and copyright owners.”
Writers and publishers are understandably angry, and they are especially frustrated with Spotify, which they accuse of betrayal of trust, “bullying the little man [and woman],” and, behind the scenes, spreading misinformation and even intimidation. Spotify declined to comment.
The rupture between the songwriting community and Spotify comes abruptly after the two groups worked together to pass the Music Modernization Act last September, which the Recording Academy hailed as “the most sweeping music copyright reform since the 8-track tape era.” Before that bill was signed into law in October, the Copyright Royalty Board — a government body that sets the statutory licensing terms for songs registered under U.S. law — voted to give songwriters a raise. Rulings from the board can be appealed, though, and once the MMA became a reality, all the streaming services except Apple Music decided to object to paying songwriters more money.
While Spotify didn’t act alone, its decision to appeal the CRB ruling stung particularly deeply in the songwriting community, which had come to regard the platform as an ally in a largely hostile streaming world. According to one member of the songwriting community who agreed to speak only on condition of anonymity, “No one ever expected YouTube, Amazon or Pandora to care about songwriter royalties or raising the rates — in the history of this, they’ve always fought to lower the rates and have never been friends of writers and publishers.”
Spotify, in contrast, “has taken great pains to ingratiate themselves with the songwriting community recently,” according to a music industry executive who has had extensive dealings with the streaming service but was not authorized to speak publicly. “Not just with the Secret Genius awards [which elevated writers and producers whose songs were streaming hits] — they put up enormous amounts of resources to put songwriter credits on their service.” As a result, another hit-writer says, Spotify’s action “hurts differently.”
“The writers are getting paid the least” – Richard Stumpf, CEO of Atlas Music Publishing
In a blog post from Spotify explaining its appeal, the service said it actually supported songwriters earning more money — just not in the manner laid out by the CRB. “Music services, artists, songwriters and all other rights-holders share the same revenue stream, and it’s natural for everyone to want a bigger piece of that pie,” Spotify wrote. “But that cannot come at the expense of continuing to grow the industry via streaming.” And it’s true that the industry is again enjoying years of consecutive growth after a long period of downturn, largely thanks to streaming services like Spotify.
But songwriters say they shouldn’t be the ones to suffer for growth, since they are already facing tough economic conditions. “The writers are getting paid the least,” says Richard Stumpf, CEO of Atlas Music Publishing. “If you look at the pie as 100, the label’s taking 59, Spotify’s taking 29, while the publishing side’s only getting 12.” “Unlike labels or artists, [songwriters] live under a compulsory license, so we can’t say no [to the streaming services],” adds David Israelite, president and CEO of the National Music Publishers’ Association, which represents publishers and their songwriter partners. “Three judges [who sit on the CRB] tell us the value of our songs. All we can do is fight within the system we’re forced to live under.”
But even their ability to fight under those constraints is hampered, they say, by the concentrated power of the streaming services. “A lot of people don’t want to be involved because of the possibility of retaliation,” says the music industry executive. “If Spotify is at the table, you have to always wear kid gloves.” This fear is reflected in the list of signees: As impressive as the names on the open letter are, there are still many prominent writers missing — you won’t find several of the people responsible for this week’s 20-biggest hits (Ryan Tedder and Benny Blanco, for example, who both did not respond to requests for comment). And of course, many artists are writers, too, but the artist community has largely stayed out of this battle.
Some in the music industry believe that fears of retaliation are far-fetched — writers are oversensitive; too much of playlist placement is determined by algorithms. But the member of the writing community who pointed out the services’ opposition to songwriter raises alleges that an unnamed Spotify employee issued a threat over the phone in March, describing the Spotify employee’s message as: “If you are a part of any anti-Spotify campaigns which we know are brewing, then you need to know that marketing dollars will not be spent to support you.” (Spotify denied that the company said this.)
“The truth of the situation was misrepresented to the benefit of Spotify’s perspective,” says one hit-making songwriter
Another member of the songwriting community also heard this report. “I know the story about the inference that was made — if they spoke up against Spotify, Spotify might take a view on where they would spend their marketing dollars,” he says. “That’s an exceedingly stupid thing for somebody to say. I know a couple of Spotify executives know about it. The people I know who know about it were mortified and embarrassed.” With stories like this in circulation, it makes sense that even as the songwriters’ open letter to Spotify was in the works last week, nearly everyone who spoke for this story did so on the condition of anonymity.
Since the non-Apple streaming services announced their decision to appeal the CRB’s ruling, Spotify’s relationship with songwriters has become only more strained. Israelite says Spotify’s blog post was “filled with lies and attempts to confuse and misdirection and spin.” So the NMPA hit back with its own meticulously truculent counter-post, challenging Spotify’s statement line by line.
While Spotify was making public statements about its intentions, the company approached a number of songwriters, especially those who had been feted as Secret Geniuses and celebrated with billboards, parties and playlists collecting their hits, to start private conversations. “They called a lot of us directly trying to convince us to put down our weapons,” explains a second frustrated hit-writer. “I was misled in the communication. The truth of the situation was misrepresented to the benefit of Spotify’s perspective.”
Spotify has a songwriter-relations team that is in regular contact with the writing community. But the Secret Genius reach-out was perceived by some as a divide-and-conquer approach. “They try to put their arm around us and say, ‘It’s one big industry, we’re all friends,’ and then they go try and split off key songwriters,” says another music industry executive who deals often with Spotify. “That doesn’t work.”
Songwriters say Spotify asked them to participate in town hall-style meetings. “The response of the songwriters was they wouldn’t participate unless the NMPA was also allowed to participate so they could hear a back and forth,” Israelite says. “Writers aren’t necessarily in the weeds; they’re not all attorneys. When that happened, Spotify went dark.”
Despite this seemingly cold shoulder, the NMPA and the Nashville Songwriters Association International decided to carry on with town halls — with or without Spotify’s presence. The first took place last week in Nashville. The NMPA invited all the streaming services to make their case. But in another bit of strategic maneuvering that doubled as a slap in the face, none of the streaming services showed up. Writers and publishers were left to rail helplessly against an absent enemy.
The CRB’s rate increase is already in effect. However, “if there’s an appeal that’s pending, that appeal could be applied retroactively, which means that the increase in rates that songwriters are entitled to, they might owe back,” Israelite says. This, in turn, “means publishers are likely going to have to escrow that money during the appeal. Songwriters are not going to enjoy the rate increase during the appeal, which is unfair and unfortunate.”
And that’s part of the reason some writers worry their relationship with Spotify is permanently ruptured. “Appeals take a long time,” one says. “If it takes a year, whether they win or don’t win, [our relationship with the streaming service] can’t be repaired.”
Some in the songwriting community still hope Spotify will drop its opposition to the CRB’s ruling, even as it claims it’s only acting for the good of the industry. “They’re blaming [their stance] on writers, blaming it on Apple, blaming it on record labels,” one writer says. “But I think the person who’s blaming that many people probably should look in the mirror.”

Story 84
It started with a couple of childhood ventures around the neighborhood in Gaithersburg, MD.
“We used to set up lemonade stands when we were younger and we’d shovel snow off our neighbors’ driveways for 20 bucks a pop,” Paul Rabil says. “I think our Lebanese bloodline contributes to the entrepreneurship that we have.”
That same industrial spirit has given the United States its newest sports league.
Rabil, the professional lacrosse player who’s widely considered the best in the sport, just launched the Premier Lacrosse League (or PLL) with his older brother Mike.
This comes after an 11-year professional career with Major League Lacrosse and the National Lacrosse League. With the MLL, Rabil won two national championships and is the league's all-time leading scorer. In the winter indoor NLL, Rabil was selected to the All-Star game in all five seasons he played.
Now he’s competing with those leagues.
Friday Night Lights: DMV style pic.twitter.com/c4MOsMSTR8 — Grace Remington (@GraceRemiWTSP) July 6, 2019
Rabil calls his entrepreneurial nature “innate.” But it’s also a necessity in a sport where the average salary ranges from $6,000 to $25,000.
“Originally it was very part-time,” Rabil says. “You’re kinda thrown into the lion’s den to figure out ways to create additional revenue.”
As co-founder and chief strategy officer of PLL, Rabil attends four or five meetings per day, in which he oversees media strategy, corporate partnerships and lacrosse play on the field.
And that’s after almost three hours of training and physical therapy in the morning.
Yup, Rabil plays in the PLL, too.
“It’s difficult to operate this thing and play,” Rabil says. “More difficult than I had thought originally. But it’s also exhilarating.”
A midfielder for Atlas LC, Rabil starts his workday around 7:30 am. He doesn’t leave the office until 10 p.m.
Believe it or not, he does indeed sleep.
“I’ve struggled getting eight [hours of sleep], but I get a minimum of seven,” Rabil says with a laugh. “That’s been a target of mine.”
If he’s tired, he hides it well. The 33-year-old is on the field, shouting commands and rallying cries of “Let’s go! Let’s go!” to his teammates during Friday night’s weekly practice at Gonzaga College High School in Washington, D.C.
🤙🏽 The PLL (@PremierLacrosse) is in town! @PaulRabil and the Atlas practicing ahead of tomorrow’s game at Audi Field pic.twitter.com/IH8Oxa5uzF — Grace Remington (@GraceRemiWTSP) July 5, 2019
The PLL is unlike any other professional sports league in the country.
The league’s six teams are not geographically-based and instead tour around the U.S. for 14 weekends.
Players are mic'd up for in-game interviews, providing immediate reactions to goals and missed plays.
The PLL more than doubled players’ salaries and gives them equity in the league.
And, it signed a media rights deal with NBC Sports.
Rabil – who has become known as the first “million-dollar man” in the sport – said these moves were table stakes.
“We’re not building the Premier Lacrosse League in 1909,” he says. “We’re building it in 2019.”
While innovation is certainly involved, the reason for watching is much simpler: PLL has poached the best talent from other professional lacrosse leagues.
“It’s much different than perhaps other emerging leagues that don’t have best-in-class,” Rabil says. “People watch the NFL, the NBA, the NHL because they know they’re watching the best players in the world compete.”
It wasn’t hard to find his 140 players. In fact, there was so much interest in PLL, Rabil eventually had to cap off the number of athletes at tryouts.
Turns out, @PaulRabil is a HUGE @WayneRooney fan.

We thought a formal invite to @PremierLacrosse at Audi Field was good, but imitating his sensational 65-yard goal is unbelievable 👀 pic.twitter.com/7UiC6bW6i0 — NBCSports Washington (@NBCSWashington) July 6, 2019
Bill Belichick watched from the sidelines during the league’s inaugural games at Gillette Stadium in Boston on June 1.
The New England Patriots coach is one of Rabil’s mentors, along with NBA commissioner Adam Silver.
“Coach [Belichick] grew up playing lacrosse. He grew up in Annapolis and he loves the game,” Rabil says. “He’s tried to pull me away from my Redskins fandom over to the Patriots.”
The duo met when Rabil was a student at Johns Hopkins University in the mid-2000s. They discuss everything from competitive spirit in the NFL to the treatment of players and front office operations.
“He’s one of the smartest minds, if not the sharpest, in sports history,” Rabil says.
"Tom Brady would play goalie in lacrosse"
- Bill Belichick pic.twitter.com/pdWLkVX9ll — Premier Lacrosse League (@PremierLacrosse) June 2, 2019
Rabil’s novel ideas go beyond the play on the field: “Lax bro culture” is out the door.
“It’s something that I’ve always been up against,” he says.
As a rookie and No. 1 draft pick in 2008, he didn’t like being perceived as a lax bro. He felt most consumers saw the part-time nature of the game as a reason to take it less seriously.
“It’s had its reputation tarnished over the last couple of decades,” Rabil says. “So what we’ve done out of the gates is, not only establish this cut-throat, serious, competitive, high-spirited atmosphere, but also tell the stories of our athletes, which is very diversified.”
Phasing out the lax bro stereotype goes deeper than personal pride. Rabil wants to pay tribute to the sport’s Native American roots.
“It’s not a white-collar, northeast preparatory school sport,” he says. “We see lacrosse being played all over the country now.”
Part of Rabil’s vision includes the PLL Assists program, the 501 (c)(3) nonprofit connected with the league.
The charitable organization works with heritage programs in Washington, D.C. like the Tewaaraton Award, which is the annual award given to the best NCAA lacrosse player. “Tewaaraton” is the Mohawk name for the sport.
Rabil also hopes to work directly with existing Native American reservations by helping with resources and sharing the members’ message.
“History is super important because that’s a product of understanding how you got here,” Rabil says. “To pay the right homage to the history of the sport is, I think, bestowed upon any operating regime to do that well.”
Week 6 of the PLL’s 14-week tour kicks off at Audi Field in Washington, D.C. this weekend.
Saturday’s doubleheader starts with Redwoods LC taking on Archers LC at 5 p.m. Whipsnakes LC versus Atlas LC begins after the conclusion of the first game. Sunday’s matchup between Chaos LC and Chrome LC starts at 3 p.m.

Story 85
For the past 10 years, if you traveled on an elevator in Manitoba, your trip was Cheryl-approved. Reinhard Krull/EyeEm/Getty Images
She tosses her blonde hair over her shoulder as she looks to the server to pay the bill for her dinner. As she passes him her credit card, he looks back at her in amazement. “Are you the Cheryl Lashek?”
Lashek has won her fame in the Canadian province of Manitoba not through her presence in the media, or politics, or any such thing. No, Lashek is what she calls a “desk jockey,” bearing the formal title of government director of mechanical engineering. But it just so happens that—until recently—if you lived in any corner of Manitoba, you would find her name plastered on the wall of every single elevator you rode in.
Lashek’s signature has graced the paper permits hanging in the elevators for over a decade. Eventually, Manitobans all started wondering the obvious question: Who is this invisible yet ubiquitous engineer who keeps us safe as we fly up and down in these careening metal boxes?
“It’s just one of those mysteries in life. You don’t know who Cheryl is,” says Todd Scott, a long-time Winnipeg resident and Lashek admirer.
“It’s always been an inside joke with my family,” says Alex Plante, an artist who lives in Winnipeg. “It’s like, ‘Oh, there’s Cheryl!’ Or if something’s wrong with the elevator it’s, ‘Dammit Cheryl! Thanks for nothing.’ That kind of thing.”
Cheryl Lashek’s signature, in all its glory, on an elevator certificate. Credit: Karly Tardiff
In the last couple of years, fans of the mysterious Cheryl Lashek found each other on Instagram and Twitter. Photos of her famed permits circulate, pointing out her diligence. Those comforted by the sight of her name are united using the hashtag: #InCherylWeTrust.
But not all is well in the Lashek fandom. Recently, the government of Manitoba posted a job listing online for an elevator inspector. Fans were concerned that this meant Lashek was out. Those worries were exacerbated by a rumor that as of April 1, 2019, signatures would be removed from the certificates altogether.
Outrage and disappointment surfaced from all corners. One tweet described Lashek’s rumored retirement as a nightmare realized, that future generations will never know the comfort of Cheryl Lashek’s name. A page on Facebook surfaced suggesting Lashek should run for the province’s premiership. A local radio station wrote a song in her honor.
However, these rumors were greatly exaggerated. In her first public interview, Lashek says it was not her job that was posted, and she remains a director of mechanical engineering. However, while she remains in the same role, the oversight of elevators has been moved to someone else’s purview. Additionally, the government is looking at the possibility of removing the paper certificates from elevators altogether, but this did not take effect on April 1.
“I am not retiring, I am nowhere close to retirement,” Lashek says. “It definitely makes me chuckle, some of the comments, like, ‘How are we going to know the maximum capacity?’ They see me as the oversight of all of this, and making sure they’re safe and they get to their destination. To me, it’s hilarious that one signature can be all encompassing and so comforting to so many people.”
A portrait of Cheryl Lashek, made by Alex Plante. Credit: Alex Plante/aplante.com
For Manitobans it seems Lashek’s watchful eye was a predictable comfort that, like so many others, was not properly recognized until it was on its way out. Her signature invoked a similar emotional response as the beeping whirr of a dial-up internet connection, or the omnipresent reminder to “be kind and rewind” plastered across VHS tapes.
While there are many middle-of-the road “Cherylheads” out there, Scott and Plante go a bit further than most. Scott, upon hearing the rumors that Lashek’s name would no longer be adorning the walls of Manitoba’s elevators, had magnets created with her signature.
“People put them on their fridge, so they know their fridge is safe. They put them on their cubicles, in the elevators at work,” Scott says. “They went and they spread her name, so that even if she’s not [certifying] this elevator, she’s doing other things that are safe and Cheryl-approved.”
As for Plante, she took her skills as a digital painter and went to work on an image of a halo-donning Lashek, holding an elevator in her hands.
Stickers honoring Cheryl Lashek and her comforting signature. Credit: Todd Scott
“I was shocked to see that,” Lashek says with a laugh. “One of my friends sent me a screenshot from Reddit, and I knew right away exactly what it was. And I was just like, ‘Oh boy, okay, this is happening. Somebody painted a picture of me.’”
Lashek bought a copy for her office. “And the guy who delivered it, the postman, instead of putting it in the mail slot for our government office,” says Lashek, “he actually walked it up to the office to meet me, and he took a selfie because he recognized the name.”
For Plante, it was the most flattering of compliments. Even she was surprised by the number of orders she got, having just sent one off to Scotland.
The fame has meant Lashek is recognized whenever she pays by credit card, or gives her email address at a store. But what’s important to her is not the viral notoriety, but the opportunity to show young girls that engineering can be a career path for them.
“I want to encourage other people to pursue their dream, not to get Instagram famous,” Lashek says. “But it’s really cool to be recognized for my accomplishments, and to know that people know I am an engineer.”
“[Winnipeggers] will just cling on to something that is familiar,” she adds. “And if I could do that and become one of those Winnipeg-isms, one of those things asked at trivia nights, that would just totally make me smile.”

Story 86
Doyle Rice
USA TODAY
Slobs of the world, here's a job for you.
NASA and two other space agencies are asking for 24 volunteers to lie in bed for two months as part of a study. The pay? About $19,000.
"We are looking for test persons to take part in a bed rest study from September to December 2019 in Cologne (Germany) and spend 60 days lying down," according to a statement from the German Aerospace Agency, NASA and the European Space Agency.
The point of the study is to "research how the body changes in weightlessness. Bed rest simulates this condition," the statement said. Based on the study results, scientists will develop techniques to reduce the negative effects of weightlessness on astronauts.
During the two months, the volunteers will live in a single room, but will be divided into groups. One group will be rotated around in a centrifuge, similar to an artificial gravity chamber, which will force blood back into their extremities, ABC News reported.
A second group will not be moved.
A previous study participant, identified as Janja, said that "participation in the study was a very special and good experience for me....What surprised me the most: after a few days my body got used to the bed rest, it was much easier than I had imagined. I did not get bored by the many exciting experiments, on the contrary, time flew by."
And when they say you'll do everything while lying down, they aren't kidding: People must eat, exercise, get dressed and even shower while lying flat on their beds. Another catch: The participants’ beds are tilted slightly downward to encourage fluids to pool in the upper body, NBC News said.
Farewell to a workhorse::Mars rover Opportunity officially dead after 15 years
The study will take place in a special, state-of-the-art facility known as the "envihab," which comes from the words environment and habitat.
Applications for the study are available online from the German Aerospace Agency. The agency is looking for 12 men and 12 women volunteers.

Story 87
The final act of Assassin’s Creed Odyssey is here. With the Judgement of Atlantis DLC, our time in Ancient Greece is ending, so it’s more important than ever that you get the conclusion you want.
These are all of the choices I made through the Judgement of Atlantis to get what you’d most likely call the “good” ending. The very final outcome of events doesn’t change all that much, but there are plenty of character arcs and storylines that are affected by the decisions you make.
The path that I’m sending you on here isn’t absolute, but is the one where the most “good” characters live, and things are their most righteous. Where appropriate, I’ll give both sides of the story, so you can choose which you’d rather pick.
Beware, given the nature of this page there are spoilers aplenty throughout the entire thing. However, if it’s not necessary then I won’t go into too much detail.
Judgement of Atlantis Choices and Ending
To begin your final adventure, head over to Atlantis in the island of Thera and speak to Alethia.
During the length cutscenes at the beginning of the story, there are a couple of golden dialogue choices, but they don’t have too much bearing on proceedings. I chose:
“I’m sorry about what happened,” and “I’m up to the challenge.”
Before you start with the main story, I’d recommend finding at least the Keeper’s Insights of Atlantis, and possibly levelling up you Isu Knowledge level to three with caches and codexes as well (separate pages linked in this sentence). This way you can go through the entire storyline unimpeded.
Also in this DLC, you can collect a new set of Dikastes armour, which has a pretty cool Legendary Engraving. This is acquired in the Rightfully Yours quest, which we also have a full page on how to finish.
By doing these tasks first, you will also discover many of the fast-travel viewpoints around the city which come in handy later. However if you’d rather just jump into the main quest, you’ll find the Doma of Atlas in the middle of the city’s central ring.
Burden of Leadership Quest
This first quest is a bit of a frame for other tasks, so you don’t complete its tasks linearly. For the dialogue choice, I said: “Happy to help.”
The Atlantean Patient
You can find the Archon Azaes to the southeast of the Tower of Intuition viewpoint, in the inner ring of the city. He’s in a little area behind some net curtains which can be a bit of a pain to find.
In the first dialogue option where you can agree to find the device or purge the sickness, pick either option – you’ll have to go and find the device either way.
Go over to the nearby Consus Archive.
Inside, clear out the enemies, then move the block in the corner behind the blue screen.
Follow the passageway, then move a second block into a new hidden area.
Grab the glowing cloth from around the corner and return to Azaes.
Back at the clinic, without going into too much detail: Use the device, then keep using it.
Rebel Scum quest
Next you can find Ampheres on the outer Porimos Ring, just to the south of the Fortified Doma of Autochthonos.
In the first conversation, I said: “You must have your reasons,” then, “No killing. I’ll destroy the supplies.”
Go to the nearby quest marker and burn the supply crates. They’re heavily guarded, so it’s much easier to just run around and hit them with a torch than try and be stealthy.
However, it’s really important that you don’t kill any of the guards, otherwise it’ll limit your options later. Make sure that you just run around and hit all of the boxes with your torch, then lose the guards in the surrounding area. (Thanks to Joel C for letting me know about this requirement.)
When you’re done, report back to Ampheres. In the ensuing conversation, I said: “The humans are not a threat.”
Crowd Pleaser quest
This one can get a bit dicey. To find Gadiros, head over to the east of Atlantis, where you’ll see an arena.
In the first conversation, I said: “Distractions don’t solve problems.”
When the fight begins, kill two of the weaker guards with arrows straight away so you don’t forget and fail the objective. Deal with the rest to move onto the next stage.
Now defeat Arena champion, then at the end you can you can choose to execute or show mercy – the same thing happens after both, so I chose mercy.
Next Gadrios pits you against defenceless criminals. You can either choose to execute them, or refuse and walk away. If you refuse, things go pretty badly, so I chose to deliver justice and execute the criminals.
This course of action placates both the crowd and Gadrios, and you can walk away without much more harm.
I chose to allow the games to continue.
Burden of Leadership part 2
Now report back to Atlas. This cutscene is one of the major turning points in the whole DLC, and has consequences later on.
As you enter the Doma, all of the Archons will be in chains on the floor regardless of how their quests resolve.
In the conversation, I said: “I’m the teacher here,” and “Posiedon won’t approve.”
This saves the lives of the Archons, who can be killed based on your answers.
In dreams quest
At this point, you have to start taking up the side quests around Atlantis to advance the story.
To start In Dreams, go to the quest marker and (non-)lethally take out the aggressors.
In the conversation, I said: “You’re very kind.”
Afterwards, go to the crime scene and interact with the magnifying glasses. Talk to the witnesses, and when you talk to the man, choose either option.
With the evidence gathered, go and confront Lyra around the corner.
If you accuse her, she runs away and you need to find her. If you take her side, she leaves to find more evidence.
Either way, your next quest objective is in the same place. Once you arrive, engage the enemy that you find.
In the ensuing conversation, say “I would never jump”. As well as “the real you didn’t do it”, if you accused her in the first instance.
This saves Lyra’s life and completes the quest.
Lighten Up quest
This quest is more about puzzles than story, and takes a while. To start, go to the Garden of Triton, and help Neokles regenerate the plants.
In the first conversation, pick any option. You’ll then be let loose.
From your vantage point, ;ook at beams going into central crystal. I recommend going in anti-clockwise order, which deals with the most difficult puzzles first.
1st beam puzzle
Looking down at the first beam, jump down and follow the beam inside the building.
Push the first block forwards out of the way to free the beam.
Next, smash the pots out of the way, then move 2nd block to deflect the beam onward.
Go around the corner and move the next set of blocks out of the way.
Now go out of the room and around the corner, then destroy the fence to complete the puzzle.
2nd beam puzzle
Moving around to the second puzzle in front of you, push the first block out of the way.
To do so, pull the larger block forward, then the smaller block across, then push the big block into the gap. Finally, pull the small one back to free the beam.
Now run around the corner and destroy the fence to finish the puzzle.
3rd beam puzzle
For this last puzzle, move around to the beam and push the block it’s hitting off the ledge.
Jump down to meet it, then pull the block out of the way. Now smash the pots to free the beam, then follow it around the corner and destroy the fence to complete the puzzle.
Report back to Neokles and say “Maybe your theory is wrong” in the conversation. This triggers the next quest.
The Birds and the Bees quest
First, go into the marked control room.
Chase the intruder, but it doesn’t matter that you don’t catch them.
Follow them into the next room, head over to the left hand side, then look to your right for some pots.
Smash those pots, then move the block out of the way of the gap and slide under.
Now talk to the infiltrator.
In the conversation I said, “Must be worth a lot.”
Enjoy the cheeky Vaas reference, then move onto the next choice.
You can either trust that the garden will sort itself out, or if you put the power source back then there are some comically unexpected results.
It looks like you can choose either here.
More Adamantly quest
You find this quest next to the Tower of Understanding in the northwest of the city underneath the bridge.
When it starts, follow Elpis and talk to her. You can choose the romance options if you want (Cute, then caught me off guard), but agree to help.
Go over to the Adamant Metallon, and try to get some raw adamant stealthy.
Getting in and out undetected is really hard, and doesn’t have much bearing on the outcome of the quest. But if you want to, I’d recommend saving now to give you an easy reload point. If you decide to go in loud, it only changes a conversation with Atlas later which can still have the same result.
From the hill in front of the mine, I managed to do it undetected by going around to the right along the walls, jumping across to the second floor.
Then dropping down and going through the door.
Follow the dark path, then climb down the ladder to the bottom of the shaft.
At the bottom, climb up to the right behind the guard.
Then slide under the gap.
While you’re in here, you can kill people quietly and it’s fine but make sure no one else see’s you. You know when you’ve been seen because the Eagle Bearer will say “shit! Hope Atlas doesn’t find out”. You’ll need to take out a couple of guards too and get really lucky with the spawns. Sometimes you can get really unlucky and captain tier guards spawn in annoying places who you can’t kill in one hit.
After you’ve slid under the gap, in the next room, wait until the guard on the right walks off and rush assassinate the guy that’s left. Once you’re in the clear, climb up the tall ladder that’s opposite the Torch of Hypnos, and take the adamant from the chest in front of you.
It’s then much easier to come out the now safe way you came in rather than try and sneak through a load of other people.
Report back to Elpis, and again choose the romance options if you want. This finishes the first part of the quest.
Blood Gets in your Eyes quest
Meet Elpis at the Doma of Atlas for the next twist in the tale.
In the conversation, I said “Tell Atlas the truth,” but she doesn’t really listen.
This quest is another one with very different outcomes based on what you say and do. It also changes based on what you’ve done before.
In the conversation with Atlas, if you tell him about Elpis’ politics then I’d say you get the “bad” ending.
If you say: “Getting to know each other”, “Don’t talk about her like that”, and lie that you’re in love the process is a success and you deal with the consequences – this I’d say is the “gray” ending.
However, if you saved the Archons earlier, then Azaes steps in to support Elpis’ legitimacy – which I’d say is the “good” ending.
If you got the good ending, you can complete the romance and have a bit of a snog by choosing the “You saved me” option.
Good from Far, Far Good quest
This quest unlocks after Blood gets in your Eyes, and is when the DLC starts to ramp up to its conclusion. If there are adamant weapons you haven’t crafted, Keeper’s Insights yet to be found, or Dikastes armour pieces to collect, then now’s probably the time to divert.
When you’re ready, go to the quest marker and it automatically starts.
First off, you can choose whatever you want for the speech, then I said “The Dikastes will help you!”
Sixth Sense of Sympathy quest
Travel to the quest marker and talk to the harbormaster.
Play along with the charade, then go around the market and kill the goons. This completes this line.
Through the Cracks quest
As with the previous quest, go to and talk to the Foreman, but this time you have to fighting through a quarry of guards to get there.
When you reach him, say “Point me to the chamber or else.”
You can then decide whether you want to kill him or not – I did.
Report back to Alkon, and you’ll be set after the abductor, Xarios. Travel to the Fortified Doma and scan the area with Ikaros to find him.
He’s in his own closed off room, so the fight isn’t that tough. Once he’s down, you’ll collect the second half of a key and unlock the next quest.
Deadly Little Secrets quest
If you didn’t go and clean everything up earlier, now is the time to do so. Go to chamber near the Garden of Kymopoleia and save on the outside. If you want the full story as well as the “good” ending, then I’d recommend doing two runs of this part with different choices to see everything – it doesn’t take long.
Once you’ve saved, head inside, go down the stairs, then sneak or fight your way through the next room.
Follow the quest marker to your next destination, and enjoy the surroundings and ensuing cutscene.
Next I said: “Here to find the missing humans.”
After that, go through to the next room, engaging the enemies if you wish – they poison, so be careful – and through to the next quest marker.
In the conversation, I said: “Humans are not rats.” You then have a big sliding doors moment – save the people, or go through the door. What’s through the door is a big spoiler, but isn’t technically the most moral path, which is why I said make a save to see both routes.
If you say that you don’t care what’s behind the door and try to save then people, then you’re successful in rescuing them and begin a new quest to confront Poseidon.
If you go into the room, then you uncover an interesting secret, then you can go to confront Poseidon – both dialogue options in here have the same result.
Fate of Atlantis quest
You begin the final mission of the DLC by talking to Poseidon.
To side with Poseidon against the others, choose: “Humans are being Tortured”, then “I don’t belong here”.
As event progress, choose: “I’ll stop the Hekatonchires”.
Run down to corridor, and you’ll come face-to-multiple flailing arms with the DLC’s final boss – the Hekatonchires.
The fight isn’t that tough if you make use of your overpower attacks and Ares Madness abilities tactically.
Pepper the creature with arrows for chip damage, and be careful of the zombie dudes that it spawns. These can explode into poisonous gas that cloaks the battlefield.
Its most dangerous attack is When it crouches. This means it is about to run up and grab you for a hefty combo. Get well clear when this happens or be ready to heal. I’d recommend the quick utility of the Second Wind ability over Ares’ Last Breath.
Once you’re done, I chose “I’ll stop them once and for all,” in the next conversation.
From here, enjoy the rest of the story. There are no real decisions to make and you can answer freely.
And with that, the curtain closes on Assassin’s Creed Odyssey. Now all that’s left is to mop up any Lost Tales of Greece that you haven’t completed and wave goodbye to the Peloponnese peninsula.

Story 88
Who said toll roads were low growth and boring? Atlas Arteria's management expects the company to pay a total dividend of 30 cents in 2019 - up 25%.
What's more, this didn't require any accounting hocus-pocus. Free cash flow really is going to increase by that much, and will probably grow in the double-digits in 2020 as well. However, before we explain this feat and what it means for investors, it's worth adding some context.

Story 89
Amazon and DHS contract pilots from Teamster Local Union No. 1224 march in an informational picket to raise concerns about stalled contract negotiations and operation concerns at ATSG holding companies subsidiaries and Atlas Air World Wide Holdings on April 11 in Florence. (Photo: Albert Cesare / Enquirer)
Cargo pilots praised Amazon's Tuesday cargo hub groundbreaking at Cincinnati's airport while also expressing concern.
Pilots, who have stated previously they are prepared to strike in an April 10 Enquirer article, continue to express worries about working conditions at airlines servicing the online retail giant, in a news release.
SUPPORT JOURNALISM:99 cents per month for unlimited digital access.
Amazon is scheduled to open a 3-million-square-foot cargo hub building in 2021 at Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky International Airport. The hub is expected to create 2,000 jobs.
CLOSE Pilots of three cargo airlines who fly DHL and Amazon Prime Air protested April 11 outside Atlas Air near CVG for higher wages and a new contract. Chris Mayhew, cmayhew@enquirer.com
The union for pilots flying for Atlas Air, Southern Air and ABX Air launched a Pilots Deserve Better protest website Tuesday to coincide with Amazon's invitation-only groundbreaking.
A mobile billboard with a plea for the carriers to improve working conditions will be driven around the airport Tuesday as well.
CVG is the largest hub for the three air carriers, according to the release.
“We are pleased to see the expansion of partnerships between our carriers and Amazon Air, yet we can’t help but worry that executives at Atlas Air and ATSG are severely overpromising services to stay in good graces with one of their most prized customers,” said Captain Robert Kirchner, Atlas Air pilot and executive council chairman for Atlas Air pilots of Teamsters Local 1224 in a news release.
“Amazon’s groundbreaking event at CVG should be cause for celebration but instead all it’s causing is panic. The ground is falling out from underneath our carriers and to prevent disaster at Amazon and its new internal logistics network, Atlas Air and ATSG need to correct high attrition, low pay, and mistreatment of pilots by working with us to settle a fair contract.”
More: Amazon announces groundbreaking for its massive CVG cargo hub
Earlier: Union for pilots who fly for DHL, Amazon, plans protest near CVG Thursday
The website contains copies of union and carrier contracts and a video stating pilots are leaving for other jobs because of working conditions.
Read or Share this story: https://www.cincinnati.com/story/news/local/boone-county/2019/05/14/cargo-pilots-praise-amazon-expansion-concerned-with-atlas-southern-abx-air-working-conditions/3666031002/

Story 90
Colorado’s flagship public university is within reach of a controversial milestone: the majority of its student body could soon come from out of state.

The University of Colorado’s Boulder campus has trended that direction for years — the result of radically changing its business model to make up for two decades of state budget cuts. Amid two recessions, the university amped up out-of state recruitment efforts and spent hundreds of millions on athletics and luxury amenities aimed at competing with public and private schools for wealthy students. It also more than doubled the cost of in-state tuition over 10 years.

Now, tuition makes up 81 percent of the school’s general budget. The state contributes just 9 percent.

Non-residents make up the largest share of the student body in the university’s history. And under a new law, state residents could eventually become the minority at Colorado’s premier public university, a Colorado Sun analysis found.

On its own, the shift is not necessarily cause for concern, said Dan Baer, the former director of the state Department of Higher Education. The reason: CU schools are required by law to admit any qualified Colorado resident who applies.

University officials insist that the purpose of increasing the number of out-of-state students is to raise the money needed to support their primary mission — educating Colorado residents. Without the money from non-residents, they argue, in-state tuition costs would be even higher.

“Despite the fact that they get less of their revenue from public coffers today than they once did, they were built with a significant amount of Colorado taxpayer dollars,” Baer told The Sun in an interview before he left the department in January during the transition to a new governor. “And they are intended to serve — as a first priority — the education and skill-building needs of Colorado.”

THE UNAFFILIATED: Want exclusive political news and insights first? Subscribe to The Unaffiliated, the political newsletter from The Colorado Sun. Join now or upgrade your membership.
Despite the assurances, there’s no legal requirement that CU use revenue from out-of-state tuition to drive down costs for Coloradans. And it’s not the only Colorado university pursuing this new business model.
Colorado State University in Fort Collins, the Colorado School of Mines in Golden and the University of Northern Colorado in Greeley all received the same legislative authorization to enroll a majority of their students from outside the state’s borders.

The situation confronts state policymakers and university officials with uncomfortable questions: What does it mean to be a public university in a state where the taxpaying public is no longer the primary funding source for higher education? And can a university that increasingly caters to wealthy out-of-state students truly fulfill its public-oriented mission?

“I do think we owe it to the taxpayers of Colorado and the local graduates to educate them at our public institutions, first and foremost,” said Rep. Jeni Arndt, a Fort Collins Democrat who sponsored the legislation allowing more out-of-state students.

But, she added, “honestly, in defense of them (the institutions), I don’t know what they’re supposed to do.”
“There’s none worse than the state of Colorado”
Colorado’s not alone in slashing public funding for higher education, nor are its universities the only in the nation in looking out-of-state to raise money.

But it is an extreme example.

“Out of all the states in our great country that have decided to disinvest in higher education, there’s none worse than the state of Colorado,” says Ozan Jaquette, an assistant professor at UCLA, who studies funding and enrollment trends at public universities.

In 2000, the state budget contributed 68 percent of public college and university funding, with students supplying the rest through tuition and fees. But state dollars fell after two economic downturns. Colorado now ranks 47th nationally in higher education spending per student, according to the State Higher Education Executive Officers Association, and is dead last among states the department considers peers.

Meanwhile, the cost of higher education has grown faster than inflation and tuition has climbed dramatically to make up the difference. Today, the ratio between taxpayer funding and tuition has nearly flipped, with students now providing 64 percent of total statewide university funding.

State lawmakers have boosted funding in recent years, but it hasn’t been enough to make up for decades of cuts. For the 2018-19 school year, state lawmakers appropriated $906 million to schools for general education expenses and financial aid, according to state budget documents. CU received the most of any school system — $256.7 million — and CU Boulder received $81 million of that number.

Capitol Sunlight: A citizen’s guide to lawmaking and lobbying in Colorado
Meanwhile, students at CU Boulder bear an even greater share of the costs than the typical state school. At $234 million, in-state tuition made up 27 percent of the school’s general education budget this year. Out-of-state tuition generated even more: $474 million, or 54 percent.

And administrators there say the only way to keep in-state tuition down — without a major infusion of public dollars — is an increase in non-resident population because they pay more than in-state students. When you include room, board and fees, the sticker price for an in-state student today is $28,704 a year. Domestic out-of-state students pay $53,504 annually, and international students pay $59,312.

The university reports that CU’s student body is now split 67 percent residents to 33 percent non-resident, according to official figures. But those numbers are skewed by a formula that excludes international students and counts certain scholarship recipients under the Colorado Scholars program as two in-state students.

In reality, the ratio of in-state to out-of-state students today is about 60-40, according to a Colorado Sun analysis of enrollment figures.

And under a law passed last year, the Colorado resident share can drop to 55 percent on paper — and 45 percent in reality. If the trend continues, that means CU could eventually be educating a student body that’s as much as 55 percent out-of-state or international students. (More than 80 percent of students at CU’s other campuses, in Colorado Springs and Denver, come from Colorado.)

Jaquette, the UCLA researcher, says there’s a clear causal relationship across the country: When state funding falls, out-of-state enrollment rises.

“A public flagship university isn’t going to say, ‘let’s become a community college because a state isn’t going to give us the resources we need,’ ” Jaquette said. “They’re going to say ‘how do we generate the revenue?’ They want to be a research university of national renown.”
“We’re not bumping out the in-state students”
State policymakers don’t blame CU Boulder and other research institutions for their growing focus on non-residents. In fact, lawmakers approved the 2018 measure that allowed more out-of-state and international students, Senate Bill 206, by a vote of 96-4 in the two chambers.

Arndt, one of the bill sponsors, said that the universities’ commitment to admit all academically qualified Colorado students was crucial to her support of the measure. It was a built-in safeguard against what is happening elsewhere: in-state residents being crowded out by the influx of non-state students that generate more money for the school.

“We’re not bumping out the in-state students. It’s in the law,” Arndt said. “That made me feel better about it.”

Major construction projects at the University of Colorado have included improvements to Folsom Field and practice and training facilities on the Boulder campus. (Doug Conarroe, Special to The Colorado Sun)
Growth in out-of-state and international students on the Boulder campus has actually helped CU administrators refocus on their in-state mission, Senior Vice Chancellor and CFO Kelly Fox told The Sun.

“I think as a business model we have to change what we’re doing because the nature of the funding sources is changing,” Fox said. “But the nature of the institution, I think, is even more strongly public than it was.”

Over the last five years, CU has ramped up financial aid and merit-based scholarships by nearly $13 million. In 2018, 9,218 students received some form of financial help, a 50 percent increase from 2014. CU also implemented a tuition guarantee, which prevents year-to-year tuition hikes for students once they’ve enrolled. And the university eliminated course and program fees, saving in-state students $6 million a year.

Finances aren’t the only factor driving the out-of-state enrollment push. According to the Western Interstate Commission for Higher Education, the number of Colorado high school graduates is expected to peak in 2025, and then decline by about 10 percent over the following four years, leaving fewer in-state students for CU to recruit.

Still, despite the legislative safeguards for in-state students, Jaquette says there are reasons policymakers should be concerned by the trend. The UCLA researcher says an influx of wealthy out-of-state students can come at a cost to a university’s culture — and its public-oriented mission.

“The argument that policymakers make on reductions (is) ‘K-12 can’t make their own money, but higher ed, they can make their own money, so we don’t fund them,’ ” Jaquette said. “Yes, they can make their own money. But they do it by focusing on rich kids, and not the ones that could benefit the most from that social-mobility boost.”

His research bears that out. CU predominantly recruits from wealthier, whiter higher schools, according to his analysis of recruiting visits in 2017.

And a separate New York Times study of the class of 2013 found that CU was among the least likely of any public research institution to take a student from a poor family and help them climb the economic ladder. CU also had the second highest share of students whose families made more than $630,000; 7.7 percent of the student body came from families in the top 1 percent of household income.

Fox has a different take on the impact of the influx of out-of-state and international students: She sees it as improving the quality and global perspective of the university.

“One of the advantages of having the domestic non-residents and international students really is this ability to offer a better opportunity and higher value to Colorado residents,” she said.
“People need to pay up”
While the growth in the number of wealthy out-of-state students makes financial sense for CU Boulder and Colorado’s other major universities, it underscores the challenges the state faces in meeting its educational and workforce goals.

The state’s higher education master plan calls for increasing statewide college graduation and certification completion to 66 percent by 2025, citing a study that expects nearly 3 in 4 jobs in Colorado to require some form of post-secondary education within the next few years.

Today, 56 percent of residents have a college degree or certificate. That makes Colorado one of the most highly educated states in the country, despite its funding challenges.

But it’s still not enough. And the numbers are dramatically worse for minorities, who represent the state’s fastest-growing demographic. Just 29 percent of Hispanics and Native Americans have a post-secondary credential in Colorado, compared with 39 percent of African-Americans.

Many, but not all, out-of-state students stay after graduation. But the state can’t reach its economic goals with transplants alone — nor would policymakers want to take this approach.

To Jaquette, the solution is fairly straightforward: more state funding. “If they want access for people from Colorado, people need to pay up,” he said. “That’s what policymakers need to do.”

One area of concern: while the out-of-state business model has helped CU Boulder weather funding cuts, smaller state colleges that primarily serve underprivileged in-state students have been left behind. These schools can’t recruit or accomodate enough non-resident students to offset the drop in public dollars.

The backdrop is adding urgency to the discussions at the state Capitol about how state dollars are divvied up among the different institutions.

Coming Tuesday: A look at how the state’s higher education funding system works, and what may change.

Staff writer John Frank contributed to this story.
More from The Colorado Sun



Story 91
Health care is one of the most debated issues among Democratic presidential candidates. While candidates including Sen. Bernie Sanders (D-VT) and Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) have ambitions to eliminate private insurance, Joe Biden wishes to build upon Obamacare and allow Americans to choose whether they have private insurance.
Dr. Scott Atlas of the Hoover Institution shares his perspective on health care reform with Guy Benson.
Listen Below:
Full Transcript:
Guy Benson [00:00:00] It is the final hour of the week on this show, it's the happy hour. I'm Guy Benson from Palo Alto, California. The campus of Stanford University and specifically the Hoover Institution celebrating 100 years which is remarkable. I am thrilled to be here and we'll be back here in the fall as we've been telling you for a full week, which I'm very excited about. And when we come back I'm sure we will have much to discuss again with my next guest who joins me here in studio at Hoover, Dr. Scott Atlas he's a medical doctor. He is the David and Joan trade tell senior fellow at the Hoover Institution and his area of expertise is health care policy and particularly single payer health care which is a topic he and I have discussed previously in visits here that I've made in the past. It feels more immediately relevant today because now one of the two major parties in this country political parties has shifted very dramatically openly in favor of single payer health care. Doctor great to see you again.
Dr. Scott Atlas [00:01:08] Great to see you too, Guy.
Guy Benson [00:01:09] You've had a few pieces in the last week or so. One in The Wall Street Journal, one of the Washington Times talking about the broader issue of single payer health care. I want to start with. The subject or the thrust of your Wall Street Journal piece and we had Lanhee Chen on the show yesterday and we got into this a little bit but I want you to really break this down for people because I saw earlier today Joe Biden his campaign they're running an ad it's a smart ad in the Democratic primary featuring a union worker who has private insurance who likes her insurance and she is saying I would not want single payer health care because it would take away my insurance. And the argument the Biden campaign has been making is Kamala and Bernie and Warren their plan would eliminate people's private insurance whereas Biden wants to build on Obamacare keep Obamacare. But with the caveat this is his so-called moderate policy right, the compromise is how they're framing it a buy in option to Medicare for all. So it's kind of referred to in wonk terms as the public option. If you could just explain how that would work and why it's actually fundamentally kind of dishonest because it will bring us to single payer.
Dr. Scott Atlas [00:02:23] Yes. Well this is very important for people to understand. I'll start with the bottom line. A public option is not a compromise moderate position. The inevitable consequence of a public option for health insurance is private insurance will disappear for everyone except the affluent because they're the only people who will be able to afford that insurance. So the only people stuck with single payer nationalized insurance will be the poor and the middle class the very people who the Democratic Party claims to be their interests in terms of this inequality issue. They will have unequal access and unequal quality of health care. Now the reason why the public option leads to single payer health care for everyone except you know perhaps the few who can afford private care.
Guy Benson [00:03:21] I want people to really listen to this. This is very important because you're going to hear especially if Biden becomes the nominee and not one of the people who's out there loud and proud for a full blown single payer you're going to hear that this is the moderate compromise. And Dr. Scott Atlas. Go ahead explain why it in fact is not.
Dr. Scott Atlas [00:03:40] Yes. Well the first thing that's true about a introducing an option. Under the guise of hey who wouldn't want more choice isn't that Republicans always talk about this public option that ultimately ends up eroding those and crowding out those with private insurance and crowding out. This is a sort of an economics term crowd out of people with private insurance. How does it do that. Because it it is going to falsely artificially be cheaper than private insurance. And so everyone shifts into it. How. First of all what's the basis for me saying that that will happen. Well it's already been happened. It's data it's proven. It's not an assertion like many things you'll hear in the in the health health care debate. We know that in Hawaii this was tried and seven months four children and seven months after that program was introduced as an option more than 80 85 percent of people who took up the program had private insurance. They weren't uninsured which was the intent the stated goal. People shifted from private insurance over there. Now you'd say well but to to the government of the government option. And so it it it ends up that it just puts people who were previously paying for private insurance out of their pocket onto the public taxpayer dollar from everybody else. So then you might say well why isn't that OK. They chose the public option must be appealing. So must be appealing. Well the reason is they take it because it's cheaper. OK. And now why is it cheaper? It's cheaper because of two reasons.
Guy Benson [00:05:22] The government makes it cheaper.
Dr. Scott Atlas [00:05:24] Two critical reasons here that affect your health outcomes which of course the purpose of health care reform is to broaden access to good health care so that you have better health. It's not that complicated but nobody talks about that. But the reality is it's cheaper for two reasons. Number one we know from our own Medicare and Medicaid. They simply pay less than private insurance to doctors and hospitals. Now that that isn't so bad. On the top on a first perusal of that. But what do you mean pay less. They don't just pay less than private insurance the so-called reimbursement rate. Right. They pay less than the cost of delivering the care.
Guy Benson [00:06:10] So this is they're taking a loss. The providers are taking a loss.
Dr. Scott Atlas [00:06:13] Doctors and hospitals, health care providers are getting paid less than it costs them to deliver the care. And the old joke while you lose money per perv widget but you make up for it in volume. Of course it's it's nonsensical. You go out of business and so to prevent going out of business you stop offering that care. That's point number one point number two single payer. That's factual. That's not an assertion that is actually the truth that Medicare and Medicaid pay below the cost of delivering the care. And that deficit by the way has increased year by year to now it's more than 80 billion. Oh no it's about 80 billion dollars underpayment in 2018. By Medicare and Medicaid underpayment by versus the cost of delivering the care.
Guy Benson [00:07:04] And just to jump in, there are all sorts of surveys of doctors and hospital administrators saying if this became then mandatory or very widespread where we would be forced into these situations doctors would retire early people would maybe not go into that profession and there are medical facilities that say we could not survive we would go out of business which would cause all sorts of problems for access to care. As you said before the whole point of this is care. It should be care not coverage.
Dr. Scott Atlas [00:07:35] Right. So the second just something that's the first point of why public insurance is cheaper it pays less than cost. Now the consequence of that before I get into the second thing the consequence of that underpayment is that who ends up paying for that cost? Because that costs, it's not like doctors and hospitals keep giving care for less than costs. They get their money by shifting that deficit to the people with private insurance. That is one of the main reasons why private insurance explodes and costs. The more people on government insurance, private insurance gets more and more expensive.
Guy Benson [00:08:16] To compensate to make the dollars make sense.
Dr. Scott Atlas [00:08:19] Right exactly.
Guy Benson [00:08:19] That and that in turn it seems to me just using basic economics. If that cycle continues more people who are getting hammered on private insurance they're saying well why am I going to keep paying these bigger or higher prices. I might start shifting to the cheaper government option.
Dr. Scott Atlas [00:08:35] No. Well. Well I mean it what it does is because of the other fact that private insurance provides better care better outcomes more access to care. It turns out that. Only fewer and fewer people can afford private insurance. Sort of what you're saying.
Guy Benson [00:08:52] Correct.
Dr. Scott Atlas [00:08:53] Now the second reason I'm sorry we don't have another hour to go but the second reason here why public insurance is cheaper than private insurance is because public insurance options restrict access to care. There is less access technology less approval of drugs delay and access to new drugs less access to specialists less access delayed access to surgeries. How do I know this? Because this is the fact from looking at the data of every single payer system in the world. And the fact of the matter is that those restrictions of care by single payer systems all over the world have a consequence. What's the consequence? More deaths, more disability, worse outcomes from every significant disease-- stroke, heart attack, cancer, high blood pressure, diabetes. This is the factual data in the medical journals that is ignored or hidden by advocates of single payer. Other countries with single payer systems have worse outcomes by medical data than our U.S. system.
Guy Benson [00:10:07] So I actually want to push on that exact point because we hear frequently from advocates of single payer Bernie Sanders and everyone on down exactly the opposite of what you just said saying like we are way behind the rest of the world look at the rest of the industrialized world. They figure out how to do this. They spend a lot less per person on health care and they have better outcomes. We're way behind the curve. What is wrong with America? We need a revolution now. There are political problems with that people overwhelmingly like their private health insurance. Want to keep it and the Bernie bill endorsed by many people running for president would throw a 180 million people off of their private insurance. But Doctor can you stick around with me for one more segment. Sure because I want you to address this point because it is I think the most salient point in favor of single payer when you bring it to the American people they say. OK that's interesting that makes sense to me. Why is that. You're saying it's not true and I want you to explain why it's not true. Right after this break guy mentioned with Dr. Scott Atlas here at Hoover on this Friday it's the Guy Benson Show.
Guy Benson [00:00:00] Eyes toward the weekend here on the Guy Benson Show. We rarely hold guests over for multiple segments. But in this case there were too many important pieces that we're going to be left on the table. So I've invited Dr. Scott Atlas here at the Hoover Institution to stay with me one more segment. He is one of the foremost experts in the world on the perils of single payer health care. This is something that conservatives need to be fluent in as we have these debates moving forward. And frankly if you're on the fence about single payer health care. These are facts that you need to know because you probably won't get them in the soundbites. So doctor you're about to say and you've written about this extensively. I posed the challenge to you. We hear it all the time from advocates of single payer health care that America is like in the dark ages when it comes to our health care. Everyone else in the industrialized or modern world has figured out some form of single payer. They do it for much cheaper than we provide health care here and their outcomes are better. What is your response when you hear that.
Dr. Scott Atlas [00:01:02] That's completely wrong. It is factually incorrect. The outcomes from every serious disease in the peer reviewed medical literature are better in the United States than in those countries and in fact then in those countries the very model the so-called for the people who advocate single payer England Canada Western European systems. I mean just as an example I said it earlier but the fact is that the U.S. has better outcomes from almost all serious diseases. That means better outcomes from cancer-- common cancers, as well as rare cancers, men and women the best in the world by the way.
Guy Benson [00:01:39] Better like like survival rates and that kind of thing?
Dr. Scott Atlas [00:01:42] That's right. Better outcomes from high blood pressure not only diagnosis but better treatment outcomes than all of these other systems better outcomes from diabetes, stroke, heart disease. These are the most important diseases I could go on. But if you if you get every of the every one of these diseases you know there's no there's no question about it. Now why would they have better outcomes? You might say because you know we're in the 21st century doctors are training. By the way, it's the American doctors who go and teach all the other doctors. We go as invited speakers, they come to our courses-- the other doctors. But that that's sort of a esoteric point.
Guy Benson [00:02:19] That's an important one though I think.
Dr. Scott Atlas [00:02:21] Yes. Well I mean just look at what single payer is do that result in their worse outcomes. They impose long waiting lists for care and these waiting lists are not just long and unconscionable but they're unheard of in the United States. In the U.K. alone, over 4 million patients are on their own NHS waiting lists. One hundred thousand waited longer than six months in the most recent data for the time to get a doctor appointment. In Canada last year the median waiting time between senior GP and just getting the secondary appointment with the specialist was over 10 weeks. The median wait in Canada between seeing a doctor and beginning treatment was five months. Four months to see an orthopedic surgeon five months for a neurosurgeon. That's crazy. This is unheard of. This literally does not happen in the United States. Let's talk about diseases. In England patients referred for quote on quote urgent treatment for cancer. That means the diagnosis was made the referred for urgent treatment. More than 19 percent wait more than two months to begin their first urgent cancer treatment. OK. One out of five patients referred for brain surgery. Wait where's the data here. They wait more than four months after the diagnosis. OK. This is unheard of.
Guy Benson [00:03:47] And this is because of rationing. You know, the government is running everything. And so they there's only so much care to go around. Government is top down control. They're saying all right, sorry. You have to sit there you have to wait.
Dr. Scott Atlas [00:03:59] Let's look at drugs OK. Drugs are the sort of hot button issue right. Prescription drugs. If you take the most recent data. Of the 45 novel drugs in 2015 that were approved, two thirds were approved in the U.S. and available for patients before any of these other countries. England has its own new system of a budget impact test for new prescription drugs. They take an arbitrary number, and if they anticipate it will exceed the payment for that they give themselves three years to negotiate a better price and they don't approve the drug. Well if he had cancer what do you think that does to your your survival? We don't have that kind of system here, and the difference is we have better health outcomes.
Guy Benson [00:04:41] And we also drive so much of the innovation that leads to lifesaving care and new treatments here in this country that's part of why our system is in fact expensive. Doctor we have two minutes left. I want to explain though they will point often to life expectancy and infant mortality rates saying look the U.S. the numbers are kind of crummy. Your response.
Dr. Scott Atlas [00:05:02] Yeah. The response is and there's a piece if you want to look it up in the Wall Street Journal I wrote on infant mortality and life expectancy. This is sort of a total misleading almost fraudulent way to look at health care systems. If you look at life expectancy alone there are dozens of inputs into what determines the length of life that are very different from the health care quality-- personal choice, makeup of the population. There is all kinds of things that go into it. It's called a dirty statistic. It's not a statistic that evaluates at all really the quality of health care. Infant mortality is another it's very attractive to look at it but we calculate we calculate every infant birth as a single respiration, a single heartbeat no matter how premature no matter how tiny. In countries in Western Europe, they don't count as a live birth a baby unless it survives 24 48 hours unless it's of a certain size.
Guy Benson [00:06:00] So the counting is completely different.
Dr. Scott Atlas [00:06:01] It's a complete distortion of the statistic.
Guy Benson [00:06:04] And on the life expectancy point as well, you look at instant gunshot wound deaths or traffic deaths right where people are killed instantly. If you get rid of those factors America's life expectancy numbers go way up and that is not a reflection at all on health care it's exactly a societal thing.Doctor, unfortunately we're out of time but we're gonna pick this up again. We're gonna be having this debate I think for a while in this country. Scott Atlas medical doctor he's a senior fellow here at the Hoover Institution. Thank you Doctor.
Dr. Scott Atlas [00:06:32] Thank you very much.
Guy Benson [00:06:33] And we'll be right back.

Story 92
Truck driver pay has increased this year by record jumps.
But new bonuses and pay raises still don't seem to be enough to lure folks into a job where they're away from home for weeks at a time.
According to data from the National Transportation Institute , 85% of 519 surveyed trucking companies said that increasing their wages hasn't helped attract new drivers.
As the rest of the workforce deals with wage stagflation, trucking companies are offering five-digit bonuses and record-high pay jumps to entice new drivers to the field.
Yet few trucking companies have reported that their problems have lessened. According to data from the National Transportation Institute reported first on Tuesday by the Commercial Carrier Journal, 85% of 519 trucking companies said that increasing their wages hasn't helped attract new drivers.
Smokey Point Distributing CEO Dan Wirkkala said at the CCJ Solutions Summit that he agreed with the survey results. At Smokey Point, based in Arlington, Washington, many drivers will receive bonuses of $20,000-plus this year.
While that's helped keep good employees, Wirkkala said the bonus hasn't done much to lure in new hires.
Companies large and small are upping their pay to find new truckers. In September, Walmart announced they would offer referral bonuses up to $1,500 and shorten the hiring process for its company truckers. Atlas Van Lines, based in Evansville, Indiana, announced its "largest and most extensive" pay increase in August.
Pay jumps have become an industry norm. Nearly half of all truckers said their pay went up in 2018, compared to 11% in 2017. Sign-on bonuses for flatbed drivers have jumped from $1,500 in 2017 Q2 to $6,000 in 2018 Q2, as Business Insider previously reported.
Pay jumps should alleviate the truck driver shortage — but they haven't
America will be short 175,000 truckers by 2026, according to the American Trucking Association. Industry leaders have proposed ideas like lowering the minimum truck driving age to 18 to alleviate the shortage.
But if you ask most drivers about the "truck driver shortage," they're not likely to agree that there's a dearth of people who want to be truckers. Rather, the problem is that the median pay is too low.
"The driver shortage has nothing to do with the idea that people don't want to do this job," Will Kling, a truck driver based in Reno, Nevada, told Business Insider. "Little boys still pump their arms for trucks. People want this job, but they can't do it and support their family."
Read more: An Arkansas court quietly ruled that truck drivers need to be paid minimum wage even when they're not driving on the job — here's what it means for drivers around the US
The inflation-adjusted pay for truck drivers has dropped 21% since 1980, according to a Business Insider analysis. Many say the only way to address the truck driver shortage is by upping pay.
"Driver pay has not gone up at the same rate as trucking prices have gone up," Andrew Lynch, the cofounder and president of Columbus, Ohio, supply-chain company Zipline Logistics, previously told Business Insider. "That's a big part of why we're in such a crisis right now."
Still, trucking company owners say it's not just a problem that one can throw money at. Vonda Cooper, the operations director at Peoria, Arizona-based Roadmaster Group, said no level of pay raises and bonuses can eliminate some people's hesitations about getting into trucking — a job where you're required to be away from home for weeks at a time.
"The first thing I hear is that it doesn't pay enough, but there's so much else behind the scenes," Cooper told Business Insider. "There are family obligations. There's a call to be at home."

Story 93
Australia will pay back Timor-Leste's oil revenue, Jose Ramos-Horta says
By Helen Davidson on 4/21/2019
SYDNEY (The Guardian) -- Jose Ramos-Horta, the former president of Timor-Leste and Nobel laureate, says he believes Australia will reimburse “every cent it wrongly received” after the countries signed a maritime border treaty last year.
His comments are in response to revelations in Guardian Australia that the Australian government was taking millions of dollars a month in oil revenue which should belong to Timor-Leste because it hasn’t ratified the treaty.

Both major parties have been called on to make a pre-election commitment to repay the money – estimated to be more than $100 million.

The Labor party, which is currently considered likely to win next month’s election, has ignored multiple requests for their stance on repayment and on a timeline for ratification.
However, Ramos-Horta told Guardian Australia he had faith his country’s far richer neighbor “will not quarrel over this payment due to Timor-Leste”.

“I am sure Australia will reimburse every cent it wrongly received following the solemn signing last year at the UN HQ in New York of the permanent maritime boundary between our two countries,” he said.

“Timor-Leste showed pragmatism and statesmanship when as part of the maritime boundary agreement it did not demand back pay of several billion dollars from Australia’s illegal exploitation of three fields, Bufallo, Laminaria and

The historic treaty delimited a permanent maritime border to close the Timor Gap and established a “special regime” area for sharing the untapped, multi-billion-dollar Sunrise gas field in the Timor Sea. The new border confirmed several former and operational fields were in Timorese territory, despite decades of Australia profiting from them.

At the time of the signing, Australia insisted the treaty would not take effect until both countries had ratified it.



Related News ///
FROM THE ARCHIVE ///

Story 94
Health-care policy is often portrayed as a fight between government and insurance companies. But one of the most effective cost-saving measures is to cut out both and allow patients to deal directly with doctors.
If Todd Gibbons from Poulsbo, Wash., has an aching shoulder or needs a physical, he can call and schedule an appointment on a day’s notice, maybe the same day. His physician is also available for phone consultations and even makes house calls. It all costs Mr. Gibbons $150 a month to cover his family of five.
...

Story 95
In this concept illustration, the presence of the eternal employee will flood Korsvägen station with light. Visualization: Anna Heymowska
In 2025, applications will be accepted for the job of a lifetime—literally. A fair starting salary, with annual wage increases that match those for Swedish government workers, vacation time, even a pension, and the job is yours for as long as you do it. So what’s the job? Anything you want.
Each morning, the chosen employee will punch a clock in Korsvägen train station, currently under construction in Gothenburg, Sweden, which will turn on a bank of bright fluorescent lights. Other than that, “the position holds no duties or responsibilities besides the fact that the work should be carried out at Korsvägen. Whatever the employee chooses to do constitutes the work,” reads the job description. The employee can also choose how publicly visible or anonymous they would like to be while on the clock.
Eternal Employment is the brainchild of Swedish artistic duo Simon Goldin and Jakob Senneby, who often spin real-world economics into giddy, strange new forms. For this project they are investing a prize from from Public Art Agency Sweden in conjunction with the Swedish Transport Administration—about $650,000. This forms the Eternal Employment foundation, which will grow the initial sum and form a board to select and pay the forever employee. Anyone in the world can apply, and “the foundation will be an equal opportunity employer,” Goldin and Senneby say over email. And when the employee retires or chooses to leave, the board will select another.
A train at Gothenburg Central Station, currently the main pipeline for transportation in the city. Andrzej Otrębski/Wikimedia Commons/CC-BY-4.0
Korsvägen is one of three new underground stations being constructed to alleviate traffic pressure and create jobs in Gothenburg. Already Sweden’s second-largest city, its population is to projected to grow by at least 150,000 by 2035. Goldin and Senneby hope that the job will make the station more than a stopover between one place and another. Eternal Employment is also a response to the way Gothenburg is changing. The home of Volvo, it was once a major industrial and shipping center. In recent decades, it has developed into an arts and entertainment hub, boasting museums, concert venues, and a super-sized shrimp sandwich supposedly inspired by American portion sizes. As Gothenburg’s working class finds itself marginalized, Goldin and Senneby see a job that gives total control to the worker as an act of economic imagination.
A mock-up of the job description, composed by Lina Ekdahl, a Gothenburg-based poet, concludes: “We can’t take it anymore. Apply. Take over. Thank you.” The official application isn’t actually up yet, but will be posted a few months before the inauguration of Korsvägen station in 2026.
In this world, as you might expect, an “eternity” isn’t really forever. It is actually about 120 years. “That was the time span for which the station is planned on a physical/architectural scale,” the artists explain over email. Goldin and Senneby hope that, even when this particular version of eternity is over, the position will leave a lasting impression. While they don’t see this kind of undefined job as a vision of the future, they imagine a “point of reference for the future.” Working “as though you were at Korsvägen” might become the stuff of urban legend, they propose, an idiomatic expression in praise of idleness. As for what that means exactly? Who knows, you may get the chance to answer that question yourself.

Story 96
Argentina is requesting a private jet for the Argentinian team, a ban on taking selfies with Messi, and for Moroccan footballers to avoid violently taking the ball from him.
Rabat – New conditions have emerged regarding Morocco’s friendly football match with Argentina on March 26 in Tangier.
The Royal Moroccan Football Federation (FRMF) will send a private jet to transport the Argentine football team from Spain, reported Moroccan newspaper Al Akhbar.
The Argentine Football Association (AFA) also insisted that the Atlas Lions must not be ruthless in taking the ball from Lionel Messi. FRMF will allegedly pay MAD 10 million to the Argentine governing body for Messi to play in Morocco.
The FRMF has stipulated that Messi must play for fewer than 60 minutes.
AFA instructed that it will be coach Herve Renard’s responsibility to ensure the smooth running of the friendly match.
The AFA has banned both Atlas Lions and fans from taking pictures with the Barcelona star and exchanging jerseys with him. Messi will also not give any statements to the press.
Messi and his national teammates will stay in an undisclosed hotel in Tangier. Officials are keeping the location secret to avoid the team being bothered by media or fans.
It is also expected that a security team will protect the Argentinian players.
The match will serve as preparation for the Atlas Lions for the coming Africa Cup of Nations championship in Egypt, planned for June 15 to July 13.

Story 97
The Croda surfactants plant, between I-95 and the Delaware River at Atlas Point south of Wilmington. England-based Croda was urged to close the plant and move the works to Texas by its Gulf Coast-based ethylene suppliers, to avoid the cost and risk of shipping volatile organics by rail across the country. Instead, Croda, committed $170 million to building an ethanol-to-ethylene oxide plant (top of photo) to make its raw material on site, expanding employment from 215 to 250. The state of Delaware gave tax breaks and training subsidies.

Story 98
Warren Buffett famously said, 'Volatility is far from synonymous with risk.' It's only natural to consider a company's balance sheet when you examine how risky it is, since debt is often involved when a business collapses. As with many other companies Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:AAWW) makes use of debt. But the more important question is: how much risk is that debt creating?
What Risk Does Debt Bring?
Debt assists a business until the business has trouble paying it off, either with new capital or with free cash flow. Part and parcel of capitalism is the process of 'creative destruction' where failed businesses are mercilessly liquidated by their bankers. However, a more common (but still painful) scenario is that it has to raise new equity capital at a low price, thus permanently diluting shareholders. Of course, the upside of debt is that it often represents cheap capital, especially when it replaces dilution in a company with the ability to reinvest at high rates of return. The first thing to do when considering how much debt a business uses is to look at its cash and debt together.
Check out our latest analysis for Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings
What Is Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings's Debt?
You can click the graphic below for the historical numbers, but it shows that Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings had US$2.36b of debt in June 2019, down from US$2.50b, one year before. However, it does have US$117.8m in cash offsetting this, leading to net debt of about US$2.25b.
NasdaqGS:AAWW Historical Debt, August 14th 2019 More
A Look At Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings's Liabilities
The latest balance sheet data shows that Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings had liabilities of US$966.7m due within a year, and liabilities of US$2.89b falling due after that. On the other hand, it had cash of US$117.8m and US$265.5m worth of receivables due within a year. So it has liabilities totalling US$3.47b more than its cash and near-term receivables, combined.
The deficiency here weighs heavily on the US$735.6m company itself, as if a child were struggling under the weight of an enormous back-pack full of books, his sports gear, and a trumpet. So we'd watch its balance sheet closely, without a doubt At the end of the day, Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings would probably need a major re-capitalization if its creditors were to demand repayment.
We use two main ratios to inform us about debt levels relative to earnings. The first is net debt divided by earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA), while the second is how many times its earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) covers its interest expense (or its interest cover, for short). The advantage of this approach is that we take into account both the absolute quantum of debt (with net debt to EBITDA) and the actual interest expenses associated with that debt (with its interest cover ratio).
While Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings's debt to EBITDA ratio (4.2) suggests that it uses some debt, its interest cover is very weak, at 2.2, suggesting high leverage. It seems that the business incurs large depreciation and amortisation charges, so maybe its debt load is heavier than it would first appear, since EBITDA is arguably a generous measure of earnings. So shareholders should probably be aware that interest expenses appear to have really impacted the business lately. Even more troubling is the fact that Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings actually let its EBIT decrease by 10.0% over the last year. If that earnings trend continues the company will face an uphill battle to pay off its debt. There's no doubt that we learn most about debt from the balance sheet. But it is future earnings, more than anything, that will determine Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings's ability to maintain a healthy balance sheet going forward. So if you're focused on the future you can check out this free report showing analyst profit forecasts.
Story continues

Story 99
Amazon is becoming a player in the logistics and shipping industry. That's what analysts think about the recent expansion of Amazon Air to include 50 planes and several new regional hubs, including a $1.5 billion hub opening in northern Kentucky in 2021. According to Wolfe Research, the e-commerce giant is now handling its own shipping for 26 percent of online orders. In a December press release, Amazon said that it can "transport hundreds of thousands of packages per day" with its new "dedicated air network" and that its fleet of planes make "two-day shipping possible almost anywhere in the U.S." "Amazon is looking to become a logistics company in their own right," said Ravi Shanker, Morgan Stanley's North American transportation analyst. "We think that Amazon will be a top logistics provider, whether it's in trucking or in air, in the coming years. I think the question is just how quickly they will ramp that operation." Amazon is even acknowledging the importance of this business to investors: In its 2018 annual financial filing released earlier this month, it listed "transportation and logistics services" among its group of competitors for the first time.
Why it makes sense for Amazon to control shipping
Amazon's shipping costs jumped 23 percent last quarter, reaching a record $9 billion. It spent $27 billion on shipping in 2018. The more of these steps Amazon can control itself, the more it can control the costs. "We estimate that Amazon will pay about $6 a box to move this themselves on their own air network," said Morgan Stanley's Shanker. "Versus what we estimate Amazon paying UPS and FedEx: about $8 or $9 per box today ... and given Amazon's scale, that could be a couple of billion dollars at least in savings." By bringing shipping in-house, Amazon also has more control over the speed of deliveries. "Amazon's going to do more of its business in-house and they're going to just outsource the costly operations that they don't want to build capacity for, they're going to outsource it to carriers like UPS and FedEx," said Tarek Abdallah, assistant professor of operations at Northwestern University's Kellogg School of Management. "By gaining more control over their supply chain, they can make sure to provide a better service because if a customer does not receive his package on time, they're not going to blame UPS or FedEx, they're going to blame Amazon."
Amazon packages are sorted at Ontario International Airport on February 4, 2019. Katie Schoolov
"If they could shave any cent out of this delivery route, this can be passed out to their sellers. And this means that their sellers could offer their products at a cheaper cost. And that gives them a huge advantage in this online e-commerce space," Abdallah said.
Inside an Amazon Air operation
Amazon Air currently has planes at 21 U.S. airports and it's opening new regional hubs this year in Fort Worth, Texas, Wilmington, Ohio, and expanding one in Rockford, Illinois. Amazon will open a $1.5 billion air hub at Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky International Airport in 2021. There it will have capacity for 100 planes — double the number in its fleet now — and will plan to schedule 200 flight landings and departures each day. One bustling Amazon Air operation is at Ontario International Airport in Southern California. It recently dethroned Atlanta as the country's No. 1 airport for outgoing cargo. "We have about eight flights a day on Prime Air," said Ontario International Airport Deputy Executive Director Atif Elkadi. "I know when they started here a couple of years ago it was maybe three or four flights a day and it has steadily increased." Some of the Amazon aircraft CNBC saw at Ontario International are repainted with blue Prime branding, while others still carry logos of the airlines Amazon leases the planes from: Atlas Air, ABX Air and air cargo conglomerate Air Transport Services Group. Once Amazon packages are offloaded from Amazon planes, they're sorted on site at the Ontario airport, loaded onto Amazon semitrucks and sent out to one of its 185 fulfillment centers. Amazon Air has gotten so busy in the region that it recently opened a new center at March Air Reserve Base in Moreno Valley, just 30 miles from Ontario International.
Amazon Air operates up to five daily flights out of March Air Reserve Base in Moreno Valley, California, pictured here on February 4, 2019. Katie Schoolov
Amazon is not just bulking up in the air — it's taking on the ground as well. Amazon, UPS and FedEx all rely on the U.S. Postal Service for the especially difficult and expensive job of taking packages from fulfillment centers to individual doorsteps. That's why Amazon ordered 20,000 vans last year and has begun testing more advanced delivery methods like Scout sidewalk robots. In Los Angeles and London, it's testing out a program called Shipping With Amazon. Sellers who've used the service say Amazon offers shipping rates at half the price of UPS.
FedEx says it's not worried
As its own shipping capacity goes up, Amazon's reliance on FedEx, UPS and the U.S. Postal Service drops. That spells trouble for these partner organizations. After Morgan Stanley detailed Amazon Air's expansion to investors in December, FedEx and UPS shares dropped 20 percent from recent highs. "If Amazon Air did not exist at all, we reckon that UPS and FedEx revenues would be about two percent higher than they are today," Shanker said. But FedEx's senior vice president of integrated marketing, Patrick Fitzgerald, said he's not worried at all. "We honestly don't see a world where Amazon would be a competitor to FedEx," Fitzgerald said, because, "there is no sensible way to compare them." "You can carve out some local delivery in highly dense markets. That's in no way a competitive threat to the broad portfolio of business that FedEx does."
A FedEx plane is parked at Ontario International Airport on February 4, 2019.

Story 100
FRANKFURT, June 1 (Reuters) - German prosecutors have ordered Thyssenkrupp’s Atlas Elektronik GmbH to pay to the state about 48 million euros ($54 million) that it was found to have earned from contracts in Greece and Peru.
The Bremen prosecutor’s office said in a statement on Thursday that it suspected employees of Atlas, a maritime technology company, paid a Greek middle-man more than 13 million euros to win submarine sonar system orders.
Some of that money ended up in the pockets of Greek officials after having been funnelled through accounts in London and Switzerland, it said.
In addition, the prosecutor’s office said it found evidence of bribes to a middle-man in connection with the sale of torpedoes to Peru’s navy.
It said it had found a manager of Atlas, whom it did not name, had committed a negligent breach of his supervisory duties. That manager no longer works for the company.
“The managing director is accused of having failed to set up effective compliance controls to prevent the violations by employees of Atlas Elektronik GmbH,” it said.
Atlas welcomed the decision, which allows it to continue to bid for government projects because it paid a so-called forfeiture order rather than a fine.
“It ends a difficult period for our company,” Atlas Chief Executive Jens Bodo Koch said in a statement.
The payment order concludes the prosecutor’s investigation of Atlas but not ongoing probes of Atlas staff and their accomplices, the prosecutor’s office said.
Earlier this year, Thyssenkrupp agreed to buy the 49 percent of Atlas it did not already own from Airbus.

Story 101
We keep a clean office, there’s no secret about that, and the desks are usually clear of papers and clutter. Some call it minimalism, others call it clean, but mostly people just call it “wow” and ask how we keep such clean lives.
Studies show that your brain is hardwired to have cluttered thought patterns when you are surrounded by clutter, yes, even those of you that live in a pile of papers (which of course you have “a system” for). It can be intimidating to even get started when you have a messy office, but there are a few things that anyone can do to regain control and help your brain function at its optimal rate, improve productivity, and prove to clients and coworkers that you mind the details like no one else.
Friends and coworkers ask me constantly how I get so much done in the average day, and it isn’t because of my smartphone, no, it’s because I am a focused workhorse. A huge part of that is keeping a very clean environment. Let’s talk about why that’s important (and why you should ignore the “buut geniuses have messy desks” bullcrap editorials).
Perhaps you put to do items on post it notes or pieces of paper, or you pile up files that need to be dealt with – one of the most common reasons desks are messy. This method of task management is ineffective and tells your brain to panic because what you’re doing right now may or may not be as important as those 35 stickies, so you either pause frequently to reflect on the dozens of other unprioritized tasks, or your brain constantly churns in the background having been distracted with this mess that represents tasks, or you simply learn to tune the noise out, which defeats the purpose of your reminder system.
To change this, either implement tech tools to manage your tasks (search this site for “task management” and see dozens of tools) or keep one pad of paper or journal on your desktop.
Another common item on desks is what? Envelopes. One of the tricks I’ve found is that no matter the envelope, it gets torn open and processed while I’m on hold or on a conference call I don’t have to speak on. Before you leave for the day, every bill should be torn open and either dealt with, filed, or if you must keep it on your desk, have a beautiful inbox or even a clipboard to keep them all in the same spot.
There are much more sophisticated methods, but let’s face it, you have to start small to ensure good habits. The same goes for files – be smart about processing paper in your down time.
My core confession that you may have picked up on so far is that I love to trash stuff.
I didn’t used to be this way, I used to hoard paper, but it is how I began my journey toward being more productive – trashing. Remember that every time you throw just one envelope away, you’re making progress that is tangible, and you should learn to enjoy that progress and associate positive feelings with keeping things clean.
What else holds you back from keeping a clean work area and focusing on your tasks for the day? Often, books pile up or files start stacking themselves up magically. I’ve found that having aesthetically appealing storage systems (boxes, filing cabinets, files, pen holders, etc.) make you feel rewarded for using them. It’s a subtle trick, but if you invest in your desk accouterments, you feel compelled to use them, which inadvertently keeps you organized.
Look, these are simple things to do – ditch sticky notes, deal with mail and files before you leave for the day, and surround yourself with beautiful tools that keep you organized. This is where it begins – instead of being addicted to hoarding crap on your desk, work on rewiring your brain to enjoy reduction.
This editorial was originally published in November of 2013.

Story 102
Brazil to pay Petrobras $9 billion in oil contract settlement
By Mario Sergio Lima and Sabrina Valle on 4/10/2019
RIO DE JANEIRO (Bloomberg) -- Brazilian oil giant Petrobras will get $9.06 billion to settle a deepwater contract dispute with the government, ending years of negotiations and paving the way for the majors to access enormous crude deposits in the area.
Energy Minister Bento Albuquerque told reporters on Tuesday that compensation for a 2010 contract review will be paid in one settlement, and the resolution will allow for an Oct. 28 auction to develop excess oil reserves beyond the 5 billion bbl Petrobras is allowed to produce under the 2010 Transfer of Rights contract, also known as TOR.
The government expects to pay Petrobras after the Oct. 28 auction is held, Albuquerque said. Any winners in the auction will need to compensate Petrobras for investments the state-controlled company has already made in the areas being sold off. Rules for the compensation will be announced next week, Albuquerque said. The value of the singing bonuses and criteria for the auction will also be announced on April 17, he said.
Jair Bolsonaro is the third Brazilian president to try to unlock oil riches from the TOR area. Located under the Atlantic Ocean, it’s a section of the larger so-called pre-salt area, which holds Brazil’s biggest oil discoveries. Companies including Exxon Mobil and Royal Dutch Shell have expressed interest in the deposits.
“Today we removed the legal uncertainty for one of the main contracts in the country,” Waldery Rodrigues Junior, an official at the economy ministry, told reporters at the same press briefing. “There is a lot of interest from oil companies in the reserves.”
The government transferred the 5 billion bbl of undeveloped reserves to Petrobras in 2010 for a cost of $8.51/bbl. The agreement included compensation if oil prices fell leading up to commercial production, which they did.
Petrobras started output in 2013 and found the TOR area to hold more crude than initially estimated. Burdened by huge debts, the company lacked the tens of billions of dollars needed to fully develop the discoveries. The government wants to auction the surplus volumes and start pumping the crude, but needed to resolve the contract with Petrobras first to remove the company’s exclusive exploration rights.
The additional volumes that can now be offered to oil majors can reach as much as 15 billion bbl. If that crude is commercially recoverable, it would represent about twice the proved reserves of Mexico or Norway.
The government has said the auction could raise as much as 100 billion reais ($25.9 billion) and reduce the South American country’s ballooning budget deficit.
Related News ///
FROM THE ARCHIVE ///

Story 103
Federal officials say a Fort Worth, Texas-based company will pay $85,000 to settle an age discrimination lawsuit.
The suit against Atlas Energy Group LLC was brought by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC).
Under the settlement, Atlas Energy also has agreed to furnish significant relief to settle lawsuit brought by the federal agency.
The had EEOC charged that a then 52-year old production foreman with more than 20 years of industry experience was pushed out of his job because of his age by a new, young superintendent. The production foreman was considered “very knowledgeable” by the pumpers and field operators he supervised.
The Age Discrimination in Employment Act (ADEA) protects individuals age 40 and over from employment discrimination because of their age, including discrimination in discharge decisions. The EEOC filed suit in U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas (EEOC v. Atlas Energy Group LLC, Civil Action No. 3:17-cv-01582), after first attempting to reach a pre-litigation settlement through its conciliation process.
A three-year consent decree settling the suit was signed by U.S. District Court Judge David C. Godbey on April 19, 2019. In addition to paying $85,000 in monetary relief to the production foreman, the decree enjoins Atlas Energy Group from engaging in age discrimination in the future. The company has also agreed to provide training on age discrimination to its managerial and human resources employees, post a notice of employee rights under the ADEA, and report future complaints of age discrimination to the EEOC.
Source: EEOC

Story 104
On a hot summer’s day in a lush, green Cairo garden just a stone’s throw from the Nile, 29-year-old Mostafa Amin is talking about bread. He’s speaking with the kind of reverence usually reserved for celebrities, football teams or minor miracles like manna - the small, doughy rolls dropped from on high to help the Israelites flee the Pharaoh, according to the Bible.
“In Egyptian Arabic, we call bread ‘aish’, which translates as ‘life’,” Amin explains. “We are a culture of bread - not rice, not meat or potatoes. Most of us eat Egyptian baladi bread with all three meals across the day. Last year we were the world’s number-two consumer of flour and we produced – not consumed, okay — 28 billion loaves of baladi. It’s important.”
Indeed, bread is more than just food in Egypt – it’s history, glory, anger and revolution. The first ever loaf of bread was baked in Egypt 10,000 years ago, thanks to the quern, a technological innovation that allowed nomadic people to crush grain. The Nile delta, at the height of the Roman Empire, was the bread basket of the world. Across the 20th century, every drop in the bread subsidy in Egypt, a country where 45 per cent of the population earn around $2 per day, caused huge public protests. On 17 January 2011, a baker called Abdou Abdel Monaam set himself on fire in the port city of Alexandria over the price of bread, sparking an uprising that kickstarted Egypt’s Arab Spring and led to the fall of President Hosni Mubarak’s government.
Advertisement
In this context, launching Breadfast, a home-delivery startup promising fresh loaves delivered to by 5am, was a no brainer to Amin: a huge population, bread’s enormous popularity and a service that could grow quickly into the Ocado or Amazon Fresh of Egypt and on into the rest of the Middle East.
But, in north Africa, it’s not quite that easy. “Egypt has political instability, soaring inflation and high interest rates.” Amin says. “If you go to an investor right now, they’ll ask why they should put money in a startup while they can put it in the bank and get 15 per cent? There are probably ten investors in the whole country with vision beyond wanting 90 per cent of your company for $200,000. Most of the rest are real estate investors who want a quick return.”
Read next The curious tale of Julian, the last King of Brussels The curious tale of Julian, the last King of Brussels
Amin is not used to this way of thinking. In 2014, he moved to Berlin for a couple of years Berlin to earn some cash as a coder and there the startup philosophy was, as he puts it, “reach the first million in your user base, and then see how you can monetise. But in the Middle East, we don’t work like that. From day one, investors want you to show something tangible. They don’t speak about the next generation, they want to talk about something basic people will pay for on the spot.”
Since the 2011 revolution, Cairo has experienced a dramatic increase in young entrepreneurs like Amin. Almost 30 per cent of Egyptians live below the poverty line, while millions hover just above it. After years of energy subsidy cuts, tax increases, austerity measures and currency flotation, these entrepreneurs offer one of the best hopes for the country to achieve Harvard University’s Center for International Development’s hopeful predictions of annual growth rate reaching 6.63 per cent by 2026.
Advertisement
“Egypt has one of the best strategic locations in the world,” Amin points out, sheltering under a tree from the heat of the midday sun and sipping a cold bottle of water. “We have 100 million people and if you give these people a proper education, you will create lots of impact. This country is a treasure. But we have terrible infrastructure, short sighted investors, zero management and zero vision. Those are our problems.”
They’re problems prevalent across the region – and across the developing world — but so are the communities of dynamic digital entrepreneurs trying to do something about it. The isolated Palestinian city of Ramallah, for instance, hosts a tech park and co-working spaces which helped launch the Middle East’s booking.com Yamsafer, wearables company Insolito and the demure lingerie startup Kenz Woman, despite frequent electricity failures, a creaky 2G mobile network, and an unstable political situation that has lasted for decades.
According to the World Bank’s Small and Medium Enterprise Department, there are between 365 and 445 million micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in emerging markets, contributing up to 60 per cent of employment and up to 40 per cent of national GDP. The main problem these companies face is access to finance. So how can entrepreneurs from emerging nations join the global market and help lift the wealth of their nations? One of the solutions comes from a small village in Ireland called Dromineer, of population 102 and the birthplace of the world’s youngest self-made billionaires, Patrick and John Collision.
Read next A mysterious death, a genetic clue and the lifelong quest for answers A mysterious death, a genetic clue and the lifelong quest for answers
Mostafa Amin's Cairo-based startup, Breadfest, became a Silicon Valley funded C-Corp after he partnered with Stripe Roger Anis
Advertisement
Dromineer looks like a picture-postcard cute Irish village – there’s a couple of low, whitewashed pubs, a few shops, two hotels serving the tourists who come for the boating and a dilapidated 11th century castle that towers over the place. The nearest main road is over five miles away. In the summer, the marina buzzes but in the winter the place is quiet. It’s the perfect setting for a Richard Curtis movie where Hugh Grant arrives, makes awkward mistakes and falls in love with a local girl.
It’s also where Patrick and John Collison, learned to code – and where they began to think about online payments. It’s where they began laying the foundations for Stripe, their payments company valued at $20 billion when it last raised money in September 2018 and which handles payments for Amazon, Booking.com, Lyft, Deliveroo, Shopify, Salesforce and Facebook.
“To say Dromineer is rural is understating it,” John Collison explains. “We went to school about 40 minutes’ drive away and there were fewer than 20 kids in each class.” The brothers found school boring. Their father, Denis, trained as an electronic engineer and mother, Lily, as a microbiologist, and the technical chat round the family table outstripped anything they learned in class. They were fascinated by maths and physics. By their early teens they had nine computers at home and were paying €100 a month for a satellite broadband link via Germany.
Patrick – the redheaded older brother, now 30 years old – used to smuggle science and history books into class to read during the more tedious lessons; “you could try to pound your head against the wall and think of original ideas… or you can cheat by reading them in books.”
Read next 'We are at war': How the Brexit Party's viral hit factory upended British politics 'We are at war': How the Brexit Party's viral hit factory upended British politics
At 16, Patrick won the Esat BT Young Scientist of the Year – Ireland’s annual school students’ science competition held by the Royal Dublin Society – with his coding language Croma, a new dialect for LISP, the second oldest programming language still in widespread use. At the end of the ceremony, the Irish president Mary McAleese took the microphone and marvelled – “he’s a fourth-year student. A fourth-year student! Can you believe it?”
That year, Patrick studied Ireland’s two-year Senior Cycle for his high school Leaving Certificate while at home, condensing the work into a 20-day period, acing 30 exams, then running a marathon to celebrate. He enrolled at MIT in 2006 based on an SAT he’d taken at 13.
John – the dark haired younger brother, 28, wasn’t far behind. On the way to scoring eight straight A1s in his Leaving Certificate, he spent his Transition Year – an optional time out from Irish education for 15 year olds – with Patrick in the US, where, aged 17 and 15 respectively, they launched their first startups: Auctomatic – a software-as-a-service platform for eBay power sellers to track inventory and traffic – and an iPhone app providing an offline copy of Wikipedia, pitched by the brothers as Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy on the iPhone.
“It was amazing to us that two kids in Ireland can start a business with customers around the world,” John explains. “Our dad ran a hotel for a while, and our mum started a company that did employee training, but they were just starting a business – they weren’t entrepreneurs, so we had no-one to ask about what we were doing. What we did discover pretty quickly was that the hardest part of starting an internet business isn’t coming up with the idea, turning the idea into code or getting people to hear about it and pay for it. The hardest part was finding a way to accept customers’ money. You could share a photograph on Facebook but you couldn’t move money around in the same way. It felt like you were in the dark ages.”
In 2007, when the brothers were coding their APIs, online payments were supposed to have been solved. Elon Musk, Peter Thiel and Max Levchin founded PayPal in 1998, which was bought by eBay in 2002 for $1.5 billion. The fintech ‘revolution’ that followed, however, wasn’t much of an uprising but more of a spot of portfolio diversifying by some banks that laid down the payment rails any eager startup had to ride on. The banks still verified identity and owned the account for cards and payments drew from.
Read next The impossible fight to save Jakarta, the sinking megacity The impossible fight to save Jakarta, the sinking megacity
“The problem has always been the layers of intermediation,” explains Chris Higson, a professor of accounting at the London Business School. “The annual cost of financial intermediation in the US is roughly 2 per cent – the same as it was in the late nineteenth century. The US finance industry has showed no efficiency gains at all over 130 years.”
For years, the growth in e-commerce outpaced the underlying payments technology: companies wanting to set up shop had to go to a bank, which processes payments, and setup a gateway to connect the two. This takes weeks, lots of people, and fee after fee. Much of the software in place was decades old and written by banks, credit-card companies and financial middlemen.
Paypal – designed to simplify payments – actually made this worse. The company infuriated startups with its restrictions – once turnover hit a certain level, Paypal automatically put the business on a 21 to 60 day rolling reserve, meaning that up to 30 per cent of a company’s revenue could be locked up for up to two months. Developers had to choose between this and complex legacy systems built by banks.
“For us it was quite visceral: these products are not serving the needs of the customers, so let’s build something better,” John Collison argues. “In old-fashioned legacy companies it’s the CFO choosing the payments system. They think all systems are alike, so they just sort the bids from suppliers. But if you’re a developer building the next Kickstarter, or the next Lyft, and you have a two-person team, both of you writing relatively complex code and solving complex infrastructural problem, you need a simple payments API that – once installed – doesn’t keep changing.”
In 2008, Patrick and John sold Auctomatic to Canada’s Live Current Media for $5 million – making them teenage millionaires – then went back to university, MIT and Harvard respectively. They began tinkering with the idea of focusing on software developers – the people actually building the sites and apps. They came up with seven simple lines of code that anyone could insert into any app or website in a day to connect to a payments company. A process that used to take weeks was now a cut-and-paste job.
Read next This economist has a plan to fix capitalism. It's time we all listened This economist has a plan to fix capitalism. It's time we all listened
In 2010, the brothers dropped out of college and launched Stripe in San Francisco with seed funding from accelerator Y Combinator. The company offered seven lines of code and a promise that no other changes were needed. Developers who integrated the Stripe API wouldn’t have to touch it for years. In the early days, the brothers cycled to the office to save money. In 2011, they approached Peter Thiel and Elon Musk.
“It’s a little impetuous to go to PayPal founders and say payments on the internet are totally broken,” says John with a wry smile. “But look, you can WhatsApp anyone around the world and it’s free. It’s a remarkable act of co-ordination between the telcos and ISPs and the people who own the fibre underneath the sea to create this global communications network. Then, if you look at the economic infrastructure, we haven’t even started.”
The two brothers pitched a vision of more internet commerce, driven by more connectivity and it being easy to use. “That had been the original vision of PayPal, but they hadn’t actually made it happen, so I think they got us, in a way that a lot of people didn’t,” John says.
Thiel led a $2 million series A round with Sequoia Capital and Andreessen Horowitz. The company grew swiftly, driven largely by word-of-mouth between developers. Marketplace builders such as Shopify and sharing-economy newcomers like Lyft needed to manage payments between a large number of small suppliers, home owners or drivers and thousands of customers in the time it took to press a single on-screen button. Setting up accounting platforms to manage these incoming and outgoing payments would have taken six months to build. Stripe processed payments through its own servers, allowing payers and vendors to connect with minimum fuss.
Developers approved. Stackshare, the developer’s platform where companies such as Slack, Spotify and Opendoor post lists of every piece of software they’re using, has a running vote comparing Adyen, Braintree and Stripe. Adyen – which describes itself on the site as “a payments-technology company that provides a single global platform to accept payments anywhere in the world. Businesses can process payments across online, mobile and in-store (POS) with over 250 payment methods and 187 currencies” – has 23 fans, is a favourite for 11 developers and has some 39 upvotes as of July 2018. Braintree – which says it “replaces traditional payment gateways and merchant accounts. From one touch payments, to mobile SDKs and international sales, we provide everything you need to start accepting payments today” – does a little better with 130 fans, 29 favourites and 87 up votes. Stripe — which on the website describes its goal simply as making it “easy for developers to accept credit cards on the web” — has 1,360+ fans, 170 favourites and 1,500+ votes.
Read next Inside Google Stadia Inside Google Stadia
In short order, Stripe signed deals with Lyft, Facebook, DoorDash, Deliveroo, Seedrs, Monzo, The Guardian, Boohoo, Salesforce, Shopify, Indiegogo, Asos and TaskRabbit. The company won’t disclose its payments volume but says it processes billions of pounds a year for millions of companies.
Over the past year, 65 per cent of UK internet users and 80 per cent of US users have bought something from a Stripe-powered business, although very few of them knew they were using it. Where PayPal injects itself into the checkout process, Stripe operates like a white-label merchant account, processing payments, checking for fraud and taking a small percentage: 1.4 per cent plus 20 pence for European cards and 2.9 per cent plus 20 pence for all others. The buyer sees the seller’s name on their credit card statement and, unless the merchant specifically chooses to deploy the Stripe logo, that’s all they’ll ever see.
“It’s not the cheapest provider but it does remove all other intermediaries so it’s the only fee you’ll pay,” Hodges explains. “And if that’s all they did, they’d be interesting. It’s what they did next that’s revolutionary.”
“For many years Stripe had been trying to work out how to deal with what seemed like an obvious opportunity,” explains Billy Alvarado, Stripe’s chief business officer. Alvarado grew up in Honduras, where, in 1998, Hurricane Mitch took out all three bridges in the capital city. “Suddenly you had men, women and children, literally in rubber boots with these pads on their shoulders selling piggy backs across the river to men in suits and women in work clothes,” he recalls. “If you go to any country, you see entrepreneurship everywhere. A lot of these entrepreneurs would love to launch a global internet business. They find it difficult to trade on the world market – but these are literally millions of nascent businesses. We were just trying to work out how we can help them do that simply.”
On February 24, 2016 the company launched the Stripe Atlas platform, designed to help entrepreneurs start a business from absolutely anywhere on the planet. The invitation-only platform allows companies from the Gaza Strip to Berwick-upon-Tweed to incorporate as a US company in Delaware – a state with such business-friendly courts, tax system, laws and policies that 60 per cent of Fortune 500 companies including the Bank of America, Google and Coca-Cola are incorporated there for just $500.
Read next The rise and fall of Flash, the annoying plugin that shaped the modern web The rise and fall of Flash, the annoying plugin that shaped the modern web
That idea, in a sense, could only come from someone from a place as remote as Dromineer, Ireland, and with a clear sense of how it feels to be so far from the action. At its core was the ambition to “increase the GDP of the internet,” according to Patrick in his February 2016 launch speech at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona. Stripe, he explained, was targeting entrepreneurs from Africa, Latin America, the Middle East and parts of Asia. “A majority of the growth over the next ten years will come from underserved markets,” he explained. “That includes about 6.2 billion people we don’t reach yet, and that’s a huge missed opportunity.”
Dana Khater founded Coterique using Stripe's Atlas payment platform. "Atlas saved our business," she says Roger Anis
Dana Khater is 24. Born in Egypt, she grew up in Dubai and studied at an international school until she was 11. You can still hear traces of her schooling in her soft, almost-American accent. After her father died, she returned to Cairo and spent a “few years arguing about my education” with her mother.
“I originally wanted to go to university abroad,” she explains with a light smile, sipping coffee in Holm Café, a Scandinavian style coffee shop in the affluent west Cairo Zamlek district. “I got into McGill but my mom didn’t let me go – I was 16 at the time and she said I was too young to live on my own. Throughout the first year I’d keep picking out different things that I found at McGill that didn’t exist at my university – and one of the things was a fashion magazine. She was sick of me talking like this and said ‘well, start one’. So I did.”
The fashion-centric magazines in Egypt mostly published translations of Vogue articles. Khater wanted to focus on Middle East brands – Cairo designer Amina K. had just had her first catwalk show at London Fashion Week and the city’s fashion scene was growing. Khater and her team learned to style shoots, borrowing clothes from stores that sold copies of the magazine in return for the publicity. She ran the magazine for two-and-a-half years – she never did go to McGill – until the revolution broke out in 2011. Cairo’s restive streets filled with protestors, military vehicles, mass pray-ins, riot police and blazing armoured cars until President Mubarak resigned.
Read next The hidden fight to stop illegal fishing from destroying our oceans The hidden fight to stop illegal fishing from destroying our oceans
In the months that followed, the old order stepped warily around the new. Dana took a job at Ego, an upmarket department store that had purchased all its stock before the revolution. “Post-revolution, no one knew what was going to happen, so no one was really spending on luxury goods,” she explains. “We had a lot of product that was sold out on Net-a-Porter but was just sitting on our shelves. The people that were spending were coming into the stores and asking for non-branded plastic bags. No one wanted to be seen spending.”
Khater suggested that Ego launch its own e-commerce site but they turned her down, so she decided to turn her magazine into a platform showcasing and selling emerging brands. Coterique went online in February 2013. The site’s first order came from New York and the second came from LA, and before she knew it, she was effectively running a global business. Coterique was selling brands from 12 different countries – including Egypt, Dubai, Lebanon, the UK, Australia and Turkey.
Then, in 2016, the government devalued the Egyptian pound to secure a $12 billion loan from the International Monetary Fund, prompting soaring inflation and rising borrowing costs. Prior to the devaluation, $1 was officially EGP6, but on the black market closer to EGP9 or 10. After devaluation, $1 soared to EGP17 overnight.
“A lot of our brands and customers were outside of Egypt,” Dana explains. “We were getting payments from customers in EGP, but my brands in New York needed paying in dollars. No one wanted to dabble in foreign currency, so we had to withdraw the EGP from the bank, go to the currency exchange on the black market, redeposit the dollars and lose a lot of money every time.”
She heard about Stripe Atlas from an early stage investor in her company. Crucially, Atlas allowed Coterique to set up as a US based C-Corp – a business taxed separately from its owner’s income – with a Silicon Valley Bank account that could receive payment in US dollars.
Read next The PPI scandal spawned a spam empire that just won't quit The PPI scandal spawned a spam empire that just won't quit
“Before we could accept dollars, we were only taking payments in Egyptian pounds,” she explains. “If you live in London and you really like a dress, you Google EGP to figure out what currency that is. You see Egypt. Everything you see on TV says that Egypt’s unstable. You don’t know if that means that you’re actually going to receive your dress and suddenly you’re not interested. Atlas saved our business.”
For Mustafa Amin, Atlas offered a solution to his perennial problem – no-one wanted to invest in Middle Eastern companies, “because the instability meant they doubted our legal system – to protect their money, they need to have a strong legal system.” Since BreadFast became a US company, Amin has already landed funding from Silicon Valley venture fund 500 Startups.
Today, 20 per cent of tech-based Delaware C-Corps started on Stripe Atlas. Alvarado oversees the partnership between Atlas and Silicon Valley Bank. For him, building Atlas is a visceral part of his own personal story – his father grew up in poverty in Honduras and he was born into difficult circumstances.
“My grandfather was a street hustler,” he explains. “When my dad was 18, my grandfather gave him the equivalent of $2 and said ‘take care of your mum and brother.’ He started as a janitor in a bank and slowly made his way up until he was working for someone doing credit reviews. That person got a job at Citibank, took my dad with him and he suddenly became a professional. That paid for our college in America – but everything had depended on the decision of that one person. I don’t think helping emerging markets should be a matter of chance.”
Of course, Atlas isn’t a charity. Payments is a notoriously tight-margin business and growth is complicated in established markets. Alvarado points to forecasts saying 70 per cent of internet commerce is going to come from emerging markets – “so, it’s important that we start doing it now or people will solve it for themselves and come up with a way to pay and borrow.”
Read next Inside the UK unicorn that's about to become the Intel of AI Inside the UK unicorn that's about to become the Intel of AI
Not everyone approves. “In a developing world context, Stripe Atlas has its benefits for disruptive SMEs located in the most conducive development markets and for those companies the business case is clear,” says Dr Nadia Millington, deputy programme director in social innovation and entrepreneurship at the London School of Economics. “However, the majority of SMEs cannot deal with the complexity associated with registering and maintaining a US C-company. Challenges include double taxation, onerous repatriation rules and an inability to establish control structures that are required to run multi-country businesses. The concept of the internet of the GDP is intriguing philosophically, but the underlying assumption that this will benefit a wide range of SMEs in emerging markets is a stretch. There’s a host of structural, institutional and social barriers which must be addressed in parallel.”
One solution is the platform model. Over the past five years, businesses including Amazon and Uber – all Stripe clients – have built multi-billion-dollar businesses at speed, disrupting industry after industry with a platform business model that’s open, connected and rapidly scalable, allowing them to create entire ecosystems of developers, customers and suppliers.
Platforms allow everyone to trade on largely neutral terms – connecting millions of sellers across the world. One in four marketplaces on Stripe pay sellers outside their home country. For the brothers, this is only the beginning. In July, Stripe entered the credit-card business – helping their business customers issue cards to employees using existing Mastercard and Visa rails. Their devotion to the founders of the internet means they’re out to rectify one horrible mistake made in setting the whole thing up.
John and Patrick Collison pictured at Stripe's San Francisco headquarters by WIRED in July 2018 Christie Hemm Klok
When you arrive at Stripe’s offices, in San Francisco’s former waterfront SoMa district, you take a seat in reception by a coffee table covered in magazines and books. There are issues of Paris Review, engineering magazines, the Twelve Tomorrows sci-fi anthology, research journals, a handful of novels and a few scattered copies of Increment, Stripe’s quarterly magazine founded by Susan Fowler, a former Uber employee whose February 2017 blog alleging a corporate culture of sexual harassment at the ridesharing company set off an internal investigation that led to CEO Travis Kalanick stepping down as CEO. Fowler joined Stripe more than a month before publishing the blog post and left Stripe, for the New York Times, earlier in 2018.
Read next The curious quest to create the perfect artificial surfing wave The curious quest to create the perfect artificial surfing wave
This is a very deliberate introduction to the company’s thoughtful culture. The books Patrick Collison used to smuggle into lessons included lots of biographies of computing pioneers such as Stanford Research Institute engineer Douglas Engelbart – who, by 1968, had invented the mouse, real-time collaboration, video conferencing and live syncing of documents with video conferencing, and MIT professor John McCarthy – who coined the term “artificial intelligence” in 1955 and, in 1958, published coding languages that could drive AI data searches.
“So much of this early work is better than what we have today,” Patrick told a class at Stanford University in 2015. “Sure, we have solved all kinds of scaling issues, deployments, technology — but the core problems of helping people work together were thought about more back then. Their concept of technology was about empowering humans.”
Today, his bookshelf is stuffed with everything from War and Peace to the Wealth of Nations. He lists almost 600 titles in a “recommended reading” list on his personal website. From this, he pulls out 70 “above average” titles – including a few books on China, Africa and the Middle East; a number on technology and climate change; Betty Friedan’s 1963 feminist classic The Feminine Mystique; Spacetime and Geometry: An Introduction to General Relativity; as well as Dracula and the Count of Monte Cristo.
There’s also 20 labelled “particularly great” – including books on imperialism, engineering and democracy as well as Nick Bostrom’s Anthropic Bias and Rebecca Goldstein’s libidinous philosophy novel The Mind-Body Problem. One of those 20 greats is special: The Dream Machine: J.C.R. Licklider and the Revolution That Made Computing Personal, by Nature editor M Mitchell Waldrop. This particular book shapes Stripe’s soul – it was out of print for years until Patrick bought the rights and republished it, handing out free copies to every staff member and to anyone who visits Stripe’s headquarters.
The book is a sprawling history of the ideas and individuals that got us from punch cards to personal computers. Taking in everyone from Alan Turing to Tim Berners Lee, the book focuses on Licklider, a visionary polymath psychologist from Missouri who, during his career at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the Pentagon, mentored Robert Taylor – who implemented Licklider’s ideas of a computer network as the ARPAnet that ultimately evolved into the Internet – Douglas Englebart and many of those who created computing as we know it.
He envisaged a man-computer Symbiosis – a collaborative connection between people and technology. Building Licklider’s Dream Machine fell to the mavericks, the outsiders and the rebels at MIT, Carnegie Mellon, UCBerkeley, RAND, BBN, SRI and Xerox PARC. The Collison brothers love the messy, chaotic and unexpected nature of Licklider’s gang.
“One reading of the Dream Machine, the take away certainly that we had, is how accidental the whole thing seemed,” John explains, sitting in a glass-fronted office in Stripe’s headquarters. “How easily it could not have happened and how much it relied on a set of very motivated people who really believed in the long-term idea, pushing it through. That’s one important lesson to take away – this thing that has been so impactful for so many people… was it inevitable? It’s not obvious that it was.”
When Berners-Lee and his team were building the world wide web and designing HTTP and HTMP standards, they included error codes such as “500: internal server error”, or “404: page not found”. In the early 90s, they were trying to realise Licklider’s vision and setting out the rules for how we were all going to interact over this information network. One long-standing error code is “402: payment required”. The original intention – the reason 402 is reserved for future use – was that this code would be used to transact digital cash or micropayments. It has never been implemented – and the Collisons argue this is the reason tech is turning from an equal access opportunity to an oligopoly controlled by five companies now worth more than $3 trillion.
“The idea driving 402 was that it’s obvious that support for payments should be a first-class concept on the web and it’s obvious that there should be a lot of direct commerce taking place on the web,” says John “In fact, what emerged is a single dominant business model which is advertising. That leads to a lot of centralisation, because you get the highest cost per clicks and with the largest platforms. A big part of what we’re trying to do with Stripe is continually make it easy for new business to start, and for new businesses to succeed. Having commerce and direct payment succeed on the internet is a very important component of that. It’s the final piece in the Dream Machine.”
Updated 05.10.18, 10:10 BST: Stripe is currently valued at $20bn. It last raised funding in September 2018.
Updated 07.10.18, 11:00 BST: Susan Fowler published her blog post about sexual harassment at Uber after joining Stripe and now works at the New York Times.
More great stories from WIRED
– Why everyone is playing FIFA 19 wrong
– Inside the incredible struggle to find dark matter
Advertisement
– Should we talk to aliens? No one can agree
– The people hunting a huge mystery planet in our solar system
Don’t miss out. Sign-up to WIRED Weekender to get the best of WIRED in your inbox every weekend

Story 105
Pacific Gas and Electric Co.’s customers were warned about the cost of massive wildfires that it may have sparked. Even before California’s largest utility filed bankruptcy proceedings at the start of the year, lawyers, policymakers and consumer advocates all cautioned that the company’s liabilities in those fires would, one way or another, hit the pocketbooks of its 16 million customers.
So how much could consumers throughout northern and central California be facing in higher costs?
We don’t have a full picture yet. We do know PG&E is seeking double-digit rate increases to help reduce the risk of future fires. But there isn’t agreement yet on how much the company will be held financially responsible for the deadly and destructive wildfires in 2017 and 2018. And we don’t know how much of that liability might be passed on.
Just recently, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Dennis Montali ruled that a jury can decide whether the utility is liable in the Tubbs Fire in Sonoma County, even though investigators pinned the source on private electrical equipment, not PG&E (more on this later).
One thing is sure: Consumers will shoulder a big share of any liabilities. Here’s what we know so far about how much PG&E’s rates could go up.
How much does PG&E charge?
PG&E’s customers are already paying some of the highest electricity rates in the state, if not the country. The utility’s average rate is 20.06 cents per kilowatt hour, compared with an average 16.06 cents statewide and 10.48 cents nationally.
But interestingly, those higher rates are offset by California’s higher efficiency. The state’s average monthly consumption is about 300 kilowatt hours less than the U.S. average, with California’s average monthly electricity bill at $101.49 compared to $111.67 nationwide.
The average residential PG&E customer pays $113.64 a month for electricity and $52.30 for gas, or about $165.94 a month, according to the company.
How much have PG&E’s rates already risen?
In the past decade, the utility’s rates have been going up faster than inflation. According to the Public Advocates Office, residential rates have risen 31% between 2009 and 2019 — higher than the consumer price index of 19%.
But PG&E isn’t alone. While Southern California Edison rates largely appear to keep track with inflation at 18%, San Diego Gas & Electric’s have jumped 51% in the past decade. That’s partly because SDG&E’s customers have been installing solar panels at a higher rate, which distorts the average cost because each customer appears to be consuming less electricity.
How much more will customers’ costs go up?
Based on what we know, the average residential PG&E customer could pay nearly $300 more a year in the next three years, or a 15% increase in their monthly bills. This is because the utility is asking permission from state regulators — separately from the bankruptcy proceedings — to increase its revenue in two ways. Most, but not all, of the new revenue would be passed to consumers.
First, PG&E has asked for a three-year increase totaling $2 billion.That would include a 12.4% jump next year, a 4.7% increase the year after that and a 4.8% hike in 2022. That’s nearly a 22% rise. PG&E says much of the extra money is needed for fire-safety improvements such as more fire-resistant poles, covered power lines, new weather stations and high-definition field cameras.
In this scenario, for the average PG&E residential customer using both electricity and gas, the current bill of $165.94 a month would go up to $186.24 in three years.
On top of that, PG&E wants to raise the guaranteed rate of return for capital investments that it gets under California law from 10.25% to 12%. It had sought a return as high as 16% in April. PG&E is arguing that it needs to offer investors bigger profits to offset the financial risks of liability in major wildfires.
This request would add an additional $4.12 a month to the average residential bill. Combined, the increases would be $293 a year.
Can this really happen?
Yes, but it depends on state regulators. The California Public Utilities Commission will need to approve both rate increases, and PG&E may not get everything it wants. Already the commission, which oversees investor-owned utilities, is hearing an earful from residents in Santa Rosa and Fresno overwhelmingly opposed to paying more.
The commission is expected to announce a decision next year.
What’s going on with the bankruptcy?
The bankruptcy case is proceeding in court in the meantime, but key issues have yet to be resolved. Perhaps the biggest unknown is how much PG&E will be on the hook for past wildfires. PG&E initially stated it could face as much as $30 billion in potential damages from a series of catastrophic wildfires in Northern California in 2017 and 2018. The utility has since lowered that estimate to $17.9 billion.
While the utility has all but accepted liability in the Camp Fire that leveled the northern California town of Paradise, it has been trying to minimize liability in the Tubbs Fire, citing a Cal Fire investigation that blamed private electrical equipment. But the bankruptcy judge ruled that victims can pursue a jury trial.
Fire victims argue that PG&E is at least partly to blame. They’re eager to show jurors a winery’s surveillance video they say is the moment when high-voltage PG&E lines exploded first, near the private power system. Rex Frazier, president of the Personal Insurance Federation of California, which represents insurance companies, said a jury could award victims up to $10 billion.
Is there a deadline for the bankruptcy proceedings?
Yes. Under a new law signed by Gov. Gavin Newsom, PG&E will need to have an exit plan resolved by June 30, 2020, in order to tap special funds for future wildfire damages. PG&E is expected to present a draft of its plan in court next month.
Consumer advocates worry that PG&E may also try to stick customers with damages from past fires — the debt that drove them into bankruptcy. “PG&E wouldn’t be PG&E if they weren’t always looking for a bailout,” says Mindy Spatt, a spokeswoman for The Utility Reform Network, a consumer advocacy organization.
Is there a bailout?
Related Articles Kincade Fire: Relief washes over Sonoma County cities once in blaze’s path
PG&E downed wires being investigated as possible cause of Milpitas house fires
PG&E rebates: only for the Oct. 9 power shutoffs
Who’s to blame for California’s planned power outages? Some say PG&E, others say politicians
Is PG&E profiting by selling generators to customers they’ve cut power to? TBD. Assemblyman Chad Mayes, a Republican from Yucca Valley, has proposed allowing PG&E to sell $20 billion in bonds to pay off past wildfire liabilities. Mayes says PG&E shareholders, not customers or taxpayers, would shoulder the debt. A group of PG&E shareholders created a website to tout the plan.
But a group of bondholders led by Paul Singer, a significant contributor to the Republican Party, has mounted a challenge for control of PG&E. The group has teamed with agriculture and food-processing customers — major commercial customers — to warn that consumers and taxpayers would in fact pay more. Its website is here.
It’s unclear if lawmakers will take up the additional legislation before they adjourn in three weeks.
CalMatters.org is a nonprofit, nonpartisan media venture explaining California policies and politics.

Story 106
As cars zoom by on High Street in suburban Westwood, Massachusetts, Lura Provost, co-president of the Westwood Historical Society, stands beside the road next to a stone wall. Provost is 5’2”, and the heavy stones are nearly as tall as she is. Next to the wall is a plaque explaining the structure’s significance.
The passing motorists don’t slow down to glance at the plaque, or to wonder why someone would be standing there, in grass wet from a recent rainstorm. If they did, they might be surprised to learn about a nearly forgotten aspect of colonial American life.
Dozens of these stone enclosures—open at the top, usually square or circular, with a gap secured by a gate—remain scattered across New England. They were once a ubiquitous feature in the region. In fact, they were so necessary to the orderly functioning of a community that they were required by law. They were town pounds.
Most pounds are easy to miss. Only a few are marked with signs or plaques, like this one in Westwood, Massachusetts. Johnna Kaplan
In 17th-century America, livestock were generally not fenced in as they are today. Back in England, grazing animals were guarded by herders. But in the New World, where labor was scarce, animals like sheep and cattle were turned loose to graze on common lands instead. (The town green, or common, was often used for this purpose.)
If an animal strayed and was found wreaking havoc on private property, it was brought to the pound, where it was corralled with other wayward creatures and watched over by a town-appointed “pound-keeper” (sometimes called a “pound-master,” or “pounder”) until its owner could retrieve it—for a fee.
(Prices varied by time and place. One community, according to Elizabeth Banks MacRury’s book Town Pounds of New England, set the bail of a horse, mule, ass, cow, or pig at 12 cents and 5 mills (a mill was a thousandth of a dollar). For a sheep, it was 1 cent and 4 mills; for a goose, 8 cents. Unclaimed animals could be sold at auction after three days (one day for geese). Stealing an animal from the pound incurred a fine of $7.)
Lura Provost, co-president of the Westwood Historical Society, says most people in her bedroom community are incurious about the town’s historic pound. Johnna Kaplan
Early colonists considered pounds so essential that communities were legally required to build them. The court of Massachusetts, for example, ordered towns in the colony to erect pounds as early as 1635. Details of their construction were discussed and voted on in town meetings.
Some local governments specified precise dimensions. One fairly typical Vermont pound was designed to be 30 feet square,* with six-foot-tall walls that were four feet thick at the bottom and two feet thick at the top. Other town councils simply requested that builders make pounds “horse high, bull strong, and hog tight,” as the age-old farming maxim dictates.
Susan Allport, author of Sermons in Stone: The Stone Walls of New England & New York, writes that pounds were one of several types of fence that represented “the conflicting needs of crops and animals” in New England.
These concerns may seem arcane today, but remnants of town pounds still endure in the region’s character—and its laws. The position of “fence-viewer,” for instance, once tasked with “perambulating the bounds” of New England towns, can still be found in the General Statutes of Connecticut: “Selectmen shall receive two dollars for each day’s service as fence viewers.”
Town pounds gave way to private-property enclosures around the time this pastoral scene was painted, in 1887. Library of Congress / LC-DIG-pga-00524
Town pounds became largely obsolete in the late 19th century, as common lands were divided and farmers penned their animals on private property. Today, most have disappeared (though the concept lives on in animal-control departments and vehicle-impound lots.) Yet while other mundane relics of early American life—covered bridges, little white churches, the aforementioned town greens and stone walls—have become iconic symbols of the region, town pounds are a niche historical curiosity, occasionally rendered slightly less mysterious by an informational sign or, as in Westwood, a plaque.
Over the roar of traffic, Provost describes the history of the Westwood pound, which was built in 1700. Despite its prominent location and the fact that it’s proudly depicted on the town seal—a stone square with an oak tree growing within its walls—“no one asks about it,” she says. Local history doesn’t resonate much in this bedroom community, which increasingly attracts newcomers from elsewhere.
The story is a little different in Sterling, Connecticut. Megan McGory Gleason, president of the Sterling Historical Society, says she sometimes receives requests for information about Ye Olde Voluntown Pound, which dates back to at least 1722. Located at the junction of two roads, it was rediscovered in 1931 by highway workers clearing brush, and later made into a picnic area.
New England’s covered bridges, white churches, town greens, and stone walls are iconic. Its pounds? Not so much. Johnna Kaplan
Interest in the site has increased a bit since it was posted on a Facebook page for regional history buffs in 2018. It helps that the neatly circular Voluntown Pound—Sterling was carved out of Voluntown in 1794—is relatively well-restored.
“The establishing of a new Pound in a large area is the first inkling … that the smaller section was considering their independence from the larger community,” writes MacRury, “even before a request to become a separate parish, or to have their own Church.”
Gleason says that after Voluntown was incorporated, in 1721, townspeople built multiple pounds—even as their plans for building a meetinghouse were “mired in bureaucratic nonsense” for nearly a decade.
This might sound familiar to anyone who has attended a New England town meeting in modern times. Indeed, MacRury and other experts see direct links between the ways of contemporary New England and the customs of its past. Pounds, she writes, can be seen as the foundations upon which our modern roads, governments, and laws were built, reminding us “of the paths, ways, and directions which have been made for us—which we follow knowingly or unknowingly.”
New England’s town pounds, writes historian Elizabeth Banks MacRury, can be seen as the foundations upon which our modern roads, governments, and laws were built, reminding us “of the paths, ways, and directions which have been made for us—which we follow knowingly or unknowingly.” Posnov / Getty Images
Given that many of the roads New Englanders drive today originated as cow paths, it’s worth considering how many of the region’s less tangible traits can be traced to those seemingly remote colonists. In 1974, The New York Times called New England town pounds “[America’s] Coliseum and Acropolis”—“important monuments to a departed way of life.” But perhaps, like the provision for payment of fence-viewers in modern Connecticut laws, that way of life is not so much gone as adapted to the times.
Some towns symbolically preserve the memory of these forgotten practices. Westwood, for example, still appoints a pound-keeper. So does Hampton Falls, New Hampshire. In 2007, the town named former Governor John Sununu and his wife, Nancy, pound-keepers. (They were also named “hog reeves”—a position once responsible for controlling and appraising damage caused by rogue swine.)
It’s all done in fun, of course. Even in the past, the post of pound-keeper was treated as a bit of a joke. The job was taken seriously enough that appointees swore a “Pounder’s Oath,” but it was unpleasant (pounders had to be on call to wrangle wayward animals when needed) and it didn’t pay well (a pound-keeper had to feed animals at his own expense, hoping for remuneration when the livestock were retrieved).
Westwood’s town pound, built in 1700, is still proudly depicted on the town seal. Courtesy Town of Westwood
Decidedly uncoveted gigs like pound-keeper or hog reeve were sometimes jovially forced upon the “prissiest” man in town, assigned randomly—to, say, the most recently married man in the community—or considered a dues-paying step on the path to a political career. “One only wishes for as good a way of testing those who would run for office today,” writes Allport.
Today perhaps a hundred town pounds remain across New England. (They exist in other areas too. In addition to having mapped two dozen of New England’s pounds, users of the site waymarking.com have located one in a Nevada ghost town, and several in the U.K.) There are probably more.
Dating back to at least 1722, the pound in Sterling, Connecticut, was rediscovered in 1931 by highway workers clearing brush. Later it was turned into a picnic area. Courtesy Megan McGory-Gleason / Sterling Historical Society
Many could simply be hidden, as MacRury writes, “buried beneath trees and vines,” their carefully placed stones “tumbled and scattered.” And some may have already been located, but misidentified. Allport writes of a ranger leading a hiking group in Ridgefield, Connecticut, who told his charges that a stone circle in the woods was likely a pound—but the group decided, instead, that it was “a celestial observatory built by Druids.”
Others are easy to mistake for rock piles or abandoned segments of the stone walls that mark property lines and bisect dense Northeastern woods. When homeowners in Sterling, Connecticut, recently found a stone structure in an overgrown part of their yard, they thought it might be a cemetery.
The New York Times called New England town pounds “[America’s] Coliseum and Acropolis”—“important monuments to a departed way of life.” About a hundred are known to exist in the region. Which means there are many more left to discover. Johnna Kaplan
Later, however, they “unearthed an 18th-century hand-forged iron animal harness buckle from inside the enclosure,” says Gleason, and asked the Sterling Historical Society to look into it. “As soon as I saw it I noticed the similarities to [the pound in] Preston City, so we started digging into the history,” Gleason says. She now believes that it may be the same pound mentioned in town-meeting minutes from 1735.
For those with sharp eyes and curious minds, take note: There are probably many more town pounds still out there—an unknowable number, in fact, simply waiting to be found.
* Correction: This article previously stated that a typical town pound in Vermont was 30 square feet. The enclosure being described was 30 feet per side, so its dimensions were 30 feet square.

Story 107
Credit: Ubisoft
Without really getting into the story of Starlink: Battle For Atlas, I want to talk about the time I've spent with the game and why I think it's such a great space adventure.
Ubisoft is attempting to revive the Toys-to-Life genre here, with a game that links physical spaceships and miniatures to the digital experience. It does so in one of the best, most stylish ways I've ever seen.
For one thing, the spaceships themselves are really cool toys, and the minis---all characters in the game---are colorful and detailed. It's exactly the kind of toy I played with as a kid (minus the video game integration.)
Specifically, they remind me of the old Starcom toys---those spaceships with the little guys that had magnets on their feet. I loved those as a kid. These aren't the same, but they remind me of them.
You can swap in and out different guns for each of your ships, and different pilots to fly each one. Mixing and matching ship parts is fun and makes for plenty of variety. Different guns interact with each other in interesting ways as well, meaning you can combine arsenal to come up with cool combo effects.
Credit: Ubisoft
Each of these pilots is a featured character in the game so no matter who you play as, they'll be part of the story, and you can play as aliens who join your crew as well. If your ship is defeated in combat you can use a different one. If you only have one, or run out of ships you'll need to start back at your last checkpoint. This definitely gives players an advantage if they buy more ships, but at least you're getting awesome toys in the process rather than just paying for digital ships.
On the Nintendo Switch, you hook up the Joycon controllers to a special dock that you then attach your spaceship and pilot to. So you're holding these in your hand as you play, which is a nice touch.
The gameplay is something of a mix between No Man's Sky, Mass Effect and Star Fox (especially since there's quite a lot of Star Fox content in the Switch version.) The basic gameplay loop of going from planet to planet and exploring the surface is remarkably similar to No Man's Sky, except that there's a story and dialogue taking place at the same time. You also fight a much wider range of enemies. But there's still scanning alien species, harvesting resources and all the rest.
You can lift off from the planet you're on and zoom over to another at will, though you're likely going to be attacked by space pirates in the process. In-between exploration and missions there are cut-scenes featuring all the main characters. It would be great if there had been non-ship gameplay---at least allowing pilots to walk around the home-base ship---but this is a flying game, not a walking one and that's fine.
Credit: Ubisoft
The characters are all fun and likable so far, and the gameplay itself is engaging and---while certainly not as in-depth as many other titles---quite a lot of fun. It's a game that's easy to get into and pick up right away, and flying around having dogfights in space or exploring the outlandish planets and helping out various communities of aliens against the bad guys is a blast.
As nice as the toys are and as much as I think the concept makes sense, it does worry me that it will be a bit too limiting. A space RPG like this not tethered to physical toys would be able to introduce a lot more weapons and weapon types, a lot more ships and ship types and so forth. Tying gameplay to toys creates artificial limits on what the game itself can do, which is a shame. Still, both I and my 8 year old son have enjoyed Starlink a great deal. I find it far more engaging than the much slower-paced No Man's Sky. Having characters you care about and an interesting story certainly helps.
Missions do get a bit repetitive after a while, but the excellent combat largely makes up for it. I do wish a bit more love had gone into mission design and making each planet feel as different in that respect as they do in terms of aesthetics. Lots and lots of love has gone into the world design in this game, but not quite as much into variety of gameplay.
Credit: Ubisoft
In any case, these are just first impressions of the game. I'm a long ways from completing it, but I do think it's one you shouldn't miss (though maybe wait for a sale if you're not in a hurry.) It will certainly make an excellent gift this Christmas for any lovers of space games, and I think kids will really appreciate both the toys and the game itself. I would have loved to have a game like this as a kid, and the toys would have been a cherry on top. As a grown-up I can see how they limit the experience, but as a kid it's basically the best of both worlds.
That being said, as much as I like the toys, I think this game would have been a deeper, more enjoyable experience if it had simply been designed as a more traditional space RPG where you earn spaceships and weapons through gameplay instead of with your hard-earned cash. I still recommend it, especially for kids, but there's no denying the lost potential.
Ubisoft has timed this pretty well, too, with pretty much no other toys-to-life competition now that Skylanders is on hiatus and both Disney and LEGO have cancelled their own toys-to-life projects. The game is certainly at the top of my Christmas gift guide list, and I think even if toys-to-life isn't your thing, you'll enjoy the game for its gorgeous planets, excellent combat and quirky story. I also like the fact that this doesn't feel like your typical Ubisoft game. There's so many similarities across The Division, Ghost Recon, Assassin's Creed and Far Cry at this point, that having something a little off the beaten path is refreshing.
A quick note about different versions of this game: You can buy the digital-only version (with no physical ships/toys) for $59.99 and it comes with four ships---actually five if you get the Nintendo Switch version. This means you can get a lot more content, sans the toys, for a lot less money. A similar amount of physical toy ships would easily cost over $100, possibly closer to $150. You can also purchase digital ships and weapons in-game without buying the toys regardless of which edition you buy.
Credit: Ubisoft
The Good:
Excellent gameplay---combat and exploration are tons of fun
A quirky cast of characters in an engaging story
Beautiful graphics and detailed planets (and the Switch handles it fine)
Solid, detailed toys that are fun to play with outside of the game
The Bad:
Expensive when you start tacking on all the toys
Having fewer ships means fewer lives
Repetitive mission design
Toys limit your upgrades and lead to less diverse gameplay
The Ugly:
There's really nothing ugly about this game. It's gorgeous.
I've been playing my copy on the Nintendo Switch. Game and toys were provided by Ubisoft for review purposes. Check in on my colleague Mitch Wallace's blog for our official scored review of the game.

Story 108
Explore the new agenda
We live in a time of disruption but where others see difficulty, we see opportunity - not just to survive but to thrive. Subscribe to the new agenda and lead the way in business and beyond.

Story 109
Completing the CAPTCHA proves you are a human and gives you temporary access to the web property.
What can I do to prevent this in the future?
If you are on a personal connection, like at home, you can run an anti-virus scan on your device to make sure it is not infected with malware.
If you are at an office or shared network, you can ask the network administrator to run a scan across the network looking for misconfigured or infected devices.

Story 110
The idea for “Atlas,” the recently announced massively multiplayer online pirate-themed game, came from the developers watching people play their last creation: dino-survival game “Ark.”
“‘Ark’ was kind of a surprise to us in some ways; the ways the players played the game, in particular,” Jesse Rapczak, co-founder of Studio Wildcard, told Variety. “One thing we enjoyed watching was the emergent play. They were playing (‘Ark’) like it was a massively multiplayer online game, but without the official structure. They were creating a meta with different servers. We thought that would be interesting to create, to make a mechanic that supported that. “
So the developers started working on creating a new game that would support a massive world where players could play with everyone.
“There were no boundaries where you could go,” he said. “We didn’t want to have menus that you had to worry about to get where you wanted to go.”
The result was “Atlas,” a pirate massively multiplayer game that is about 1,200 the size of “Ark” and can host 40,000 players spread out across its 700 unique islands and sprawling 45,000-square kilometer ocean. The game was unveiled during the Game Awards last week.
“We really worked hard to make ‘Atlas’ a seamlessly connected world where you could move about freely if you have enough resources, time, and energy,” Rapczak said. “It’s not procedurally generated it. There are 700 unique islands spread across the map with different biomes. There’s also sort of story islands and PVE islands where some of the game’s backstory and lore and crazy mythological creatures can be found.”
The game, which will sell for $29.99 while still in early access (but more later), hits the computer on Dec. 13 and then is coming to Xbox One exclusively in early 2019. Eventually, the game’s price will rise to $60.
Sticking with the theme, sailing is the primary method of travel, which also happens to be a great solution for stitching together such a large world and allowing players to move around it without noticeable load times.
“We have different sizes of land masses like tiny islets, medium and very large islands,” Rapczak said. “You might have an island the size of an ‘Ark’ server. And moving around the world, in between those islands, is not something that’s easy to do. Sailing wears down your ship. You also have your crew and your crew needs to neat. Non-player characters you have to pay with gold. Don’t take care of them and they might mutiny.
“So there are all of those crazy mechanics to help you traverse the world.”
While the game is based on a single-server concept, the developers plan to launch “Atlas” with a server in North America and another in Europe for latency reasons.
The game will feel and play a lot like “Ark,” he added. “It’s made from the same DNA, so there’s a lot of stuff in there from ‘Ark’ like the building mechanics and unlocking new things you can do. “
He added that the team did spend a lot of time greatly improving on some areas, like combat.
The game has players building drydocks and then slowing creating the ship of their dreams, building up from a dinghy to a galleon, one plank at a time. Every piece of the ship is placed by the player, allowing them to figure out not just how the ship looks, but where things are like the gunports and sails. Once built, players can recruit other gamers to join their ship, or they can hire a computer-controlled crew. As with “Ark,” the world of “Atlas” is almost entirely up for grabs. That means someone can steal the ship right out from under you, plunder your booty and take away your pets and crew. Player customization includes things like per-pixel tattoo designing, dynamic hair growth, and real-time aging systems.
And the game isn’t just about sailing, it’s also built out with a robust melee system that includes parries, blocks, and dodges, character motion, shields, stunning, strikes, attacks and a slew of weapons.
Here are some other facts straight from the developers:
● Claim What’s Yours – Form a company, claim territory and apply taxation and behavior rules to that which you own –be a benevolent governor, a feudal lord, or a ruthless dictator. Territory ownership is visualized on your dynamic zoomable world map, with Fog of War obscuring uncharted regions and Shroud of War hiding enemy territories out of sight range. Contest other government’s ownership of land, structures, or ships to expand your empire! Top Spheres of Influence on the Official ATLAS’ are visualized in real-time the PlayATLAS.com. Design your own custom flag per-pixel and apply them to your claims, to become famous (or infamous)!
● Creatures Great and Small – More than 50 creatures at launch varying from breedable utilitarian farm animals and shoulder mounted parrots and monkeys that offer unique buffs, all the way to magical mermaids and gigantic sea monsters of legend. Creatures can be found in their logical regions, but take skill and tactics to tame using new mechanics, while gaining the most benefit and fertility from their natural biomes. Ferry these temperamental creatures across the vast oceans to trade in exotic locales in a virtual Noah’s Ark.
● Freeports to Meet and Greet – Level-capped starter zones allow you to learn the ropes and meet new players in a safe space before you venture out into the great unknown. Where the wind and destiny takes you beyond that, is up to the gods!
● Build Your Empire – Overhauled building systems include automatic foundational elevation adjustment, dynamic tile type swapping, improved snap detection and previewing, integrated plumbing systems, per-pixel-paintable everything, beast-of-burden harness attachments for field-gun and carriages, and much more! Survival systems include, among other things, vitamins benefits and deficiencies, with recipes, cooking skills, and varying ingredient qualities.
● Powerful Mod and Server Functionalities – Want to build a World War II Spitfire? Or a Flying Fortress bomber with fully walkable interior and gun stations that carries troops loaded with machine guns and rocket launchers? How about a tank? An aircraft carrier to play out the Battle of Midway on an expansive scale? How about an Arcadian Steampunk airship floating through a cloud-world? These examples, and much more, are provided with the “Atlas” Dev Kit, where you can effectively make whatever large-scale MMO action game you want to see happen, all supported by the database-driven network technology that powers “Atlas.” Unofficial “Atlas'” can be of any size and configuration, while a visual map tool lets server hosts lay out their own complete custom world of islands, continents, terrain features, spawns, resources, hazards, underwater zones, dynamic weather, biome configurations, and ecologies. There is an infinite number of other configurable features, all dynamically streamed to the client

Story 111
Is it better to lease a Volkswagen or buy one?
If you’re like me the answer has been ‘buy!’ Because no way was I going to pay for something that I didn’t own. But then, slowly, I began to realize I never really own my cars.
And that’s because I’m making payments forever. Plus by the time I’m done making payments I want something new anyway! And that doesn’t even mention the cost of repairs once the vehicle is out of warranty. Another factor not being mentioned is the breakneck pace at which technology in our cars is progressing. (Why would we want anything more than a few years old?)
BEST VW Lease SPECIALS HERE
So, in this iDriveSoCal podcast, long-time Volkswagen lease expert Shant Bashian from Ontario VW joins me to sort out the options. Perhaps leasing a Volkswagen is the way to go for you. Or maybe buying.
The answer is different for everyone. But leasing has been increasingly popular over the past several years and for good reason. (I think, because, yes I’ve converted and now always lease my vehicles.)
Got Specific Questions? Shant’s offered to answer your specific Volkswagen lease questions too. His direct line is 909-230-5611 and his email is SBashian [at] OntarioVW [dot] com.
BEST VW Lease SPECIALS HERE
Continue reading or click play below. Either way, here’s you need to know about VW leasing.
***Transcription***
Recorded @ Ontario Volkswagen in Ontario, CA
Should You Buy Or Lease A Volkswagen?
Shant: The first question’s gonna be, “What are you gonna do with the car? How many miles are you gonna put on it, and then where do you see yourself three years from?”
Then we’ll determine if you should lease a Volkswagen or buy, and then we’ll outline both the lease and the purchase. You could see the monthly payments on both scenarios and then you decide which one is more fit for you.
Tom: Welcome to iDriveSoCal, the podcast all about mobility from the automotive capital of the United States, Southern California. Tom Smith here, and I am excited to be at Ontario Volkswagen with my good pal, Shant Bashian, the general sales manager of Ontario Volkswagen.
BEST VW Lease SPECIALS HERE
“What are you gonna do with the car? How many miles are you gonna put on it, and then where do you see yourself three years from?”
The topic du jour today is one that’s on a lot of people’s mind when they go to buy a new car and that is just simply, “Do I buy or do I lease?” I’ve formed some personal opinions on it myself, but we are going to hear from the man here at Ontario Volkswagen.
Mr. Bashian, thank you so much for joining me yet again.
BEST VW Lease SPECIALS HERE
VW Lease & Buy Factors To Consider
Shant: Thanks for having me Tom, and that question comes up all the time.
I find that most people know whether they want to buy or lease a Volkswagen because they understand it now. There’s a lot of information out there.
BEST VW Lease SPECIALS HERE
For us, we have a different perspective regarding buying versus lease. We’re in the business and we like to get the upgraded product rather quickly, but it really comes down to this.
What are you planning on doing with the vehicle? What’s the purpose of the car? How many miles are you gonna drive it?
And, are you the type of person that likes to have something new rather quickly? Do you get bored of your vehicle?
BEST VW Lease SPECIALS HERE
Warranty Consideration For Leasing Or Buying
You have to look into that. Buying a car, it’s more of a long-term commitment, really.
So, most people right now will purchase a vehicle and finance it for 60 to 72 months. Most vehicles will come with three year or four-year warranties backed by the manufacturer.
When it comes to Volkswagens, we have a six-year, 72,000-mile warranty right now-
Tom: Yeah, big one.
“When it comes to Volkswagens, we have a six-year, 72,000-mile warranty…”
BEST VW Lease SPECIALS HERE
Shant: …that covers bumper to bumper and the powertrain.
So, when it comes to purchasing a Volkswagen throughout your monthly payment term, you are covered.
If anything should go wrong, you have nothing to worry about. There’s no additional expense to look into, but again, that’s if you’re planning on keeping the car for a long time.
Now, if you’re the type of person who likes to get something new every few years, that’s when lease comes into play. Also, some Volkswagen leases may be tax deductible from your income, and I advise you to check with your accountant on that.
BEST VW Lease SPECIALS HERE
Tom: Depends on what you do, right?
Shant: Mm-hmm (affirmative).
BEST VW Lease SPECIALS HERE
Tom: I’ve had some buddies that have been in the sales world and they’re able to write off their entire lease payment.
Shant: You can write off the miles. I know that. I don’t know if you could write off the entire lease payment. Again, you gotta check with your accountant.
Tom: Yeah, case by case.
Shant: It’s case by case, but again, so here you have, let’s say, typically a three-year lease.
You make those minimum monthly payments for three years. The monthly payment will be less than a purchase in most cases.
BEST VW Lease SPECIALS HERE
End of Term VW Lease Options
Most cases, you’re looking at $65, $70, $80 less than a purchase, and after three years, there’s no headache. There’s no, “Oh, I gotta sell my car. Oh, I gotta trade my car in.” You walk into the dealership and you have options.
You can buy out your Volkswagen lease at the residual value which is set the day you sign that contract, so if you have a $21,000 car, you get into a lease of, let’s say, $200 a month and at the end, your residual value on that vehicle is $12,000, after three years your payments are done.
BEST VW Lease SPECIALS HERE
BEST VW Lease SPECIALS HERE
You can walk in, you can turn the vehicle in and get something else. And you don’t have to worry about trying to sell it, trying to trade it, or you could buy that vehicle at the residual value of $12,000 plus tax, and then you own it.
You can finance that dollar amount, you can pay cash for it, you can sell it to someone else, you can trade it into another dealership. There’s so many options at the end of a lease.
Tom: The residual is what my car’s gonna be worth at the end of this lease?
BEST VW Lease SPECIALS HERE
Shant: That’s correct, so your residual is based on the amount of mileage you’re planning on putting on the car.
“There’s so many options at the end of a lease.”
So, if you go into a 30,000-mile lease, obviously, that’s gonna differ than a 36,000-mile lease or a 45,000-mile lease.
That’s what the lender… They say, “Okay, 45,000 miles, three years from now, this vehicle will be worth X dollar amount.” That’s your residual value.
Tom: Going back a little bit further, you had mentioned, in most cases, the lease will be less, and you just touched on miles.
BEST VW Lease SPECIALS HERE
The All-Important Mileage Factor In Leasing
I’m assuming depending on how many miles you’re buying on that lease is going to be that, in most cases, situation. Is that correct?
Shant: That’s correct. Yeah, sometimes we’ll get a phone call and the gentleman or lady will state, “I need a lease and I want to get 25,000 miles per year.”
At this point, I’m like, “Okay, let me explain something. I’ll give you the numbers no problem, but you might as well buy the car,” because if you’re gonna pay a 25,000 mile per year lease, it’s the same thing as a purchase or close or maybe even more. You see?
BEST VW Lease SPECIALS HERE
Tom: Mm-hmm (affirmative).
“…a 30,000 mile lease, obviously, that’s gonna differ than a 36,000 mile lease or a 45,000 mile lease.”
Shant: After three years, you’re planning on having 75,000 miles on that car? You’re real close to 100,000. You might as well buy the car.
Tom: That’s a lot of miles?
Shant: Yeah, some people put that mileage, and those people I advise you buy the car. You don’t lease that car.
Tom: That’s because?
BEST VW Lease SPECIALS HERE
Shant: That’s because you’re planning on driving it to the ground.
BEST VW Lease SPECIALS HERE
Tom: Okay, and because you’re putting so many miles on it, the value at the end of that lease term or at the end of the purchase term doesn’t matter because you put a ton of miles on it in a short amount of time.
Shant: That is correct, so the residual value will suffer. That’s more kind of simplified, you can say. Some people say, “Oh, when I’m leasing the car, I don’t own the vehicle versus if I’m buying the car, I own the vehicle.”
Let me explain something. If you’re financing this car, you don’t own the car.
BEST VW Lease SPECIALS HERE
Excess Wear Waiver When Leasing A Volkswagen
Tom: Yeah, the bank does.
Shant: The bank owns the car, and if you’re leasing the car, the bank owns the car.
The only difference is this; after a three year or a four-year lease term, you have options on what you can do with that car.
Because, if you’re tired of it and you want to walk away, you’re free to do so versus purchase, you are not liable.
BEST VW Lease SPECIALS HERE
“You scrape the bumpers, you have dings, dents, scratches, torn seats, cracked windshield. This is excessive wear and tear.”
You are tied into that contract until the end of the term, so after three years, if you’re tired of that vehicle… Or if your family grew… You have two kids now and you got a midsize sedan and that double stroller doesn’t fit anymore…
Now, trying to get out of that vehicle because you purchased it is gonna be a little bit tougher, so that’s why you gotta decide where am I gonna be three years from now realistically?
That’s how you gotta look at it.
BEST VW Lease SPECIALS HERE
Tom: Where do people get in trouble when they lease a Volkswagen and then turn around, “Oh, my God,” get a big surprise bill at the end of it?
BEST VW Lease SPECIALS HERE
Shant: Two different things. Excessive wear and tear will be if your wheels have been curbed, so you try to park the vehicle, you hit that curb. You scrape the bumpers, you have dings, dents, scratches, torn seats, cracked windshield. This is excessive wear and tear.
The lender will come in and inspect the vehicle and they’ll charge you for those, so most of the time, cars come back in fairly good shape.
I’ve seen some rough cars come back in, but they had excess wear waiver. Excess wear waiver with Volkswagen Credit will waive up to $10,000 in excessive wear and tear. That’s including-
Tom: 10,000?
BEST VW Lease SPECIALS HERE
VW Lease Vehicle Return Condition
Shant: Yeah.
Tom: Wow.
Shant: The only thing you need to understand about excess wear and tear, it covers excessive wear and tear.
BEST VW Lease SPECIALS HERE
That doesn’t mean you can return the car with a door missing or a bumper hanging off, because that’s not excessive wear and tear. That’s collision or you know …
Tom: Sometimes, you need to spell out common sense, right?
“…with Volkswagen Credit will waive up to $10,000 in excessive wear and tear.”
BEST VW Lease SPECIALS HERE
Shant: Yeah, and I say that these days.
I didn’t say these things earlier in my career because I didn’t foresee it. I wasn’t expecting for people to think, “Oh, I can bring the car with front and rear bumpers missing.” It doesn’t work that way.
That’s not excessive wear and tear. That bumper’s missing. That’s a problem.
The other scenario I ran into, we tell people… They ask, “What if I go over my miles?”
Tom: That’s where I wanted to get to.
BEST VW Lease SPECIALS HERE
And, I figured you’d have something else to point out that I didn’t think of, and that was the excess wear and tear… But, what I was going towards is the miles, because a lot of people that I talk to are like, “Oh, I leased once. It didn’t work out. I had this huge number that I had to pay at the end of the lease.”
BEST VW Lease SPECIALS HERE
It’s like, “Well, wait a minute. Why was that?” It’s like, “Well, I wanted to get my payment as low as possible, so I figured I’d only drive 5,000 miles a year.”
Shant: That’s impossible.
Tom: It’s like, well, no, you gotta be realistic.
For me, personally, I like leasing for getting something new all the time. Also, what I recommend to people when they ask me is, hey, buy more miles than you think you’re gonna need.
BEST VW Lease SPECIALS HERE
Volkswagen Lease Mileage Flexibility
Because they’re typically way cheaper when you commit to them upfront as opposed to have to go over and then pay for them on the back end.
In the case of Volkswagen, what is that? Is there a standard number that, hey, this is how much it’s gonna cost me when I’m committing to the lease? You already said it’s 20 cents a mile on the back end.
“…once a year, you can call VW credit, and you can buy more miles throughout your lease.”
BEST VW Lease SPECIALS HERE
Shant: Typically, upfront mileage is 12 cents,
Tom: Big difference there.
Shant: Right now, actually, once a year, you can call VW credit, and you can buy more miles throughout your lease.
So, I leased an Atlas. I have a 12,000-mile lease. It’s a three-year term, and right now, we’re averaging about 14,000 miles already.
BEST VW Lease SPECIALS HERE
I’ve been in the vehicle for almost two years, so all I do is pick up the phone, call VW credit, and say, “I need to buy another 3,000, or another 4,000 or another 5,000 miles.”
And they’ll calculate that mileage. I believe it was at 15 cents and then they’ll just put that into my payments.
“…all I do is pick up the phone, call VW credit, and say, “I need to buy another 3,000, or another 4,000 or another 5,000 miles.”
Tom: Not all manufacturers do that. As far as being able to adjust your mileage midstream in the least, I know that not everybody does that, so that’s a great thing that Volkswagen offers, and you can do that once a year for each year of the lease or-
Shant: Yes, you can.
Tom: That’s a great thing.
BEST VW Lease SPECIALS HERE
Lease Or Buy – Weigh Your Options
Shant: Volkswagen Credit leases are simple. You can return the car anywhere in the country at any Volkswagen dealer.
Tom: Got it. Okay, well, a lot of great information and it sounds like your perspective, case by case basis, the factors you laid out earlier, is there anything else?
Hey, I’m a new customer, Shant. Just rolled up to Ontario Volkswagen. I’m really torn between buying and leasing.
Any other suggestions or points that you want to make for me as someone considering going either way?
“How man miles are you gonna put on it, and then where do you see yourself three years from now?”
BEST VW Lease SPECIALS HERE
Shant: The first question’s gonna be, “What are you gonna do with the car? How many miles are you gonna put on it, and then where do you see yourself three years from now?”
Then we’ll determine if you should lease or buy, and then we’ll outline both the lease and the purchase. You could see the monthly payments on both scenarios and then you decide which one is more fit for you.
Tom: All right. Well, all good information.
BEST VW Lease SPECIALS HERE
Ontario Volkswagen – Lease/Buy Experts
Thank you so much, always, Mr. Shant Bashian here at Ontario Volkswagen. You guys are a wealth of information for the iDriveSoCal listeners and surfers if you’re coming across iDriveSoCal.com.
Thank you as always for iDrive… Oh, you know what? I think in the last podcast, we dropped your contact information. Do you want to do that here?
“My direct line will be 909-230-5611… That’ll ring directly to my office. Email is SBashian [@] OntarioVW [dot] com.”
Shant: My direct line will be 909-230-5611, 909-230-5611. That’ll ring directly to my office. Email is [email protected]
Tom: Additional questions for whether or not you should buy or lease Volkswagen, reach out to Mr. Bashian, and again, thank you so much.
Shant: Thank you for having me.
Tom: Most appreciated. For iDriveSoCal, I am Tom Smith. Thank you as always for tuning in.
BEST VW Lease SPECIALS HERE
BEST VW Lease SPECIALS HERE

Story 112
The unkillable Erik Buell is back, with a new electric mobility company that's called Fuell – despite the fact that its vehicles don't use any. Fuell has just opened pre-orders for its first e-bike, as well as an electric motorcycle that Buell calls "the most radically innovative design I've ever done."
The name Erik Buell will be very familiar to motorcycle folk, his original Buell brand under Harley-Davidson's umbrella established him as one of the most creative and lateral-thinking innovators in the two-wheeled pantheon. Built around heavily-flawed Harley motors, Buell bikes handled like little else on the planet, and showcased some very cool and original ideas (fuel in the frame, oil in the swingarm, underslung mufflers, rim-mounted single disc brakes, etc) that made these bikes refreshingly unique as well as a ton of fun to ride.
When Harley unceremoniously dumped the Buell brand in 2009, Erik rebounded by starting his own company, Erik Buell Racing, which gave birth to a brilliant sportsbike in the EBR 1190RX, and a highly-strung streetfighter in the 1190SX. Sadly it didn't last. Buell was heartbreakingly forced to shut EBR down in 2015, to the great dismay of hordes of motorcycle fans who adored his work and wished him success.
Thankfully, it seems Buell has the kind of entrepreneurial spirit that can get him back off the floor after a knockout punch, and it's great to see him back at the coal face as Chief Technology Officer of a new company dedicated to electric urban mobility. Originally called VanguardSpark, it's now known as Fuell – a weird metaphor to choose for an electric bike, and one that extends to the names of the company's first two products: the Fluid and the Flow. Hey, at least it's not another Spark or Volt, I guess.
The Fuell Flow electric motorcycle
Fuell's e-bike and electric motorcycle are taking pre-orders now Fuell
Fuell has gone for a reasonably economical, fun build with its first e-moto, a step away from Buell's racer roots, but without being as underpowered as the really cheap stuff. The Flow is a 400-lb (180 kg) bike with a great big chunky rear hub motor, a low-slung 10 kilowatt-hour battery box and a neat waterproof, lockable storage space under its fake tank lid that's big enough to stick a full face helmet in.
Fuell's proprietary motor comes in two flavors: 11 and 35 kilowatts (15 and 48 horsepower). Not a huge amount, you might think, but that's continuous output, with peak output likely much higher. And the torque rating is colossal – the 35 kW motor makes 750 Nm, or 553 lb-ft, of torque. Read those figures again if you have to, they're correct. This bike makes as much torque as a Ford GT supercar. Indeed, it can probably put a bit more to the ground, since there are absolutely no drivetrain losses with a hub motor, and this thing is geared low for a top burst speed of 85 mph (137 km/h).
Sustained top speed is just 55 mph (88 km/h), but the Flow will accelerate your face off to get there. We're talking 2.7 seconds for the 0-62 mph (0-100 km/h) sprint, proper shoulder-dislocating grunt that'll leave the vast majority of traffic far behind you at the lights.
The battery gives the Flow a range somewhere around 150 miles (240 km) in urban riding, meaning most people will knock off a week's commuting without needing to plug it in. Of course, you probably won't need to test the range limits, since plugging it in to a wall socket in your garage is such a low barrier to charging that you might as well do it every night or every other night. A wall charge at home will take around 10 hours from 0-100 percent, or you can jack in to a Level 2 CCS fast charger and get it done in 30 minutes.
As well as a smartphone app and a huge touch screen dash, there are some other interesting electronics around the bike including blind spot detection, front and rear collision warnings, and a rear view camera, to go with ABS brakes and an integrated regenerative braking action through the back wheel. Electronic traction control is a wise inclusion given the Flow's rampant acceleration figures, and there are two ride modes, Urban and Audacious, the latter of which makes us smile. The Flow uses keyless ignition – a nice touch – and offers walk and reverse assist to help you move it around in tight spots and on slopes.
The Flow is an elegant and fun, if not particularly beautiful, solution to urban commuting. But we suspect this venture is going to live and die on the bottom line. Scooters are cheap as chips, and while they don't offer monstrous acceleration like the 35 kW Flow does, there are plenty of happy scooter commuters out there living without it. So what's the price? US$11,995 for the 35 kW model and $10,995 for the 11 kW version.
Time will tell, but this feels like a swing and a miss to us. The kind of performance-oriented folk that'll prick their ears up at the Flow's colossal torque and acceleration will probably find the top speed, continuous speed, range and friendly looks of this bike a bit naff. And the urban commuting crowd will probably balk at the price. We fear that in all its practical cleverness the Flow might be pitched a bit too high. We hope to be proven wrong. Pre-orders are open now on the Fuell website for a $500 deposit, with deliveries scheduled to begin at the end of 2020.
FUELL_FLOW in NYC
The Fuell Fluid electric bicycle
The Fuell Fluid is a neat e-bike at a good price Fuell
Continuing with the oddly petrol-focused naming scheme, the Fuell Fluid takes another approach to urban commuting, and one that's growing in popularity all the time. I am an absolute convert to electric bicycle commuting. It's fun and quick, there's no rego or insurance to pay, and it's a chance to steal exactly the amount of exercise you want at the start and end of the day.
The Fluid is a practical and well-specified e-bike with plenty going for it on paper. The motor is a 500-watt pedal assist mid drive – or 250 watts if you buy it in the sadly strangled European or Australian markets. It's Fuell's own motor design, with a decent 100 Nm (74 lb-ft) of torque on tap. We don't know if it uses torque or cadence sensing.
Its battery pack is an impressive 1 kWh capacity, neatly split into two removable cartridges. That's enough for a pedal-assisted range of 126 miles (203 km) if you run it on the lowest of five power modes, and the split battery means you can take a light half-pack upstairs to charge if you need to, instead of carrying the whole battery.
Fuell has built its own mid-drive motor with 100 Nm of twisting force Fuell
Drive to the rear wheel is via quiet, maintenance-free carbon belt, which runs back to an 8-speed Shimano Alfine geared hub. That means no grease, no chain popping off the cogs and basically no drive train maintenance. It also looks nice and clean.
Suntour XCR34 suspension forks, Tektro 190 mm disc brakes and Schwalbe Moto-X tires round out the basic specs. Those hoops are some big ol' Bessies for commuting, and are half way to fat bike tires in terms both of adding a little comfort to the ride and in adding rolling resistance that decreases the energy efficiency of the solution and can rob you of a bit of speed. But they do look cool.
In terms of security, you can lock the Fluid with a PIN on the dash, or stump up extra for a GPS/LoRa tracker in the frame, or a foldable lock accessory. In terms of practicalities, it comes with what looks like a really solid set of purpose-built fenders for wet riding, and you can accessorize with a phone holder or rear rack.
Curiously, the company has chosen to crowdfund this e-bike through Indiegogo. That means there's early bird pricing available, letting you grab the 500 W, 1 kWh Fluid-1S for around $2,800 – a 24 percent discount on the expected $3,800 retail price. Mind you, it also means you're not technically buying a product, and while both Buell and other members of the Fuell team have established solid reputations, it's up to buyers to do their own due diligence before putting money down on a crowdfunding campaign.
Still, it looks like a solid, practical contender in the e-bike space with nice looks, good components and excellent battery range at an impressive price. Deliveries are scheduled to begin in August this year. Check out a video of the Fluid below.
Sources: Fuell, Indiegogo

Story 113
The European Commission has opened separate in-depth investigations to assess whether “excess profit” tax rulings granted by Belgium to 39 multinational companies gave those companies an unfair advantage over their competitors, in breach of EU State aid rules.
Today's opening decisions follow the General Court's February 2019 annulment of the Commission's January 2016decision concluding that the same tax rulings formed part of a Belgian aid scheme that was illegal under EU State aid rules. The Court did not take a position on whether or not the “excess profit” tax exemptions gave rise to illegal State aid but found that the Commission had failed to establish the existence of a scheme. This means that, according to the General Court, the compatibility of the tax rulings with EU State aid rules needs to be assessed individually, which is why the Commission has now opened separate in-depth investigations into the individual tax rulings. At the same time, the Commission has appealed the judgment of the General Court to the European Court of Justice to seek further clarity on the existence of an aid scheme. These proceedings are ongoing.
Commissioner Margrethe Vestager in charge of competition policy said: "All companies must pay their fair share of tax. We are concerned that the Belgian "excess profit" tax system granted substantial tax reductions only to certain multinational companies that would not be available to companies in a comparable situation. Following the General Court's guidance, we have decided to open separate State aid investigations to assess the tax rulings. We also await further clarity from the European Court of Justice on the existence of an aid scheme.”
The in-depth investigations concern individual "excess profit" tax rulings issued by Belgium between 2005 and 2014 in favour of 39 Belgian companies belonging to multinational groups (see details below). Most of these multinational groups are headquartered in Europe.
Belgian company tax rules require companies, as a starting point, to be taxed based on profit actually recorded from activities in Belgium. However, the Belgian "excess profit" tax rulings, relying on the Belgian income tax code (Article 185 §2, b of the 'Code des Impôts sur les Revenus/Wetboek Inkomstenbelastingen'), allowed multinational entities in Belgium to reduce their corporate tax liability by so-called "excess profits" that allegedly result from the advantage of being part of a multinational group. These advantages included e.g. synergies, economies of scale, reputation, client and supplier networks, or access to new markets. In practice, the rulings usually resulted in more than 50% and in some cases up to 90% of those companies' accounting profit being exempt from taxation.
The Commission's preliminary view is that by discounting “excess profit” from the beneficiaries' tax base, the tax rulings under investigation selectively misapplied the Belgian income tax code. In particular, the Commission has concerns that the rulings endorsed unilateral downward adjustments of the beneficiaries' tax base, although the legal conditions were not fulfilled. Furthermore, the Commission has concerns that the Belgian practice of issuing “excess profit” rulings in favour of certain companies may have discriminated against certain other Belgian companies, which did not, or could not, receive such a ruling.
As a result, the tax rulings may have given a selective advantage to the 39 multinational companies, allowing them to pay substantially less tax.
The opening of the in-depth investigations gives Belgium and interested third parties an opportunity to submit comments. It does not prejudge the outcome of the investigation.
Companies concerned by the investigations
Luciad NV SA.53964 BASF Antwerpen NV SA.53965 EVAL Europe NV SA.53966 BP Aromatics Limited NV SA.53967 The Heating Company BVBA SA.53968 British American TobaccoCoordination Center VOF SA.53969 Evonik Oxeno Antwerpen NV and “NewCo” SA.53970 Nomacorc SA SA.53971 Delta Light NV SA.53972 Henkel Electronic Materials (Belgium) NV SA.53973 Puratos NV SA.53974 Omega Pharma International NV SA.53975 LMS International NV SA.53976 Noble International Europe BVBA SA.53977 Trane BVBA SA.53978 VF Europe BVBA SA.53979 St. Jude Medical Coordination Center BVBA SA.53980 Soudal NV SA.53981 Ontex BVBA SA.53982 Atlas Copco Airpower NV SA.53983 Belgacom International Carrier Services NV SA.53984 Dow Corning Europe NV/SA SA.53985 Capsugel Belgium NV SA.53986 Kinepolis Group NV SA.53987 Pfizer Animal Health SA / Zoetis Belgium SA SA.53988 Anheuser-Busch Inbev NV / Ampar BVBA SA.53989 Flir Systems Trading Belgium BVBA SA.53990 Wabco Europe BVBA SA.53991 Celio International NV/SA SA.53992 Magnetrol International NV SA.53993 Ansell Healthcare Europe NV SA.53994 Esko-Graphics BVBA SA.53995 Victaulic Europe BVBA SA.53996 Astra Sweets NV SA.53997 Mayekawa Europe NV SA.53998 Tekelec International SPRL SA.53999 Bridgestone Europe NV SA.54000 Chep Equipment Pooling NV SA.54001 Knauf Insulation SPRL SA.54002
Background on the Commission's investigation into Belgian “excess profit” tax exemption
In January 2016, following an in-depth investigation, the Commission concluded that the “excess profit” exemptions granted by Belgium through tax rulings constituted an aid scheme and that such scheme was illegal under EU State aid rules. On this basis, the Commission ordered Belgium to recover the aid granted to the companies that had benefitted from that system.
In February 2019, the General Court annulled the Commission's decision. The Court found that the Commission had failed to establish the existence of an aid scheme. The Commission has appealed this finding to the European Court of Justice. In its judgment, the General Court didnot conclude on whether the “excess profit” tax exemptions gave rise to illegal State aid. The Court explicitly confirmed that it is within the Commission's competence under State aid rules to review whether tax measures reducing a corporate taxpayer's income tax base give rise to a selective advantage. It further held that the “excess profit” tax exemptions granted by Belgium did not appear to pursue the objective of avoiding double taxation.
Background on the Commission's State aid investigations on tax
Tax rulings as such are not a problem under EU State aid rules if they simply confirm that tax arrangements between companies within the same group comply with the relevant tax legislation. However, tax rulings that confer a selective advantage to specific companies can distort competition within the EU's Single Market, in breach of EU State aid rules.
Since June 2013, the Commission has been investigating individual tax rulings or rulings granted under tax schemes of Member States under EU State aid rules. It extended this information inquiry to all Member States in December 2014.
The following investigations concerning tax rulings have already been concluded by the Commission:
In October 2015, the Commission concluded that Luxembourg and the Netherlands had granted selective tax advantages to Fiat and Starbucks, respectively. As a result of these decisions, Luxembourg recovered €23.1 million from Fiat and the Netherlands recovered €25.7 million from Starbucks.
In August 2016, the Commission concluded that Ireland granted undue tax benefits to Apple, which led to a recovery by Ireland of €14.3 billion.
In October 2017, the Commission concluded that Luxembourg granted undue tax benefits to Amazon, which led to a recovery by Luxembourg of €282.7 million.
In June 2018, the Commission concluded that Luxembourg granted undue tax benefits to Engie, which led to a recovery by Luxembourg of €123 million.
In September 2018, the Commission found that the non-taxation of certain McDonald's profits in Luxembourg did not lead to illegal State aid, as it is in line with national tax laws and the Luxembourg-US Double Taxation Treaty.
In December 2018, the Commission concluded that Gibraltar granted undue tax benefits of around €100 million to several multinational companies, through a corporate tax exemption scheme and through five tax rulings. The recovery procedure is ongoing.
In April 2019, the Commission concluded that the United Kingdom granted undue tax benefits to several multinational companies by allowing certain artificially diverted group financing income to remain outside the scope of the United Kingdom's anti-tax avoidance provisions. The recovery procedure is still ongoing.
The Commission also has two ongoing in-depth investigations concerning tax rulings issued by the Netherlands in favour of Inter IKEA and Nike and an investigation concerning tax rulings issued by Luxembourg in favour of Huhtamäki.
The non-confidential versions of each decision will be made available under the case number indicated in the list below in the State aid register on the Commission's Competition website once any confidentiality issues have been resolved. New publications of State aid decisions on the internet and in the Official Journal are listed in the State Aid Weekly e-News.

Story 114
This morning, we’re venturing underground at Berliner Unterwelten (Subterranean Berlin), home to one of the last remaining civilian air raid shelters in Berlin. An expert guide will take us behind an inconspicuous green door in a subway station; in the dark passages and confined rooms of the shelter, we’ll learn about the experiences of average Berliners during World War II. In the afternoon, we’ll observe how the city is being transformed by creatives and collectives. We’ll begin at the extraordinary Bikini House (Bikinihaus), a high-concept shopping mall. It’s an excellent example of Berlin’s creative architecture and design, and has sweeping views over the city which we’ll enjoy during lunch. Next we’ll explore a few lesser-known places in the district of Kreuzberg, including a Brutalist church converted into an art gallery and a historic Bethanian Hospital that’s been transformed into studios, galleries, and workshop spaces. For dinner, our destination is Berlin’s most popular indoor street food market—the best place to discover what’s new and exciting on the local food scene. For those who still have energy to spare, we’ll wind down at the Holzmarkt. Built on a formerly languishing wasteland, it has evolved from a wooden shack serving as a dingy open-air techno club on the river Spree into a quirky urban oasis with restaurants, cafés, artist studios, and an outdoor beer garden.
Hotel Oderberger, Berlin

Story 115
Late on Tuesday local time (Sept. 10), the California Senate passed Assembly Bill 5 in a vote that will dramatically alter the course of the so-called gig economy.
The bill will likely reclassify hundreds of thousands of independent contractors as employees, arguably the most significant piece of legislation ever for companies like Uber and Lyft. It passed the Senate by a vote of 29-11 along party lines and must now pass a final vote by the State Assembly to approve amendments. Assuming it survives (a near certainty), AB5 will require the signature of California governor Gavin Newsom, who publicly backed it on Labor Day (Sept. 2). If approved, the legislation would take effect Jan. 1, 2020.
“The State Senate made it clear: your business cannot game the system by misclassifying its workers,” assemblywoman Lorena Gonzalez, the Democrat who authored the bill, said in a statement. “As lawmakers, we will not in good conscience allow free-riding businesses to continue to pass their own business costs onto taxpayers and workers. It’s our job to look out for working men and women, not Wall Street and their get-rich-quick IPOs.”
The gig economy has always depended on a simple gamble and arbitrage: Hire workers as contractors to do jobs through a platform, thereby eliminating the costs associated with traditional employment. With the passage of AB5, companies like Uber and Lyft that are already hemorrhaging money will likely be required to pay millions more in payroll taxes, workers’ compensation, and training costs for employees, not to mention higher wages once workers are protected by minimum wage laws ($12 an hour in California and $15 an hour in some cities, including San Francisco).
Analysts estimate AB5 will cost Uber and Lyft a combined $800 million per year. Both companies are trading well below their IPO share prices, and are under pressure from investors to get their spending under control. Uber reported a $5.2 billion loss for the second quarter and has launched an internal cost-cutting campaign encouraging employees to #FindTheMoney. The ride-hail company laid off 400 employees from its global marketing team in July and axed another 435 workers yesterday, hours before AB5 passed, including 8% of its engineering and product staff.
While the app-based gig economy has received most of the attention, AB5 could also impact those in other lines of work. Last week, for instance, independent truckers protested the bill outside the California State Capitol. Analysts have also warned about added costs to franchise restaurants that they believe could face more lawsuits under the new legislation. In May, AB5 was amended to exempt certain professions, including doctors, insurance agents, securities brokers, accountants, barbers, and hairstylists.
Uber and its peers in the gig economy fought hard to prevent AB5 from being passed. Uber and Lyft paid drivers to protest AB5, and encouraged them to contact their legislators to oppose the bill. Late last month, the ride-hail companies and food-delivery firm DoorDash committed $90 million to a 2020 ballot initiative designed to exempt themselves from the legislation and preserve the independent-contractor status of their workers.
“Our state’s political leadership missed an important opportunity to support the overwhelming majority of rideshare drivers who want a thoughtful solution that balances flexibility with an earnings standard and benefits,” Lyft spokesman Adrian Durbin said in an emailed statement. “The fact that there were more than 50 industries carved out of AB5 is very telling. We are fully prepared to take this issue to the voters of California to preserve the freedom and access drivers and riders want and need.”
The longer-term threat from AB5 is that California inspires other states to pass similar legislation, until the gig model is unwound on a national scale. Analysts at Morgan Stanley estimate global ride-hail bookings could fall by 5% to 9% if something like AB5 were adopted across the US. Analysts at investment firm Cowen last week described California as a “policy Petri dish” for other blue states and said they expected states like New York, New Jersey, Washington, Oregon, and Illinois to follow its lead.
In other words: AB5 passing is a nightmare scenario for the gig economy not just because of its immediate consequences, but because it proves that such legislation is possible and politically viable. Even if a company-sponsored ballot initiative to keep drivers classified as contractors prevails in 2020—and that’s a big if—California will still have given other states a roadmap to reining in the gig economy, which is something no amount of lobbying can undo.
This story was updated to include additional information from Lyft.

Story 116
Southern Air, Inc. and Local 1224 of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters have reached an agreement for interim enhancements to the collective bargaining agreement covering pilots.
The interim agreement increases pay rates for Southern Air pilots to the same wage scales as provided to pilots of sister company Atlas Air, Inc. Both companies are owned by Atlas Air Worldwide (AAWW).
It also provides for a ratification bonus and other terms and conditions that are comparable to those provided to their colleagues at Atlas Air.
AAWW said: "This agreement to benefit our Southern Air pilots is the result of collaborative and productive discussions with the IBT leadership as we continue on our path toward the merger of Atlas Air and Southern Air and completing a joint collective bargaining agreement. We are grateful for the IBT’s hard work and commitment during the entire process."
The agreement will be voted on from July 25 to August 9.
“Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings is finally acknowledging the full-blown staffing crisis at Southern Air that we’ve been raising concerns about,” said Captain Bryan Holmberg, a veteran pilot at Southern Air and the Southern Air Executive Council Chairman at APA Teamsters Local 1224.
“We want to better serve the airline and the many customers across the globe who rely on our work, but to do so we need to stop the rapid turnover and hire pilots to meet DHL’s ever-growing demands.”
“Signing this LOA is a long overdue improvement for Southern’s pilots,” said Captain Daniel Wells, an Atlas Air pilot and president of Teamsters Local 1224.
“This interim agreement does not resolve the fact that Southern Air and the pilots are still in negotiations to conclude a new Collective Bargaining Agreement and still in litigation with AAWW."
Atlas Air Worldwide is hoping to unite its Atlas Air and Southern Air pilots under one contract, following its acquisition of Southern Air and Florida West International Airways.
The unions claim that AAWW wants to merge Atlas and Polar’s contracts into Southern Air pilots’ existing contract which, they said would cut wages and degrade working conditions for Atlas Air and Polar Air Cargo pilots.
The expected financial and operating impacts of the tentative agreement in 2018 were incorporated in the company’s earnings growth framework announced on June 25, 2018. As indicated, the company anticipates that its full-year 2018 adjusted net income will grow by 35% to 40% compared with 2017.
"We appreciate the professionalism and contributions of our Atlas Air and Southern Air crew members and the excellent service they provide every day.
"And we remain committed to completing the bargaining process for a joint contract covering all of our pilots in a timely manner and in the best interests of all parties," AAWW said.

Story 117
A New Jersey man is accused of beating his dog, lying about it and then starting an online fundraiser to pay for the pup's medical expenses.
On Tuesday, Medford police announced Reid M. Herjo has been charged with animal cruelty and theft by deception.
Herjo, 24, of Shamong, was stopped by police for speeding on Jan. 22. He told officers he was taking his 14-week-old German shepherd, Atlas, to the veterinary hospital because the dog had been struck by an ATV.
Five days later, authorities received a tip suggesting Herjo was lying about how his dog sustained the injuries, police said. A joint investigation with New Jersey State Police revealed Herjo allegedly intentionally caused the "severe" injuries to his dog, which included numerous fractures and hemorrhaging, police said.
On two separate occasions, Atlas sustained injuries during the six weeks he was under Herjo's care, according to authorities. Herjo reported that the injuries came from the dog falling down the stairs and falling down a hill, police said.
Still in Herjo's care, Atlas died under "suspicious circumstances" on Feb. 3, police said, with evidence suggesting the dog had suffered additional trauma.
Besides the alleged animal abuse, Herjo also is accused of setting up a GoFundMe page to pay for Atlas' veterinary bills, using a fake story about how the dog was injured in a hit-and-run crash. The campaign raised $14,065 with 693 separate donations over a 28-day period, police said.
A GoFundMe spokesperson told PhillyVoice that misuse of the company's platform is uncommon, but added that there are a few instances where "people create campaigns with the intention to take advantage of others' generosity. "
All users who donated to the campaign will be refunded and Herjo has been banned from the platform, the company said.
"It's important to remember that our platform is backed by the GoFundMe Guarantee, which means that in the rare case that GoFundMe, law enforcement or a user finds campaigns are misused, donors are fully protected and will get their money back," GoFundMe said in a statement. "Additionally, we are working with law enforcement on their investigation."
Herjo was formally charged on March 28. A Burlington County Superior Court hearing is pending.
(h/t, Courier Post

Story 118
Kiwis can now get paid in crypto.
Bitcoin faces legal uncertainty in much of the world, but this month the cryptocurrency received a major vote of confidence in New Zealand. In its August tax information bulletin (pdf), the country’s Inland Revenue Department published binding rules approving salaries and wages paid in cryptocurrency.
Digital currency proponents applauded the arrangement as innovative. Many who work in the crypto industry as contractors—often as programmers, community managers, and researchers—accept payment in tokens. In the US, by comparison, crypto enthusiasts have been waiting nearly five years for the IRS to update its guidance on the treatment of crypto transactions.
Although New Zealand approved crypto as compensation for salaried and wage-earning workers, the framework is strict. Crypto payments must be subject to an employment agreement, be for a fixed amount, and comprise a “regular part of the employee’s remuneration.” Furthermore, crypto pay cannot be subject to a “lock-up” period, and the digital currency (or currencies) must be readily convertible into a traditional, government-backed currency like the New Zealand Dollar. New Zealand’s Inland Revenue also notes that crypto payments are subject to normal tax laws, like the country’s Pay As You Earn and Fringe Benefits Tax regimes.
New Zealand’s tax authority names a few examples of cryptocurrencies that are okay to use, because “a significant purpose of the crypto-asset is to function like a currency.” These include bitcoin, bitcoin cash, bitcoin gold, ether, and litecoin. This doesn’t include filecoin, dentacoin, and CRYPTO20, the tax agency noted.
Cryptos “pegged to one or more fiat currencies,” such as Tether and the Paxos Standard, are also okay for use as wages and salaries. Only stablecoins that are readily convertible into fiat money on an exchange satisfy the rules, the agency stressed.
Altogether, New Zealand’s approach to crypto pay could encourage more mainstream adoption of crypto assets, under certain conditions. In a country known for monetary innovation, the move could serve as a model for other regulators.
🇺🇸🏦💸
REGULATORY WATCH
The US Securities and Exchange Commission postponed a decision on exchange-traded funds linked to bitcoin once again. If approved, a bitcoin ETF could allow the cryptocurrency to be listed alongside stocks on many brokerage platforms. On stock trading websites today, bitcoin is sometimes listed through Grayscale’s GBTC, a fund that typically trades at a 20% premium or more to the prevailing bitcoin price.
Many crypto traders believe a bitcoin ETF would help introduce digital currency to the investing public, but SEC chairman Jay Clayton has expressed reservations about the vehicle due to frequent theft and apparent price manipulation. The SEC has until mid-October to make a final decision on bitcoin ETF proposals from asset managers Bitwise and VanEck. The repeated delays in coming to a decision may not be a good sign for the funds.
🔑🔑🔑
BITS AND PIECES
Barclays is no longer banking Coinbase (CoinDesk)
Jeffrey Epstein reportedly claimed to work on crypto issues for the US Treasury (WSJ)
China’s central bank says its own cryptocurrency is “close” to release (Bloomberg)
BitMEX was hit by UK’s ad regulator for “misleading” bitcoin graph in a newspaper (The Block)
What happens when bitcoin bros talk cryptography (FT Alphaville)
Getting our heads around Facebook money (Radio New Zealand)
An attempted heist at Coinbase was scary good, even though it failed (MIT Tech Review)
Please send news, tips, and crypto pay slips to privatekey@qz.com. Today’s Private Key was written by Matthew De Silva and edited by Jason Karaian. Know what you own, and know why you own it.

Story 119
In 2010, agents from the Georgia Bureau of Investigation raided Bengali American poet and fiction writer Devi Laskar's home. Her husband, a professor of electrical engineering at Georgia Institute of Technology, was accused of misusing university resources for his startup, though the case was later dismissed. Devi Laskar was, she says, weeks away from completing a novel when the agents confiscated her personal laptop in the raid. They never returned it, and the novel, which was stored on its hard-drive, was lost, but the frightening experience of the raid planted the seed of what would later become Laskarâs debut novel The Atlas of Reds and Blues.
"I was not shot, but there was a raid and they pointed a gun at me," Laskar tells Bustle. "It's true that when someone is pointing a gun at you, you see your entire life flash before your eyes. And so I played with that conceit. I wanted to piece together in my mind: What if this happened to my character? Why would she think it had taken place?"
A year after the raid, Laskar revisited a short story she had originally written in 2004 for a Squaw Valley workshop about a dog, children, and some unpleasant new neighbors. She used the short story and other bits and pieces she had written over the years as the foundation of the story of The Atlas of Reds and Blues. The novel reimagines the day of the raid with one crucial difference: What if she had resisted the officers? What if she had been shot?
"I wanted to piece together in my mind: What if this happened to my character? Why would she think it had taken place?"
When The Atlas of Reds and Blues begins, "Mother," the protagonist, has been shot by the police and lies bleeding on her driveway. Mother and other characters aren't given personal names, both because they are "invisible in America" and in order to pay homage to the Bengali tradition of using titles like "Baby Sister" within the home. Throughout the book, readers careen back and forth through time, bearing witness to Mother's memories: her childhood as a Bengali American girl growing up in the South, her early career as a reporter, her marriage to a busy white man, and her life as the mother of three daughters.
Each flashback âÂ written in accessible but poetic prose â is a glimpse into Motherâs life. Laskarâs use of vignettes to comment on weighty topics like racism and sexism recalls Sandra Cisneros's The House on Mango Street more than it does the fiction of fellow Bengali American authors like Bharati Mukherjee, Jhumpa Lahiri, and Chitra Divakaruni. Like Cisneros, Laskar varies the tone of her vignettes; some are sad or angry while others are humorous, and their power is collective.
Initially, the novel's plot mirrored the author's own journey. Later Laskar realized that an autobiographical approach would detract from her protagonist's journey. She decided to cut events that had happened after the raid from the novel, so that she could fully explore what had led up to the event. The author is quick to explain that none of the racist incidents in The Atlas of Reds and Blues are "verbatim"; they do not exactly reflect events that happened to her or people she knows. It's a testament to Laskar's devastating storytelling that every incident reads true anyway.
Photo of Devi Laskar, courtesy of Anjini Laskar
Laskar was born and raised Chapel Hill, "a blue dot in the red state of North Carolina," she says. Inside their home, her immigrant parents kept Bengali customs, but when the family walked out the front door, they knew they were in America, and they treated their walk to the bus stop serving as a "transition period." It was in college that Laskar first felt comfortable talking about racism openly because "there were enough people of color around me, there were enough black people around me, where we could have a discussion. It wouldn't necessarily be a productive discussion, but at least we were talking."
Laskar hopes that The Atlas of Reds and Blues can broaden conversations about racism. "I felt compelled not to let anyone off the hook," she says. "I just wanted to be transparent that this is wrong. Unless we actually have a dialogue, it's not going to change. I have kids. I'm terrified for my kids." In the book, Mother and her daughters tacitly agree not to talk about the racist incidents they face in order to protect "Daddy," who is white. Laskar says that Mother is unwilling to burst Daddy's bubble because "if he realized how bad it was, he wouldn't be able to leave and do his job." Although the characters don't discuss racism, a reader can observe that it's the unspoken daily accumulation of degrading racist incidents that brings Mother to an emotional boiling point â a point of resistance that results in her being shot.
"I felt compelled not to let anyone off the hook," she says. "I just wanted to be transparent that this is wrong."
Racism against Laskar's Bengali American characters is bound up with anti-blackness rather than xenophobia. Mother remembers a moment from her childhood when a fellow student assumed she was dating another student because he was Black. Mother mentally notes that his skin color is coffee with cream and says, "I'm not Black." The fellow student responds, "Sure you are... You're not white." The fellow student notes that another boy would never ask The Real Thing to "go with him." When Mother asks why not, the student touches her skin "creating a crater of shock," and says, "Because... this doesn't rub off."
Although it recounts ugly racism, the novel is marked by beautiful, lyrical repetition. Laskar considers herself a poet first. Even the book's structure is inspired by one of Laskar's favorite poetry forms, the pantoum, a Malayan folk poem. In a pantoum, a phrase is repeated throughout, but subtle changes in meaning occur due to different contexts. She says, "This book is one giant pantoum because the beginning is the end, and she's considering things over and over."
One repeated, almost satiric element in The Atlas of Reds and Blues is the phrase "Bless your heart," intended to absolve a speaker of ignorance or cruelty. Laskar observes that in the South, "white Southerners "tack on 'Bless your heart' as the magic dust that makes a statement OK. You're saying something mean like 'She can't dress herself to save her life,' but then you say 'Bless your heart.'"
She says, "This book is one giant pantoum because the beginning is the end, and she's considering things over and over."
Another element skillfully repeated in the book is eerie doll imagery. At one point, Mother remembers getting into a car accident in which a brown doll that nobody else wanted hits the windshield along with her, and loses her head. The narrator says, "Like children, most dolls are made only to be seen, put on display. Real live dolls are taught to remain stoic, bear witness in silence, no matter how the consumer judges."
Laskar remarks on the impossible proportion of the iconic Barbie doll. The doll imagery in The Atlas of Reds and Blues is intended to challenge the minority myth and its unattainable standards. She explains that the common perception of Asian Americans is: "You all do well in school, you're really quiet, you pay your taxes, you want to be American, you assimilate." She laughs gently and shakes her head. "And I was poking at that a little," she says. "Well, no... actually not."

Story 120
Long Island native Alicia “The Empress” Napoleon-Espinosa is the WBA super middleweight champion. However, being a world champion female boxer doesn’t guarantee a comparable paycheck to the men. While training for a fight, Napoleon-Espinosa works a full-time job as trainer, as well as training up to three times a day. (Credit: Newsday / Shelby Knowles)

Story 121
Board debates polemic pumper contract
ATLAS TWP. — The township board approved a request for the former owners of the Atlas Valley Country Club, clearing the way for them to submit an application to the Liquor Control Commission in hopes of reclaiming the club according to their attorney Chris Stritmatter.
The club is currently owned by Jason Bescoe, who is facing multiple charges of embezzlement and witness intimidation in Genesee County’s 7th Circuit Court.
Bescoe’s license never went through, per Stritmatter and they are waiting for the property to go through the foreclosure process and intend to revert it back to their family, pay the back taxes and perhaps in the long run sell it to someone other than Bescoe—but in the meantime, they want it restored to its former reputation and status.
In other business, the election board approved moving the township hall voting precinct to St. Marks Church for the May election due to the renovations taking place on the hall. Also related to the work, they approved amending the township hall remodeling contract to add two storage pods and a temporary office trailer so staff could be out of the way of contractors and the expected mess during the construction.
Building Inspector Matt Hart suggested this would make it easier for the contractor to get the job done and still provide the office with network access and a clean, safe space to work; which the board agreed with.
Additionally, the board of trustees debated the process of paying for a new pumper truck for the fire department after Trustee Barry June questioned the wisdom of taking advantage of a discount offer which would have them paying for the truck in advance.
He indicated in his experience when a business is seeking cash in advance, it’s an indication they might be having cash flow problems. Fire Chief Steve Bullen and former Chief Fred Forys were both in the meeting and said they bought the last two trucks from the Spartan Motors Company and felt they were a reputable firm.
June said before he gives them half a million dollars ($557,074 total price) advance payment, he would be more comfortable if it included a performance bond, which is a surety bond issued by an insurance company or a bank to guarantee satisfactory completion of a project by a contractor.
Township Supervisor Tere Onica and others expressed concerns about the “Act of God” clause in the contract as well, as it wasn’t clear whether such a catastrophe occurring with the truck would be covered under the contractor’s insurance or not.
Bullen suggested Onica call the Spartan’s Vice President Ricke Rosselle as he felt sure a conversation would reassure her and township officials regarding the process. The board postponed the decision until this occurred and may decide at the next regular meeting or a special meeting if one is called before then. The board also approved the hiring of Mark Peterson as firefighter to the department.
They also approved a 2.4 percent cost of living increase for staff and discussed dropping the previously approved information technology insurance at a cost of $2,500 annually as they had found it useless in light of a recent attack as regards their co-pay. Township Attorney David Lattie had said he didn’t believe it was needed as practically all the information they have on file is public information.
Clerk Katie Vick also announced she had recently completed the Michigan Municipal Clerks course and received certification as a Certified Michigan Municipal Clerk (CMMC) through the Michigan Association of Municipal Clerks (MAMC).
Vick said, “The community of Atlas Township has invested in me and I intend to put that investment back into our township. The education and training provided throughout this program will help to enhance the quality of services to our community in many ways. My hope is to continue with my education and provide Atlas Township with the most professional and elite municipal services available for many years to come.”

Story 122
Activity Level
We recommend you have a medium fitness level to fully participate in this trip. You should be comfortable participating in water activities, which include swimming and snorkeling, as well as hiking several miles at a time, as these are highlights of the trip and offer some of the best ways to observe the local wildlife. Please contact us directly if you have further questions about health and fitness level for this trip.
Photography Experience & Gear
This trip is designed for those with a serious interest in wildlife photography, no matter your level of experience. Those who are not interested in photography will have an amazing, once-in-a-lifetime experience as well, but please note that our pace and our itinerary will be dictated by photographic opportunities.
We encourage you to use whatever gear you are most comfortable with, even if that’s just your smartphone camera! However, to get the most out of this workshop, we recommend a DSLR or mirrorless camera with at least one telephoto lens (such as 70-200mm, 100-400mm, or 75-300mm). You may bring a small tripod or monopod as well. For snorkeling, you might find an underwater housing or a waterproof point-and-shoot camera handy, too. Your guides will have a variety of lenses you may take for a spin as well, all suitable for Canon mounts. Don’t forget extra batteries, chargers, memory cards, and lens wipes.
If you purchase, rent, or borrow new camera gear just for this trip, we encourage you to spend time using it before leaving for Ecuador, so you can become familiar with its basic operation. You don't want to miss precious and spectacular moments busy messing with your camera settings!

Story 123
American individualism is infecting Japan, it seems.
Japanese tech companies are having trouble competing with companies like Apple and Google for talent, and they are being forced to rethink traditional approaches to corporate pay by offering more money, faster promotions, and merit-based raises to entice new employees tempted by the money and benefits offered by American competitors. Sony for instance is boosting rookie pay by up to 20% for new recruits in fields like artificial intelligence, reports the Nikkei Asian Review (paywall).
Like most Japanese companies, Sony has traditionally emphasized seniority over individual abilities when it comes to salaries. But this year’s class of new graduates joining the company can expect to make more money than their colleagues if they show exceptional abilities. Sony expects that about 5% of its 400 new hires will see their pay quickly rise above average salaries in 2019.
The baseline annual salary for an incoming employee joining Sony’s technology divisions after graduate school is about 6 million yen, or $55,000, with a standard raise to 6.3 million in year two. Under the company’s new pay structure, exceptional employees will earn 7.3 million yen, or about $67,000 within the first year. The Nikkei Asian Review predicts that Sony’s announcement will influence other employers, saying, “The change is likely to make waves in Japan’s labor market.”
While the starting salaries Sony is promising may still seem paltry compared to the pay at US competitors, the Japanese company is getting much closer to offering similar compensation with these changes. According to Glassdoor, where users anonymously disclose pay and employment information online, the base pay for a software engineer at Google in the US ranges from $70,000 to more than $130,000. Similarly, the data from engineers at Apple shows a starting range from $70,000 to $140,000, with an average base pay of about $100,000.
Sony is also making sure foreign hires feel comfortable working in Japan. According to its website, workers from abroad can interview and work for the company entirely in English, rather than Japanese. The company has been recruiting engineers internationally, focusing on India in particular since 2009. With its new pay structure and openness to non-Japanese-speaking workers, Sony may indeed find it easier than ever to compete with American tech giants in attracting the best and brightest workers.

Story 124
CINCINNATI--(BUSINESS WIRE)--American Financial Group, Inc. (NYSE: AFG) today announced that its commercial transportation specialist, National Interstate, has entered into an agreement with Atlas Financial Holdings, Inc. (AFH) to become the exclusive underwriter of AFH’s paratransit book of business. The transaction is effective June 10, 2019 and National Interstate expects to begin issuing policies in the third quarter of 2019. National Interstate estimates that the majority of AFH’s $110 million paratransit business will be eligible for quotation under this arrangement over the first 12 months following inception of the agreement.
Under the terms of the agreement, an AFH subsidiary will act as an underwriting manager for National Interstate for at least 12 months following the transaction, after which time National Interstate is entitled to acquire the renewal rights for the business held by AFH and certain of its subsidiaries.
In addition, AFG has been granted a five-year warrant to acquire 19.9% of AFH’s common stock outstanding at an exercise price of $0.69 per share, which represents the average closing price per share for AFH’s common stock over the preceding five trading days.
Carl H. Lindner III, Co-CEO of American Financial Group, commented, “Passenger transportation is a business we know well, and we are well-positioned to act on opportunities in a market that remains in a correction mode. This paratransit book of business is a great strategic fit for AFG. It complements National Interstate’s existing paratransit book, and will allow us to grow our footprint within an existing specialty transportation niche that has performed very well for us. We look forward to working with Atlas and its agents to provide a smooth transition for policyholders.”
About American Financial Group, Inc.
American Financial Group is an insurance holding company, based in Cincinnati, Ohio with assets over $65 billion. Through the operations of Great American Insurance Group, AFG is engaged primarily in property and casualty insurance, focusing on specialized commercial products for businesses, and in the sale of traditional fixed, fixed-indexed and variable-indexed annuities in the retail, financial institutions, broker-dealer and registered investment advisor markets. Great American Insurance Group’s roots go back to 1872 with the founding of its flagship company, Great American Insurance Company.
Forward Looking Statements
This press release contains certain statements that may be deemed to be "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements in this press release not dealing with historical results are forward-looking and are based on estimates, assumptions and projections. Examples of such forward-looking statements include statements relating to: the Company's expectations concerning market and other conditions and their effect on future premiums, revenues, earnings, investment activities and the amount and timing of share repurchases; recoverability of asset values; expected losses and the adequacy of reserves for asbestos, environmental pollution and mass tort claims; rate changes; and improved loss experience.
Actual results and/or financial condition could differ materially from those contained in or implied by such forward-looking statements for a variety of reasons including, but not limited to: changes in financial, political and economic conditions, including changes in interest and inflation rates, currency fluctuations and extended economic recessions or expansions in the U.S. and/or abroad; performance of securities markets, including the cost of equity index options; new legislation or declines in credit quality or credit ratings that could have a material impact on the valuation of securities in AFG’s investment portfolio; the availability of capital; changes in insurance law or regulation, including changes in statutory accounting rules and changes in regulation of the Lloyd’s market, including modifications to the establishment of capital requirements for and approval of business plans for syndicate participation; changes in the legal environment affecting AFG or its customers; tax law and accounting changes, including the impact of recent changes in U.S. corporate tax law; levels of natural catastrophes and severe weather, terrorist activities (including any nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events), incidents of war or losses resulting from civil unrest and other major losses; disruption caused by cyber-attacks or other technology breaches or failures by AFG or its business partners and service providers, which could negatively impact AFG’s business and/or expose AFG to litigation; development of insurance loss reserves and establishment of other reserves, particularly with respect to amounts associated with asbestos and environmental claims; availability of reinsurance and ability of reinsurers to pay their obligations; trends in persistency and mortality; competitive pressures; the ability to obtain adequate rates and policy terms; changes in AFG’s credit ratings or the financial strength ratings assigned by major ratings agencies to AFG’s operating subsidiaries; the impact of the conditions in the international financial markets and the global economy relating to AFG’s international operations; and other factors identified in AFG’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The forward-looking statements herein are made only as of the date of this press release. The Company assumes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements.

Story 125
The UN has published a new report detailing the dangers of climate change, with a particular focus on how it will shape the issue of poverty in the coming decades. It paints a grim picture for not just those suffering in the current day, but the millions upon millions that will be pushed into poverty as a result of a changing climate, which also has the potential to upend democracy and human rights.
The new report echoes the sentiments of past climate reports published by the UN, calling on governments to do more than the steps laid out in the Paris Agreement in order to limit warming to levels considered safe. These have highlighted the issues of climate refugees, diminishing natural resources and extreme weather events, but the latest puts the spotlight on inequality between rich and poor, and how global warming threatens to widen the divide.
"Even if current targets are met, tens of millions will be impoverished, leading to widespread displacement and hunger," said the UN Special Rapporteur on extreme poverty and human rights and report author Philip Alston. "Climate change threatens to undo the last 50 years of progress in development, global health, and poverty reduction. It could push more than 120 million more people into poverty by 2030 and will have the most severe impact in poor countries, regions, and the places poor people live and work."
The report leans on figures from the World Bank and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change among others, and in part imagines a world a few decades down the track with 2° C (3.6° F) of warming above pre-industrial levels. It says this could see 100 to 400 million more people at risk of hunger and 1 to 2 billion without access to adequate water. Crop yields could drop by 30 percent by 2080, while malnutrition, malaria, diarrhea, and heat stress could cause an additional 250,000 deaths per year by 2030.
It also points out the discrepancies in carbon emissions coming from the poor, who will suffer the most, and the wealthy, who will suffer less. The 3.5 billion people making up the poorer half of the world's population are responsible for only 10 percent of these emissions, while the wealthiest 10 percent contribute half. Strikingly, a person in the richest one percent is responsible for 175 times more carbon emissions than somebody in the bottom 10 percent.
"Perversely, while people in poverty are responsible for just a fraction of global emissions, they will bear the brunt of climate change, and have the least capacity to protect themselves," Alston said. "We risk a 'climate apartheid' scenario where the wealthy pay to escape overheating, hunger, and conflict while the rest of the world is left to suffer."
Equally important as the issues of food security, housing and water, the report says, is the threat to democracy and the rule of law. It says the anticipated mass migrations of people forced to either starve or move will "pose immense and unprecedented challenges to governance" and likely stimulate "nationalist, xenophobic, racist and other responses."
"In such a setting, civil and political rights will be highly vulnerable," Alston said. "Most human rights bodies have barely begun to grapple with what climate change portends for human rights, and it remains one on a long laundry list of 'issues', despite the extraordinarily short time to avoid catastrophic consequences. As a full-blown crisis that threatens the human rights of vast numbers of people bears down, the usual piecemeal, issue-by-issue human rights methodology is woefully insufficient."
Source: UN

Story 126
The money came from an initial coin offering — or ICO — that Lacroix launched on social media in August 2017 to fund a digital token startup called PlexCoin. The ICO promised lucrative returns, saying PlexCoin would soon rival Bitcoin thanks to its team of digital currency experts.
According to both the AMF, which ordered Lacroix to stop the ICO before the launch, and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, which filed a claim against PlexCoin, Lacroix and his partner Sabrina Paradis-Royer in November, the claims were bogus. The SEC succinctly coined Plexcoin “a full-fledged cyber scam.”
In imposing the maximum fine on Lacroix and Paradis-Royer and granting approval for U.S. and Canadian regulators to freeze the defendants’ assets, Quebec Superior Court Judge Marc Lesage told the defendants that their “greed at the expense of investors who are promised unmatched interest rates remained (your) only goal.”
After denying there was any residual value in PlexCoin, the defendants used the cyber-currency to buy luxury cars in Montreal this spring and ended up back in court.
On July 5, Pronovost ordered Lacroix to turn over 420 Bitcoins — the equivalent of $3.7 million — to the court-appointed administrator by the following day or be found in contempt of court.

Story 127
It looks like the Front Office are getting their man after all.
Only a few very very long, and equally soul-destroying, weeks after the close of the MLS primary transfer window, Toronto FC are set announce that they have indeed signed the “one that got away”, veteran USMNT and former LAG star defender Omar Gonzalez, from Liga MX.
Toronto FC is expected to use targeted allocation money (TAM) and the top spot in the MLS allocation list to realize this move.
Everyone’s favourite Kristian and/or Jack broke the news earlier this morning:
Multiple sources have confirmed to me that Toronto FC have signed centre-back Omar Gonzalez. Announcement to come soon. See him as a ‘cornerstone’ of their defence going forward. Available after July 7th. Two and a half year deal plus option. #TFCLive — Kristian Jack (@KristianJack) June 3, 2019
The details are scant, and mostly conjecture, but the numbers being bandied around the interwebs are a 2.5 year deal plus option. No mentions of salary or a transfer fee (if any). There is also no real details on how the club was able to get this deal over the line after it fell apart at the 25th hour due to some intrigue on the Liga MX side of the table.
#TFCLive source confirms that the club has signed centre-back Omar Gonzalez. Announcement to come at 1 p.m. Gonzalez will be available after July 7th. Two and a half year deal plus option reported — steve buffery (@Beezersun) June 3, 2019
Absolutely expect a presser from TFC HQ later today, and while I doubt that we’ll get all the numbers (because MLS), we can at least bask in the glow of rumour becoming official.
The 30-year-old CB is away with the USMNT team camp having just finished the season on loan with Atlas, from Pachuca, both in Liga MX. He signed with Pachuca in 2016.
Gonzalez spent seven seasons with the LA Galaxy. He played 223 times, and was a key figure during their dominance earlier this decade, winning two MLS Cups and two Supporters Shields alongside players like David Beckham and Landon Donovan. Individually, he was the MLS Rookie of the Year in 2009, MLS Defender of the Year in 2011 and was named to the MLS Best XI in 2010, 2011, 2013 and 2014. In 2013, he also became the first centre-back in MLS history to sign a designated player contract.
Of course, the bad news here is that OG CB won’t be available to play for the Reds until at least July 7th. Curious if he is allowed to at least train with the side before then.
Thoughts? Rants? Effusive praise?
Is this the future of the transfer market as MLS rises in stature? I mean - it does feel a bit similar to the Poz deal. Are the days of free transfers and quick and decisive moves over?
UPDATE:
It does indeed look like a TAM deal (of course) and it seems we did have to grease the Liga MX wheels with a bit of coin:
TAM deal for Gonzalez, per a source. Toronto did pay a transfer fee, but I'm told it wasn't very significant. https://t.co/zDzveg8gVo — Sam Stejskal (@samstejskal) June 3, 2019
UPDATE #2 :
Looks like we are getting more insight into how much we paid as transfer fee:

Story 128
CLOSE Braidy Industries wants to build an aluminum rolling mill in eastern Kentucky, but has hit some snags along the way. Nikki Boliaux, Louisville Courier Journal
Braidy Industries has about four months to raise $300 million in equity capital to help finance a $1.7 billion aluminum rolling mill in Eastern Kentucky — or risk losing a sizable investment it already has secured, new records show.
In a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filing made this week, Braidy Industries detailed its agreement with United Co. Rusal, the Russian aluminum company with ties to Russian oligarch Oleg Deripaska, an ally of Vladimir Putin.
The company recently announced plans to invest $200 million in Braidy's planned aluminum rolling mill.
Rusal — which was under U.S. sanctions until earlier this year — went public in April with its intention to buy a 40% stake in the Kentucky-based mill, which is slated to eventually produce aluminum sheet and plate for the automotive and aerospace industries.
On July 5, a subsidiary of Rusal's called Allow Rolled Products LLC reached definitive agreements to invest $200 million into Braidy Atlas LLC, the subsidiary responsible for building the mill near Ashland, Kentucky, according to Braidy's SEC filing.
The $200 million investment will be provided in phases.
Previously: Braidy Industries lands Russian investor for Kentucky aluminum mill
Rusal's subsidiary made an initial $60 million contribution last Friday and plans to provide an additional $5 million per month for eight months, the filing stated.
It intends to make a final, $100 million investment when certain conditions have been met, including an expectation that Braidy will have raised $300 million in cash (or secured commitments to provide those funds).
Rusal's subsidiary can suspend or terminate its obligation to make the final, $100 million payment (or its monthly, $5 million installments) if Braidy has failed to secure its own $300 million contribution by the time they have surpassed the "fourth monthly anniversary" of the July 5 initial closing of the investment deal, the SEC filing said.
In an emailed statement Tuesday, Braidy CEO and Chairman Craig Bouchard emphasized the progress his company has made so far, including a North American supply contract he said the company was awarded that same day for an unnamed global automaker.
“Our (SEC) filing demonstrates Braidy Industries has raised equity, binding commitments or signed letters of intent for the majority of capital required for this project. This includes investments from more than 800 investors, including main street Kentuckians," Bouchard said. "Our progress building one of the largest mills in the world has gone faster than any project of this size in memory."
Joe Gerth: Is Braidy Industries of Kentucky getting in bed with Russian mobsters?
Other notable changes that have occurred because of the deal with Rusal include:
Braidy Industries now owns 60% of Braidy Atlas (instead of its former 100% ownership stake).
Braidy Atlas' board of directors now includes three members appointed by Braidy, including Bouchard, and two members appointed by Rusal's subsidiary, including Lord Gregory Barker of Battle, the executive chairman of Rusal's biggest stockholder, En+ Group.
A Rusal affiliate has entered into a 10-year supply agreement with Braidy Atlas to exclusively supply 200,000 metric tons per year of aluminum slab and primary aluminum ingots for Braidy's planned mill.
Gov. Matt Bevin has been credited with attracting Braidy to Kentucky in 2017, when the company pledged to build the aluminum rolling mill.
Bevin also played a key role in the state government's decision to invest $15 million in the company in return for an ownership stake and a promise to create more than 500 high-paying jobs in the economically struggling eastern region of the commonwealth.
Braidy still has to secure enough money to build the mill, though. It launched a major stock sale in September 2018 and has repeatedly extended the deadline as it works to raise roughly $500 million.
Braidy's latest SEC filing includes other details about the company's plans to finance the mill, which is now set to open in 2021.
Braidy expects it will need to raise the $300 million in equity capital before sufficient debt financing to help pay for the mill's construction can be attained.
Although it's in talks with "a number of global financial institutions to secure debt and lease financing" for that project, currently there are no binding debt commitments or financing arrangements, according to the Monday SEC filing.
See also: UK president is one of the top-paid public college leaders in the US
The company is considering alternative financing sources to pay for the construction. It's also "party to a non-binding letter of intent for up to $900 million in lease financing arrangements for equipment and other assets" for the mill, and Braidy Atlas is in talks to raise as much as $800 million in "project finance loans."
In earlier SEC filings, Braidy repeatedly mentioned its plan to seek as much as $800 million from the federal government through the U.S. Department of Energy's Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing direct-loan program. However, this week's new filing does not mention that program.
In his statement Tuesday, Bouchard said Braidy canceled its application for financing through that program after another party came forward with a better offer than the terms the Department of Energy proposed.
Here are some other highlights from Braidy's latest SEC filing concerning its other aspects of its business plans:
Funding from Braidy is allowing one of its subsidiaries, Veloxint Corp., to "build out a leased research and development facility in Waltham, Massachusetts, and a scaled manufacturing facility in Kentucky" near the future mill's site, but neither of those facilities is complete and operational.
Veloxint, which Braidy acquired in March 2018, expects to start generating operating revenue in 2020 and has "a number of development agreements either signed or under negotiation," the filing said.
Braidy Atlas has developed a "milestone plan for cooperation" with the BMW Group related to the future supply of automotive aluminum sheet.
Braidy's growth strategy includes making more acquisitions to accelerate the growth of Veloxint's business, including acquiring companies that may be substantially larger than Braidy. Any such purchases could have impacts on Braidy, including the need to devote "substantial management time and attention" to negotiating and executing such deals and integrating any firms that are acquired — time and attention that "would otherwise be focused on constructing the Mill and operating Braidy Industries' current business."
ICYMI: Bernheim Forest will fight to stop LG&E from using land to build pipeline
Morgan Watkins: 502-582-4502; mwatkins@courierjournal.com; Twitter: @morganwatkins26. Support strong local journalism by subscribing today: courier-journal.com/morganw.
Read or Share this story: https://www.courier-journal.com/story/news/2019/07/16/braidy-industries-clock-raise-capital-aluminum-plant/1744128001/

Story 129
"We’ll be working constructively with all stakeholders, including financiers of individual properties, to secure the best possible outcome for all parties,
"OCP Asia intends to support the assets over which receivers have control during the receivership process, including via the provision of additional funding to ensure the assets can be maintained while options for recapitalisation, development and/or disposal are explored," he said.
OCP's exposure to Steller – which well-placed source estimated at between $110 million and $120 million – was secured against a handful of assets including a commercial and residential site in Hampton, an office and residential project at Swan and Coppin Streets in Richmond and a South Melbourne site. Both the Hampton and South Melbourne sites are currently up for sale.
Steller paid more than $23 million for 200 Wells Street in September 2017. Supplied
Steller, which also had construction, property funds and mortgage broking businesses, recently shut down its $35 million redevelopment of the Continental Hotel in Sorrento, leaving a gaping unfinished hole next to the iconic property and forcing owner Julian Gerner to put the unfinished project on the market.
In a statement, Mr Smedley, whose primary role was dealing with Steller's senior bank lenders, said: “I will be actively working with McGrathNichol and OCP to help ensure that the projects that are part of the receivership are completed and sold in an orderly manner.”
Mr Pitard, who handled day-to-day operations, including town planning and construction decisions, did not respond to requests for comment.
The collapse of Steller also caught out Sydney-based fund manager Atlas Advisors, chaired by former Macquarie Private Bank global boss Guy Hedley.
Advertisement
Mr Hedley said Atlas had a "secured and a structured credit position with Melbourne-based residential and commercial property developer Steller Group".
"We are confident the matter will be resolved and a recovery acceptable to our investors will be achieved, " he said.
In the weeks leading up to Mr Pitard and Mr Smedley's decision to dissolve their partnership, Steller had approached non-bank lenders for funding but had been unsuccessful.
The Australian Financial Review revealed Steller had borrowed at interest rates of up to 14 per cent to secure an $8.56 million fixed mortgage provided by a syndicate that included the Melbourne Jewish Friendly Society, the Equity One Mortgage Fund and a number of private super funds to buy the Hampton site now up for sale.
Do you know more? Send an email to larry.schlesinger@afr.com

Story 130
On September 15, 1896, two locomotives crashed head on 14 miles north of Waco, Texas. The locomotives’ boilers exploded on impact, sending debris flying through the air for hundreds of yards, killing at least two spectators and maiming countless others. One man even lost an eye to a flying bolt.
But no one ran from the calamity. In fact, after the crash, thousands of bystanders ran toward the destroyed locomotives hoping to claim a piece of the wreckage. That’s because the 40,000 or so people scattered along the tracks that September day knew the locomotives were going to crash and had paid to be there.
From 1896 until the 1930s, staged train wrecks were a popular—albeit destructive—event at fairs and festivals across the U.S., long before anyone ever thought of wrecking old automobiles at a demolition derby or monster truck rally.
The “Crash at Crush” trains before the collision. The Texas Collection, Baylor University
One of the first staged train wrecks was done in 1895 by a railroad equipment salesman named A.L. Streeter in Ohio. The wreck used the same formula that nearly all other staged train wrecks would follow for the next 40 years. Organizers would lay a stretch of track, usually anywhere from 1,800 feet to a mile-long, and then get two old steam locomotives and put them at either end of the track facing each other. They would then hire two brave locomotive engineers to wait for a signal from the organizer. When they got the go-ahead, the engineers would pull the throttles back as far as they could to get the locomotives up to speed. They would then jump from the locomotive before the two trains crashed in front of a crowd who had paid a few dollars to see the spectacle.
According to the historian James J. Reisdorff’s book The Man Who Wrecked 146 Locomotives, Streeter’s wreck was so successful that there were at least six staged train collisions the following year, including the most infamous one north of Waco, Texas, known as the “Crash at Crush.”
The wreck near Waco was the brainchild of William George Crush, a passenger agent for the Missouri-Kansas-Texas Railroad, better known as the “Katy Railroad.” The Katy had been struggling to regain its financial footing following the Panic of 1893 and the appropriately named Crush was tasked with finding a way to attract new passengers to the railroad. Crush offered a deal where people could pay two dollars to ride the Katy to the wreck from anywhere in Texas.
Crush secured two old steam locomotives, Nos. 999 and 1001, and painted them red and green. Railroad employees then built a stretch of track between three hillsides that formed a natural amphitheater, perfect for viewing the wreck. Crush expected a crowd of 20,000 people to come to the event, so he built a temporary town and called it “Crush.” To support the thousands of spectators he drilled water wells, set up a borrowed circus tent to house a restaurant, and built a wooden jail in case people got out of hand. He even hired 200 constables to keep the peace.
The trains just as they struck. The Texas Collection, Baylor University
On September 15, people began to arrive at Crush aboard trains that would steam into town every few minutes. By 4 p.m., more than 40,000 people had arrived, far more than Crush’s original estimate, making Crush the second-largest city in Texas, at least for a few hours.
At approximately 5:10 p.m., Crush climbed on his horse and rode to a spot between the two locomotives. At the wave of Crush’s hat, the two trains began to barrel toward each other. The locomotives reached 50 miles per hour before they collided, crunching into a mass of bent steel and shattered wood before exploding. One witness described the terror: “There was a swift instance of silence, and then, as if controlled by a single impulse, both boilers exploded simultaneously and the air was filled with flying missiles of iron and steel varying in size from a postage stamp to half a driving wheel.” A Civil War veteran who was there said it was more terrifying than the Battle of Gettysburg.
Prior to the event, Crush had asked a number of Katy engineers about the dangers of crashing two locomotives. All of them but one said it was safe. The engineer who said the locomotives would explode was quickly dismissed as a negative naysayer.
Crush was fired immediately after the crash, but after realizing that most people in attendance had a great time, the railroad rehired Crush the next day and he worked for the Katy until he retired.
The “Crash at Crush” explosion. The Texas Collection, Baylor University
While Crush was perhaps the most well-known train wrecker, one man turned it into a career. Joe Connolly staged more than 70 wrecks and destroyed at least 146 locomotives between 1896 and 1932. He even earned the nickname “Head-On Joe.”
Connolly grew up in Iowa along the tracks and as a boy often wondered what would happen if two trains ran into each other. “I believed that somewhere in the makeup of every normal person there lurks the suppressed desire to smash things up,” Connolly wrote in an article in 1933. “So I was convinced that thousands of others would be just as curious as I was to see what actually would take place when two speeding locomotives came together.”
Besides wanting to satisfy his boyhood wonder, Connolly worked in theater and knew a good show when he saw it. For his first collision, Reisdorff writes, he teamed up with a veteran locomotive engineer, J.H. Bancroft, in order to safely carry out the event. Connolly went to the state fair board in Des Moines and offered to put on a crash for $5,000. That initial price was a bit too steep for the board but he came back with a more acceptable offer: $3,000 plus a cut of the ticket sales. The board agreed and on September 9, 1896—a week before the infamous Crash at Crush—Connolly held his first staged wreck. About 5,000 people paid 50 cents each to sit in the grandstand to watch the show and thousands more stood along the fence outside. The wreck was a success and both Connolly and the fair made a profit.
The crowds swarmed the wreck, hoping to take home a souvenir. The Texas Collection, Baylor University
Connolly began to criss-cross the country putting on wrecks from Boston to Los Angeles, Tampa to Salt Lake City. According to Reisdorff, he also found ways to add to the spectacle, including strapping dynamite to the front of the locomotives and filling freight cars behind the engines with gasoline and hot coals so the vehicles would be engulfed in flames after they derailed. Connolly and other train wreckers also liked to paint names and phrases on the sides of the trains for different political candidates or causes so that spectators could cheer for their respective locomotive. One wreck in 1932 featured “Hoover” versus “Roosevelt.” Connolly got so proficient at putting on train wrecks that he allegedly even tried copyrighting it, although Reisdorff was unable to find proof that he ever actually filed the paperwork to do so.
By the 1930s, staged train wrecks were starting to lose their popularity because wrecking old but otherwise useful locomotives was seen as wasteful at the height of the Great Depression. Connolly put on his final wreck at the Iowa State Fair in 1932. According to Reisdorff’s book, after the destructive display, Connolly said, “Well that’s that,” and walked away.
The last staged train wreck for public viewing was in 1935, but that was not the last time people crashed two locomotives on purpose. In 1951, two steam locomotives were wrecked in Colorado in front of the cameras for the movie Denver and Rio Grande, a western-themed film about the construction of the railroad of the same name.
Even today, train wrecks still offer grim appeal for the public. One only needs to look at the 2010 disaster movie Unstoppable to see an example of a modern audience waiting with bated breath for a train wreck. But the trend of destroying trains in front of a live audience is one that died out long ago, along with Connolly and Crush, the masters of the bizarre craft.

Story 131
*An earlier version of this story included The Gap as one of the apparel companies supplied by the Ethiopian factories based on the NYU Stern report. The authors of the report have since corrected their report and say The Gap is not included.
For years now, Ethiopia has harbored ambitions to become the world’s next big destination for textile and fashion production.
Yet those aspirations are hurting its own people who are working in factories making clothes for the world’s biggest fashion brands including H&M, Tommy Hilfiger and Calvin Klein among others. Entry-level workers in the country’s garment industry are the lowest paid in the world—earning a mere $26 a month, according to a study from New York University’s Stern Center for Business and Human Rights.
While the government has overseen directives to attract global investment in the sector, that hasn’t translated into prosperity for the employees, who struggle to save, send money home, or afford basic necessities like housing or food.
The authors of the report specifically focused on the Hawassa Industrial Park, built to boost exports and house labor-intensive factories including textile, leather, and agro-processing. Located 140 miles south of the capital Addis Ababa, the park currently has 25,000 employees producing garments for global brands also including Levi’s and Guess.
Yet in the process of positioning the Ethiopia up the rungs of the global textile supply chain, the researchers say the government and manufacturers have failed to take into account critical working conditions. Besides low wages, workers complained about being shouted at by their foreign managers and for not receiving adequate training, leading to a hostile working environment.
And with weak trade union presence in the 105-million people nation, that has hindered employees from organizing to get their grievances heard. Attrition levels at the park stood around 100% too, increasing training costs and lowering efficiency rates.
The report’s findings present a quagmire for Ethiopia, which has tried to position itself as a top apparel sourcing and manufacturing destination. Buoyed by the strong global demand for cheap fashion, the relatively modest costs of setting up garment factories, and the abundance of low-skilled jobs, Addis Ababa plans to boost clothing exports to a total of $30 billion a year from its current $145 million.
Under prime minister Abiy Ahmed, the government has also initiated a series of unprecedented reforms aimed at enhancing economic growth, improving competitiveness, and creating employment opportunities.
Regional neighbors like Rwanda and Kenya have also been competing to expand their manufacturing sectors, with Kigali especially adamant about moving from dressing in secondhand hand-me-downs donated from Western nations.
Yet in this pursuit of bold social experiments, low wage levels have persistently come up as an issue in Ethiopia. Another recent survey of more than 1,000 textile and apparel workers across 52 factories in three regions found 65% earn less than $70 a month. As the Horn of Africa nation situates itself as the “New China,” the authors say the challenge will be if they will be able to learn from the past mistakes of nations like China, Bangladesh, and Cambodia to build a sustainable manufacturing model.
Sign up to the Quartz Africa Weekly Brief here for news and analysis on African business, tech and innovation in your inbox

Story 132
The popular workplace-advice site Ask A Manager, founded in 2007 by management consultant Alison Green, offers insight into some of the most personal and potentially embarrassing issues related to work. Topics range from the innocuous, such as whether to list being fluent in Klingon—a language in the Star Trek universe—on a resume, to more difficult questions such as whether to let a colleague know that he or she is about to be laid off.
At least twice in recent years, Green also has used her blog to take on one of the most sensitive subjects in the workplace: compensation. And this week, she’s done it again.
On April 24, Green uploaded a salary survey on her blog to provide more clarity around how much people get paid. More than 12,000 respondents have answered the survey to date.
In addition to annual salary figures, the survey asks people to identify their age, industry, job title, location, post-college job experience, and the currency in which they are paid. It also provides a field for additional context. The information lives on an anonymous Google spreadsheet that can be publicly viewed.
As Green notes in her latest post about the topic of compensation, salary websites are often inaccurate, and “people can get weird when you ask them questions directly.” Even when salaries are available, it can be difficult to find a more granular breakdown by industry, geography, or experience level.
A single, sortable spreadsheet does away with the frills and hurdles you get with sites like Glassdoor and PayScale, which often require you to join before you can get access to information, and lets the numbers speak for themselves.
Ask A Manager’s salary spreadsheet is the latest example of “Google-doc activism” where sensitive information is shared via anonymous spreadsheets. The idea first became popular after engineer Erica Baker, while working at Google, created and shared a spreadsheet that showed pay inequities at the tech giant. News of the spreadsheet went viral in 2015. Since then, similar spreadsheets and surveys have been used to provide insight on sensitive topics from the gender breakdown of engineers at tech companies to the alleged mistreatment of women at companies such as Nike.
Green’s spreadsheet offers some interesting tidbits about jobs and pay. In St. Louis, Missouri, there’s a “zoo curator” who makes $70,000 annually. In Portland, Oregon, there’s a respondent with 8 to 10 years of experience who earns $68,000 a year importing coffee, and an elementary-school teacher with 21 to 30 years of experience who takes home just $30,000.
The survey suggests that well-paying jobs can be found outside tech or finance or the biggest cities. A consumer safety officer (who inspects government-regulated industries) in Long Beach, California, a grocery store HR director in Spokane, Washington, and a marketing manager in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, all make more than $96,000 a year.
But the information does not necessarily provide a complete picture. It is self-selecting survey, after all, and it has its share of misspellings, typos, and responses that don’t actually answer the question. Notably, the survey does not include race or gender, which can provide more nuanced insight into salaries.

Story 133
For the first time in four years, Singapore is not the best destination for expatriate workers, according to HSBC’s Expat 2019 Global Report released today. Switzerland is now the top nation for those fortunate enough to be relocated abroad by their employers—thanks to fast career progression, good pay, and “stunning scenery.”
Overall 2019 rankings
Country Rank 🇨🇭 Switzerland 1 🇸🇬 Singapore 2 🇨🇦 Canada 3 🇪🇸 Spain 4 🇳🇿 New Zealand 5 🇦🇺 Australia 6 🇹🇷 Turkey 7 🇩🇪 Germany 8 🇦🇪 UAE 9 🇻🇳 Vietnam 10
The annual survey gathered data from 18,059 overseas workers in 163 locations. Switzerland ranked high in quality of life, with 70% of expats based there saying it had a better natural environment than their home nations, compared to a global average of 40% for all expats. Respondents also highlighted the country’s low crime rate and its economic and political stability, factors which helped push the country’s ranking from the number eight to number one spot this year.
Though employees relocating to Switzerland can enjoy on average a healthy paycheck of $111,587 a year, far above the $75,966 global average for expats, it trails places like Shanghai and Dubai, where expats can earn between $140,000 and $150,000 on average.
The survey breaks the findings into three sub-categories: living, career opportunity, and family life. Canada tops the list in the first category, with respondents saying it’s a welcoming country, followed by Spain where expats praise its relaxed Mediterranean vibe. Switzerland scores high on career opportunity, thanks in part to quicker promotions, and Singapore tops the list for family life due to the availability of high-quality schools.
Category rankings
Country Overall Living Career Family life 🇨🇭 Switzerland 1st 7th 1st 4th 🇸🇬 Singapore 2nd 6th 7th 1st 🇨🇦 Canada 3rd 1st 6th 5th 🇪🇸 Spain 4th 2nd 22nd 2nd 🇳🇿 New Zealand 5th 3rd 8th 9th
It’s important to remember these results apply to expats—people that are generally more affluent and educated than local populations, and in particular immigrants from poor countries. Unlike other categories of migrants, expats generally live abroad on a temporary basis, and many have some or all expenses paid by their employers.
HSBC is clear that its survey is specific to expats only—as are other, similar rankings done by Mercer and the Economist Intelligence Unit—even if news reports covering the rankings read them as an overall verdict on general populations.
This story was updated to reflect corrections in category rankings made by HSBC after the report’s publication.

Story 134
After 22 years, the US Department of Commerce just terminated the Tomato Suspension Agreement, which governs fresh tomatoes from Mexico. With the trade deal’s end on May 7 comes a 17.5% tariff on the fresh fruit, a tax that will likely be passed on to American consumers.
More than half of tomatoes sold in the states come from Mexico. The popular fruit is the nation’s largest agricultural export to the US. Some American farmers argue that Mexican tomatoes have been so successful in the US partly because their neighbors violate the countries’ trade agreement.
The Department of Commerce said in a statement on the deal’s termination that it withdrew its agreement with Mexico at the request of “representatives of the domestic tomato industry.” It did not specify who those representatives were, but the pressure is most likely coming from Florida. The state grows the most tomatoes in the US, followed by California and Ohio, and local cultivators and politicians have been vocal about their displeasure with Mexican tomato farmers.
The Florida Tomato Exchange (FTE), which lobbies for state growers, has issued criticism of Mexican counterparts, complaining that they are flooding the US market, dumping fruit and artificially deflating prices for the commodity, which undermines American farmers. “[I]t is not an exaggeration to say that the Florida industry is in an existential crisis,” FTE wrote in its annual report last year, blaming Mexican tomato growers for the Floridian predicament.
The group lobbied the federal government for an investigation into alleged unfair trade practices and called for the Mexican deal’s termination. In February, Florida’s Republican senator Marco Rubio and Republican congressman Ted Yoho sent a bipartisan letter, signed by representatives from Florida and other tomato-producing states, to federal commerce secretary Wilbur Ross urging him to end the agreement.
This week, Ross gave them what they wanted. “The Department of Commerce remains committed to ensuring that American domestic industries are protected from unfair trading practices,” he said in the agency statement on the deal’s end. But he signaled that a new contract could still come, adding, “We remain optimistic that there will be a negotiated solution.” US authorities will continue to investigate the alleged violations of the deal’s terms while representatives on both sides keep bargaining to renew the Tomato Suspension Agreement.
If the US and Mexico don’t reach an agreement soon, shoppers will probably not feel the squeeze during the summer, when US states produce a lot of tomatoes. But expect to see price hikes during the colder seasons even if there is a new deal. In winter, the market demand for tomatoes, which doesn’t abate, will have to be met with imports from Mexico.
However, Mexican growers may move to other crops in light of recent developments, according to predictions in an agribusiness study out of Arizona State University on the economic effects of canceling the agreement. That could drive prices up by as much as 40%. The cost of tomatoes could climb to nearly double if a natural disaster also impacts American growers at the same time, the report predicts. These findings prompted some to warn that fresh tomato prices for US shoppers will soon “skyrocket,” although much would still have to go wrong before the most dire predictions come true.

Story 135
It may be a crude metric, but that doesn’t mean it cannot tell us something meaningful and powerful.
Worsening numbers drove headlines for HSBC, KPMG, EasyJet (and others), but the biggest difference was in the volume of coverage.
There were five times as many pay gap articles in March 2018 than March 2019.
Some have suggested 'good news' should be scrutinised for potentially gaming the system.
Whereas widening gaps may be the result of hiring lots of young women, who will eventually make their way through the ranks, this kind of nuance is hard to convey in a headline, which is why corporates need advisers that understand the problem.
Walking the walk should be a good starting point, yet not all spin doctors are equal when it comes to equality.
PR’s pay gap is growing (rising from 17.8 per cent to 21 per cent in two years) and is significantly worse than the 8.6% national gap.
But a pay gap in PR is not inevitable and, with a workforce that is more than two thirds female nor is it ideal, especially when it comes to attracting the best talent.
Many of the great institutions of the agency world talk about their gender pay gaps with a degree of helplessness that is depressing. Vanessa Pine, co-founder of Atlas Partners
And yet many of the great institutions of the agency world talk about their gender pay gaps with a degree of helplessness that is depressing.
Edelman’s gap last year was 10 per cent, which they explained by describing the structure that created it, rather than asking why that structure exists.
So it’s no surprise to see their gap widen to 13.4 per cent, and their eye-watering bonus pay gap increase. Either they don’t understand the problem, or they are doing a poor job of spinning it.
FTI Consulting reported the largest pay gap, at 32.2 per cent, putting it down to providing services beyond PR that are historically male-dominated.
They aim to recruit 100 female senior directors by 2020, which by my maths means just 20 per cent - slow claps all round.
PS If half your junior hires are women but less than one in five of your senior managers are female, you have a cultural problem not a recruitment one.
However, Golin’s gender pay gap is in favour of women, and Hill+Knowlton has moved from a 3.9 per cent gap in favour of men to a 2.36 per cent gap in favour of women – showing what can be achieved when you put your mind to it.
So, I say again, a pay gap in PR is not inevitable.
Reputation vs productivity
Motivation here should go beyond reputation management. Every business should invest in diversity to make it more productive, not simply to look good.
Hiring people who do not look, talk, or think like you reduces risk and encourages innovation. Countless studies show equality is good for business, but we still don’t act like we believe it.
How can the PR industry think it can build brilliant, creative, perception-shifting campaigns, when it looks nothing like the audiences it’s trying to reach?
It’s either arrogance or ignorance.
Fixing this isn’t a ‘girls job’ where we talk only about women’s career and lifestyle choices.
As men become more aware of the problem, having to collect and address the stark data, they, too, can help as powerful agents for change. Male agency bosses take heed.
The same unhelpful gender stereotypes that teach girls to be good, not bossy, also teach boys not to cry.
These attitudes and behaviours should not be overlooked when searching for solutions.
Mental health support at work and shared parental leave for men are just as important as affordable childcare and negotiation skills for women in the executive pipeline.
Vanessa Pine is the co-founder of Atlas Partners and a former special adviser to the minister for business and equalities, when the pay gap regulations were introduced

Story 136
The U.S. Treasury Department says it has disrupted what it calls a "large scale front company network" that has transferred more than $1 billion to Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) and the Iranian Defense Ministry in violation of U.S. sanctions against Iran.

In a March 26 statement, the Treasury Department announced fresh sanctions against 25 individuals and entities it says are part of the network -- including "front companies" based in Iran, the United Arab Emirates, and Turkey.

The statement said the action "exposes an extensive sanctions evasion network established by the Iranian regime" that Tehran increasingly relies upon as a "maximum pressure campaign" by the United States "severely constricts the regime's sources of revenue."

It said the Iranian-linked network is comprised of banks and other financial institutions -- including the IRGC-controlled Ansar Bank, and a number of Iranian firms the bank owns or has under its control.

Those include Ansar Exchange, Atlas Company, Atlas Exchange, the Ansar Bank Brokerage Company, and Ansar Information Technology.

Also named is Zagros Pardis Kish. According to the U.S. Treasury, that firm was involved in the acquisition by Iran's Defense Ministry of hundreds of vehicles shipped from the United Arab Emirates to Iran.

"Multiple UAE-based firms were used to pay for and ship the vehicles," the Treasury Department statement said.

One individual placed under fresh U.S. sanctions is Ayatollah Ebrahimi.

The Treasury Department says Ebrahimi was recruited into the IRGC at the age of 14 and has been the managing director of Ansar Bank since 2005.
'Vast Network'

The Treasury Department also imposed sanctions on Alirez Atabaki, the manager director of Ansar Exchange.

It says Atabaki has worked with the IRGC's foreign operations branch, the IRGC-QF, as recently as early 2019 to coordinate financial transactions "using an identified IRGC-QF front company."

Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said the IRGC, Iran's Defense Ministry and "other malign actors in Iran continue to exploit the international financial system to evade sanctions, while the regime funds terrorism and other destabilizing activities across the region."

"Central to this network and sanctioned today pursuant to our counterterrorism authority is Iran’s IRGC-controlled Ansar Bank and its currency exchange arm, Ansar Exchange,” said Sigal Mandelker, the U.S. treasury under secretary for terrorism and financial intelligence.

Mandekler said both of those financial institutions "used layers of intermediary entities to exchange devalued Iranian rial ultimately for dollars and euros to line the pockets of the IRGC" and Iran's Defense Ministry.

"This vast network is just the latest example of the Iranian regime's use of deceptive practices to exploit the global financial system and divert resources to sanctioned entities," Mandelker said.

"This once again exposes to the international community the dangerous risks of operating in an Iranian economy that is deliberately opaque," he said.

Story 137
Follow in Raskolnikov’s footsteps. Courtesy Amy Grimes/Quarto
Visitors to Jane Austen’s House Museum, in Chawton, England, always seem to have a strong reaction to her writing table.
The table is no particularly dazzling feat of construction or design. It’s walnut, with three legs and 12 sides—solid, humble, and right at home in an 18th-century cottage or manse. But visitors who see it are visibly moved. Sometimes the table even becomes the site of something like a seance, as if guests can feel Austen there with them, glasses sliding down her nose as her quill skitters out characters, foibles, and scenes of tangles and triumphs. Visitors aren’t allowed to touch the surface, but they seem to ache to do so, “as if the wood itself contains something of Jane,” Madelaine Smith, the museum’s former marketing and events manager, has written. “Some visitors hold their breath. Others cry.”
Those visitors vastly outnumber Chawton’s 445 residents. Despite just one school and a single church, it has become, as The New York Times put it, “a mecca for Janeites.” Pilgrims come from near and far to sit in the pews where Austen would have heard sermons, sit in the shade of an oak tree said to be descended from one the writer planted, or wander the brick house where she spent the most of the last eight years of her life in a period of dizzying literary productivity, completing Pride and Prejudice, Sense and Sensibility, Emma, and more.
The moors of Emily Brontë’s Wuthering Heights have a kind of dreary magnetism. Courtesy Amy Grimes/Quarto
Literary pilgrims may set out to pay homage to an author, or to retrace the routes of their favorite characters. The new book Literary Places, by Sarah Baxter, celebrates the second approach, with a focus on streets, shops, and boulevards that exist in the real world. Janeites will find a guide to Bath, England, as trod by Austen’s heroine Catherine Morland in Northanger Abbey. Charming illustrations by Amy Grimes preview what awaits readers near the shops on Milsom Street or the leafy Gravel Walk. As in Chawton, part of the appeal is that it can seem as though little there has changed. To stroll the town’s “golden streets now is to almost step straight back into Austen’s pages, minus the bonnets and breeches,” Baxter writes.
Monroeville, Alabama, hosts productions of the play based on the novel To Kill a Mockingbird. Courtesy Amy Grimes/Quarto
Readers of the book can drop in to visit the Saint Petersburg where Raskolnikov stalked around in moral agony in Crime and Punishment, or the courthouse in Monroeville, Alabama, where Nelle Harper Lee watched her lawyer father at work long before she wrote To Kill a Mockingbird. (Each spring, visitors can watch a performance of the play based on the novel, from the seats where Lee once sat.) A trek to the windy, wild moors conjured in Wuthering Heights might involve a stop at the Brontë Parsonage Museum, and a visit to Top Withens and Ponden Hall, two homes thought to be the likely candidates for Thrushcross Grange and the novel’s namesake manor, respectively. (And if you happen to have £1,250,000 to spare, you can buy Ponden Hall yourself.) A visit to the Paris of Les Misérables may include a ramble through the Jardin du Luxembourg, full of pear trees and chirping birds. Happily, the rank, hellish sewers through which Jean Valjean hauls a wounded Marius have been cleaned up, but are sealed to roving bibliophiles. (A museum about the smelly, slimy tunnels is currently closed.)
This version of the Paris sewers is much less grimy than the one Hugo described. Courtesy Amy Grimes/Quarto
When literary attractions don’t have specific real-world corollaries, Baxter gives a best guess or alternate suggestion. The setting of Gabriel García Márquez’s novel Love in the Time of Cholera is unknown—somewhere, we’re told, near the Caribbean Sea—but Baxter finds a kinship with Cartagena, where the Plaza Fernandez de Madrid is just as dreamy and dappled as the Parquecito de los Evangelios. Fans of Ulysses who travel to Dublin won’t find The Burton, Leopold Bloom’s favored haunt, but Baxter suggests tucking into the character’s preferred Gorgonzola sandwich at Davy Byrnes pub, nearby.
Cartagena’s parks evoke the ones in Gabriel García Márquez’s Love in the Time of Cholera. Courtesy Amy Grimes/Quarto
Literary pilgrimages can take many shapes: a tour of an author’s historic home, a day hike to a stirring site, a road trip to relive a beloved story. Love of literary places can also lead to changes in the real world, such as the establishment of museums or organized tours in otherwise sleepy neighborhoods that find themselves with the economic boon of an attraction. Fans might also be inspired to create places that don’t otherwise exist, or transform historic literary places into inspirations for new generations of writers.
A few years ago, as home prices climbed in Harlem, some residents worried that Langston Hughes’s former brownstone on 127th Street would be lost—subsumed by condos and coffee shops. Hughes’s poems had inspired author Renée Watson to pursue her literary career, so when she moved to New York, she made a beeline for Harlem, eager to visit where he lived and the places he described. Everything, she said, felt so familiar. “I saw myself and my neighborhood and the people in my family in the stanzas of his poems,” Watson told CBS News. “It was like the first time when I really saw my reflection in a piece of writing.” When she found that Hughes’s home was sitting vacant—privately owned and closed to the public—she saw an opportunity. In 2016, Watson launched a campaign to raise money to lease the home and use it as a hub for arts and activism. Now, the I, Too Arts Collective—which takes its name from a Hughes poem—hosts dance classes, creative drop-ins and workshops, book release parties, and salon-style readings, and collects supplies for local shelters. It’s what happens when a place of literary history looks to the future.
The old adage is that books can be transportive—that readers can get lost in the world of sentences and paragraphs, scenes and ideas. This can be literally true when readers retrace the steps of an author or character in a three-dimensional place they’ve only seen in either their mind’s eye or in small, black font. And that experience can be transformative, too.

Story 138
Amazon Air cargo flight crashes after vicious cost-cutting
By Erik Schreiber
2 April 2019
It will take more than a year to determine the cause of a recent Amazon Air crash, according to Robert Sumwalt, chair of the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB). “This seems to be very much a mystery, but the NTSB has 52 years of experience solving such mysteries, and I’m confident we will get to the bottom of this,” Sumwalt told Flying magazine.
Amazon Air was established several years ago as a way for Amazon, the Internet retail giant, to increase profits by cutting its growing shipping costs. In 2015, Amazon began leasing aircraft from companies that also provided employees to fly, maintain and insure them. Amazon owns no planes, and the pilots who deliver its cargo are not legally its employees. In the process of establishing Amazon Air, Amazon has shown its usual disregard for worker training and safety, maintaining its laser focus on the bottom line. The crash is the company’s first.
The accident occurred on February 23. Atlas Air-operated Flight 3591 from Miami to Houston crashed outside of Houston, killing all three people on board. Captain Ricky Blakely and First Officer Conrad Jules Aska were delivering cargo for Amazon and for the US Postal Service. Mesa Airlines Captain Sean Archuleta was riding in the jump seat as a commuter.
After the plane encountered turbulence, its engines increased to maximum thrust and its nose turned upward. Alarmed, the crew pushed the nose down at a 49-degree angle, which caused an exceptionally steep descent. The plane accelerated and dropped from 6,525 feet to 3,025 feet in 30 seconds.
This prompted the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to issue an alert notice. To steady the aircraft, the pilots pulled it up to a 20-degree angle. Although they did not issue a distress call, they began communications consistent with loss of control of the plane, according to the NTSB’s preliminary review. The plane went down approximately 30 miles southeast of Houston’s George Bush International Airport.
Speaking to the press, pilots have said that the crew’s maneuvers during the flight were unusual, and even counterintuitive. “Obviously, going 49 degrees nose down is beyond a radical move. That’s not something an airplane should be doing, especially at that altitude,” said Todd Curtis, a former safety engineer for Boeing, in an interview with the Associated Press.
The accident is not the first for Atlas Air, which has had several irregularities over the past year. A cargo plane operated by an Atlas Air subsidiary swerved off the runway at the Northern Kentucky Airport in October 2018. Another Atlas Air plane had a hard landing in Portsmouth, New Hampshire, in July 2018. The flight inspection subsequently found significant damage to the jet.
Mere weeks before the deadly crash, pilots for Atlas Air and Air Transport Services Group (ATSG), which also contracts with Amazon Air, told Business Insider that an accident was inevitable. They said these companies paid so little, they were unable to attract experienced pilots, even though Amazon is requesting more and more flights. The pilots also said the training their companies provided was inadequate. Many pilots were overworked, fatigue was common and employee morale was low.
Atlas Air and ATSG were grinding down their collective workforce before Amazon Air was founded, but the rapid expansion of the latter made the existing problems worse. The exponential growth of Amazon Air has forced pilots who are responsible for training new-hires and educating them about safety to work at reckless speeds.
Business at Atlas Air and ATSG is booming as a result of Amazon, and safety standards are slipping. Veteran pilots are appalled at the companies’ hiring decisions. “We have guys in the [first officer seats] who have no business flying airplanes, and certainly no business flying heavy jets,” a pilot who has flown with ATSG for 23 years told Business Insider.
The quality of training has been deteriorating, according to pilots. The FAA has at least twice warned ABX Air, which is owned by ATSG, about creating “a disruptive and confrontational atmosphere” during pilot training. In a letter to ABX, the FAA alleged that David Soaper, the company’s president, recently interrupted a training session to shout at crew members. Unsurprisingly, one of the workers abruptly walked out of the session.
Pilots for Amazon Air have reported that they do not have regular work schedules. Instead, they are often asked to work mere hours before their flights are due to depart. Pilots have been called in on their days off and forced to work overtime. One pilot for ABX reported that he was away from home for two months at a time in recent years. The schedules are so punishing that some pilots are worried about their peers’ mental health.
Pilots who fly for Amazon Air have been involved in contract disputes with their employers for almost five years. They have not received a raise in almost 10 years, and their benefits have declined.
The last contract for ABX and Atlas was finalized during the financial crisis that began in 2008 and includes many painful concessions. The workers endured a pay cut, lost vacation days, and the freezing of pension contributions and matched contributions to health care plans. On average, Amazon Air pilots with the most experience make approximately 33 percent less than pilots at UPS and FedEx who have the same experience and are flying the same aircraft. Yet the pay of the top four executives at ATSG increased by more than 100 percent from 2015 to 2017.
The Airline Professionals Association, a division of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, represents the pilots. For decades, the Teamsters union has collaborated with management at various companies to extract more labor and profit from its members. In October 2018, the union forced a contract with United Parcel Service on members who had rejected it by a vote of more than 62 percent. Union officials, meanwhile, have maintained their political influence and salaries that keep them in the top 5 or 10 percent of earners.
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.

Story 139
A row erupted at a recent Nato conference over the RAF's new £2.6billion transporter planes as it has emerged engine problems mean just two of 20-strong fleet are able to fly at any one time.
The delay in bringing into service the new A400M plane for the RAF and other partner nations led to a major disagreement between Airbus, the aircraft manufacturer, and Nato Ministers.
Stuart Andrew, the MoD’s Minister for Procurement, said that after an “extremely robust meeting” the problems with the A400M aircraft should be fixed by next year.
Concerns have been raised over the new aircraft since its inception in 2003. A recent Defence Select Committee was told that engineering staff at RAF Brize Norton called the aircraft “a dog” and that on occasion only two out of the fleet of 20 aircraft were serviceable.
In 2015 one A400M aircraft crashed in Spain during a test flight, killing four crew members. A software fault, since rectified, was found to be the cause of the crash.

Story 140
At the center of Joe Biden’s health-care proposal is the “public option”—a government insurance policy that would compete with private plans. Mr. Biden has obviously seen the polling. By 57% to 37%, Americans reject the idea, put forth by some of Mr. Biden’s Democratic rivals, of abolishing private insurance in favor of “Medicare for All.” The public option seems like an attractive alternative—enough so that Mr. Biden, in announcing his plan Monday, revived a discredited Obama slogan: “If you like your health-care plan, your employer-based plan, you can keep it.”
Yet...

Story 141
This website is using a security service to protect itself from online attacks. The action you just performed triggered the security solution. There are several actions that could trigger this block including submitting a certain word or phrase, a SQL command or malformed data.
What can I do to resolve this?
You can email the site owner to let them know you were blocked. Please include what you were doing when this page came up and the Cloudflare Ray ID found at the bottom of this page.

Story 142
You met the love of your life. You got married. You added some kids to your household.
Now those kids are getting bigger, and they’re involved with athletics or music or art or any number of extra-curricular activities that involve going places with lots of stuff in order to do lots of things. And oftentimes, their friends are tagging along for the adventure.
The time to buy a bigger car has arrived, and you don’t want a minivan. You want an SUV. Something with three rows of seats and lots of interior space, preferably a crossover with a lower price and better fuel economy than truck-based behemoths. It should have the latest infotainment, driver-assistance, and collision-avoidance technologies, too.
For 2019, three of the newest family-sized crossover SUVs you can buy are the Chevrolet Traverse (redesigned for 2018), Subaru Ascent (new for 2019), and the Volkswagen Atlas (new for 2018). For this comparison test, we grabbed top-trim examples of each and spent the day driving them back-to-back, assessing their layout and design, comfort and utility, safety and technology, and driving dynamics.
Here are the details of the midsize SUVs we compared:
Each vehicle was provided by the automaker for use during a media ride-and-drive event.
On that last point, it is important to observe that the Chevrolet is built in Michigan, the Subaru is built in Indiana, and the Volkswagen is built in Tennessee.
Paying extra for a vehicle that is environmentally friendly is not high on midsize SUV buyers’ list of priorities, with only 53% agreeing that they would be willing to do so. They also seem to understand that a vehicle like this won’t get great fuel economy, with no more than 54% of buyers agreeing that their first consideration in a vehicle is miles per gallon. Among midsize SUV buyers, 58% agree that they prefer to buy a vehicle from a domestic company.
Nearly all midsize SUV buyers agree that their first consideration when choosing a vehicle is reliability (97%), while 94% agree that quality of workmanship is a first consideration. Tied at 91%, midsize SUV buyers also agree that they avoid vehicles they think will have high maintenance costs, and that they prefer a vehicle with responsive handling and powerful acceleration.
According to J.D. Power data, more midsize SUV buyers are men than women (57% vs. 43%), 90% of them are over the age of 35, and their median annual household income is $116,411. They buy these types of vehicles for their practicality and price, with 28% identifying themselves as practical buyers and 23% as price buyers.
Midsize SUV Comparison
In the sections that follow we’ll assess how these three competing vehicles perform in four important categories.
Styling, Design, and Layout
An entirely subjective matter, good design is about balance and proportion, clean lines, and deft detailing. In this respect, Chevrolet’s Traverse gets the family-sized crossover SUV visual recipe exactly right. The Atlas isn’t far off, its more rugged look including oversized fender flares that undersize the SUV’s standard 18-in. wheels. Subaru trails with excess visual weight over the front wheels and exaggerated sculpturing.
When it comes to the interior, Subaru’s combination of upscale style and better quality materials helps to make up for lost design ground. The Ascent looks and feels like value, whereas the Chevy and Volkswagen both suffer from glossy, inexpensive-looking plastics that are difficult to accept at their price points. Furthermore, Subaru offers a more appealing mix of colors, trims, seat upholstery, and seating configurations.
2019 Chevrolet Traverse RS
Chevrolet and Volkswagen both get top marks for their control layouts. The Traverse offers simplicity and intuitive operation, while the Atlas has a Germanic, no-nonsense, but high-tech arrangement that includes a widescreen digital instrumentation display. By comparison, the Ascent’s control layout is busy and looks comparatively dated.
In terms of exterior styling, interior design, and control layout, the three SUVs earn the following scores:
Chevrolet Traverse = 9.5/10
Volkswagen Atlas = 9/10
Subaru Ascent = 8.4/10
Comfort and Cargo
The whole point of buying a 3-row SUV is to carry more than four or five people and/or plenty of cargo. In this respect, the Volkswagen Atlas is the best choice of this trio.
All three of these SUVs have comfortable front seats, and with its affordable Premium trim level, Subaru earns the distinction of offering cloth stain-resistant upholstery in combination with both seat heating and most of the appealing options available for the Ascent.
However, only the Volkswagen offers the choice of a second-row bench seat in combination with the top trim level and all of the trimmings, making it capable of carrying five adults and 55.5 cu. ft. of cargo at the same time (captain’s chairs are optional for most Atlas trims). Subaru puts second-row captain’s chairs into the Ascent Touring (optional for mid-grade trims), and most Chevy Traverse trim levels include standard captain’s chairs with no second-row bench seat option.
2019 Volkswagen Atlas
Furthermore, the Atlas’s third-row seat is habitable by adults because it sits high off the SUV’s floor and provides good leg support combined with decent legroom. The Traverse’s third-row seat is not as comfortable, and the smaller Ascent has comparably cramped quarters in the rearmost seating area.
By official measurements, the Chevy has the most cargo space, ranging from 23 cu. ft. behind the third-row seat to 57.8 behind the second-row captain’s chairs. The maximum number is 98.2 cu. ft.
However, the VW isn’t far behind (20.6 cu. ft./55.5 cu. ft./96.8 cu. ft.). Subaru lags behind these two competitors with 17.6, 47, and 86 cu. ft., respectively.
In terms of seat comfort and cargo space, the three SUVs earn the following scores:
Volkswagen Atlas = 9/10
Chevrolet Traverse = 8.7/10
Subaru Ascent = 8/10
Safety and Technology
Subaru believes in the democratization of safety, and from its basis on the automaker’s latest vehicle architecture to its standard EyeSight suite of driver-assistance and collision-avoidance systems, the Ascent reflects the company’s dedication to the health and well-being of its customers. Plus, you can obtain nearly all of Subaru’s available safety and infotainment technologies and services at a price of less than $40,000.
For 2019, Volkswagen effectively matches the Subaru in terms of safety technology availability. Since blind-spot monitoring with rear cross-traffic alert is now standard, some might say VW’s approach with the Atlas is actually more appealing. The Atlas, however, doesn’t earn as stellar a crash-test report card from the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS), and its free trial offer for safety-related subscription services is shorter than Subaru’s.
Chevrolet includes two impressive safety features in every 2019 Traverse: Teen Driver monitoring technology and a Rear Seat Reminder system. Unfortunately, Chevrolet reserves many important driver-assistance and collision-avoidance technologies only for higher trim levels, and provides no more than a 1-month trial period for OnStar services. Thereafter, subscription rates are also higher than what Subaru and VW charge.
2019 Subaru Ascent Limited
Chevy’s available 10-speaker Bose premium sound system doesn’t sound as good as the 12-speaker Fender audio in the VW Atlas or Subaru’s powerful 14-speaker Harman Kardon components in the Ascent. Plus, Subaru offers an Entertainment Anywhere package with dual iPads and wireless headphones that, in combination with its 4G LTE W-Fi hotspot and USB ports in all three rows, reflects the entertainment requirements of modern families.
Finally, the Subaru supplies more useful conveniences, from a wiper de-icer and steering-responsive headlights to a PIN-code entry system that allows you to leave the key fob in the car while you’re running, hiking, or biking. Chevy has a Rear Camera Mirror video feed, which is a bit of a gimmick, while VW offers automated steering assist while parking, which is helpful only in situations when you’re not sharing the road or parking lot with any other motorists.
In terms of infotainment and safety technologies, the three SUVs earn the following scores:
Subaru Ascent = 9/10
Volkswagen Atlas = 8.5/10
Chevrolet Traverse = 7.5/10
Driving Dynamics
When it comes to driving dynamics, each of these family-sized crossover SUVs has a distinct personality. The one that’s most suitable for you depends on how you drive and where you want to go.
The Chevy Traverse delivers the best on-pavement driving experience, which is great because that’s where most people spend most of their time. Its powerful and refined, 310-horsepower V-6 engine provides satisfying acceleration and returned the best fuel economy in the test, at 17.6 mpg*. The 9-speed automatic transmission behaved well, and engineers have tuned the Traverse for an excellent blend of ride and handling. The weak spot was the brakes, which faded to a significant degree during downhill mountain driving with two adults aboard.
If you want a more engaging driving experience, look no further than the Volkswagen Atlas. Naturally, it has a connected European feel to it, and on poorly maintained pavement too much impact harshness makes its way into the cabin. The 276-horsepower 3.6-liter V-6 is neither as powerful, refined, nor efficient as the Chevy’s engine, and it returned no more than 17.3 mpg* during testing. But, the steering, brakes, ride, and the handling are all more engaging than the Traverse’s, and with 8 ins. of ground clearance, it can blaze through a decent amount of snow, or fairly far down a trail.
Subaru’s turbocharged Ascent proved powerful but thirsty, the 260-horsepower 2.5-liter 4-cylinder making lots of torque but getting just 16.6 mpg* in exchange for using it. The continuously variable transmission (CVT) does a good job of masking this type of transmission’s traditional droning character, but can’t completely eradicate it. Handling is less secure than the Traverse and Atlas, and the ride is a bit bouncy. The brakes, however, easily withstood abuse in near triple-digit temperatures. Plus, with 8.7 ins. of ground clearance and Subaru’s X-Mode traction technology, the Ascent can go places the Chevy and VW can’t.
In terms of driving dynamics and fuel efficiency, the three SUVs earn the following scores:
Chevrolet Traverse = 8.7/10
Volkswagen Atlas = 8.3/10
Subaru Ascent = 7.8/10
*Each vehicle was tested in hot weather conditions, with their climate systems fully engaged. Each vehicle also idled for up to half an hour during evaluation periods. In daily driving, you are likely to see better results than we did.

Story 143
Scott W. Atlas is the David and Joan Traitel Senior Fellow at Stanford's Hoover Institution and the author of Restoring Quality Health Care: A Six Point Plan for Comprehensive Reform at Lower Cost. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his own.
The Trump administration is trying to institute a dose of free market reform that promises to disrupt American health care. In a flurry of pro-consumer moves, improving price transparency has been at the center of the administration's plan to reduce the cost of health care through competition.
Barring gag clauses that prohibit pharmacists from revealing that a prescription drug may cost less than the insurance co-payment if bought with cash; requiring hospitals and doctors to post prices for procedures under Medicare; facilitating tools that show patients their out-of-pocket costs for drugs and compare prices for other medical care; and attempting to force price visibility in advertisements for drugs have all been part of this effort. These moves — intended to remove the cloak of mystery around health care prices — are long overdue.
Health care is the only good or service in the United States that Americans buy and use without first knowing its cost — and that needs to change.
America's health insurance model has evolved to minimize patient payment at the point of service. Doubling down on that counterproductive idea, the Affordable Care Act of 2010 instilled broader coverage requirements for private policies on ACA exchanges while misguidedly adding premium subsidies for that coverage. This generated more widespread adoption of bloated insurance policies that propped up artificially high prices for care. In America today, doctors and hospitals typically don't bother to compete on price. And the consequences are entirely as anticipated: inflated prices, health care overuse and runaway spending. All the while, patients are not aware of the real prices they are paying for health care.
Contrary to conventional wisdom, the data shows that most health care is potentially amenable to price-conscious purchasing, because it is scheduled, non-emergency care. Emergency care represents only 6% of health expenditures; while 55% of health expenditures among all adults and almost 40% in the elderly is for outpatient care. We also know price consciousness by patients brings down prices for scheduled care, as shown by almost 20% cost reductions per procedure in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and outpatient surgery after measures to increase price transparency were put in place. Scheduled, non-emergency, outpatient care dominates US health care. This sort of care offers patients the time to compare costs, a powerful tool to drive prices down.
Read More

Story 144
No more Amazon boxes in that plane. Etienne DE MALGLAIVE/Getty Images
FedEx announced on Friday that it would not renew its US air contract with Amazon.
That leaves some 200,000 Amazon packages a day previously moved by FedEx unaccounted for.
With the exit of that key strategic partner, Amazon's quickly growing logistics network is about to get seriously tested.
There are two big problems with the air-cargo network right now, analysts say.
Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.
FedEx delivered 3% of Amazon packages last year, according to Wolfe Research. That's about 200,000 Amazon boxes a day among FedEx's daily volume of about 2.9 million packages, Moody's Investors Service estimated.
But on Friday, the Memphis, Tennessee, freight giant announced that it wouldn't renew its contract to fly packages for the indomitable e-commerce site.
"FedEx has made the strategic decision to not renew the FedEx Express U.S. domestic contract with Amazon.com, Inc. as we focus on serving the broader e-commerce market," FedEx said in a statement on Friday. The relationship will end on June 30.
A FedEx spokesperson declined to comment further on the matter.
"We respect FedEx's decision and thank them for their role serving Amazon customers over the years," Amazon wrote in a statement to Business Insider.
FedEx Express, the company's air-freight sector, will benefit in the long run, analysts said. Moody's wrote to investors that Amazon — a customer that requires massive amounts of residential small-package deliveries instead of more fruitful business-to-business contracts — is among FedEx's least profitable clients.
"FedEx will achieve higher margins and better returns on its investments in its Express network by redeploying capacity to customers other than Amazon," the Moody's note said.
As FedEx balances its wins and losses from the relationship change, the pressure is on Amazon's burgeoning in-house logistics network of ocean freight containers, trailers, fulfillment centers, cargo planes, and more to be able to carry out its two-day delivery promise — and soon, its one-day pledge.
"In a sense, the trainer wheels are off the Amazon Logistics operation," an investors' note from Morgan Stanley's freight-analyst team said.
"This announcement is likely to put extra strain on AMZN's in-house shipping offerings," it added.
Amazon has been shifting more and more packages to its in-house delivery network, sometimes disrupting relationships with important logistics providers. Amazon suddenly pulled two-thirds of its business from XPO Logistics in February, snipping some $600 million from the company.
Amazon said one motivation to develop its logistics network was to manage its quickly rising shipping costs. Amazon's worldwide shipping costs have grown fifteenfold from 2009 to 2018. Net sales increased by sevenfold in the same time.
However, many observers say Amazon is actually building a third-party logistics company that will someday compete against FedEx and UPS.
Amazon has started to describe itself as a transportation company. And the Morgan Stanley analyst Ravi Shanker said in a previous Business Insider interview it's clear that Amazon is looking to break into third-party logistics by looking at its quickly expanding network.
Amazon has acquired or leased planes, trucks, vans, and so on. And the air-freight network is the priciest and perhaps most complex piece of Amazon's logistics network.
Amazon's fleet of 39 planes are staffed, maintained, insured, and owned by Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings and Air Transport Services Group (ATSG). Pilots from Atlas and ATSG fly the Amazon Air planes, and the company is the largest customer of both cargo airlines.
Amazon hasn't been able to perfect air-parcel delivery. And with the elimination of FedEx, which boasts some 700 planes and 47 years of air-cargo experience, from Amazon's air network, the pressure is dialed up for the e-commerce company's transportation venture.
Analysts highlight two problems with Amazon Air: labor issues and poor cost efficiency.
"We are confident in our ability to serve customers," an Amazon spokesperson told Business Insider. "We regularly balance capacity across our extensive network of great carrier partners to ensure we are able to meet our delivery promises, even during the busiest of shopping events."
Pilots who fly for Amazon Air have threatened strikes over pay and safety below industry standards
In March, Business Insider interviewed 13 pilots who work for Amazon Air and several logistics insiders on the e-commerce company's push to launch a cargo airline. Pilots and experts shared that the transportation effort grew too quickly, and that left safety and training matters on the sidelines.
Since then, those pilots have picketed and threatened to strike, leaving millions of deliveries at a standstill. They work for Atlas and ATSG, the two contract airlines that power Amazon Air.
Read more: An Amazon Air plane crashed in February, killing all 3 people on board. Weeks earlier, several pilots said they thought an accident was inevitable.
But even without a strike, pilots have previously told Business Insider that the lack of new talent coming to the contract airlines that Amazon works with means that service disruptions are likely on the way. Pilots at those airlines earn a third less than their peers who fly the same planes with the same years of experience at FedEx and UPS, and a pilot shortage means that most would-be Amazon Air pilots are more likely to apply for better-paid jobs elsewhere.
Atlas said at the beginning of 2018 that it needed to add 200 pilots to its pilot pool as business expanded — but, according to its pilots' union, Atlas hired a net total of only 143 pilots last year. It hired 288 pilots, but 145 quit. ABX Air, which is owned by ATSG, lost more pilots than it hired — 37 joined, but 42 quit.
"Right now, they're barely keeping it together," one Atlas pilot, who flies Amazon Air planes and spoke on the condition of anonymity, told Business Insider in February. "And when I say 'barely,' it's right there. They're going to run out of people."
That concerns analysts like Kevin Sterling, the managing director of Seaport Global. He wrote in a note to investors this week that ATSG and Atlas may not have "the ability to maintain on-time service levels and control costs."
Even Amazon has threatened to cut its ties with ATSG and Atlas, which would nix much of Amazon's ability to deliver on its consumer promise of two-day delivery, because of the relationship between the pilots and their corporate leaders. The two airlines have been in a yearslong labor-contract battle with their pilot employees.
Atlas said in a statement sent to Business Insider on June 11 that pilots "are key to the company's continued success."
"Together with our pilots, we are committed to the success of our customers, and have worked hard to earn a strong record of delivering trusted service," the statement continued. "We thank all of our dedicated crew of 2,000 pilots and want to recognize them for their significant contributions by reaching a new agreement that increases pay and compensates them at the levels they deserve. We are working toward that goal every day and ask Union leaders to do the same."
ATSG previously told Business Insider that the company is working to secure a new labor agreement.
"ATSG has always been and will remain committed to the highest standards of safety throughout all of our operations," the company said in March. "Our airlines are in compliance with the rules of their current Collective Bargaining Agreements, including work rules. Regarding staffing, ATSG has had no issues in finding qualified candidates to support its growth. Contract negotiations continue to be conducted under the auspices of the National Mediation Board, and we look forward to their satisfactory conclusion."
Amazon Air isn't as cost-efficient as FedEx or UPS
Amazon's logistics network is slated to save the company significantly in its skyrocketing transportation costs, experts say.
"Amazon is doing everything possible to keep their shipping expense low because it's ballooning," Marc Wulfraat, the president and founder of the supply-chain consultancy MWPVL International, previously told Business Insider.
But in the short term, Amazon hasn't been able to run a cargo airline that is as cost-efficient as UPS or FedEx, David Vernon, a Bernstein senior analyst and vice president, wrote in a December note.
Amazon can run only 6.6 hours of revenue air hours per day, compared with 17.9 hours per day for UPS and 14.4 for FedEx. Because of "crew inefficiencies," Vernon wrote that Amazon Air is still costlier than UPS and FedEx in regard to moving goods door-to-door.
"While we are certain Amazon is getting a better deal chartering flights with ATSG and Atlas than it would at UPS or FedEx (which explains why they chose them), this does not mean they can undercut UPS and FedEx on price for deferred deliveries," Vernon wrote.
Despite these hurdles, the exit of FedEx means the pressure will grow on Amazon to demand more from its internal logistics network, and from its airline contractors ATSG and Atlas, to deliver more.
Still, Morgan Stanley's freight team wrote they "believe Amazon has enough linehaul capacity to insource all of its own Prime needs and potentially open up to third-party packages as well." The move "signals Amazon's emergence as a significant player in the industry."

Story 145
Automakers and their dealers have millions of reasons to be concerned about weakening U.S. new-vehicle sales — nearly 4.2 million reasons, to be more precise.
That's how many unsold cars and trucks the industry had on hand going into this month, an unwieldy pool of vehicles that has spilled into vast overflow lots popping up wherever enough wide-open space is available: shuttered factories, vacant shopping centers, barren fields.
The estimated 4,188,200 unsold vehicles on April 1 was the highest inventory number for any month since that reported for July 1, 2017, and just 114,300 vehicles less than the modern-day record set in May 2004, according to the Automotive News Data Center. It's over half a million vehicles more than automakers and dealers were grappling with in the spring of 2007, when the Great Recession was just around the corner. The figures do not include the estimated 18,000 electric vehicles that Tesla had in inventory this month.
Bulging inventories, combined with rising floorplan interest rates, are sapping whatever was left of dealers' new-vehicle margins and threaten to unravel the industry's hard-fought pricing discipline if demand erodes further.

Story 146
Here’s how the current tariffs on goods coming into the US from China work: taxes are applied on goods coming in, and American importers are the ones responsible for paying them. Some absorb the cost; most pass them onto the consumer.
That’s not to say that both countries don’t suffer. These tariffs make consumers (and importers) less likely to purchase Chinese goods, hitting exporters and, in turn, Chinese GDP. Reciprocal tariffs, like those imposed on struggling US soybean producers, hurt US exporters too, even while their effect on overall GDP has so far been negligible.
US president Donald Trump doesn’t seem to have a perfect handle on the state of play. In a series of typically bombastic tweets yesterday, the commander-in-chief threatened to impose still more damaging tariffs in time, before noting that he loves “collecting BIG TARIFFS.”
The tweets followed weeks of stop-start negotiations, eventually culminating in Trump hiking tariffs on US$200 billion of Chinese goods from 10% to 25% on Friday.
As time goes on, however, China is increasingly looking elsewhere for trade partners, while the US is part-victim of its own policies. A trade war is afoot—and there are casualties on both sides.

Story 147
April 15 is the due date for people in the US to pay their taxes. Most are way ahead of the game.
According to statistics from Internal Revenue Service, over two-thirds of taxpayers filed their taxes more than a week before they were due in 2018. Of the 154 million households who paid taxes, only around 12% paid in the last week they were due. Another 11% pay their taxes late, many of whom applied for extensions.
So if you are planning to pay your taxes at the last minute on Monday, you truly are a procrastinator.

Story 148
South African telecommunications tower company Atlas Tower Pty Ltd is in talks to bring in partners from the country’s black majority to help it expand at home and enter new markets on the continent, according to people familiar with the matter.
Chief Executive Officer Nathan Foster has relied mostly on wealthy individual investors for funds since he founded the business in 2007 and is looking to do additional private fundraising and equity deals.
The company has an enterprise value of around R3 billion ($210 million) based on a multiple of tower cash flow, said the people, who asked not to be named as the matter is private.
Bringing in new partners under South Africa’s black economic empowerment rules could put Atlas Tower in a stronger position as the industry prepares for a wave of new investment. The government plans to auction frequencies for fifth-generation mobile services and wants to develop an open-access mobile network to reach far-flung rural areas.
Demand for mobile internet services is growing fast across Africa, where 60 percent of the population is under 25 years old, fueling rapid growth for tower companies such as IHS Towers Ltd, Helios Towers Plc and Eaton Towers Ltd.
Helios has indicated that it’s seeking a local partner to enter the South African market next year. There are around 30,000 telecom towers in South Africa, of which only a small proportion are held by independent tower companies. Atlas says it owns and operates more than 600 towers worldwide.
“We are starting investment in Kenya and Botswana and the first towers will be operational before the end of the year,” said Foster by email.
“We are growing at 130 percent a year in terms of tower growth rate.” He declined to comment on the talks with potential partners.
South Africa’s empowerment policies are designed to rectify the economic exclusion of black people in the economy during the country’s era of segregation and provide additional capital to fund private business. Critics say the rules have further enriched a black elite while failing to improve the lives of most South Africans.
Read: IHS postpones IPO valuing Towers Company at $10 billion

Story 149
Allyson Costello stared at the two lines on her pregnancy test and knew — immediately and beyond a shadow of a doubt — that she would get an abortion. She was 21 years old. She was on the pill, taking it religiously every morning. And it had been only a few months since she’d received a Facebook message from Andy, the first boyfriend she’d ever had, back in middle school, but now virtually a stranger. She learned that he was currently living way out in the country somewhere in Kentucky, that it was beautiful there, but also lonely. She had just gone through a breakup herself and could relate to the loneliness. They started writing, then they started talking. Eventually, he asked if she would fly up from Florida to visit.
At the time, Allyson wasn’t looking to change her life. She had an associate’s degree and was working on her bachelor’s. She and a roommate rented a small but well-kept apartment in downtown Orlando, walking distance to Allyson’s school and her job at Starbucks and any number of places to meet up with friends.
They’d bought nice furniture; they’d outfitted the kitchen. “It was so desirable,” she tells me. “Anybody would have wanted to live there.” At Starbucks, Allyson made around $9 an hour, plus her share of the tip jar. It wasn’t a fortune, but it was more than minimum wage, and with only herself to take care of, she could make it stretch pretty far. She even had savings, a small cushion to fall back on. She was proud of her grown-up way of life.
With her blue-collar background, she says, she’d long aspired to something more than the lifestyle provided by her mother’s bartending job and her father’s job in construction. “I didn’t want to live paycheck to paycheck and struggling,” she explains. “I wanted something better than that.” And she thought she knew how to get it. “I knew nothing would be given to me. I mean, when you come from a family that doesn’t have a whole lot of money and everyone you know comes from families who don’t have a lot of money and the area you live in is people who don’t have a lot of money, pretty much the only way you’re going to get out of that is if you get an education,” she says. She’d taken AP classes in high school and often held down two jobs — the one at Starbucks and another at a day care center — as she worked her way through college, studying early-childhood education and pediatric nutrition. She loved kids, but having one so young had not been part of the plan.
Yet there she was, in a bathroom in Andy’s house, staring at those two stark lines. It had been only a couple of months since that first visit to Kentucky, when he’d wooed her with mountain views and dinners out, and she had agreed to start dating him again. “I buried the pregnancy test under all the trash, freaked out, lost my mind for a bit in the bathroom, and then gathered myself up,” she says. After telling Andy that they were expecting, “I straight up was like, ‘I’m going to get an abortion. You gotta be cool with that. That’s gonna happen no matter what.’ ” The only two clinics in Kentucky that performed abortions had waitlists so long Allyson wasn’t sure she would make the cutoff, but she found a Planned Parenthood in Ohio that would take her in four weeks. By then, “He went from ‘I totally support your decision’ to ‘Well, we’ve got time, let’s just talk some options’ to ‘Hey, we would be a really great family, and we’re going to raise him this way and have a white picket fence and always love each other, and it’s going to be great.’ ”
And it worked: Allyson eventually came around to the idea of having a child. “Part of the reason why is that Andy and I talked and were like, ‘Well, we’re doing so much better than most people our age. We have savings. We own our house. We have two cars, we have college degrees. We live a good life.’ So it really did, at the time, seem like we had everything that we needed to be prepared and financially stable.” Plus, Allyson wanted to be a mom. She thought she’d make a good one. She had no way of knowing that from that exact moment, she’d begun her slow and steady descent into abject poverty.
TAKE A LONG VIEW of the American economy right now, and it appears to be doing just fine. Unemployment is down, and household incomes are up — trends that have been mostly trucking along since the early days of Obama’s presidency when the country began its recovery from the Great Recession. But zoom in at the household level, and it’s a far more complicated, and often bleaker, picture. In the Federal Reserve’s most recent annual Survey of Household Economics and Decision-making (SHED), more than one-fifth of adults are behind on their bills, more than one-fourth skipped necessary medical care in 2017 because they were unable to pay for it, and four out of 10 responded that if they needed to come up with $400 unexpectedly, they would only be able to do so by selling something or borrowing the money. Which means that millions of American families are only one unexpected event away from financial catastrophe. One blown transmission. One broken leg. One positive pregnancy test.
Allyson’s particular catastrophe rolled out in stages. After moving to Kentucky, she continued her education with online classes from the University of Central Florida and had gotten Starbucks to transfer her job to a local shop, but she was making less there than she had been in Orlando. As her due date approached and she looked into the cost of the two day cares in the small town where she worked, she realized how little sense it would make to pay that price. “I had stressed a lot that I wanted to keep working, even after the baby was born,” she says. “When we first decided, ‘OK, we’re gonna do this,’ I was like, ‘I still want my independence, I want my own money.’ But as time went on, we decided that it just wasn’t worth it with child care costs.” Andy made $12-$13 an hour working full-time in the book-printing department of Amazon, while Allyson made about $8.50 an hour working 25 to 30 hours a week. Between the two of them, they earned too much money to qualify for subsidized child care, which meant that almost all of Allyson’s income would have gone toward paying someone else to be with her child. “When we did the math, I would have been taking home $50 a week, or something ridiculous.”
But the decision to stay home was financially fraught, too. According to Lily Batchelder, the Obama administration’s deputy director of the White House National Economic Council, “Child care is a huge reason why people fall into poverty.” The latest Pew Research Center analysis of such trends found that, after decades of decline, the proportion of stay-at-home mothers rose from 23 percent in 1999 to 29 percent in 2012. More pointedly, a growing share (six percent in 2012 versus one percent in 2000) reported they were not home voluntarily, but rather because they could not find a job, or at least one that could cover child care. Thirty-four percent of stay-at-home mothers (versus 12 percent of working ones) are living in poverty. That’s more than double the number who were living in poverty in 1970.
In fact, according to Alissa Quart, author of Squeezed: Why Our Families Can’t Afford America, child care is one of a handful of factors that, taken together, have made middle-class life roughly 30 percent more expensive than it used to be. “It has nothing to do with inflation,” Quart says. “I mean, food is actually not that much more. It’s rent. It’s real estate. It’s day care. It’s education.” In other words, it’s the quality-of-life markers that define our conception of what it means to be in the middle class. Or, at least, what it meant to be middle class for the bulk of the 20th century when, for a unique moment in history, income gaps narrowed and the middle class as we know it was born. “Middle class has gone from being a stable category that was almost too stable, like a prison that people once tried to escape in the Sixties, to something that people can’t even get in to,” says Quart. “You have the man in the gray flannel suit and all these mythos around the commuter train and the humdrum stable life of two cars and a house and a pension. And now you’d be lucky to have any of those. You’d be lucky to be humdrum.”
Yet it has stuck with us, this humdrum idea of what could or should be possible. A 2017 study by Northwestern Mutual found that 70 percent of Americans consider themselves to be middle class, though only 50 percent actually are. According to the Pew Research Center, which defines the American middle class as those earning two-thirds to twice the median household income (or between about $52,200 and $156,500 for a family of four in 2016), the number of people in that group has been consistently on the decline since the Eighties. Increasingly, people find themselves in the working class or, more specifically, a member of the working poor — those living in poverty even though they are working. Meanwhile, our government’s idea of what constitutes poverty — $25,100 a year for a family of four — is calculated using an outdated model that was developed in the Sixties (before having a cellphone, for instance, was necessary for gaining employment). However you do the math, none of those middle-class markers — owning a home, having good medical care, sending your kids to college — are as attainable as they once were, which, according to Quart, explains why so many who aspire to the middle class are “living really unstable lives” while being “often only one generation away from a working-class parent that was more stable than they are.”
The numbers make it easy to see why. In 1960, the annual average health care costs in America were just $146 per person; in 2016, that figure had risen to $10,348. Over the past few decades, the cost of attending a four-year public college has risen more than 200 percent, which helps explain why Americans now have $1.4 trillion of student-loan debt. The median home value also rose dramatically, from around $3,000 in 1940 (or around $30,000 in inflation-adjusted terms) to more than $200,000 today. And for those who can’t afford to own, renting is problematic as well: A 2017 report by the National Low Income Housing Coalition determined that there is now literally nowhere in America where a minimum-wage worker can afford to rent a two-bedroom apartment.
Meanwhile, as costs have risen, the relative amount of money that many American workers earn has gone down. From the early Seventies until 2017, productivity (the amount of goods and services created in an hour of work) has grown by almost 77 percent, but the inflation-adjusted amount workers are paid for that productivity has only grown by about 12 percent (by way of comparison, from the late 1940s to the early 1970s, compensation rose by about 90 percent). Increased productivity expands the economy, driving certain prices up, which means that the cost of living has been rising faster than incomes for more than 40 years. “That’s kind of all you need to know,” says Jared Bernstein, a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. “It’s not so much that people are worse off as much as that they haven’t kept up.”
Though certainly, they’ve tried. Much of the (paltry) growth in household income over the past 40 years has occurred because — often out of necessity — people are simply working more. What Bernstein has seen is that “families have had to work harder, work longer hours, spend more time in the job market, send more people to work in order to keep from falling behind.” At least there are more people to send: It is a cruel twist of fate that the Civil Rights Act of 1964 opened employment avenues to minorities and women less than a decade before the solid, middle-class jobs they could finally attain started to become less solid and middle class. Those new workers helped expand productivity but brought home less pay — as, of course, they still do — than their white, male counterparts. “Comparing factors such as incomes, the black middle class was always weaker than the white middle class,” says economist Steven Pitts, associate chair at the UC Berkeley Labor Center. “A newly hired black worker would probably say, ‘Yes, my job at U.S. Steel pays more than my sharecropping job did, but because I’m black, I’m stuck in a job that’s shitty as hell and can’t advance to a better one.’ ”
As for women, it’s not as if they all entered the job force from lives of leisure, and it’s not as if the work they did before disappeared. Since two incomes are now basically required for attaining a middle-class way of life, as Columbia University historian Alice Kessler-Harris explains in Women Have Always Worked, women are working outside the home while still doing 2.6 times more unpaid care and domestic work than men, according to a 2018 report from the United Nations. The amount of unpaid care work has been estimated to be worth about $3 trillion annually. Without it, America’s economy would grind to a halt.
ALLYSON’S SON, Atlas, was born in 2015, on an early-October afternoon that she describes as “literally perfect, sweater weather, when the grass is green and long and there’s sunflowers everywhere. I thought he was literally the most beautiful newborn I’d ever seen in my entire life.” He was a happy baby, and Allyson took to new motherhood with an ease that surprised her. While she was expecting, she’d connected with some friends on Facebook to bond over the difficulties of pregnancy, but after Atlas was born, “we kind of grew apart because they were going through a lot of things that I wasn’t. I didn’t have anything to contribute to those conversations. It was just so easy.”
What was becoming less easy, however, was her relationship with Andy. He worked nights and slept during the day, so she’d roam around the big, old house with only a newborn as company. “It was so lonely,” she says. “Honestly, we just weren’t compatible. I was unhappy, and he just wouldn’t talk about it at all.”
Not working, she was also steadily making her way through the $9,000 she’d had from her Starbucks savings and from selling her furniture when she moved to Kentucky. By the time she and Andy called it quits and she bought a one-way ticket back to Florida, she was down to basically nothing. “I had a 10-month-old, one suitcase worth of stuff, $70, two packs of diapers and a week’s worth of wipes.”
Though she’d been helping pay the property taxes, the house belonged to Andy, purchased a few years back with money from a scooter-accident settlement (the type of “lucky break” that may now be someone’s best chance at financial gain). The cars belonged to him too. He had offered to go with her to the child-support office in Kentucky, but the breakup was contentious enough that Allyson just wanted to get away. She figured it could all get sorted out later, not realizing how much harder the process would be once she crossed state lines. (Andy declined to comment for this article.)
Back in Orlando, she moved in with a friend of a friend who had a spare room she could rent for almost nothing, applied for child support, and found that she qualified for the maximum amount of assistance that Florida allowed (about $350 a month), which she figured would tide her over until she could secure subsidized child care and find a job. When she went to apply for that subsidized child care, however, she learned that before you could even qualify, the state required two consecutive pay stubs to prove you worked at least 20 hours a week. Which meant that in order to work, she needed child care, but in order to get child care, she needed to work. Essentially, she was screwed.
So are many others. “As much as we talk about motherhood and fatherhood and apple pie and all that stuff, it’s just a system that is so rigged against parents and the values that we hold as a country that the adults be self-supporting, that the children be given the best early beginnings,” says Ellen Galinsky, president and co-founder of the Families and Work Institute. “In a sense, your ZIP code is destiny. And each state, depending on its economic health and the values of its governing bodies, supports child care to a greater or lesser degree. I could live literally across the block from someone in a different state and have a completely different system” — a bureaucratic morass that owes its complexity in part to the conflicting societal belief that, as Galinsky puts it, “we should make people who take welfare work, but good mothers will be at home.”
Desperately, Allyson tried to figure out how to do both. When her stepmother agreed to watch Atlas in the evenings after she got home from her own job, Allyson approached Starbucks about picking up some evening shifts and was hired again. But with her child care constraints and the limited shifts they could give her (“Two of the girls I most often worked with also had kids and could only work evenings on very specific days,” she says), it was clear that she would not be able to work the 20 hours a week needed to get the child care subsidy.
Allyson had been precariously employed before, with no set schedule and no guaranteed number of hours per week. But she’d never been so underemployed, working far less than she wanted or needed to be, and she’d never before had a dependent. The much-publicized benefits Starbucks offered — health insurance for employees who work an average of 20 hours a week or more, tuition assistance, fertility services, paying more than the minimum wage — suddenly paled in comparison to how little every hour’s worth of work actually got her: 50 cents more than minimum wage when she’d started and a raise of 21 cents an hour every year after that. Even working full-time, she would have been making “nothing close to a living wage,” she says. And yet she kept returning to Starbucks for a reason: The chain was widely considered a generous employer.
In fact, minimum wage has fallen so woefully behind the cost of living that more than 12 million American workers now also rely on public assistance to make ends meet — a state of affairs that Bernie Sanders has publicly decried as a way in which taxpayer dollars subsidize rich corporations. “Minimum wage is now more than 25 percent below what it was in 1968, so that is pretty dramatically sick,” says Lawrence Mishel, a distinguished fellow at the Economic Policy Institute, a pro-labor think tank. And the minimum wage sets the parameters for so many hourly jobs, meaning that a large portion of the country’s take-home pay is being depressed far below a reasonable cost of living. “The defining characteristic of the last four decades has been wage stagnation, but I would call it wage suppression,” adds Mishel. “The fact that most people didn’t see much of a rise of their wages and benefits is not because the money wasn’t there because the economy was somehow in trouble. There was lots of income and wealth produced. It didn’t get to most people. Then, you have to ask the question ‘Why didn’t it?’ ”
Standard operating procedure is to point to automation, globalization and the inevitable, immutable changes of time as certain industries die out and are replaced by others. “But we’ve had automation for many, many decades,” says Mishel, “and for many of those decades we saw falling inequality, we saw rising wages for middle-class workers. Globalization may have something to do with this, but it’s not so clear to me that globalization and the way we did it was ordained by any deity.” Certainly, the shift from a manufacturing to a service economy has had an effect, since service work — scrubbing toilets, flipping burgers, running day cares rather than doing something that produces a tangible product — is somehow viewed as “lesser” and therefore commands a lower rate. But all of these explanations would make more sense if the economy overall were suffering. It isn’t. Only its workers are.
And that’s happened, not because of economic forces beyond our control, but rather because government and corporate choices have been made that prioritize the wealth of a few people over the welfare of the many. The perverse incentives of tying executive pay to the price of stock have transformed the American worker from a stakeholder into merely an expenditure, from someone whose cultivation and training benefit the company into a mere line item for the next quarter. “Something like 80 percent of officers admit that they would forgo an investment in their company that has long-term benefits if it meant missing that quarter’s earnings,” says Rick Wartzman, author of The End of Loyalty: The Rise and Fall of Good Jobs in America. “It’s disturbing stuff. And the effects are just profound.”
In the 1970s, S&P 500 companies typically used half of their profits to pay shareholders and the other half to reinvest in the company, through research and development or worker compensation and training. “Over the past 10 years,” Wartzman continues, “94 percent of profits for the S&P 500 have gone to benefit shareholders,” either directly or through stock buybacks, in which companies use their profits to buy their own stock, driving up its value — a practice that was outlawed until 1982 because it was believed to be a form of market manipulation. Based on tallies of the first three quarters, J.P. Morgan projects that S&P 500 companies will spend $800 billion on buybacks in 2018 — the highest number on record.
Such transformations of the way business is done have spawned the gig economy (gig workers might need a safety net, but aren’t legally entitled to one), undercut unions (11 percent of private workers were unionized in 2017 compared with 20 percent in 1983, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics), and led to the development of algorithms that can adjust workers’ hours in real time based on volume of business (great for a company that doesn’t want to pay people when there’s a lag in customers, but disastrous for workers like Allyson who need to plan for child care). When American Airlines announced in 2017 that it was raising its wages, its share price plummeted — rather than see this as a sign of the company’s health, the market saw it as a liability.
And in this American market, it is. As Jacob Hacker, Yale political scientist and author of The Great Risk Shift: The New Economic Insecurity and the Decline of the American Dream, explains, “The transfer of risk and responsibility from the broad shoulders of government and corporations onto the fragile backs of American workers and their families” has been one of the defining factors of the past few generations. Job security is a thing of the past. Between 2003 and 2013, the cost of employer-provided health insurance rose by 73 percent, 93 percent of which was passed on to workers, even as deductibles more than doubled. And rather than a guaranteed pension, workers are now offered a riskier 401(k) that draws from their wages. Which means that even families who are doing OK feel like they aren’t. “The poor are, of course, the most disadvantaged,” says Hacker. “But the real transformation is the degree to which the constraints and risks that were once faced only by the working poor are being faced by people with once-thought solidly middle-class incomes.”
In fact, as economists Jonathan Murdoch and Rachel Schneider point out in The Financial Diaries, “The instability of families’ incomes has risen faster than the inequality of families’ incomes.” Almost 60 percent of American workers are now hourly rather than salaried. And, in 2015, the Pew Charitable Trust found that almost 50 percent of households saw their income rise or fall by 25 percent or more from one year to the next. These ups and downs could be weathered if Americans weren’t already living so close to the bone — squeezed by factors such as the high cost of child care and their own low wages — but as Schneider says, “Volatility requires a cushion, [and] so many people don’t have a cushion because they really need their full income just to cover the basic cost of living.” In fact, in 2017, 39 percent of Americans had less than $1,000 saved, which means that gains in the market are largely not going to the middle class. Put more starkly: The top 10 percent of households own 84 percent of the country’s stocks — and this includes all stocks in retirement accounts.
Unfortunately, the government has not only enabled these changes, they’ve also enshrined them in policy. In addition to a miserly minimum wage, there are weaker unemployment benefits, more draconian rules about overtime, and a deterioration in labor standards like sick leave or family leave. And many welfare benefits are contingent on working a certain number of hours, as if this were under an employee’s control — meaning that people, like Allyson, who are underemployed are also at risk of losing whatever governmental help they may be receiving. “At this point, it’s kind of hard to deny that American political elites, and particularly Republican political elites, basically don’t believe there is any problem that can’t be addressed by cutting taxes and telling people that they should take more responsibility,” says Hacker.
Yet when Allyson took responsibility and called social services to tell them that she’d found work, she learned exactly what working would mean: She had landed in the benefit gap, where the social services lost by having a job are not sufficiently met by wages. “They told me immediately that I lost my Medicaid” — a bureaucratic error, actually, that took her months to figure out. “And they also cut my food stamps from $357 to $172 or something like that,” Allyson says. “Which was really significant. I was shocked. ‘But what do you mean? I just started. I’m working, like, 15 hours a week at basically minimum wage. How does that even make sense?’ And they were just like, ‘I don’t know what to tell you. After taxes, you should be making $503 a month.’ And I was like, ‘Yeah? And?’ ” It was the first time Allyson realized how little she’d really have to live on. “I was crushed,” she says. Between that, bus fare to and from work, and the cost of prescription medicine she needed, “I was actually losing money at that point by working. It just was not . . . sustainable at all.”
“WHERE’S YOUR NOSE?” asks Allyson. “Where’s your chin? Your knees? No, no, those are toes. Toes are cool too, but they’re not knees.” It’s bath time for Atlas, who is chubby and smiley and now almost two — an age at which it is very hard to understand why one cannot eat pink foam soap. “Don’t eat it! If you eat it, bath time is over,” warns Allyson as Atlas smears the soap all through his blond curls and giggles uncontrollably.
Allyson laughs too. She’s into attachment parenting (“all the peer-reviewed, high-quality research says that it just creates better people”) and approaches motherhood with admirable patience and humor.
It’s a sweet, homey scene — a mother bathing her child, getting him ready for bed — but the small room where Allyson and Atlas will be living is bare of furniture, apart from the Pack ’n Play where Atlas sleeps. A few suitcases and plastic hampers scattered about contain the bulk of her possessions. After months of crashing with a friend, tonight is the first night she will spend in her mother’s small St. Petersburg apartment since officially moving in.
Back in Orlando, she hadn’t been making enough at Starbucks to cover both her health care costs and her reduced welfare benefits, so it soon became clear that she would need to put $200 to $300 on credit cards every month just to get by, while the student loans she couldn’t pay ballooned from $18,000 to $22,000. When her cheap housing fell through, she knew her financial situation made it impossible to even look for another rental, but leaving Orlando for her hometown of St. Pete meant leaving her stepmother — who didn’t have an extra room to offer her — and the free child care she had provided. More specifically, it meant giving up on any illusion she might have kept that she’d be able to pull ahead by working; in St. Pete, she knew she’d be living in poverty. Meanwhile, her application for child support and her application to have her welfare payments reinstated to their original amount — a change that she felt should have been as instantaneous as when the payments were reduced — both inched their way through the system.
Americans tend to view poverty as monolithic — the intractable state of a certain doomed set of people. But, in fact, according to U.S. Census data from 2011, roughly 25 percent of Americans experienced some poverty (two months or more) during that year, yet only 8.3 percent were poor the whole time. Indeed, the line between the lower-middle class and those living in poverty can be incredibly porous, and is growing even more so as the middle class becomes increasingly fragile. Which means that the monstrous bureaucratic hassle of the benefits system can keep people in poverty longer than they actually need to be. “It makes sense if you’re going to be on the same benefit for a long time,” explains Schneider. “But it’s a very significant mismatch when half of the people who experience poverty don’t experience it for very long.”
Not that government assistance, as it’s currently administered, offers much of a leg up anyway. Bill Clinton’s welfare reform of the Nineties — when work requirements were affixed to many forms of cash assistance — was meant to incentivize work, doing away with Ronald Reagan’s supposed “welfare queens.” Yet that assumed work to be the antidote to poverty when, for many, it isn’t. More than half of the nondisabled working-age adults living in poverty are actually employed. According to analyses done by sociologist and poverty expert Kathy Edin and her colleagues at Johns Hopkins, the only difference “welfare to work” has made for poor women was where they spent their time: Before welfare reform, they were home with their kids; after it, they were more likely to be in the workforce. Their economic situations remained unchanged because so much of the money they earned went to child care.
Nevertheless, since Trump took office, a top priority has been the rolling back of the safety net; the projected deficits caused by corporate tax breaks presumably justify raiding the welfare state. This past January, when the federal government told states that they could require Medicaid recipients to work, 12 states applied to do so, putting millions of people’s Medicaid at risk. Trump’s plan to restructure the federal agencies that oversee social policy may have seemed banal — a cleaning of house to go hand in hand with the purported draining of the swamp — but it was actually an attempt to enable cutbacks, shifting programs like the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), which already has work requirements, from the jurisdiction of the Department of Agriculture to that of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, a “welfare” department. The farm bill passed by the House in June would make work requirements for SNAP even more stringent.
Still, Allyson wanted to be employed. Working made her feel productive and capable. “This sounds kind of crappy to say because I’m a bleeding-heart liberal and I think we should have way more government-assistance programs, but I would never want to be the kind of person who’s living off the government when I had the option not to,” she says. She was struck not only by the cruelty of the system, but also by its illogic. “I mean, obviously, there have to be some regulations. I get that. You can’t just hand a hot commodity out to everyone for free. But I just feel like the people who don’t have [consecutive] pay stubs are probably the people who need to go back to work the most. And to be in such a desperate position, and to just want so badly to go back to work?” She finds herself at a loss for words.
For the moment, it’s quiet in her mom’s tiny first-floor apartment. Atlas naps in his Pack ’n Play, and Allyson leads me out to the small screened-in porch, where the Florida air is thick and pungent. Storm clouds are gathering. She lowers herself into a lawn chair and sighs. Though she’s long lost the baby weight, Allyson still wears her maternity jeans with their elasticized waistband. She can’t remember the last time she bought something new for herself.
“He has never gone without, and he wouldn’t,” she says, as if making this statement true by force of sheer will. “But I have gone without for him. I wear shoes with holes in them, I’ve sold my dead grandmother’s jewelry, I’ve donated plasma. I’ve gone without deodorant for a week, without tampons for months. When you have no income, those things become expensive. A $3 box of tampons is a lot when it means that, if you spend that $3 and your kid gets a diaper rash next week, you might not get to buy -diaper-rash cream. So you just don’t.”
To the extent that they can, her mother and father have tried to help her, but money is tight all around. At present, Allyson is just grateful to have a free place to stay. She once thought she’d be able to leapfrog her parents in the American-class hierarchy, but now she envies their relative stability, the jobs they go to with consistency, the money they can count on every month. “I just knew,” she says, “there was no way that I was going to get out of this situation unless I pretty much won the lottery.”
In the end, it wasn’t the lottery that gave Allyson another chance; it was Child Protective Services, which showed up after she’d posted to an online forum called “Breaking Mom,” venting about the trials of raising a willful almost-two-year-old. “I joked that I was going to drop him off at the fire station,” she says. “It was so obviously a joke.” But someone — it isn’t clear who — took the opportunity to call CPS, which then was required to investigate. “I really thought I was having a heart attack,” Allyson says of that day. “I’ve never been that hysterical in my whole life. But basically, the caseworker said that he knew the call was malicious, Atlas was healthy and happy, and he was going to close the case immediately.”
Still, the caseworker probed into Allyson’s life enough to learn of her financial situation — and he saw a way out. “He explained to me that, even though he was closing my case that day, it actually takes 30 days to process and close fully, no matter what. During that time, your kid is considered at-risk, and when your child is considered at-risk, they want to do everything they can to fast-track them and you into a better situation.” This meant being able to bypass the pay-stub requirement for subsidized child care. Thus one of the scariest things that ever happened to Allyson also turned out to be one of the best — a second chance to lift herself out of poverty.
All this conflicts with our national narrative about mobility, the story we tell ourselves about how to get ahead. If anything, Americans are optimists; we believe, despite so many signs to the contrary, that we control our own fates, that if we just work hard enough and long enough, things will turn out all right. The bootstrapper fairy tale is a nice one, but it obfuscates the truth: that the deck is currently stacked against the American worker.
Allyson knows that there are things she could have done differently. She could have ignored Andy’s messages. She could have gotten that abortion. But what haunts her now is all she did right, all the working and saving and studying and striving, all the times she was responsible. “I’m not a naive person,” she says. “Before I decided to keep Atlas, I ran through, in my head, a million and one ways that this could have gone. I knew there was a chance that Andy and I would break up. But I thought, no matter what, I will not be in this alone. I was more sure about that than I’ve ever been about anything in my whole life.”
Now, she’s not very sure of anything. “I thought you went to school, you got a job, and there you are — you built a life. That’s not how it works at all. That was hard to realize.” Also hard is the realization that her associate’s degree “might as well be a GED,” and the complicated way her experience makes her feel about being a parent. “I wouldn’t change it for the world,” she says, her voice breaking with emotion. “Atlas is the best thing that’s ever happened to me. But if I had thought that I was ever going to end up in this position, I wouldn’t have had a child. If I had known then what I know now? Absolutely not.”
What’s worn on her is not the day-to-day — where she can find simple joys — but the accumulation of days, the minutiae that becomes catastrophic (as when Atlas threw a shoe from the only pair he owned out of his stroller and Allyson couldn’t find it), the way this builds up to months and years of small catastrophes. According to Gallup, 31 percent of Americans living in poverty say that they have suffered from depression, compared with 15.8 percent of those who aren’t impoverished.
By far the hardest part of living in poverty for Allyson has been the way the psychology of it has bled into her experience of parenting. She can’t help but think back to those early-childhood classes about how crucially important these first few years are. She worries that Atlas is getting old enough to know that they’re struggling. “It’s a disconnect: I am stressed out because I want to do what’s best for him, but because I’m so stressed out, I’m not present for him. Like, I barely remember a lot of him in the past year. I spent almost every minute of every day with him, but I barely remember most of those times,” she says, her voice breaking as she fights back sobs. “I just really hope that I have all of this figured out for him before he notices. I don’t want to miss too much more.”
Maybe she won’t have to. In a few days, and with Atlas’ subsidized day care finally in place, Allyson will begin yet another stint with Starbucks. It’s still a precarious situation: She’ll need to take five different buses to drop off Atlas and then get to work on time, a herculean act of coordination vulnerable to one late bus. If she misses work or Atlas misses day care, her subsidy is at risk. But still, in today’s America, she knows this is her best shot, her current form of the American dream. For now, she’ll cling to it.

Story 150
When nearly 27 million Americans tuned into the women’s soccer World Cup final in July 2015, they had no idea how many records were about to be broken. Over the next 90 minutes, the US women’s team would go on to play the most watched soccer game in US history, become the first team in the world to win three separate women’s soccer World Cup titles, and participate in a game with the most goals of any men’s or women’s World Cup final.
But despite being the victors—and the most successful women’s team in history—the US team received a bonus of just $1.725 million from their employer, the US Soccer Federation. A year earlier, that same federation had awarded the US men’s team bonuses totaling $5.375 million after they lost in the Round of 16 and failed to qualify for the 2018 men’s World Cup. The women’s team are the favorites to win the 2019 women’s World Cup, which begins in France in June.
In a suit filed today (March 8), on International Women’s Day, all 28 members of the current player pool sued the national federation for gender discrimination. Players have same job responsibilities as their male counterparts, the suit argued—they play “on the same size field; use the same size ball; have the same duration of matches and play by the same rules”—but have evidently superior results, and systematically smaller salaries and bonuses. Female players actually appear to be propping up the men’s salaries: In the year following April 2015, for instance, the federation budgeted a net loss of around $430,000. Thanks to the success of the Women’s National Team, according to the suit, the federation instead revised its projections to include a $17.7 million profit—but continued to pay male players more.
AP Photo/Jessica Hill Not afraid to ask.
Players have been calling for equal treatment, and an end to what they described as “institutionalized gender discrimination,” for years. Not only are they paid less, they say, but they’re also subject to worse working conditions in travel, benefits, training, coaching, and even medical treatment. In 2016, five female players filed a wage-discrimination complaint with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. But after no action was taken, the players successfully sought a right-to-sue letter, resulting in this federal suit. They have requested class action status and hope to obtain back pay, damages and other relief for the 28 named players as well as any present or former players who may have represented the team in the past four years.
While it is true that female players are on average paid less, the ins-and-outs of soccer salaries are complicated. According to the New York Times, the men’s team has historically brought in more revenue than the women’s team—though that hasn’t been consistently the case since 2015. The top players of either gender earn salaries of over $1 million a year from US Soccer, though lower ranked female players are paid between 60% and 10% the salary of their male counterparts. While the women’s compensation is directly related to winning championships, men are paid regardless of how well they play.
Women have also historically received smaller per diems and sponsor appearance fees, according to a biting Times op-ed by co-captain Carli Lloyd: “I was on the road for about 260 days last year. When I am traveling internationally, I get $60 a day for expenses. [Former men’s captain] Michael Bradley gets $75. Maybe they figure that women are smaller and thus eat less.”
In a press release today, Lloyd vowed to continue working to “realize our legal rights and make equality a reality for our sport.” There is no plan at present for the women’s team to boycott the forthcoming world cup. “Each of us is extremely proud to wear the United States jersey,” her co-captain Alex Morgan stressed in the statement, “and we also take seriously the responsibility that comes with that. We believe that fighting for gender equality in sports is a part of that responsibility.”
The USSF has yet to release a statement, though it did send out an apparently unrelated mass email to supporters celebrating International Women’s Day and asking for fans to support the team by buying merchandise. After the 2016 suit, a representative acknowledged that that the federation did discriminate by gender in terms of pay and would continue to do so, commenting: “market realities are such that the women do not deserve to be paid equally to the men.” But the market reality, according to the suit, was that the women’s team had “earned more profit [and revenue], played more games, won more games, earned more championships, and/or garnered higher television audiences” than the men’s team during the period relevant to the case—and been paid less all the same.

Story 151
Southern Air pilots have ratified an agreement for interim enhancements to the collective bargaining agreement covering pilots, but union representatives are demanding further improvements.
The interim agreement increases pay rates for Southern Air pilots to the same wage scales as provided to pilots of sister airline Atlas Air.
It also provides for a ratification bonus and other terms and conditions that are comparable to those provided to their colleagues at Atlas Air.
“For too long, Southern Air pilots have been operating under one of the worst contracts in the industry,” said Bryan Holmberg, a veteran pilot at Southern Air and the Southern Air executive council chairman at APA Teamsters Local 1224.
“While the Southern agreement no longer stands alone as the worst, we are on par with our Atlas brothers and sisters, joining them in what is now the low-bar agreement in the industry.
"The company still has a long way to go until it will be able to end the rapid turnover and have the capability to attract the new hire pilots we need to meet growing customer demands.”
Meanwhile, Atlas Air welcomed the agreement.
“We are pleased to enter into this agreement to benefit our Southern Air pilots, and we appreciate the hard work and commitment of the IBT during the entire process,” said Atlas Air president and chief operating officer John Dietrich.
“We look forward to continuing our collaborative and productive discussions with the IBT leadership as we proceed toward the merger of Atlas Air and Southern Air and the completion of a joint collective bargaining agreement covering all of our pilots.
“We value the professionalism and contributions of our Atlas Air and Southern Air crew members and the excellent service they provide every day. We also remain committed to completing the bargaining process for a joint contract in a timely manner and in the best interests of all parties.”
Atlas Air Worldwide is hoping to unite its Atlas Air and Southern Air pilots under one contract, following its acquisition of Southern Air and Florida West International Airways.
Sign up to receive Air Cargo News direct to your inbox for free
Share this story

Story 152
AT A GLANCE
They were targeting the most vulnerable Filipinas – the poor ones who fell into a debt trap even before they left the Philippines just to secure what they thought was a dream job.
Once they reached the Czech Republic, the conditions they were promised suddenly changed. They were forced to sign contracts that would make them work without pay for two weeks or turn them into sex workers.
The Prague-based recruitment agency Atlas, the target of police operation Nemesis last March, and is now a subject of a police investigation, appears to be at the center of this human trafficking/enslavement scam.
The online news website iROZHLAS, part of a public service Czech Radio, with details from the ongoing police investigation and its own field research came with a story that is presented in this English version, translated and edited exclusively for Rappler by our Czech colleagues as a way of showing solidarity with this publication and respect for the crucial work it continues to do despite the difficulties and pressure it has come under.
VYŠŠÍ BROD, Czech Republic – "My contract is for 13,000 Czech crowns a month (P29,000), but lately, I’ve been receiving more – sometimes my salary gets close to 20,000 (P45,000). Besides, we don’t have to pay for accommodation here,“ says Jodelyn, a 38-year-old Filipina, as she held a cup of coffee in her hands.
She has been living for the last year and a half in a roadside hostel in Studanky, a small village of less than 200 inhabitants, a mere stone's throw from the border of the Czech Republic and Austria.
A single mother of 3, Jodelyn has not seen her children for several years now. She left them behind as she went abroad in search of a better-paying job. Before Studanky, she worked in Qatar and Dubai.
Minimum wage
Jodelyn only has good things to say about the Czech Republic, despite the fact that she gets the lowest salary one can get according to the Czech law for her 6-day workweek. There are 11 more Filipinas sharing the accommodation with her.
"I work 8 hours a day as a shop assistant in an outlet store just across the road. Others work in a massage parlor of our boss,“ she says.
It’s mostly Austrians who frequent the large marketplace at the outskirts of Studanky, as well as restaurants, casinos, and the massage salon just outside this last Czech village before the border. They come here to shop, attracted by the cheaper groceries, cigarettes, alcohol, cosmetic products, or clothes. They also spend money on massages and nail care.
This borderland "empire" belongs to Vietnamese businessman Duc Cuong Pham, called "Pavel" or simply "Boss" by his employees. At the beginning of March, his business was hit hard when police charged Pham of exploiting some of the Filipinas working for him. He was a key part of the group that formed a focus of the operation Nemesis, launched by the Czech Republic’s National Anti-Organized Crime Center.
'The police came'
"It was in March. The police came and took us with them to the station," confirms Jodelyn. The police was alerted by other Filipinas who described to them their working conditions in a much more dramatic way than Jodelyn. The investigation that followed led the police to the conclusion that the women became victims of an organized human trafficking group that has put them in a trap from which there seemed to be no escape.
The detectives arrested 8 individuals that were profiting from the extremely difficult situation the poor Filipino women found themselves trapped in. Aside from Pham, there were also two owners of the Prague-based recruitment agency Atlas, Ondrej Pohan, a Czech man married to a Filipina; and Rowena Cabingan, herself a Filipina based in the Czech Republic.
The group, according to the police, was targeting the most vulnerable. "All of the exploited Filipino women were coerced to take the job in the Czech Republic by their dire financial situation – they come from the impoverished background, are single mothers, and lack proper education or vocational training,“ states the police document that the iROZHLAS server gained access to.
The way the group operated, according to the detectives, was as follows: Pohan and Cabingan, either directly in the Philippines or online, lured women by offering them favorable conditions – 40-hour workweek, guaranteed minimum wage (which, since its last adjustment in January 2019, stands at 13,350 CZK or P30,000), free room and board, and travel expenses including airfare.
'They didn’t keep their word‘
"But they were aware that these were just empty promises while in reality conditions would be different. After the women obtained – and themselves paid for – their work visa, they were asked to pay a made-up procurement fee of P20,000 to P40,000," says the police report.
Even before leaving the Philippines, these women already incurred a debt because of this made-up fee. After arriving in the Czech Republic, as they later confided to the police, Pohan or Cabingan told them that the conditions discussed before no longer applied. They also threatened them with a 10,000 CZK (P22,500) sanction to forcibly extract an agreement from them.
"At the Atlas agency office, they gave them new contracts to sign with the working time expanded to 48 hours a week and a bill of exchange, written in Czech, for 65,000 CZK (P146,000), explaining to them they will have to pay this sum if they decide to quit within two years,“ the investigation report states.
It was virtually impossible for the women to refuse. "They were forced to sign under the threat of being deported back to the Philippines. And they were given false information that they will immediately lose their temporary residence permit if they change job," the detectives say.
Exploiting their predicament
The women ended up in a situation they could not get out of, which was precisely what the group of Pohan, Cabingan, and Pham counted on, police say. "They took advantage of the fact that the women didn’t speak or understand Czech language (parts of the contracts and some other documents like the bills of exchange were not translated) and also of their dire financial situation, made even worse by having debts just to be able to travel to the Czech Republic."
Some of the women were then sent to Studanky to work in Pham’s businesses as masseuses, manicurists, pedicurists, receptionists, or kitchen staff.
At the beginning, they worked practically nonstop and without any pay, the police said. "Usually it was 12 hours a day without any days off in the first two weeks and they were not getting paid. Then they would work 72 hours, 6 days a week, skirting the legal obligation of an uninterrupted time to rest or vacation. Also, they would only be given one 15-minute break per shift and only when there was no client to attend to. For this, they were paid a fixed wage of 15,500 CZK (P35,000) a month.“
According to the assessment commissioned by the police detectives, the women should have been paid more if the law was strictly followed. And that is how the members of the criminal group enriched themselves, pocketing the difference between the paid wages and the minimum value of the actual work.
To add insult to injury, Pham’s people were deducting further sums of money from the Filipino women’s salaries for various "offenses" and they didn’t pay them for working overtime.
Yet, the Vietnamese businessman is not under arrest now unlike the other main suspects in the scam. He could not be reached in any of his businesses when iROZHLAS tried to get his side of the story. The receptionist of his casino took the reporter’s calling card and promised to pass it on together with the request for an interview, but Pham did not get back to us.
'No exploitation'
In the end it was the businessman’s lawyer Lukáš Bohuslav who broke the silence, but only to deny all of the allegations.
"My client would like to make clear that he has never exploited anyone. It is only a negligible minority of his employees who testified against him, and it should be stressed that they have done so in a way that would be inadmissible in any court of justice. My client believes his innocence will soon be proven. To see this in a proper context one should be aware that the Human Trafficking and Illegal Migration Department of the National Anti-Organized Crime Center needs to show some activity and justify its existence," he says.
There is one more line of investigation aside from that of Pham. It led the detectives to the popular Prague neighborhood of Letná where Pohan – so the police claim – provided more Filipinas for a brothel hiding in a discreet building in Kamenická street not far from the main avenue lined with trendy bars, cafés, restaurants, and other business establishments patronized by many of the Czech capital’s expats and locals alike.
Extra pay for 'handjobs’
Pham allegedly offered the Filipinas to work here as masseuses with the possibility of earning a bonus for a "handjob“ or to prostitute themselves for $2,000 a month. If they agreed to that offer, they had to sign a bill of exchange for 200,000 CZK (P450,000).
If they refused, there was a tried and tested course of action according to the police – threats of deportation and having to pay off the debt. "The women had to work six days a week in two shifts – one from 10 am to 8 pm, another one from 8 pm to 5 am. There was a fixed pay of 1,200 CZK (P2,700),“ reads the police report.
One of the women told the police, however, that part of the sum was regularly deducted due to various "offenses" like refusing to serve a client, disobeying instructions, or not keeping the working hours.
The money thus taken away were then kept by the pimps. They were also the ones deciding how much to charge each client for the various services or what clothes the women were to wear. It appears to be this exploitation that has finally brought the existence of the criminal group into the knowledge of the police. Some of the women were beginning to rebel against their ordeal and some sympathetic Czechs they met helped them out of their predicament.
The brothel in Kamenická street is no more. Neither will you find anyone in the office of Atlas agency located in the historical Mala Strana neighborhood, on the same street and within walking distance from the famous church of Santo Niño de Praga. Pohan and his Filipina business partner have been detained since March together with another person.
"They are the main suspects in this case," the spokesman of the National Anti-Organized Crime Center Jaroslav Ibehej confirmed.
'Only helping the women'
One of Pohan’s lawyers – Blend Raji – denies the story offered by the police. He insists his client was only helping the women. "If you want to label as exploitation the fact that he found them a job, then go ahead, call it exploitation. They were acting of their own will though. They knew what they were going to Czechia for. Besides, he didn’t employ anyone, he only brought them here for work and they were then employed by someone else."
Since Pohan’s business partner Cabingan also can’t answer her phone, being in detention, iROZHLAS asked her lawyer Jiří David to comment on her behalf. But he didn’t want to.
Nor are the police detectives eager to talk. The Municipal Public Prosecution Office in Prague that oversees the case told iROZHLAS that the suspects are vigorously opposing the charges. "They are actively using their rights to defend themselves. They have filed several complaints against the formal initiation of the prosecution. These complaints have not been deliberated upon yet," said Aleš Cimbala, spokesman of the Prosecution Office.
However, the arguments of the accused are disputed by at least 7 Filipinas who are cooperating with the police. And the information they provided were verified by the police wiretaps as the group was under scrutiny for some time prior to the March bust that the operation Nemesis culminated in.
The investigators have calculated that just in the case of the 7 women, the accused of enriched themselves illegally with 660,000 CZK (P1.5 million) over the last two years. And during the police searches in the homes of the accused, several million Czech crowns in cash and in bank accounts were found. The total of 8 suspects were charged with human trafficking, a criminal offense punishable by maximum of 12 years in prison under Czech law. – Rappler.com

Story 153
In the days since the horrific Ethiopian Airlines crash, I have received a lot of email from pilots, aircraft engineers, and others with experience in aviation. These have been in response to three previous posts: first here, then here, then most recently here (with quotes from pilots’ observations about the Boeing 737 Max via NASA’s Aviation Safety Reporting System).
While I sift through the other messages, let me start with one from a highly experienced pilot and flight instructor. His name is Wally Magathan, and he has worked as an airline pilot, an Air Force pilot and C-5 Galaxy flight instructor, and an instructor in airline L-1011 flight-simulators. I know him through COPA, the organization of pilots and owners of Cirrus’s small single-engine airplanes.
With Magathan’s permission, I quote a post from him, offering a professional’s view of risk-management after these two Boeing 737 Max tragedies.
(For brief background, and as a reminder: the Boeing 737 Max has different handling characteristics from previous 737 models, because its engines are in a different place on the wings. This new engine placement increased the tendency of the plane to “pitch up”—that is, to point its nose upward, in a way that could increase the risk of aerodynamic stall. The MCAS system was added to offset this tendency, when detected and when the plane was being hand-flown, by automatically pointing the nose back down. The main hypothesis about last fall’s Lion Air crash, in Indonesia, is that this MCAS system went out of control, because of a failed sensor reading, and pushed the nose down, down, down, until the plane plunged into the sea. The main question after that crash was whether the Lion Air pilots had been appropriately informed about how MCAS worked, and trained on how to turn it off. No one yet is sure whether the same problem was part of the recent Ethiopian Airlines crash.)
Magathan says this about training, design flaws, and who should be grounded, when:
-Boeing’s design deficiency [JF note: having the MCAS rely on a single data source, the “angle of attack” indicator, without backup or comparative sensors] sets up the need for pilot training on how to overcome it. -Boeing’s failure to highlight the change resulted in no specific MCAS pilot training. Those two big mistakes, it now appears, likely caused two tragic major catastrophes. Shame on Boeing if the final analysis bears these points out. The corrective action is simple and within the capabilities of any competent airline captain to execute. Certainly easier than dealing with an engine fire or loss of multiple hydraulic systems. There is a broad spectrum of abilities in any group of pilots, and without an emphasis training, some of them will be unable to overcome the design deficiency, even if the emergency procedure is simple to carry out. All the lights and buzzers going off will freeze the less capable pilot who has not been trained to drill down to what is going on, and to flip the switch. Training has to be to the lowest level of ability, if you’re operating an airline with any significant number of pilots. They all can't be Sully Sullenbergers. To me, from the standpoint of an airline pilot, there was no need to ground the fleet. Just ground each and every 737MAX pilot until he or she has been trained on the MCAS. After two accidents, require a week in the simulator—for overkill to make sure it penetrates even the dimmest bulbs. But nobody flies again until they have it. In effect that grounds the fleet, but only so long as the training takes. At the same time, regulatory bodies can require Boeing to eliminate the design deficiency so that the training on the MCAS need not be so intense, a process that could take months if not years. But if I were speaking as a non-flying member of the public, and as a politician who must answer to them, I would say: ground the fleet now. As far as the public is concerned, the industry had its chance and blew it. I would have no confidence in the plane nor the industry until an explanation is found and the design changed. Nor would I buy a ticket on such a plane. Once the public pressure became too great, the grounding of the fleet was inevitable—but not because the plane is unsafe when flown by a properly trained crew. Boeing will pay a price for this, if the final analysis holds these accidents would not have occurred in a 737 model that had no MCAS.
Obviously (as I know from the inbox) other pilots and engineers have a range of views. But I thought this was a particularly lucid description of the relationship between technology and training, and about the difference between views from inside the industry and reactions from outside.
Please read on for another message from another airline pilot, which has just come in.

Story 154
Festival goers in Finland will be able to get around in an i3 electric taxi using song as fare payment. The Singalong Shuttle will operate at the Ruisrock festival between July 6 and 8, and is the brainchild of clean energy firm Fortum.
Fortum says it wants to encourage festival goers to join the change for a cleaner world. As well as offering a range of clean electricity, heating and cooing solutions, the company is also involved in the development of EV charging and, together with Drive EV, has one of the largest charging networks in operation across the Nordic region.
The Singalong Shuttle service is being operated by clean energy company Fortum Fortum
Combining elements of all-electric transportation, ride sharing and James Corden's Carpool Karaoke, customers of the Singalong Shuttle will only be able to pay for their rides by bursting into song – cash or credit card will not be an option.
"With Singalong Shuttle we want to show people in a joyful way how comfortable and easy it is to drive an electric car," said the company's Jussi Mälkiä. "The silent electric cars make it possible to enjoy singing without background noise and emissions."
Ruisrock kicks off on Friday July 6 on the island of Ruissalo, with the Shuttle running between Aurajoki riverbank and the festival bus station. You can get in the mood with the promo video below.
Source: Fortum

Story 155
A baby Washington pygmy rabbit at the Oregon Zoo. © Oregon Zoo/Photo by Levi Barnett
This story was originally published by High Country News and appears here as part of the Climate Desk collaboration.
In the rolling hills of the Columbia Basin in central Washington, a tractor kicked dust from a wheat field as an early May breeze filtered down from the Cascade Mountains rising in the west. In a patchwork of sagebrush and bunchgrass, Jon Gallie searched for the newest generation of North America’s smallest rabbit, the state and federally endangered Columbia Basin pygmy rabbit.
When not moving by memory through this reclaimed farmland, Gallie, an endangered species project leader for the Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife, traced his footsteps to dots on his phone marking den sites. In a city, he could easily pass for a Pokémon Go player, chasing fictional creatures in an imaginary digital realm. But the grapefruit-sized animals he was seeking are real, though elusive; after more than two hours of searching, all we found were empty burrows and an abundance of scat.
The wildlife biologist Jon Gallie searches for traces of pygmy rabbits at their den sites. Rajah Bose for High Country News
Still, the salmon egg-sized droppings were an encouraging sign. That’s because a century of farming, development, and increasingly frequent and intense wildfires has fractured the habitat of the Columbia Basin pygmy rabbit; by the late 1990s, just a handful were left. In 2001, biologists captured 16 of the last few dozen rabbits. Nearly two decades of direct human intervention followed, a multi-pronged effort that saved the animals from being banished to stories, screens, and natural history textbooks. Pygmy rabbits now number in the hundreds in the Columbia Basin—but they remain far from a resilient and healthy population.
The rabbits have shown that they can rebound, however, as long as they have enough habitat to call home. The efforts to save these diminutive mammals illustrate a hard lesson: Even when scientists can breed an endangered species back to healthy numbers, protecting land and building bridges between dispersed populations remains a continuing challenge for recovery. For central Washington’s pygmy rabbits, humans have been the agents of both destruction and salvation. Now, the challenge is to also play the role of nurturer, giving the rabbits—and other endangered species—the space they need to reclaim a place on the landscape.
Columbia Basin shrub steppe. Joe Rocchio/Getty Images
We live in an age of extinction, driven by human contributions to climate change and habitat destruction. Facing these crises has meant making compromises that save some species, but also change them. Hundreds of vertebrates have blinked out in just the last century. When biologists captured the last known wild Columbia Basin pygmy rabbits in 2001 to start a captive breeding program, they hoped to keep the species from joining their ranks. And in a sense, they’ve succeeded, as the burrows and scat in the sagebrush show.
But early on, inbreeding produced sickly offspring and low reproductive rates. In 2004, the scientists—part of a collaborative effort between universities, zoos, and state and federal agencies—had to breed them with a closely related population, the Great Basin pygmy rabbit. This was a matter of “genetic rescue,” explained Stacey Nerkowski, a University of Idaho doctoral student who leads a team studying pygmy rabbit genetics.
The new genes staved off the complete loss of the population. While the last pure Columbia Basin pygmy rabbit died in 2008, unique genes that arose over millennia live on in the rabbits now munching sagebrush in central Washington. On average, about 25 percent of each rabbit’s genome comes from the wild rabbits collected in 2001. Nerkowski said the resilience of those genes—they continue to show up, generation after generation, because they help the rabbits survive there—shows the value of recovering local rabbits, rather than simply transplanting other pygmy rabbits into the Columbia Basin. “This isn’t just a rabbit we picked up in Wyoming; it has the unique genetics of this area,” Nerkowski said.
Columbia Basin pygmy rabbit in the snow. R. Dixon and H. Ulmschneider/USFWS
After tromping through unfenced stands of sagebrush for most of the morning, Gallie and I hopped in his truck and headed south to another rabbit recovery area, in the Beezley Hills west of Ephrata, Washington. Here, sagebrush and bunchgrass, flourishes of wildflowers, wheat fields, and the dreaded invasive cheatgrass all intermix. In the Beezley Hills, land protected by The Nature Conservancy and a private landowner who has dedicated his property to pygmy rabbit conservation provides a habitat for reintroductions.
Biologists have been trying to re-establish the rabbits on the landscape since 2007, when wild reintroductions failed. After that unsuccessful attempt, the recovery team turned to semi-wild enclosures in 2011, to ease the transition from captivity to the starker realities of the rabbits’ natural habitat. Solid fences, irrigation systems, artificial burrows, and supplemental food provided the animals the amenities project leaders thought they needed to survive. The rabbits proliferated, but then, in the confined and artificial space, disease did as well, and in 2016, reproduction in the enclosures dropped by about 75 percent.
For the last two years, the recovery team has been using different enclosures, more mobile and spartan in nature, both to avoid disease transmission and better prepare the rabbits for life outside the fences. No supplemental feeding is offered, and other than some water laced with medicine to fight off an intestinal disease, the sagebrush-blanketed hillside is left in its natural state. As we walked through the main enclosure at Beezley Hills, both adults and baby rabbits scattered in blurs of fur, zigzagging through the chest-high sagebrush. When caught against a fence line, the rabbits froze, blending into the gray bushes and light brown soil.
Winds drive active fire behavior on the Sutherland Canyon Fire on June 28, 2017. BLM/Richard Parrish/inciweb.nwcg.gov
The changes have produced kits that survive better in the wild, allowing the recovery team to distribute them across the landscape. That’s vital to bringing back the rabbit, with the risk of population-decimating fires haunting its future—and its recent past. In the summer of 2017, the 30,000-acre Sutherland Canyon Fire wiped out the majority of rabbits in the area. As strong winds pushed the blaze over ridges and through draws, Gallie and his team quickly reconfigured the irrigation system in the Beezley Hills enclosure. They were able to save about one-third of the hundred-plus rabbits living there. But the threat to each of the three recovery areas remains in the fire-prone sagebrush, showing how important maintaining a wider swath of habitat is for the animals.
Fire doesn’t just scorch pygmy rabbit colonies; it also imperils the ecosystem they depend on. Repeated fires that both propel and are fueled by the spread of invasive species like cheatgrass deliver a one-two punch of destruction to native species in sagebrush habitat.
Corinna Hanson manages more than 30,000 acres in central Washington for The Nature Conservancy with an eye toward preserving native habitat. That’s a constant challenge now, as summers get hotter and fires occur twice a decade instead of less than twice a century, the historical norm. “When I think about restoration, it’s almost like we can’t keep up,” she said. “But we’re not going to give up.” In talking about endangered species recovery, the focus is usually on the species itself. But, she said, “when you work to conserve a species, it always comes down to habitat management.”
Columbia Basin pygmy rabbit relocation. Randy Bjorklund/Shutterstock
Expanding open space to connect the reintroduction areas, which are spread over about 40 miles and divided by roads, fields, sheer cliffs, and houses, would be the ultimate sign of success for the project, Gallie said. Tools to stitch together the fractured landscape include land preserved for habitat protection by The Nature Conservancy, and U.S. Department of Agriculture grant programs that pay farmers to take land out of production so wildlife can use it instead.
Gallie said communicating the goals of the recovery effort and building trust between people in town, farmers in the country, nonprofits, and government partners is key to the program’s success. “You can have the best scientists and the best habitats and the best approach in the world, but if everyone out here is skeptical and oppositional, it’s going to make things very difficult.” When he appears at community events and at farmers’ doors, Gallie said, the familiarity and trust he’s built show locals that the pygmy rabbit program isn’t some big government overreach happening in a faraway office. “It’s just me, the same guy you wave to everyday, with the same dirt on my boots.”
A pair of 20-day-old baby pygmy rabbits, five days after first emerging from the maternal den. © Oregon Zoo / photo by Michael Durham
Columbia Basin pygmy rabbits are far better off today than they were two decades ago, but their future remains tenuous. One fire could wipe out most of the population. And until they inhabit continuous corridors, where they can meet new mates and be less vulnerable to catastrophic fires, they’ll remain on the precipice of extinction.
Still, the species is gaining ground in a time when conservation is pervaded by stories of loss. The world is losing species. It’s losing habitat. And humanity is losing time to try to save the current biome from the worst impacts of climate change. But perhaps our biggest deficit, and greatest challenge, is our apathy toward that loss.
“When I get asked—‘Why do we need pygmy rabbits?’—I don’t always have the best answer,” Gallie said, as fine dust kicked up with each step we took through the sagebrush. “You either value biodiversity or you don’t, and if you don’t, there’s pretty much nothing I can say that’s going to make you go, ‘Oh, now I agree.’”
As a society, it’s often hard to agree on which species to save, which organisms are necessary to make an ecosystem whole, or if it even makes sense to try to prevent extinctions. In all of those debates, Gallie pointed out that we often forget the current moment is a blip in evolutionary history, and, regardless of human interventions, nature will continue to shape this landscape. In the end, he said, “Life always wins. It’s more our loss.”

Story 156
Blamed for sparking some of the most destructive blazes in California history, Pacific Gas and Electric Co. and its parent company, PG&E Corp., reported Thursday that they will take a $2.5 billion charge to cover expected losses from October’s deadly Wine Country wildfires.
And they warned investors that the financial pain may just be beginning.
The damage charge, which will be recorded in the current quarter, is larger than PG&E Corp.’s 2017 profit of $1.66 billion. But it represents just the low end of the utility’s potential losses from the fires, executives said Thursday. The final amount could be much higher.
Homeowners, businesses and local government agencies have filed roughly 200 lawsuits seeking to hold the utility responsible for the fires, which erupted during a powerful windstorm on Oct. 8. Total liability estimates range as high as $15 billion.
Now Playing:
Investigators with the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection have traced 16 of the fires back to PG&E’s power lines and equipment. In addition, Cal Fire said the utility may have violated state safety laws in 11 of those cases, potentially exposing PG&E to criminal charges and fines. And Cal Fire still has not released its report on the most devastating of the blazes: the Tubbs Fire, which raged from Calistoga to Santa Rosa and killed 24 people.
Given the uncertainties, PG&E Corp. executives said Thursday they could not come up with an estimate for how high the liability could soar.
“At this point, we are unable to reasonably estimate a high end of the range,” said Jason Wells, PG&E Corp.’s chief financial officer, on a conference call with Wall Street analysts. “There are many unknowns.”
State lawmakers have said that in private, PG&E lobbyists suggest that the financial fallout from the fires could bankrupt the utility, although the company’s executives have steered clear of saying so in public. The utility filed for bankruptcy once before, at the height of the state’s 2000-01 electricity crisis.
“You have to realize that many of the lawmakers here in California vividly remember the energy crisis, and what came as a result of that, so the topic does come up periodically in our conversations,” PG&E Corp. CEO Geisha Williams acknowledged Thursday, on the same conference call.
Under a legal doctrine known as inverse condemnation, California utilities can be held liable for financial losses from fires caused by their equipment, even if the companies followed all the state’s safety regulations.
PG&E and the state’s other utility companies have been pushing for legislation to change that, so far without success. Williams said that Cal Fire’s investigative reports, released in batches during the last month, have hurt PG&E’s efforts in Sacramento.
“I’ll be upfront: We do acknowledge that things will likely be more difficult for us on the legislative front,” she said.
Although PG&E will take the $2.5 billion hit on its next earnings report, no actual cash will change hands as a result — at least not now. Resolution of the lawsuits will probably take years, Williams said.
And while PG&E will ask its regulators at the California Public Utilities Commission for permission to pass along any lawsuit costs to the utility’s customers, there is no guarantee that the commission will agree. In November, the commission rejected a request from San Diego Gas and Electric Co. to make its customers pay $379 million in wildfire lawsuit costs not covered by the utility’s liability insurance.
PG&E’s announcement, made before the start of the trading day, did not weigh down the company’s stock, which rose 1.32 percent Thursday to close at $40.53.
“The market has been pricing in a substantially higher liability than the initial charge that PG&E took today, so perhaps there’s some relief, albeit small,” said Travis Miller, director of utilities research at the Morningstar market research firm. “We expect that more charges will come.”
PG&E said Thursday that its damage charge does not include potential liability arising from the Tubbs Fire, which devastated entire neighborhoods in Santa Rosa. The charge also does not include liability for the Atlas Fire in Napa County, even though Cal Fire investigators said that blaze started with a PG&E power line. The company has not revealed what specific evidence leads it to believe it won’t be held liable for damage from that blaze.
“In Atlas, Cal Fire mentioned there’s multiple ignition points,” said John Simon, PG&E general counsel. “Based on what we know today, we haven’t reached a conclusion that a loss on Atlas is probable. That could change, but that’s where we are now.”
The damage charge also does not include potential fines PG&E may face. The utility was fined $1.6 billion by state regulators over the fatal 2010 San Bruno gas-pipeline explosion, which also led to a felony conviction by a federal court jury.
Cal Fire has not released to the utility or the public its investigative reports on the 11 fires in which the agency suspects PG&E may have broken the law. Company executives said Thursday they still don’t know what evidence Cal Fire may have for that conclusion. Nor do they know when Cal Fire may release its findings on the Tubbs Fire.
“We continue to wait, just like everyone else,” Williams said.
David R. Baker is a San Francisco Chronicle staff writer. Email: dbaker@sfchronicle.com Twitter: @DavidBakerSF

Story 157
FRIDAY, April 19, 2019 (HealthDay News) -- When a neighborhood pharmacy shuts down, it could have dire repercussions for heart patients living nearby, new research suggests.
That's because such closures could mean patients skip or stop taking the prescriptions they need to stay healthy and safe, according to a team from the University of Illinois at Chicago.
"These findings provide strong evidence that pharmacy closures contribute to [prescription] non-adherence, including among insured older adults," study leader Dima Qato said in a university news release. She's associate professor of pharmacy systems, outcomes and policy at the university's College of Pharmacy.
A heart specialist who wasn't involved in the new study said many patients fail to adhere to the prescriptions they've been given.
"We try our best to educate and consolidate medications as much as possible, but in the end it is up to the patient to obtain and take the medications," said Dr. Satjit Bhusri, a cardiologist at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York City.
For example, "simply missing one dose of heart failure medication or blood thinner medication for an arrhythmia can lead to deadly consequences," Bhusri said. In fact, he said, prescription non-adherence "is the leading cause of re-admission to the hospital for heart patients."
So what role does the convenience of a local pharmacy play in all this?
To find out, Qato's team analyzed data from more than 3 million U.S. adults, aged 50 and older, who filled at least one prescription for cholesterol-lowering statin drugs at a retail pharmacy between 2011 and 2016.
The investigators compared prescription adherence for about 93,000 people who had filled a prescription at a pharmacy that later closed, against that of people whose pharmacy remained open.
Nearly 24% of patients whose pharmacies closed failed to refill their statin prescription during 12 months of follow-up, compared with nearly 13% of those whose pharmacies remained open, the findings showed.
There were significant declines even among patients who had filled all prescriptions for their statins ("fully adherent") in the year before their pharmacy closed. Among patients who were fully adherent, 15% of those whose pharmacies closed stopped taking their statins, compared with 3.5% of those whose pharmacies did not close.

Story 158
Empty tables: rising costs and static spending patterns are putting the squeeze on the country's restaurateurs.
For the customer, if not the restaurateur, there has never been a better time to dine out in New Zealand.
The price of a main course – around $35 – remains the same as it was 15 years ago, while new styles of food are being offered by an ever-increasing number of restaurants.
"If you've got a good idea, you can expect to see that same good idea pop up down the street," says Peter Lowry of Wellington eatery Chow.
He and Chow co-owner Rob Scott should know. Until five years ago, Scott points out, Chow and Monsoon Poon were the only style-driven, pan-Asian restaurants in Wellington, yet nowadays they are up against Dragonfly, Apache, Mr Go's, Hot Sauce and The Old Quarter (opened by Chow's former head chef).
READ MORE:
* Palmerston North Indian restaurant in liquidation after only seven months
* Auckland fine dining restaurant Clooney closing after 13 years
* Has Wellington On A Plate become the capital city's restaurant tax?
Last year, 340 restaurants either opened or changed hands in Wellington, bringing the total number of eateries to 882: one eatery for every 236 Wellingtonians. In New York City, there's one for every 440 residents.
"That's not sustainable," says Steven Scheckter, owner of On Trays Emporium in Petone. Shepherd Elliot of Shepherd estimates the over-supply may run as high as 10 to 15 per cent.
Such fierce competition means New Zealand restaurateurs are loath to be the first to put their prices up. Yet this they desperately need to do, in order to recover their own dramatically escalating costs – of wages, rent and food. There's also a dire shortage of skilled staff.
Already the cracks are beginning to show in the number of high-profile closures in main centres this year.
Leading Auckland restaurant Clooney is to close its doors on October 13. In January, Christchurch's fine dining French restaurant St Germain folded, while fine dining pioneer Philip Kraal was forced to close his flagship restaurant Bamboozle.
Bigger shocks came in May, when Cook 'n' with Gas on Worcester Boulevard closed after 20 years, along with Roots in Lyttelton, named New Zealand's best restaurant at the 2015 Cuisine Good Food Awards.
In Wellington, patissier Louis Sergeant went into liquidation on May 30, following earlier closures of Whitebait, Frenchie and Monte Cervino.
All these were quality restaurants, run by highly respected industry veterans. Yet the reasons for their closure seem all too familiar.
Kevin Stent WBC chef Clay Toomer was quoted $200,000 a year in rent for one premises he looked at.
The surge in property prices being passed on to tenants as hugely inflated rents, for one.
Clay Toomer of WBC says he investigated Wellington's vacant Lone Star site before Monte Cervino moved in, only to find the asking price for the lease was $200,000 a year.
"With a lease like that, you're stuffed before you begin" says Toomer, who always negotiates a long-term lease which steps up after a few years, giving him a period of grace.
Chef Len Baldwin reports The Tasting Room owners were paying $165,000 plus GST annually by the time the Courtenay Pl establishment was sold three years ago. This was up from $45,000 plus GST when John McGrath, Wes Takahashi and Danny McGrath took on the premises as Brava in 1996.
The Sports Cafe has cited high rent as the reason for moving around the corner to Blair Street, which increasingly leaves Courtenay Pl as the preserve of fast food chains. Now, interesting restaurants are mostly grouped down side streets.
"This fits an international pattern," Monsoon Poon owner Mike Egan notes – his own restaurant is in Blair St. Egan's own fight to contain rising costs includes constantly changing his electricity and rubbish removal companies to get a better deal.
But there's little he or any other restaurateur can do about UberEats, which is undermining the very idea of going out to dine.
"We had one UberEats order for two portions of steamed rice," Egan notes with a mixture of amusement and exasperation.
Perhaps the biggest headache for hospitality is the cost of wages as a proportion of the restaurant's earnings.
Maarten Holl Steve Logan, left, and chef Shaun Clouston of Wellington’s Logan Brown, have watched food costs rise.
When Steve Logan started out with Brer Fox in 1988, he paid out 18 cents in wages for every dollar earned. Today at Logan Brown his wage costs represent about 45 cents in the dollar. Rangiora-based Ian Riach reports a very similar progression from his Loaded Hog days in the 1990s to his Coffee Worx today.
When the Government increased the minimum wage to $17.70 an hour on April 30, it immediately had a flow-on effect for the hospitality industry.
"$17.70 is what I formerly paid a well experienced waiter," says Clay Toomer. "Now that's what the dishwasher earns."
Another high-end bistro chef remarked gloomily: "I've got my sous-chef coming up to me and grumbling, 'How come I've got all this extra responsibility but I'm only been paid a dollar more an hour than the commis?'"
Such mid-ranked chefs are keenly aware of their worth these days, mainly because globally they are so few in number.
Egan attended the Global Restaurant Summit in the United States this year and reports that restaurateurs from all over the world voted their number one issue to be a chronic shortage of properly qualified staff.
Charley Noble head chef Philipp Dorr rues the short time spent training chefs in this country (whether at culinary schools or in apprenticeships) compared with his native Germany.
"In the old days," says Pico owner-chef Ariki Rei, "the problem used to be to find a good chef. Now the problem is finding a chef."
Some years back, restaurateurs brought in chefs from overseas, but, many say Immigration New Zealand has been making this increasingly difficult. They claim Immigration has been responding to a perceived demand for local employment by requiring ever more information to justify the restaurateur's application.
Marisa Bidois, the Auckland based CEO of The Restaurant Association, says the mechanisms are there for employing overseas workers, but the processes are not.
"There are longer wait times for visas now, which causes frustration to businesses. However, Immigration is aware of that concern."
In desperation, restaurateurs in Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch and especially Queenstown, end up giving temporary jobs to backpackers, even though they'd prefer to employ New Zealanders.
Toomer formerly found a solution by employing Vietnamese immigrants. But no more: "These days they're all out driving Ubers and painting houses."
NA ‘‘I had to spend seven years as a junior chef,’’ says Salty Pidgin’s Amy Gillies, pictured with partner John-Paul Henderson.
The upshot is that many kitchens are now packed with juniors.
As a degree lecturer at Le Cordon Bleu in Wellington, I've watched two of my graduates walk more or less straight into executive chef positions.
"I had to spend seven years as a junior chef," Salty Pidgin owner-chef Amy Gillies points out.
Even quality restaurant kitchens are not spared the dearth in skills.
As one high-end bistro chef said: "I decided I'm running a training kitchen after I asked my sous chef to make some stock and then realised he didn't know how."
Having cited the impossibility of finding good chefs as the reason he closed Wellington's Frenchie, Mark Limacher has now consolidated his staff at his flagship Ortega Fish Shack and Bar, which he now opens seven days a week, setting his staff a more attractive roster of four days on, three days off.
Some believe hospitality's staffing crisis can be attributed to Millennials, who seem not to want to do the job any longer. They expect to work for reasonable pay, for no more than 40 hours a week, and without anti-social hours.
Salty Pidgin co-owner John-Paul "JP" Henderson points out that since Millennials drink noticeably less than their parents, the old restaurant culture of hedonism and after-hours drinking no longer has the same appeal.
"It always worked for me," Henderson adds with a grin, taking another sip of his mid-afternoon pinot.
Liquor sales always used to provide the cream for restaurateurs, yet overall sales have been down since 2010; recently an on-premise wine rep was heard to complain his sales had evaporated. Other wine merchants are grumbling about restaurateurs being late to pay.
Stricter drink-driving laws – in 2014, the legal breath-alcohol limit was lowered from 400mcg to 250mcg per litre of breath – have also had an impact. While a great many of the 22 industry people contacted for this article pointed out that customers can and do still drink their fill and then order an Uber to take them home, On Trays' Scheckter has observed that where a couple would formerly have bought a bottle when they dined out, due to drink-driving laws they now only buy a glass.
To any consumer who has purchased fish, lamb or butter in recent years, it must be obvious that greatly inflated food costs represent yet another erosion into the restaurateur's profit.
Chef Shaun Clouston, a partner in Logan Brown, recalls that when he started out 20 years ago, monkfish was $1 a kilo wholesale. Nowadays that same kilo costs Logan Brown $23 wholesale, yet charging $29.50 for their monkfish bistro main means the average individual spend at Logan Brown is still about the same now as it was 10 years ago. Scott's solution has been to make one third of Chow's menu vegan, which both lowers food costs and fits with current trends.
Rent, wages and food are obvious hospitality costs. Less obvious are merchants' fees on credit card payments. Logan Brown, for example, pays out $40,000 a year in credit card fees, which is why some restaurateurs are now passing these charges on to the customer.
Another hidden cost is compliance, which often necessitates employing administrative staff to help comply with ever more stringent public health and safety rules, requiring endless probing of meat to log internal temperatures, and constant monitoring of fridges. Restaurants must now have a food control plan, audited by both the Ministry for Primary Industries and the local council, at a cost of more than $1000.
Don't even get Wellington chefs started on the council's proposal to increase liquor licence fees: "I haven't had a liquor issue in 15 years," says Logan.
Then there's the wear-and-tear on your dining room.
As Gillies puts it: "Running a restaurant is like holding a party every night."
"Just as we thought we were doing OK," adds Salty Pidgin co-owner Henderson, "we had to spend $15,000 getting our banquettes re-upholstered."
On top of everything, Christchurch and Wellington also have earthquake issues.
In central Christchurch, nine years on from the 2010 quake, restaurant rents have risen sharply because the buildings are new, and fit-out costs can easily top $1 million. Yet restaurateurs face the monumental task of recreating the old pre-quake restaurant culture in the central city, which nowadays can seem deserted.
In Wellington meanwhile, some 20 public buildings lie abandoned since the Seddon and Kaikoura earthquakes, including the Wellington Public Library, which formerly attracted 3000-strong foot traffic per day.
Then there's increased insurance premiums. Explaining the decision to close Whitebait in March, head chef James Pask said major increases in bodycorp fees and insurance from the Kaikoura earthquake meant they would have needed to increase prices by 25 per cent.
Abigail Dougherty Auckland restaurateur Michael Dearth is looking forward to the America’s Cup.
A unique problem for Wellington hospitality has been the ongoing move of company head offices to Auckland.
Auckland restaurateur Michael Dearth points out that when he opened The Grove 13 years ago, his hinterland down by the port was a wasteland of abandoned buildings. Now that wasteland holds the head offices of Air New Zealand, Vodafone and Goodman Fielder.
"I want Telecom to be our best new friend," he jokes, adding that the ASB has its headquarters right above his restaurant.
"They often come downstairs for the $12 chicken noodle soup I offer for lunch."
Dearth's glee also extends to the prospect of Auckland again hosting the America's Cup: "I think of all those accountants and mechanics the crews brought with them last time."
Even so, despite these extra corporate dollars, Auckland restaurateurs still face the same trifecta of rising wage, rent and food costs.
Hamilton restaurants, reports food writer Denise Irvine, are somewhere in the middle of thriving or in trouble. "Some restaurants are doing well; others I believe, are finding it a tough winter."
Boulcott St Bistro owner John Lawrence says restaurants are not a ‘‘robust business model’’.
As John Lawrence of Wellington's Boulcott Street Bistro says: "If the Harvard Business School was asked to put together a robust business model, it wouldn't be a restaurant."
He invites us to consider the logistics: "You bring in expensive raw produce through the back door into a kitchen where a big team turns it into something. This we sell and hope we get customers. If we can't sell it, we throw it out."
So, if it's so hard to make money out of hospitality, who would even bother?
Well, actually, heaps of people – most of them attracted not so much by money as by the allure of being involved in a creative, fun industry, manifesting in annual food festivals proliferating across the country.
While restaurateurs complain at the fees they are charged to participate in Wellington On a Plate, held every August, festival sponsors actually cover the main costs. Chefs such as Jiwon Do of Hippopotamus are 100 per cent behind WOAP, saying it keeps staff inspired and fresh. Moreover, WOAP has made August the second busiest month for Wellington restaurants, and restaurateurs are now offering their own private events at other times of the year, such as port and chocolate nights at Chow and the Beef Club at WBC.
Opening a restaurant is like forming a rock band: both industries are already massively over-supplied and only one rock band in 20,000 becomes internationally famous. The figure is probably much the same for restaurants, yet that doesn't stop owner-chefs dreaming about being the next Monique Fiso, whose indigenously themed Hiakai in suburban Mt Cook is reportedly booked out weeks in advance.
Ex-Matterhorn chef Alric Hansen recently returned from Melbourne to open Highwater in Cuba St, which he and business partner Ben Farrant are hoping will fill a perceived "giant hole" for a bar that functions equally as an eatery.
The pair reckon a minor Welly renaissance is under way, with others coming home from overseas to start new businesses, such as The Ascot rooftop bar and Glass wine bar.
Even Whitebait's dark cloud has a silver lining: head chef Pask, who could easily have set up somewhere overseas, is soon to open Atlas restaurant in Customhouse Quay.
CORRECTION: A previous version of this story incorrectly reported Len Baldwin opened Brava in 2000. Brava opened in 1996 and Baldwin was a chef and minor shareholder who joined the business in 2000, and was not the owner. The story also incorrectly reported the rent in 1996 started at $40,000 and was $200,000 at the time of sale. The Tasting Room sale was neither negotiated or sold by Baldwin but by the company that ran the business and its only remaining working director at the time, Danny McGrath.

Story 159
It’s easy to picture Pooh and the gang trotting around Ashdown Forest, pictured here in 2016. Poliphilo/Public Domain
Many literary pilgrims ramble in the footsteps of their textual heroes, or the writers who set words down on the page—maybe packing into an Alabama courthouse to see a play based on To Kill a Mockingbird, or getting a little misty-eyed when they pop into the sleepy town of Chawton, England, to pay their respects at Jane Austen’s writing desk. But some bibliophiles with a flâneur streak don’t follow the path tromped by a human character, but an ursine one.
For years, fans of A. A. Milne’s portly little pal Winnie-the-Pooh have flocked to the Ashdown Forest in East Sussex, England, a landscape that inspired the gang’s Hundred Acre Wood. Milne and his family purchased a home in the idyllic countryside in the 1920s, and the stories about the bear and his motley buddies draw heavily on the surroundings, as well as the adventures of the author’s son, Christopher Robin Milne. “Pooh’s Forest and Ashdown Forest are identical,” Christopher Robin Milne wrote in his memoir. The younger Milne fondly recalled family outings in the outdoors, “the four of us in single file threading the narrow paths that run through the heather.” Those walks through the quiet woods “made us feel that it was our Forest,” he wrote, “and so made it possible for an imaginary world—Pooh’s world—to be born within the real world.” Scores of modern visitors collapse that distance between fiction and imagination by downloading a self-guided walk that winds a few miles through Pooh’s environment.
Then, at the end of April 2019, some of the landscape went up in flames. On April 28, a blaze tore through more than 37 acres (or 15 hectares), according to the East Sussex Fire and Rescue Service. “The fire took hold quickly and was significant,” said Andrew Gausden, an incident commander, in a statement. Several crews reported to the scene to douse the fire, which made quick work of dry bracken. This fire followed two that broke out in February, when a planned burning sparked out of control, Smithsonian reported. The fire department has not yet revealed what caused the most recent blaze.
Christopher Robin’s pals, all safe and sound. sboneham/CC by 2.0
The recent fire might have been lethal for some of the real-world creatures that walk, flit, or slither through the woods, but Chris Sutton, an Ashdown Forest ranger, told BBC that the overall prognosis seemed promising. “All is not lost,” he said. “Within four weeks we’ll have grass growing, and in six months you probably won’t know too much has gone on here.”
On Facebook, the Ashdown Forest Centre reported that the area that comprises the Pooh walk “was unaffected by the fire and is still open to the public.” And while the woods recover, fans can also skitter their eyes over a charming old map of the Hundred Acre Wood, imagining walking the banks of the wending “floody place” and skipping across the smattering of “big stones and rox”—but maybe avoiding Eeyore’s moping grounds, labeled “rather boggy and sad.” Pooh pilgrims can also leave the woods and go say hello to the little plush menagerie that started it all: The threadbare stuffed animals that once belonged to Christopher Robin Milne and helped to inspire the classic now live in the New York Public Library’s Children’s Center. Another option: Stopping by the remains of a little tree stump in Cambridge, Massachusetts, that awaits Pooh’s return. (Years ago, Rabbit and Piglet had nearby nooks, too.) Imagination has a wonderful way of taking root wherever it’s planted.

Story 160
EVANSVILLE, Ind. — Atlas Van Lines, the largest subsidiary of Atlas World Group, is implementing the “largest and most extensive” pay increase for owner-operators in the truckload freight division, which also significantly increased earnings for those in the special commodities division.
The increases applied throughout the company’s contracts with corporate fleet drivers, coupled with new cost-saving initiatives, will result in a significant rise in compensation for its drivers, according to Phil Wahl, senior vice president and GM for Atlas Logistics.
Effective immediately, the average mileage pay increases are $.06 per mile in the truckload freight division and $.10 per mile in the special commodities division. The addition of stop pay, detention pay and pay for in-van equipment counts and resets on truckload shipments will further increase overall pay, especially for Atlas drivers in the truckload division. Atlas is also paying additional mileage pay on all first-year miles to new drivers in its freight divisions. These revisions will equate to several more cents per mile for drivers in Atlas’ corporate fleet.
“The heart of this pay increase revision is based on feedback we have received from our owner- operators,” Wahl said. “The success and financial stability of our owner operators is essential to the success of our fleet operations, and no one knows more about the biggest hurdles in reaching those individual goals than the owner operators themselves.”
In addition, Atlas has revisited owner-operator expenses and implemented numerous policy changes to provide drivers thousands of dollars in cost savings. For instance, the company now accepts occupational accident coverage in addition to its previous requirement for worker’s compensation coverage. Furthermore, Wahl said, Atlas’ expanded corporate fuel discount program now includes seven major brands and over 1,300 locations nationwide, adding convenience and meaningful cost savings for fuel. Together, these changes will save owner operators nearly $10,000 annually.
In the household goods division of Atlas Van Lines, the company has implemented a strategy to increase driver pay through service pricing increases. The rollout is underway and will continue through 2019.
“We are extremely proud to implement this historic pay raise for the individuals who drive our company forward,” said Jack Griffin, chairman and CEO of Atlas World Group. “Atlas is committed to developing strategic initiatives to stay ahead of the driver shortage, all of which are focused on investing in the development and retention of the industry’s next generation.”
For more information on owner operator career opportunities with Atlas Van Lines, visit www.driveatlas.com.

Story 161
More interesting than what Uber shared in its latest quarterly report was what it left out.
Through the second quarter of 2018, which ended June 30, Uber broke out numbers on driver earnings, disclosing them in a “contra revenue” section of its income statements. They were interesting! The company split driver pay into two categories: “net partner earnings” and “partner incentives and misc. payments.” (“Partner” is Uber’s preferred way of referring to the independent contractors who work for it as drivers.)
The driver portions of Uber’s reports showed why ride-hailing is such a low-margin business—and why the company would be eager to move to a driverless model: In the second quarter of 2018, 72% of gross bookings went to drivers. In other words, the vast majority of sales or “gross bookings” Uber generates aren’t retained by the company. For Uber, one route to becoming profitable is to shrink the share of bookings passed to drivers, which it did by about 4 percentage points from January 2017 to June 2018.
You can see why these contra revenue line items were revealing. But in the third quarter of 2018, ended Sept. 30, Uber removed its contra revenue section, including breakouts on driver earnings and incentives. Put another way: Uber stopped telling investors how much it pays to drivers.
Uber said at the time that it made changes to its third-quarter reporting, including removing contra revenue line items, as it moved toward GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles) best practices ahead of an initial public offering. Details on driver pay remained absent from the fourth-quarter results Uber shared with investors on Feb. 14.
It’s an open question whether the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) will decide these line items on driver wages, which Uber broke out semi-publicly for at least six quarters, need to be disclosed in the company’s IPO prospectus and quarterly reports as a public company. One indicator will be whether competing US ride-hail firm Lyft shares details on driver earnings and incentives when it makes its IPO filling public, which reportedly could happen as soon as next week (paywall).
How important are these driver-specific line items? That depends who you ask. An investor, for example, might be less interested in the details of driver pay than the sum left over for Uber after those expenses are paid. The same investor might be perfectly content to look at Uber’s net revenue relative to gross bookings to evaluate the health of the business.
But investors aren’t the only ones interested in Uber’s business, and line items on driver pay could be quite instructive to drivers seeking more insight into their wages. Drivers have long suspected Uber of taking a larger cut of their fares. The vastness of Uber’s driver network, at roughly 3 million drivers globally, makes it hard to say conclusively whether the average driver is earning less. The contra revenue line items offered another way of looking at this.
In the first quarter of 2018, for instance, gross bookings rose 55% from the same period the previous year, to $11.3 billion. But overall driver earnings (net earnings plus incentives and miscellaneous payments) increased by less, 49%, to $8.3 billion. From January 2017 to June 2018, the share of gross bookings that went to drivers dropped from 76% to 72%.
These numbers offered a glimpse into the complex and often opaque machinery of how Uber pays drivers. Unless the SEC instructs Uber to bring these numbers back, that slight transparency may be gone.

Story 162
Kiwi oil rig workers say they've been shut out of top jobs on a rig bound for the Taranaki coast - claiming all the senior roles were promised to European-based crew.
At least 18 jobs on the Chinese Oil Services rig Prospector were advertised online in January. But internal circulars by the Chinese-owned, Norwegian-based COSL as early as last June invited European staff to apply for 30 or more posts on the rig when it came to New Zealand. Immigration NZ said that would "raise some concerns".
The company has now applied for 64 work visas for overseas senior rig staff - leading to protests from trade unions and workers who weren't recruited.
Stuff has spoken to four senior, experienced rig workers who replied to the advert but weren't interviewed for roles which matched their skills and experience. The rig company and its recruiters said many Kiwi workers weren't experienced on the specific type of rig.
READ MORE: The Big Scam: our Immigration system is broken
JOHN KIRK-ANDERSON/STUFF Immigration NZ general manager Peter Elms.
None of the workers would be named for fear of blacklisting, but one called it "blatant false advertising… a scam" and has complained to Immigration NZ (INZ) and the minister, Iain Lees-Galloway. INZ is talking to complainants.
One man, a senior toolpusher with over three decades experience worldwide, said he'd applied for a job on Prospector because he wanted to work closer to home. He was told others with more recent experience got the jobs. He said an entirely new crew was being recruited for the rig, so Kiwis wouldn't have displaced existing staff.
"Kiwis apply for these jobs, even pay to update all their certificates, and don't get the jobs - what these adverts are for is to they can go along to Immigration NZ and say 'we advertised, and we got nobody suitable'.".
"I believe it is arrogance from their HR department in Norway: they perceive themselves as far superior to us out here and they don't want us working on their rig. They only want to use Kiwis for the grunts, and bring the brains in from elsewhere.
"If lots of other Kiwis got the jobs, I would have no complaint - the best man won, and I'm not against companies being able to choose who they wish. If it was an open and honest selection process, I would have no argument."
An experienced driller said he applied for a job matching his experience, confirmed he was a NZ citizen, then heard nothing further.
One experienced Kiwi rig electrician working offshore said he'd heard nothing of his application apart from an acknowledgement. He had all the certificates and qualifications he would need for the job. "I applied because it was coming into NZ waters so it appealed to me; I've worked offshore for the last 10 years. I never heard anything back from them. It was exactly the same position as I've got now [offshore]."
Another driller said he applied for an assistant driller's position - a step down from his current role and he'd worked with the systems to be used on the rig for over a decade. "I called [COSL's employment agency] Atlas… they seemed disinterested when I spoke to them on the phone. After that I emailed my CV, but never got a reply."
Applicants received emails from New Plymouth-based recruitment agency Atlas saying: "we anticipate a large response".
JONATHAN CAMERON E Tu union organiser Ross Henderson.
INZ general manager Peter Elms said internally advertising roles would "raise some concerns for us - we would have to be absolutely satisfied any subsequent kind of advertisement and recruitment process had been fair and equitable and not pre-determined."
The circular, from then COSL chief executive Jorge Arnesen, announced the Prospector contract and said "in order to execute this contract in a safe and professional manner, COSL will also mobilise experienced key personnel from the North Sea" and asked candidates to email the HR director, Osvald Borgen. Another email said they needed "about 30 key personnel .. to manage the operations", listing the roles - many of them similar to those in the online advert.
COSL have a rig already in NZ, called Boss. It similarly advertised roles for that rig on Seek, and ended up with 37 overseas crew and 66 Kiwis.
In an email to Stuff, Borgen said the rig required a "high degree of rig-specific competence in order to operate safely and effectively".
He admitted there was an internal application process for candidates to take the rig to New Zealand and set it up but that process was "rig-specific knowledge and competence, and not nationality".
"To operate a highly advanced rig in an area like New Zealand represents a huge responsibility to any rig owner," he said.
Several senior roles would come from COSL staff because "there is no other way". He said 46 of the 63 staff on the rig at any time would be locals and said they would commit to hiring and training more into senior roles.
Elms said the company had asked for 66 visas and told Immigration NZ they would hire 98 locals. He said in general, most of the 98 roles were lower technical positions and the 66 were senior posts.
CHINAFOTOPRESS The Prospector is a relatively new rig: in 2014 it departed the Shandong province of China, bound for Norway.
Elms said as most were highly-specialised, INZ needed to see if there were Kiwis available to fill them and would be asking questions of the company's recruitment process and consulting unions, MSD, Worksafe and the Labour Inspectorate, and why the men who spoke to Stuff had not been hired, and would ask the company for "concrete promises around training New Zealanders".
NZ Merchant Service Guild general secretary, Helen McAra, wrote to Immigration NZ opposing the visas, saying the company had been "disingenuous" in advertising the jobs in New Zealand when they appeared to have already been recruited offshore. "We are relying heavily on INZ to ensure that New Zealanders are not shut out of this work in their own waters."
McAra wanted INZ to check the dates of the overseas offers, and check CVs to see if they were superior. If there was a specific skill shortage, INZ should time-limit visas and demand Kiwis be trained up to replace overseas staff. She said four Australians with the ability to hold the senior roles on the rig had been appointed to lowest-ranked officer roles as a 'token' to "earn some sympathy" and "to provide some comfort to INZ that at least 'some' local officers have been employed, albeit in the lowest possible ranks."
A senior organiser at the Aviation and Marine Engineers Association, Stan Renwick, said a recurring issue was his union offering to provide complete crews to overseas vessels, and instead being asked for only a handful of staff. Renwick said he always opposed such visa applications because there were plentiful skilled Kiwi staff. "But we haven't ever been able to secure the top positions...They want their own people."
ANDY JACKSON/STUFF COSL already have the BOSS rig drilling off the Taranaki coast.
Taranaki organiser for E Tu Union, Ross Henderson, said it was standard practise for rig companies to bring their own senior staff and only hire lower and mid-ranked staff locally.
Atlas Recruitment general manager David Bishop said Atlas followed industry-standard practices and their recruitment had been "very thorough, extensive and genuine in nature - it could not have been further from being a 'box-ticking' exercise" and they had assisted a "significant number" of Kiwis into jobs. Bishop said the rig had many systems and equipment unfamiliar to many Kiwi applicants.
Prospector will drill in the Tui oilfield off the Taranaki coast. It left Bergen, Norway, in February and will arrive here in late May or early June, and after Taranaki it may also drill in the Southern Basin off Dunedin.

Story 163
The 2020 Kia Telluride is a first for the automaker—a mid-size crossover truly big and beefy enough to compete with the Volkswagen Atlas, Toyota Highlander, Mazda CX-9, and other SUVs in its class. It’s highly competent, comfortable, and, dare I say, even fun.
(Full Disclosure: Kia flew me to Colorado, put me up in a fancy hotel, fed me and made alcohol available, all so I could spend several hours in the new Telluride. We also drove to, yes, Telluride, Colorado. [The car is named the Telluride.])
The days when Kias were tiny econoboxes with, shall we say, questionable build quality are a distant memory. Kias of the ‘10s have been among the most reliable cars on offer today, a winning on combination of value and quality, and solid proof that the company learned from its early mistakes.
The Telluride offers a different proposition altogether. It seems perfectly timed to an American market that is buying big crossovers in droves, eschewing smaller cars that made Kia famous. The Telluride is on sale now, and has been for about a month; Kia says it has sold more than 3,000 of these in that time, an impressive sales number that puts it in the conversation with an SUV like the Atlas and surpasses the CX-9.
Expect to see a lot of these on the roads in the coming years, in other words.
What Is It?
It’s a big, mid-size crossover, not a full-size crossover, mind you, because Kia says it’s not intended to compete with SUVs like the Ford Expedition or Chevy Suburban. It’s certainly big, though, one must admit, and Kia says that its boxy styling is very much intentional, and allows for more room in the cabin, an advantage over unnamed other brands who want theirs to be more rounded out. (I’m assuming they’re referring to something like the Buick Enclave.)
Advertisement
It’s 197 inches long, 69 inches tall and has a curb weight around 4,110 pounds in its least-loaded trim. Equipped all the way up and with optional all-wheel drive, it comes in around 4,500 pounds.
Of course Kia has been selling a three-row crossover for a while—the Sorento. However, with a length of only 189 inches, it’s a bit smaller than the usual benchmarks like the Toyota Highlander and Honda Pilot and is therefore a bit tight for families. The Telluride aims squarely at folks looking to avoid the minivan with a bigger entry that stacks up better against the larger, newer or updated offerings such as the Ford Explorer and Subaru Ascent.
It’s powered by a 3.8-liter V6, offering 291 horsepower and 262 lb-ft of torque, which might seem a little low for a car in that weight class, but even in the optioned-out SX model Kia gave me to drive, that was more than enough for passing, provided you got a head of steam first.
All that power goes through an eight-speed automatic transmission that puts in work so seamlessly you barely notice it, and comes in front-wheel drive and all-wheel drive variants. (You should probably pay a little extra for the all-wheel drive, though a bit more on that later.)
Specs That Matter
Let’s start with price: The Telluride starts at $31,690, which is sort of incredible, given that even its base package gets a whole host of features that you would find on much more expensive SUVs, like forward collision warnings, lane departure warnings, lane keeping assist, and adaptive cruise control with stop and go, for when you’re in traffic.
Advertisement
Also, about the length: it’s shorter than the CX-9 and also a hair shorter than the VW Atlas. It can tow up to 5,000 pounds. You can also get 20-inch wheels on the Telluride, but you’re probably better off sticking with the 18-inch wheels, unless you love paying an even huger sum of money when the initial set of Michelins wears out.
What’s Great
The drive modes—Smart, Eco, Sport, Comfort, and Snow—all worked as advertised, and you could feel a genuine change in drive dynamics between them, especially going from Sport to Snow. That latter mode pushes 80 percent of power to the front-wheels to help with traction, while gradually rolling back that percentage to 50-50 as the vehicle stabilizes.
On a mud course Kia set us up with, it didn’t work wonders, but it did noticeably help stabilize things in a situation—cold, wet clay—where any car would’ve had a hard time finding grip.
On the actual road, the Telluride is a rolling couch. In comfort mode especially, you can feel the road and (some) bumps, but the outside world mainly exists as an illusion, because inside the Telluride you’re moving along at your own gravity.
Sport mode changes this a little bit, but not by much and the whole package is well-designed for comfort above all else. The Telluride has handles attached to the center console for the driver and the front-seat passenger, but these are cosmetic, because the Telluride would never deign to make you uncomfortable, or never deign to make you feel like you would need to grab on to something to survive.
Advertisement
It’s a bit of a cliche, but the Telluride feels like a tank, but tanks as far as I know don’t have seven airbags.
The fuel mileage you get—26 combined mpg for the front-wheel drive version, and 24 combined mpg for the all-wheel drive version—is also decent and would’ve been world-beating not too long ago, if not outstanding in its class. And it comes from an engine that, I’ll be honest, I expected a lot less from. Instead, the V6—which remains the same across every trim level—packs a punch, and is more than capable on the highway at speed.
This is the storage with three seats:
This is the storage with two, you can judge which is better. (The storage with the two seats down is gigantic.)
Advertisement
What’s Weak
The touchscreen, like nearly all touchscreens, is horrible. This isn’t really Kia’s fault, exactly—no automaker that I’m aware of has made a good touchscreen, possibly because if you’re any good at making touchscreens you don’t work for an automaker or an auto parts supplier, you work for Apple—but the whole concept in cars deserves a rethink, since none of them can get it right.
Perhaps that’s inherent in the design, since most drivers have to lean to reach and read center-consoled touchscreens, but Kia’s performed like the rest. Sometimes you would inadvertently hit the wrong button. Sometimes you would hit the right button and nothing would happen.
Sometimes you would hit the right button and too many things would happen. Confusingly, there are also physical buttons below the touchscreen that also control different things on the touchscreen. In any case the setup was overly complicated and bad.
Early Verdict
Kia’s motto is “Give It Everything,” which they certainly have with the Telluride, both a blessing and a curse. The center console is a complicated mess—one Kia person approvingly compared it to the cockpit of a jet, which, nah —but that same approach serves it well in other aspects of the car, like with all of the safety features that come standard, the numerous charging ports and power outlets, and its massive cargo space with the third-row seat folded down.
You can even get a bench seat for the second row, while seemingly every other feature in the world—an available feature called Driver Talk allows the driver to speak into a microphone and project their voice to the rear seats, in case, say, your large children are acting up and you don’t want to yell—is available for the higher-priced trims, themselves not terribly high-priced (and in fact lower-priced in many cases) compared to competitors.
Advertisement
This strategy is big and bold and I love it, since Kia doesn’t pretend to go for respectability like the Germans do. No, Kia is opting to make a super well-equipped SUV specifically catered to its market.
The Telluride was designed in Irvine, California, and is built in Georgia, meaning there’s nothing really Korean about it at all. It is huge and willing to entertain even the most outlandish of ideas, and thus feels ideally poised to succeed in America perhaps more than any other Kia before it.

Story 164
The US Air Force has, traditionally, done a terrible job of buying new rockets.
Now, as lawmakers consider a total reorganization of the US military’s space operations, the Pentagon’s latest attempt to purchase new launch vehicles has become a hotly contested rivalry featuring the military-industrial complex and rocket billionaires Elon Musk and Jeff Bezos. Of course, there’s a Russia angle, too.
The battle could shape not just US national security but also the future of private space companies writ large—access to revenue from military launches bolster a rocket-maker’s offerings to a range of potential customers. Musk’s SpaceX revolutionized the space industry and became the world’s leading commercial launcher thanks, in part, to winning Pentagon business.
SpaceX’s success forced its primary competitors—longtime military contractors like Boeing, Lockheed Martin, and Northrop Grumman—to compete on price and innovation for the first time in years. Add in Bezos’s company Blue Origin, with its own Silicon Valley-inflected approach to space, and the US boasts perhaps the deepest industrial base for space-launch in world history.
The Air Force will only choose two companies to fly five years’ worth of national-security missions, a prize of more than a billion dollars in annual revenue split 60-40 between the winning companies. The losing firms will be left to compete for civil or commercial launches without the support of the traditional third leg of the rocket-business stool.
The stakes had Blue Origin scrambling to convince the Air Force to change the way it is structuring the contracts, or at least delay the final choice. Despite political pressure, the Air Force has stood firm and will choose just two companies.
Perhaps the most conservative customers in the space world will be responsible for choosing the culture that will define American rockets for the next decade.
Can it do so without halting the last decade’s progress?
How not to buy a rocket
If you want to understand the current fight over Air Force space dollars, you need to look at some history.
In the 1990s, the Air Force began the Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicles (EELV) program to replace old rockets based on ballistic missiles. This year, it was renamed the National Security Space Launch program (NSSL), in part because some of its newer SpaceX vehicles are reusable, not expendable. In its early years, the new design process produced a string of failures. Over-optimistic assumptions by its two participants, Boeing and Lockheed Martin, almost pushed their rocket-building divisions to go out of business.
In 2006, the US military—desperate for access to space—overruled the Federal Trade Commission and allowed the two firms to join forces in a subsidized rocket monopoly called United Launch Alliance, which left the American space industry globally uncompetitive and stagnant.
By the end of 2014, the program that began as EELV had cost taxpayers $60.5 billion, more than twice the original estimate when it kicked off 16 years before. This is in part because space technology is expensive and difficult to design and, as auditors pointed out for years, the Air Force did not understand what it was paying ULA to do and did not manage the process.
Then Musk’s SpaceX and its Falcon 9 rocket arrived on the scene, with plans to explore the solar system and build reusable rockets. Musk, looking for more business, sued the Air Force for the right to compete against ULA, arguing its much cheaper rockets could put satellites into orbit just as well.
SpaceX benefitted from a geopolitical turn of events as well: ULA’s workhorse rocket, the Atlas V, is powered by Russian-built rocket engines as part of a post-Cold War policy to keep former Soviet engineers away from rogue states. After Putin’s invasion of Crimea, however, buying expensive engines from a Russian state-owned enterprise became politically damaging, through no fault of ULA.
The legal battles ended in a sealed settlement that allowed SpaceX to compete and win 10 launches; a rough comparison with ULA’s prices suggests the competition saved taxpayers more than $1 billion. Today, US military and spy agencies rely on SpaceX and ULA to fly surveillance, communication and navigation satellites seen as vital to projecting US power overseas. However, those contracts expire in 2022, and Congress has forbidden the Air Force from paying for any new Russian engines—which is to say, the Atlas V—after that year.
A new round of procurement
The military is preparing to purchase a new round of about 25 satellite launches between 2020 and 2024. It still wants to select just two providers when it makes the final cut, arguing that there is not enough business to support three American rocket companies.
This time there are four competitors: Bezos’ Blue Origin and the defense contractor Northrop Grumman have joined SpaceX and ULA in the race.
The Air Force started out by offering cash for the competitors to develop their rockets and launch systems before the final selection was made. In October 2018, Blue, Northrop and ULA split $2.3 billion of this funding to prepare next-generation designs. That includes ULA’s Vulcan rocket, Blue Origin’s New Glenn and Northrop’s OmegA.
SpaceX did not receive any of that development funding, with Musk later telling acting defense secretary Patrick Shanahan that his company’s proposal was poor and “missed the mark.” The company’s next rocket, Starship, is a huge vehicle designed for space exploration and isn’t expected to fly for several years.
AP Photo/Jae C. Hong Turns out this space stuff is pretty lucrative.
SpaceX’s Falcon 9 and Falcon Heavy rockets—still the newest orbital rockets on the planet—are likely to be leading competitors in the final selection, if only because no competitor has a new rocket that will be ready to fly by 2022. That’s one reason Blue Origin pushed for a two-year delay: The Air Force will have to make decisions based on designs and plans, not operational vehicles.
Industry sources outside Blue Origin say the parameters of the contest were clear when bidding began. Blue, which originally hoped to fly its New Glenn rocket for the first time next year, is now expecting a 2021 debut. The company still has yet commit to a final design of the rocket and complete test programs on the two different engines that will propel it into space. Competitors also point out that the procurement request doesn’t prioritize factors like system readiness and schedule, which gives an advantage to companies who haven’t finished their rockets yet.
Others argue that the haste to make a choice is designed to favor the incumbents, ULA and SpaceX, and their existing vehicles. That concern is focused on a provision allowing the use of backup vehicles if the primary rocket isn’t ready, which could allow ULA to compete its unbuilt Vulcan rocket, then use an Atlas V to complete the mission. And the competitors are skeptical of language in the final procurement that allows the Air Force to select the second provider based on how it complements the first, a criteria they say is totally subjective.
Above all, the Air Force insists it cannot wait to fund a rocket program if it wants to have viable options by the time the Atlas V is retired in 2022. But given the lack of flight-ready new rockets, some observers expect the outcome will be purchasing the same rockets the US military uses today, at least for the early years of this procurement. That doesn’t necessarily match the Air Force’s stated goal of driving innovation in the rocket industry—and ending reliance on the Russian engines used by ULA.
An opaque decision process
Adam Smith, a Washington Democrat who chairs the House Armed Services Committee, wrote a letter to the Pentagon last month asking for the Air Force to delay the procurement decision until the service can get a look at the newest options and their prices. The result was a slightly altered contract. But the military is full speed ahead. “The industrial base is ready,” Air Force secretary Heather Wilson said in a statement.
The participating companies each spent more than a million dollars on lobbying in 2018. Smith, whose district includes operations for both Amazon and Blue Origin, certainly has an interest in his home-state company. It’s not unusual: ULA has its own powerful backers like senator Richard Shelby of Alabama, whose state hosts ULA’s largest factory. SpaceX found a champion in the late senator John McCain, whose anti-Russia stance led the Arizona Republican to take SpaceX’s side in the rocket-competition battle. Musk’s company now counts on California’s congressional delegation in the battle for launch contracts.
One political wrinkle for Blue Origin is that its business model has long been investment from the richest man in the world. During Blue’s first partnership with NASA in 2012, more than a decade after its founding, Blue employees told their contact at the space agency they had never sent anyone an invoice. Now, as the company seeks to make its space operations sustainable, the prospect of billions in revenue is worth fighting for.
Twitter/Jeff Bezos Space cowboy.
Another is that ULA is almost entirely dependent on government business for its survival as a company; its rockets are just too expensive for commercial customers. Failing to win the contract would be disastrous for the company, which might endanger US access to space in the near-term. But selecting ULA and SpaceX, the two companies that have working rockets, would mean not just cutting off development funding to Blue Origin and Northrop Grumman, but making them return it.
The situation is even more complicated to assess because of the web of relationships between the three non-SpaceX competitors. Blue Origin is building the primary engines for ULA’s new Vulcan rocket, and Northrop Grumman will build the solid-rocket boosters expected to give it extra power. Those connections may influence how the Air Force picks its two launch providers.
Space Force, of course
Behind all of these machinations, lawmakers are debating how to split out extra-terrestrial military operations into the US Space Force. It’s not clear yet what the result will be, but one thing is sure: Managing this rocket-buying program will be one of its biggest and most expensive tasks.
And officials are worried about screwing up: The military has seen the growing gap, now going on eight years, between the end of NASA’s space shuttle in 2011 and the debut of a new vehicle that will carry astronauts into orbit. Military planners believe that any similar gap when it comes to launching satellites would be disastrous.
The same dynamics helped lead to the initial EELV debacle. The military’s willingness to pay any price led it to pay, well, any price. SpaceX introduced competition, but even now it is charging the government far more than commercial customers. That’s not just because the military requires additional services during launch. The government can’t get a better deal. One reason NASA and Air Force officials have been so bullish on Blue Origin is that its ambitions represent a competitive threat to SpaceX that ULA, so far, does not.
At the moment, anything from an immediate bidding process to a year-long delay is possible. Just as SpaceX’s protests led the Air Force to carve out a block of launches that could be bid out among rivals, the USAF could reluctantly create a new competition block. Few industry sources and legislative aides express much certainty about the final outcome, but they don’t expect that long-established ULA’s bid will be rejected. It’s also difficult for them to imagine the military rejecting SpaceX, which still offers the best value and newest working rockets.
That could leave Northrop and Blue Origin on the outside. Northrop, with a diversified defense business, might accept the result.
But if we have learned one thing about sidelining a deep-pocketed rocket entrepreneur, it’s that he might decide to sue.

Story 165
Florida is cracking down on a group of moving companies accused of defrauding consumers around the country. The state's Attorney General filed a civil suit in federal court last month against 14 companies it investigated. The movers face allegations ranging from damaging property to using deceptive marketing tactics and alleged extortion.
Spartan Van Lines is one of 15 aliases one of the companies targeted has used since 2014. The allegations range from using "unskilled, untrained laborers who often damage or steal property," to "holding consumers' property hostage."
"CBS This Morning" looked into the company after reading through scores of complaints from customers who claim their belongings were held hostage until a cash ransom was paid. Many of the people we spoke to say they had no choice but to pay, while others we met are still waiting for their most prized possessions to arrive.
Last June, Dolores Skeen moved across the country for life-saving back surgery. She hired a moving company called Spartan Van Lines to take her belongings from storage in Texas to a one-bedroom apartment in Maryland.
Skeen was quoted $3,453.43, which she paid in full. But Skeen says that after they loaded her stuff, they jacked up the price to nearly $12,000.
Eight months later, nothing has arrived.
The walls in Skeen's apartment are bare – not even pictures of her late husband or children.
"What do your wedding pictures mean to you?" asked correspondent Meg Oliver.
"Oh my God, everything," Skeen replied. "He's gone now. I have nothing to remember him by. The coffee cup that he used to use that I kept with me, I don't have any of that."
"Are they holding your stuff hostage?"
"Yeah!" Skeen said. "They want more money. To me, that's being a hostage."
CBS News got price comparisons from three highly-rated companies for a similar move; estimates from other moving companies came in between $6,000 and $8,000, well below the $12,000 demanded by Spartan.
In an email, the company told Skeen that if she doesn't pay, her belongings will be sent to auction.
"There's no reason for this, other than people trying to make money," she said.
Her misery is echoed across the country. Angry Spartan customers like Jennifer Taylor Bell, in Illinois, are still waiting for items. Bell told Oliver, "When I said, 'No, I will not give you cash, I will give you the money order,' the man never showed up."
"That's extortion," said Oliver.
"Yes."
In Florida, Davina Trafagander caved, and paid an extra $7,000 to reclaim her furniture. And when Amanda Peterson's stuff arrived in Arizona, items were damaged beyond repair; the screen of her TV was smashed.
Pennsylvania Senator Dave Argall passed a bill to crack down on scam movers. He said the underground market is hurting legitimate businesses.
"We kept getting complaints about consumers who were being ripped off," Argall said. "Something would be, you know, broken in the move, some old artifact from great-grandma, and of course they found out that while they thought they had hired real, legitimate movers, they had hired bandits."
Argall says legitimate business owners are also being targeted.
Legitimate businessmen like Josh Hall, who owns a Florida moving company; he claims that Spartan Van Lines is masquerading under the same name as his company. He told Oliver it's had a "definite impact" on his business.
Hall estimates business is down 50 percent because of the negative reviews generated by the other Spartan Van Lines, a company CBS News tracked down to an office outside Philadelphia. Although the moving company told us their hub and fleet of trucks are located at a Doylestown, Pa., address, all we found there was a mailbox.
More than a thousand miles away, in Hallandale, Florida, Oliver tracked down the company's owner, Joshua Vaknin. He refused to talk on camera, but denied all accusations of fraud.
In Florida, correspondent Meg Oliver found Joshua Vaknin, who has been accused by the state's attorney general of operating scam moving businesses. CBS News
Meanwhile, in her empty apartment, Delores Skeen is still recovering from surgery, and is facing retirement with no personal belongings, no furniture, and no clothes.
"This is it; obviously I can't work anymore," she said.
"Are you depressed?" asked Oliver.
"Very," she said, getting emotional. "It's just horrible what this company has done to people, and I'm not the only one."
"CBS This Morning" reached out to Spartan Van Lines to help locate Skeen's property. They finally told us her things never left Texas and were in storage. Spartan's owner told us her property won't be released until the remaining balance of nearly $9,000 is paid in full.
To find out if a moving company is legitimate, consumers are directed to a website, moving.org, where they can find out if there are complaints against a firm.
Have a consumer problem? Email tips to CBS News at consumer@cbsnews.com

Story 166
Overview
Tucked between the Black and Caspian Seas and in the shadow of Europe’s highest mountains, you'll find Georgia—a tiny country with an astounding culinary heritage and a winemaking tradition tracing back eight millennia. On this mouthwatering gastronomic adventure, we’ll explore in and around the capital of Tbilisi, paying homage to Svetitskhovloba, the country’s holiest site, before dipping into some of the finest wine from one of the most underrated wine regions in the world. We’ll also spend two days in the stunning Alazani Valley, where we’ll experience the deep reverence for winemaking that defines this land. Along the way, we’ll take in unique performances, visit little-known spots, and to cap things off, learn to cook our own Georgian feast, or supra.
Our partner, Culinary Backstreets: In order to create and curate this unique experience, we've partnered closely with Culinary Backstreets, a global guide to local eats that publishes restaurant reviews and features on local culinary culture. They bring these stories to life on culinary tours and special events, offered in 12 cities around the world, and have extensive international experience with all things gastronomical.

Story 167
In the roughly four years since Apple launched its mobile payments service, Apple Pay, the company has managed to convince just about every major bank and retailer to let customers use their bank accounts to pay for things quickly through iPhones and Apple Watches.
Today (Jan. 22), Apple announced that it has also signed up Taco Bell and Target—two years ago, Target said it had no plans to adopt Apple Pay— meaning that 74 of the top 100 US retailers by revenue now accept Apple’s digital payment. The company added pharmacy chain CVS, along with 7-Eleven, late last year. They joined other major US retailers that include Best Buy, Starbucks, McDonald’s, Walgreens, Costco, and Kohl’s. (Some of the biggest holdouts: Walmart and Home Depot.)
While there’s no way of knowing exactly how popular Apple Pay is with consumers—the company doesn’t break out user numbers or revenue it receives from those transactions—the ever-increasing number of retailers using the service suggests it’s growing in popularity. Apple Pay is also taking off outside the US, where regions like Europe and Japan have more widespread adoptions of contactless payments.
There are other signs of Apple Pay’s increasing popularity. During eBay’s latest earnings call in November, chief financial officer Scott Schenkel told investors:
We’re offering other payment alternatives that we haven’t in the past like Apple Pay. So Apple Pay, in a matter of weeks, if you’re on an iOS device, immediately jump to 12% check out, 12% of checkout volume if you’re on an Apple mobile device. And that’s quite remarkable.
And during Apple’s last earnings call, CEO Tim Cook said the company set a revenue record for Apple Pay in the last quarter, adding:
Apple Pay is… by far, the #1 mobile contactless payment service worldwide. Transaction volume tripled year-over-year, and to put that into perspective, Apple Pay generated significantly more transactions than even PayPal mobile with over 4x the growth rate.
In PayPal’s most recent earnings release, the company stated that 40% of its 2.5 billion payment transactions for the quarter were done over mobile, which means that Apple is seeing over 1 billion Apple Pay transactions each quarter, and that number is growing rapidly.
Apple includes revenue from Apple Pay in a line item called “Services,” which also includes revenue from sales of apps and games, Apple Music subscriptions, iCloud storage, and ad sales for the App Store. We don’t know how much of Apple’s services revenue comes from Apple Pay, but reports suggest that Apple receives a 0.15% cut of each payment.
We also don’t know the average transaction value on Apple Pay, but if over 1 billion transactions are happening every few months, even the tiny percentage Apple takes would add up to a sizable chunk of change. The entire services business generated nearly $10 billion for Apple in the last quarter alone.

Story 168
An illustration of the famous Pie-Girl Dinner from The New York World. New York Public Library/Public Domain
On May 20, 1895, 16-year-old Susie Johnson, wearing nothing but gauze and haloed by a flock of live canaries, burst through the crust of a giant pie. It was polo player John Ellliot Cowdin’s 10th wedding anniversary, and the dinner was lavish: 16 courses from clams to coffee, each punctuated by champagne. Two models entertained the male guests. There was a later rumor—likely apocryphal—that their hair color was coordinated with the wine, the brunettes pouring red, the blondes pouring white. Susie Johnson, dancing out of double-crust pastry, served herself.
In the 1890s, New York was a city with a fever. The slip of island between the Hudson and East River was plush with cash. It poured in from shipyards, freight trains, and factories. It flooded the Manhattan streets. Carriages bounced, crowds pressed, electricity glittered. From Pittsburgh and Omaha, Secaucus and Cincinnati, young women flocked to the city, hoping to make it under the newly electrified lights of the Broadway stage. They ended up modeling for the burgeoning print advertisement industry or working in the chorus line, the factory line, or the line of sex workers on the streets.
Susie Johnson was one such woman. As reported by Joseph Pulitzer’s New York World, a pioneering yellow newspaper, she had grown up in a working-class family on the West Side. Her career as an artist’s model had begun innocently enough: a portrait here and there. But soon she was taking off her clothes, and then there she was, flesh gleaming in the smoky air, singing “Four and Twenty Blackbirds” for the who’s who of New York playboys. Illustrator Charles Dana Gibson, creator of the Gibson girl, was there; so was inventor Nicola Tesla. (Cowdin’s wife, the ostensible object of the anniversary celebration, wasn’t on the guest list.) Architect Stanford White, whose firm McKim, Mead, and White designed New York City landmarks from the Brooklyn Museum to Columbia University, also attended. According to The New York World, he was the one who cooked up the idea for Johnson’s performance.
The menu and guest list from the infamous dinner. Paula Uruburu/Used with permission
It wasn’t the first time in Western history a person—or a live bird, for that matter—had emerged from a large baked good for the entertainment of a feasting elite. Medieval Europeans stuffed pies with live frogs just to watch them hop out. By 1474, an Italian cookbook included instructions on how to fill a large pie with birds, which burst into flight upon the pie’s slicing. In England, this practice is the likely origin of the “Sing a Song of Sixpence” nursery rhyme. People emerged from pies, too: In 1626, the Duke and Duchess of Buckingham gifted Charles I a pie containing the live Sir Jeffrey Hudson, a famous dwarf who would go on to serve in the court.
For the posh set of late-19th century New York City—a coterie as obsessed with public prudery as with private adultery—the “Pie-Girl” dinner was a sensation. “The ‘Girl in the Pie’ at the Three Thousand Five Hundred Dollar Dinner in Artist Breese’s New York Studio,” declared the New York World, above an illustration of Johnson thronged by besuited men, spread like a Venus in pastry. The picture was as scandalous as the dinner’s cost: more than 2,300 times the daily wage of a day laborer.
In the New York World illustration, architect Stanford White stands to Susie Johnson’s left, wielding a large kitchen knife as though about to carve her. According to the article, shortly after the party, Susie Johnson posed “by electric light” at an artist’s studio, a euphemism for sex work, and went missing soon after. “Poor Susie Johnson, dazzled by the lavish compliments and surprised by the liberality of her distinguished patrons,” reported the World. “Perhaps this article will bring Susie Johnson home to her parents and put a stop to the midnight revels in New York’s fashionable studios.”
It didn’t. In 1907, another New York World article revisited the Pie-Girl Dinner, this time as an unheeded warning against the dangers of sexual excess. Susie Johnson, the article said, had faded into anonymity; but Stanford White was dominating the headlines. He had been murdered by the husband of another young woman, Evelyn Nesbit, who said White had raped her. Splashed across yellow newspapers, detailed in a pulp novel, dramatized in Hollywood, and told in popular histories to this day, Stanford White’s rape of Evelyn Nesbit, and his eventual murder, embodied the Gilded glamor of the turn of the century City—and the violence done to working class women such as Nesbit and Johnson.
Evelyn Nesbit, around 1901. Gertrude Käsebier/Public Domain
White offered to make Nesbit’s career, to care for her, and to pay her and her mother’s expenses. He was 47 and married; she was 16 and a chorus girl. The first time White invited Nesbit to his 24th Street apartment, one of many he owned in the city, he brought her to the top floor, where he had rigged a velvet swing to hang from the ceiling. White sat Nesbit on the swing and pushed her: his hands on her back, her legs straining. One night shortly thereafter, White brought the teenager to his bedroom, gave her a glass of spiked champagne, and raped her. Nesbit woke naked to her blood on the sheets. “Now you belong to me,” White had told her, holding her afterwards.
Nesbit told no one about the rape until a few years later, when she confided in her soon-to-be-husband Harry Thaw. But Thaw also had a reputation. It was rumored he beat working class girls with dog whips and soaked them with boiling water until they scalded. He couldn’t stand that Stanford White had “ruined” his wife, so on June 25, 1906, at an opening performance in the very Madison Square Garden theater that Stanford White had designed, Harry Thaw shot and killed him. “He ruined your life, dear,” he told Nesbit as a fireman marched him out of the theater, his gun still hot from the kill. “That’s why I did it.”
The ensuing courtroom drama was declared the trial of the still-young century. Unlike so many women of the era, Evelyn Nesbit had a chance to tell her story, narrating her rape to the courtroom and answering accusatory questions with dignity. Afterward, Thaw was sent to a mental asylum. Nesbit struggled with addiction, yet continued to perform and teach until her death in the ‘60s.
Stanford White, meanwhile, was buried in a Long Island cemetery. But the real monuments to his memory lie all over New York City, in the soaring columns of the Brooklyn Museum and the shadow of the white marble arch in Washington Square. Nesbit was never a very good actress, says Simon Baatz, a City University of New York historian who wrote a book on the case. She’s most remembered not for her work, but for her rape. Stanford White, meanwhile, is remembered not only for the violence he did or the violence done to him, but for what he created.
Stanford White’s Madison Square Garden, behind, looms over 1908 skyline. Library of Congress/Public Domain
According to newspapers, even White’s high-profile murder didn’t do much to dampen the reputations of other elite men who may have been guilty of similar crimes. “Stanford White is dead,” The New York World reported in its 1907 retrospective, printed during the height of Harry Thaw’s murder trial. “But most of the guests of that dinner are alive and are holding positions of honor or at the head of their craft.”
What about Susie Johnson? She is also remembered for her work, at least tangentially. Partly in response to the notoriety of the pie-girl incident, women dancing out of cakes became a popular erotic trope. Debbie Reynolds did it in Singin’ in the Rain; Mad Men-era executives hired women to do it for corporate parties; Bachelor contenders do it to this day. As for Johnson’s life, the archives don’t tell us much. The 1907 retrospective reported that she eventually married, but also that when her husband discovered that she was the girl from the pie incident, he left her. She died young and a pauper.
Baatz says there’s no evidence to certify this. Yellow papers, after all, regularly made things up. For all we know, Johnson lived a long, happy life. But as far as the official record is concerned, Susie Johnson jumped from a giant pie into history, and then—like so many women remembered as side dishes to someone else’s story—promptly jumped back out.
Gastro Obscura covers the world’s most wondrous food and drink.
Sign up for our email, delivered twice a week.

Story 169
Arrival & Departure
The Silver City Resort is located roughly 2.5 hours from Fresno, California. Check-in at the resort begins at 3 p.m., and we'll plan to meet at the resort restaurant at 6 p.m. for dinner, so travelers flying into Fresno Airport should plan to land by 2 p.m on Day 1. If you’d like to carpool, we’d be happy to help coordinate this in advance. Our trip concludes the morning of Day 4. Check-out at the resort is at 12 p.m., but you’re welcome to depart Sequoia at your leisure. If you’re flying out of Fresno, we recommend booking a flight that departs in the late afternoon or evening of Day 4.
Activity Level
This trip will require some physical activity. Travelers should be comfortable hiking between two and five miles per day, often in unmarked sections of the valley, and sometimes involving bushwhacking. You'll need sturdy hiking boots as well as protective clothing to prevent cuts and scratches to your arms and legs. We'll also be spending extended time in the forest after dark with headlamps and flashlights.
Accommodations
We'll be staying in spacious, shared chalets at the Silver City Resort in Sequoia National Park. Single travelers should be prepared to share a room with two twin beds with another traveler of the same gender, depending on the composition of the group. Pairs traveling together will stay in shared rooms outfitted with queen beds. Each chalet has one bathroom and will accommodate six travelers.
Health & Safety

Story 170
THE days of relying on your local bobby to keep your streets safe seem to be well and truly over.
Instead, desperate Brits are paying as little as £1-a-month for almost a quarter of a million private policemen to patrol the streets, tackling everything from race hate to stolen puppies.
18 Firms, such as Atlas Security, are now patrolling Britain's streets Credit: SWNS:South West News Service
This week, Sergeant Simon Kempton, of the Police Federation provoked outraged with the suggestion that victims should carry out their own investigations and track down stolen possessions themselves.
In some parts of Britain, 78 per cent of crimes aren't investigated while in leafy Tiverton, Devon, arrests have plunged since the only cell at the police station has been removed.
Unsurprisingly some Brits are taking matters into their own hands.
Here, Sun Online goes across Britain (from Somerset villages to Yorkshire towns and shiny Kensington streets) to meet the people who feel the police can no longer protect them - and the vigilantes making a tidy living filling the void.
18 Spirit Wright, 58, of Atlas Security. He says his presence keeps locals safe Credit: SWNS:South West News Service
Attacked by boys aged 10 and lost over a pint of blood
In the south Middlesbrough area of Linthorpe, where Alan Taylor lives, private security firms are being hired in an effort to control the rising cycle of violence thanks to police cuts.
Alan, 69, lost more than a pint of blood after he was attacked by two 10 year-old boys, who dropped a ride-on tractor 30ft onto his head. The pensioner was left needing stitches after the daylight attack last month.
18 Alan Taylor, 69, was attacked by feral youths who tipped a ride-on tractor 30ft onto his head as he left an underpass Credit: North News and Pictures
According to Alan, his experience is a harrowing indication of police cuts and rising violence nationwide.
He said: "I've seen that vigilantes and private security are trying to plug gaps in the police's work.
"I never see police on the street anymore. Crime seems to be getting worse across the country."
18 Mr Taylor says he has been left with bouts of depression since his ordeal. He sees private security as a way to plug police gaps as they struggle with budget cuts Credit: North News and Pictures
'Police brushed me off when my windows were smashed'
The statistics bear this out: crime rose by 14 per cent last year while police has dropped by 19 per cent since 2010.
18 Louise Wright's windows were smashed in the middle of the night by local thugs Credit: North News and Pictures
Louise Wright, 39, was shocked to find the police completely disinterested when her front windows were smashed at 4am by a thug with a crowbar while her four children slept upstairs earlier this month.
She said: "It was terrifying, my children were in bed and we were left with our nerves in tatters. I called the police and they took the details but never sent anyone to investigate.
"It felt as though I'd been brushed off and so many people around here feel the same.”

£13-a-year for ex-army boxer
With local bobbies no longer taking the lead, households like Louise’s in the "forgotten" estates east of Middlesbrough, North Yorks, have given the job to local hardman and former Army boxer John "Winky" Watson.
For as little as £13-a-year, Winky Watson’s JWS Security firm has practically become another 999 emergency service for worried residents.
He promises to get results for victims — whether they've had their windows smashed, bikes nicked, been assaulted or even subjected to racial hatred.
18 John 'Winky' Watson runs a local security firm that protects homes and businesses - and investigates crimes Credit: Facebook/John Watson Security
The security firm offers a bronze package at £54 per year which includes random patrols outside homes, two large and two small JWS stickers to place on your doors, windows and garage to act as a deterrent and a call-out service during working hours to investigate any break-ins or incidents of stolen goods.
They can also provide holiday security with homes patrolled three times a day at random times and once in the middle of the night, including physical checks of both the front and back garden.
"I’m not a vigilante, I’m a businessman," said John Watson, who says he doesn't use force against criminals but polices the area under strict contracts with his clients.
18 Wrestling fan John's firm patrols areas of Teeside to check up on homes and businesses Credit: Facebook/John Watson Security
'I don't beat anyone up'
“When you have these little creatures kicking your doors at night or scratching your car, I will be straight there to prevent that - and you can’t always say that with police,” he said. “I’m a professional set-up. I don’t beat anyone up, I don’t do anything like that.
“But I’m well known in the area and I’m always getting texted about stuff. I’ve got a good reputation and that’s enough.”
Louise is certainly enamoured with his service.
"John is someone who gets things done,” said Louise. "He's become the person people are turning to because he does the things the police aren't bothering about any more."
We have to buy our stolen goods back
Nearby, in East Cleveland, police take no action for as many as 78 per cent of crimes. And Watson and his security firm are taking full advantage.
18 Locals in one area of the North East ravaged by anti-social behaviour feel forced to turn to a local hardman's security outfit for protection Credit: North News and Pictures
"People's lives were being badly affected by one troublemaker and his cronies and nothing was being done,” said local shop worker Sarah Templeman, 45.
“My daughter's boyfriend had his work van broken into and his tools and snooker cue stolen. One of these yobs was seen with the cue the following day on his way to Middlesbrough so we contacted the pawn shops to warn them.
"Sure enough his £300 cue had been sold for a tenner to buy drugs. We knew which shop and we knew the culprits were on CCTV. The police did nothing and he ended up having to buy his own cue back for £10. When that happens your faith in the police disappears.
"Winky’s firm said they could protect our homes and do patrols. It has brought peace of mind and a lot of people signed up."
18 Gillian Thomas, from Lingdale, said locals were fed up with little being done to stamp out anti-social behaviour Credit: North News and Pictures
Gillian Thomas, 50, whose husband Sean runs a building firm, also pays Watson for protection.
She said: "The whole village was sick of what was happening. It was going on night after night — theft, criminal damage anti-social behaviour and threats."
Watson’s firm is happy to take on any crime, however serious. One resident — too scared to be identified — contacted his firm after suffering racial threats and intimidation, including having his windows smashed.
The victim said: "The police never did anything. But I know that if I call Watson’s company I'll have someone round quickly and he has my back."
Old people were too scared to go out
"People were peering through the curtains in fear. The elderly didn't dare go out," says Ross Smith, 40, from Redcar.
18 Redcar's sombre facade has been laid bare in The Mighty Redcar — the BBC series documenting the lives and struggles of young people and their families trying to counter the town's decline Credit: North News and Pictures
"There were daily thefts and burglaries. Youths were racing around the streets and pavements on motorbikes.
"People's lives were being ruined because the troublemakers thought they were untouchable."
But once Watson was hired, everything changed. Mr Smith said: “The area has quietened down. There isn't the same sense of fear. He's a bloke who commands respect and is getting results the police couldn't achieve."
18 Ross Smith, from Redcar, told how the scale of anti-social behaviour in the area shocked him Credit: North News and Pictures
Speaking earlier this year Watson said: "We stop break-ins, burglaries — the other day we got two stolen puppies back for a bloke robbed at knifepoint.
"My service is better than the police — that’s why people pay me. As soon as [criminals] see my van they scarper.”
But it’s not just less well-off areas of the country feeling the need to hire extra security.
18 The notorious TS6 postcode encompasses the downtrodden areas of Grangetown, Normanby and Eston between Redcar and Middlesbrough Credit: North News and Pictures
18 Its low-rise high street consists of abandoned buildings and a handful of crumbling corner shops Credit: North News and Pictures
'Our car is usually enough to scare criminals'
While JWS security might deal with knives and crowbars, in the more genteel streets of London the private police force TM Eye has started a service called My Local Bobby, led by former Scotland Yard officers.
18 Youcef Mokhtari, 42 is one of the new 'bobbies' from "My Local Bobby", a private policing service available for a fee Credit: Daily Mail
For a subscription starting from £50-a-month, it provides uniformed staff to tackle anyone found littering, urinating, doing drugs, stealing or acting suspiciously on the crescents and squares of upmarket Belgravia, Mayfair and Kensington.
They can make citizens’ arrests or conduct surveillance operations and clients receive a bespoke service with a hotline number to their “bobby”, whose location they can track on their iPad.
In two years, the agency has reportedly achieved more than 400 convictions for fraud, intellectual property theft and other offences.
Further west, in the quaint village of Martock in Somerset, a private security firm is now dealing with a growing anti-social behaviour problem and an over-stretched police force.
18 Martock residents are being helped by a local security firm Credit: SWNS:South West News Service
Between September 2017 and August 2018 there were 543 reported crimes in Martock. Fifty-nine per cent of them are still under investigation and no further action has been taken in 36 per cent of cases.
In May, the parish council hired Atlas security to patrol the village in the evenings after residents got fed up with the police being unable to protect them.
Spirit Wright, 58, of Atlas Security, said: “The people of Martock are obviously sick of it. They've had enough.”
18 At first glace Sam might look like a policeman, but he's actually from a security firm Credit: SWNS:South West News Service
Their role is to be visible presence on the streets as a deterrent.
Spirit said: “Nine times out of 10 if they see the car pull up and see us get out its normally enough to scare people away and calm the situation down.”
Sun Online went out on patrol with Spirit and his young colleague, 21-year-old Sam Whitehall.
While we walk the beat a lady comes up to Spirit and Sam: “It's good to see you in town — this is the first time I've seen the police in Martock. ”
18 The two men share a joke out on the beat. Spirit and Sam have the power to make citizens' arrests and are trained to use handcuffs Credit: SWNS:South West News Service
Spirit explains they are actually private security.
He says: “We have the same powers as a PCSO. We can make arrests. But only detain the person and hand them over to the police for a formal arrest.
"Anyone can make a citizen's arrest. We do carry handcuffs. We are trained to use them. But it's a last resort.”
'We'd get cars burned out every night'
Parish council chairman Neil Bloomfield said the village had “significant problems” with anti-social behaviour and the Parish Council started with a six week trial back in April at a cost of £360 — a trial that has been extended several times since.
The enforcement officers have been tasked to patrol “problem areas” within the village such as the shopping area and car park.
18 Spirit and Sam chat to a local resident on their patrols in Martock Credit: SWNS:South West News Service
But Mr Bloomfield expressed concern over the long-term viability of using private security.
He said: “We have already spent more that £1,000 on this.”
But Martock's Parish Clerk, Adam Persson, 52, believes the private security patrols are working wonders to solve the issues.
He said: “It has done its job which is deterrence, and they provide intelligence to the police. We've had nothing but positive responses from people.”
But some people have complained that they already pay their taxes and the police should be doing their job.
Mr Persson said: “The parish is paying again for something the government already provide but as provision is withdrawn, the people of Martock have stepped in to fill that gap.”
Richard Pippin, 63 and Alison Baker, 46, who run the Martock Chippery take away, which was recently robbed believe it is a price worth paying.
He said: “We used to get cars burned out every night, years ago, it was terrible. But that's stopped.”
Most read in News FRIGHT NIGHT Britain to freeze in -4C temperatures on Halloween before SNOW sweeps country Exclusive AMAZIN! Students sting Amazon for THOUSANDS after discovering reusable discount code glitch 'BRAVE MAN' Family of man who died on top of chimney reveal he was struggling with 'trauma' IN FOR THE KILL Moment US Special Forces storm ISIS leader Baghdadi's lair in dramatic raid Exclusive HORROR BY BARRACKS Soldier has acid thrown in his face and is slashed with blade near base Exclusive COSTA LOT NHS 'cost cutter' lounges in Spanish mansion while charging taxpayer £2,000 a day
Assistant Chief Constable Jason Harwin, from Cleveland Police, however, has a word of caution about relying on a private police force: “Individuals won’t have the powers, training, accreditation and equipment to perform the role that police are empowered to do.
"If members of the public are concerned regarding issues in their communities it is important they report it. They can do so in confidence on 101 or via Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.”
We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online news team? Email us at tips@the-sun.co.uk or call 0207 782 4368. You can WhatsApp us on 07810 791 502. We pay for videos too. Click here to upload yours.

Story 171
Jeff Fagnan of Atlas Ventures has announced a new $200 million fund dedicated exclusively to financing technology startups. The fund is currently operating as FKA (“formerly known as”) and will be the first time that Atlas Ventures has split its tech/life sciences fund into two separate funds, with life sciences keeping the Atlas Ventures brand name. The firm announced the split back in October.
However, the fund won’t be called FKA for long.
FKA will be crowdsourcing the name for the fund from the community, offering a $50k investment in the new fund on the behalf of the winner, as though they were an LP. The carried interest will be divided in half, with the returns on the first $25k going directly to the winner and the other half going to any Tugg.org non-profit of the winner’s choosing.
For all intents and purposes, the winner is an investor in the new FKA fund. They could come to the annual investor meeting if they wanted to. They’re investing alongside universities, family funds, endowments, foundations, and pensions. The unique aspect of this campaign is that the person who contributes the winning name gets to be an investor.
You can submit a name here.
It’s an unusual way of going about finding a name, but Fagnan tells me that this Atlas has always taken a great interest in the opinions and contributions of the community. They already have about 200 people who have submitted names before the site has even gone live. Ryan Moore, Chris Lynch and Jon Karlen will all be joining Fagnan as partners in the new fund.
“We think the best ideas come from the community, not from a handful of blue blazers in a boardroom,” said Fagnan. “We believe in your creativity and your fresh perspective. After all, our brand is not what we say it is: it’s what you think it is. Besides, we believe that the venture capital community should be more transparent.”

Story 172
By ThinkPol Staff
A BC Supreme Court judge has ordered Vancouver developer Ian Gillespie’s firm to pay more than $200,000 in unpaid bills to the contractor who painted the Telus Garden building.
Atlas Painting & Restorations Ltd had sued 501 Robson Residential Partnership over a claim for monies owed under a contract to provide painting services on the 47-storey residential and commercial tower in downtown Vancouver .
The partners of 501 Robson Residential Partnership are Richards GP Holdings Inc, whose sole director is Ian Gillespie , and 0922454 B.C. LTD , whose directors are Telus executives Doug French and Monique Mercier, BC corporate registry records show.
Gillespie’s Westbank Projects Corp acted as agent for 501 Robson Residential Partnership, wile ICON Pacific Construction Corp. was the construction manager on the Project.
Atlas billed a total of nine progress claims from April through December 2015, out of which the developer and construction manager signed and approved eight.
After settling six of the eight claims, the developer issued a series of notices of default to Atlas, claiming that it had been forced to hire another painter to satisfactorily complete Atlas’s work, and then finally terminated the contract in December 2015.
After the contract was terminated, Atlas filed a lien against title for unpaid bills, and launched the lawsuit.
The Honourable Madam Justice S. Griffin found that complaints about Atlas’s quality of work “were nothing beyond the ordinary deficiencies that can be expected on a construction project and which Atlas showed a willingness to correct, and did not amount to breach of contract on Atlas’s part” and that Atlas was not behind any schedule stipulated in the contract.
The judge concluded that Atlas had done all the work for which at had billed the developer, as well as work down outside of the contract, and ordered Gillespie’s firm to pay the moneys owed.

Story 173
Ok, don't panic. Breathe. We have a new Borderlands trailer, and there is plenty to find hidden in a whole one minute and 16 seconds of glorious footage. From the time leap between Borderlands 2 and what is almost definitely Borderlands 3 to whether Lilith could actually be a villain, in our new Borderlands trailer breakdown we've found a grand total of 20 things in what's almost definitely a new Borderlands teaser trailer (although 2K and Gearbox aren't calling it that quite yet) that could tell us quite a bit about the game. There's also a video above with almost all of these secrets in if you'd rather watch things with your eyes than read (hey, it's up to you), but if the latter is more your style just look below to see all the 20 secrets we found in the trailer!
1. Those two at the top are almost definitely the baddies
Read more There's a Borderlands 3 code hidden in the teaser trailer - but what does it mean?
The trailer kicks off with two characters at the centre: a woman with cropped hair and angel wings, holding the Vault symbol aloft, and a man crouching at her feet with what looks like a withered arm and the same hairstyle, but mirrored. They’ve both totally got the whole evil-big-collar vibe going on, so I’m guessing that these two are the main villains of Borderlands 3. Considering that they’re positioned closely together in the trailer, it’s anyone’s guess whether they’re siblings, husband and wife, or just a boss and minion who share a similar taste in fashion. However, there are roses around them in the last couple of frames of the trailer, which implies romance to me. But I’m going for siblings - although now, of course, if they’re actually in a relationship I’m going to need a shower. Because the last thing we need is another Cersei/Jaime pairing, thank you very much.
2. The baddies are being worshipped by Psychos, so they might be their army
As the camera pulls out we can see that those two characters are being worshipped by Borderlands’ famous Psychos. Uh oh. Arguably this could just be some artistic licence, but if you ask me it looks like the main foes might have somehow recruited Pandora’s entire bandit population to be their own army. I have a vague idea of how this could happen (just look below to see how Atlas could be involved), as the fact that the bandits are bowing on their knees might imply that there’s some kind of religious element behind it… shudder. If you thought the Psychos were bad in previous games, just wait until they’ve got some religious fervour egging them on...
3. Atlas is probably behind the baddies - and it has delusions of godhood
Pay attention to the right hand side of the screen and you can see an Atlas logo appear. That’s not good, as the megacorporation Atlas has some pretty severe delusions about how close its guns come to godhood. See, it was the first company to use alien tech in its weapons, which - of course - granted those guns immense power with relatively little setbacks, and in its marketing material Atlas always refers to how godly its guns are. Atlas’ propaganda from the Secret Armory of General Knoxx mentions how it will return and “restore order and security to your planet”... which doesn’t sound good. Atlas is probably the one behind the new baddies, and its emphasis on the godly power of its guns would explain why the psychos are worshipping that evil pair. Plus if the events of Tales from the Borderlands are canon, Rhys might still have control over the Atlas corporation… potentially making him the third, unseen big bad in Borderlands 3.
4. Handsome Jack’s mask briefly appears and could be the Mask of Mayhem
Blink and you’ll miss it, but Handsome Jack’s mask pops up 12 seconds in as the camera zooms upwards. It’s broken, with a slash across the left side and a small break on the right. I bet if you were to look at those slashes carefully they’d line up with the Vault scar given to him by his Siren daughter, Angel. But why is his mask featured at all? There’s a good chance it’s the Mask of Mayhem mentioned in the title to the teaser. Perhaps the two central baddies are avenging his memory after finding his mask… or maybe they’re even his children. Ew.
5. Brick and Mordecai are returning
Huzzah! Yep, in one brief section of the trailer you can see that Brick and Mordecai are returning to Borderlands 3. Brick has donned a bandana, Mordecai looks pretty similar to Borderlands 2, and they appear to be reaching up to something. Brick also has more paws strung around his neck, so he might have gone through some more dogs in the interval between Borderlands 2 and 3. Poor Brick. But they’re not alone. Alongside them is a rather unmistakable, bunny-eared face. Which leads me onto…
6. Tiny Tina is all grown up, and Borderlands 3 is set at least five years after Borderlands 2
One of the best new characters to be introduced to the world of Borderlands, Tiny Tina, is back. And look how she’s grown! Instead of wearing a psycho’s mask she has rabbit ears (her trademark animal) attached to her headband, but look at her belt and you’ll see a stuffed bunny tied to it too, confirming that our favourite explosive expert is appearing in Borderlands 3. She was 13 in Borderlands 2, and by the looks of it, she's a young adult now (possibly 18 - 22). So Borderlands 3 is set about five - nine years after Borderlands 2, and I can’t wait to see the eccentric but vengeful not-so-Tiny Tina again.
7. But what’s up with Lilith?
Ok, Mordecai, Brick, and Tiny Tina are back, but where’s Lilith? You have to hold on a bit longer to find her, but she’s in the trailer… with angel wings and a much cleaner costume than she had in Borderlands 2 and the Pre-Sequel. Now, this worries me. Because the short-haired girl from the beginning is also seen with angel wings. In the Pre-Sequel Lilith became someone quite different, almost consumed with the need to avenge Roland’s death. Could she possibly be one of the villains in Borderlands 3? She’s not seen alongside her former friends and her Siren powers are certainly godly, making her the kind of person Atlas might be eager to have on their side. I don’t like that thought… yet it could be a real possibility. Sad face.
8. These people by the car are probably your four playable Vault Hunters
Looks like these people by the flying car (more on that later) are your four main playable Vault Hunters. So…
9. There’s a Siren with serious pistol skills…
Her tattoos might not be visible in the teaser, but as there’s almost always a Siren to play as in Borderlands (except for in the Pre-Sequel), I’m betting that it’s her. She seems to be wearing an Eridian relic as a necklace too, which might strengthen her Siren powers similarly to Eridium’s effect on Lilith. The scar over her left eye implies she’s seen quite a few fights, and if she’s anything like Lilith or Maya she’s going to be one heck of a force on the battlefield.
10. … A girl with the minigun is either jumping or flying out of the car...
What’s better than shooting from a driver’s seat? Flying beside the car, of course! It looks like that’s what this helmeted girl is doing, who is presumably the second playable character in Borderlands 3. The fact that she’s firing what looks like some seriously heavy miniguns implies that she could be the military character Borderlands games have always had in some way or another (i.e. Axton, Roland, Wilhelm). Plus she might have some kind of jetpack if she’s soaring beside that flying car. Can I get a ‘hell yes’?
11. … A hooded sniper robot…
Now I’m not saying hoods always mean a sniper, but like Ana from Overwatch this robot is wielding a sniper rifle in one hand, plus when the camera pulls out at the end of the trailer they’re also seen using one on the right hand side. Perhaps the robot is even related to the enigmatic high-tech Zero in some way. Either way, as it looks like this is the long-range class, it probably puts them in the leagues of characters like Mordecai and Gaige, both of whom fought from a distance. Come to think of it, I do miss Deathtrap. Maybe this robot is some distant relation?
12. … And a grizzled guy with an eyepatch
Lastly there’s a bearded man with an eyepatch (what’s the betting he’s called Odin?) who looks like he fits in with the tank characters like Brick and Salvador. Although we couldn’t see any sign of his military rank above his left eye, this could even be an older version of Axton.
13. There’s no sign of Maya, Axton, Zero, Gaige, or Salvador
But if we’ve seen the playable characters from the first Borderlands, where are our Vault Hunters from Borderlands 2? There’s no obvious signs of them in the trailer, so maybe they’re just taking a well-earned break. Or they might have just decided that after fighting The Warrior at the end of Borderlands 2, they’re ok with living out the rest of their years in quiet seclusion. Which I honestly don’t blame them for.
14. Sir Hammerlock, Ellie, and Moxxi are returning too
Although the second lot of Vault Hunters might be hiding away somewhere, there are a handful of other returning characters. Mad Moxxi, Ellie, Sir Hammerlock, and Lady Aurelia Hammerlock are back and can be glimpsed in the background of the trailer, but I’m ever so slightly worried that I can’t see Scooter anywhere. I swear to god, if he’s dead…
15. New vehicles almost definitely include flying cars, hoverboards, and circular motorbikes
So we’ve already seen what is possibly the next lot of playable Vault Hunters in a flying car, but that’s not the end of the new vehicles in Borderlands 3. Right near the end of the trailer there’s a circular motorbike being ridden by the woman driving the flying car. Come on, you know what I mean: one of those futuristic bikes where the wheel extends all the way over your head. Behind her there’s the sniper robot sailing along on a hoverboard, implying that we’ll be able to fly and shoot simultaneously in Borderlands 3, which is sure as hell going to push my hand-eye-sky coordination to the very limit. Uh oh.
16. Other characters include a helmeted girl and a female robot
There are a handful of other characters in the trailer that frankly look way too strange to be random NPCs, like a girl with a facemask and what looks like feather wings and a sword, and a woman with an astronaut/robot head. I don’t know who they are at the moment, but boy do I have questions.
17. This shirtless guy in skin-tight leggings isn’t to be messed with
Look, wear what you want, but you bet I’m going to need to know who this shirtless, cloaked, legging-wearing, hiking boots-clad guy is because he clearly a) has killer eyebrows b) is confident enough to go without armor while gunfighting and c) is standing on a mountain of dead psychos. So could he be one of your main allies in Borderlands 3? I sure hope so, because at the moment I don’t think I have particularly high chances of surviving a fight with him. Anyone who shuns armor and broods like him is definitely not someone you should mess with.
18. There’s a shift code hidden in plain sight
Keep your eyes peeled (not literally, ew) when you watch the trailer and you’ll be able to spot a hidden code in the background. We were able to spot 25 digits, and in order they read C35TB-WS6ST-TXBRK-TTTJT-JJH6H. That's right, it's a Shift code! Redeeming it on PC via either Borderlands 2 or the Pre-Sequel gets you this message:
"Thank you for being excited enough to dissect the new bandit mask with the grace of Dr. Zed! As a reward, you have been granted Salvador's Community Day skin and 5 Golden Keys! There are more skins to be granted, so good luck out there, Vault Hunter!"
So what are you waiting for? Go and grab that loot!
19. There is also some morse code hiding away
You might have noticed a strange flashing light in the top left of the trailer that appears at around 16 seconds in and disappears about 10 seconds later. But this isn’t just random light - it’s actually morse code. Slowing the trailer down we’ve managed to decode it into “Count the Sirens”. You can spot a siren in the Borderlands universe due to their tattoo running down one half of their body, although it’s hard to see just how many are in this trailer. But remember: Handsome Jack has told us only six sirens can exist at any time. So far we know of two that are alive, Lilith and Maya. Commandant Steele and Angel, the other two Sirens, are both dead. With the tagline for Borderlands 3 being ‘Mayhem is coming’ and this cryptic clue suggesting we count them, could this be a sign that a seventh is about to throw the world into Chaos? Or is Mayhem simply the name of a character you’ll meet or even play as?
20. Braille code in the corner reads something pretty ominous
If two hidden codes weren't enough for you, I have good news! There's also some braille in the bottom right-hand corner that reads 'Like, Follow, and Obey'. Now, that could just be referring to Twitter, but if Atlas really are the bad guys then it would make sense for them to try and rule over everyone like tyrants. Hence their commanding anyone watching the trailer to like them, follow them, and obey them...ugh. A shiver just went through my spine.

Story 174
Today the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) announced the publication in the Federal Register of two final regulations as part of its new Veterans Community Care Program under the VA Maintaining Internal Systems and Strengthening Integrated Outside Networks (MISSION) Act of 2018.
Signed into law on June 6, 2018, the MISSION Act strengthens VA’s ability to deliver trusted, easy to access, high quality care at VA facilities, virtually through telehealth, and in Veterans’ communities. The law makes several improvements to VA care that begin on June 6, 2019.
“President Trump promised to give Veterans greater choice. We are honoring that promise by making sure Veterans have access to timely, high-quality care, whether from our VA facilities or our community providers,” said VA Secretary Robert Wilkie.
A key component of the MISSION Act is a new urgent care benefit that provides eligible Veterans with greater choice and access to timely, high-quality care. With urgent care, Veterans have a new option for care for the treatment of minor injuries and illnesses, such as colds, sore throats and minor skin infections. The benefit is offered in addition to the opportunity to receive care from a VA provider, as VA also offers same-day services.
VA also published the final regulation for the Veterans Community Care Program governing how eligible Veterans receive necessary hospital care, medical services, and extended care services from non-VA entities or providers in the community. The new Veterans Community Care Program replaces the Veterans Choice Program, which expires June 6, 2019.
VA previously published an interim final rule for Veterans Care Agreements (VCA) on May 14, 2019. VA may use VCAs to order care when that care is not otherwise feasibly available through VA’s contracted network. VCAs are intended to be used in limited situations. VA will purchase most community care for Veterans through its contracted network as part of its strong partnerships with third party administrators. Currently, these administrators are TriWest Healthcare Alliance and Optum Public.
VA is implementing improvements to its community care program as required by the VA MISSION Act. Veterans can find detailed information on urgent care eligibility, community care eligibility and MISSION Act implementation at www.missionact.va.gov

Story 175
MongoDB is still best known for its flagship NoSQL database product, but last year, the company also launched Atlas, a managed database-as-a-service offering that runs on AWS. At the time, MongoDB only offered a paid version of this service (which made sense, given that the company has to pay AWS for its servers), but starting today, it’ll offer a free tier to developers who want to learn about MongoDB or start developing and prototyping apps on top of the service.
That free tier is somewhat limited, of course. You’ll only get 512MB of storage, for example. You will, however, still get access to the same highly available Atlas clusters as paying customers, and your data will be encrypted at rest and while it’s traveling. It’s basically the same service paying customers get, except for the limited storage. Even with this limit, the free tier should still be enough for many developers who want to get their feet wet with MongoDB.
“We wanted to make sure we really nailed the Free Tier experience,” MongoDB’s VP for cloud products Sahir Azam told me when I asked him why the company didn’t launch a free tier earlier. “We initially launched paid offerings with broadly used promo credits so developers could try the full product. Their feedback encouraged us to provide high availability, monitoring and key security capabilities into the free tier, as well as validating some assumptions about other features and tools. Ultimately, we feel this additional feedback time allowed us to create an accurate and valuable representation of the full paid service.“
In addition to the freemium service, the company is also launching mongomirror today, a new data migration tool that makes it easier for developers to move their data from existing MongoDB deployments into Atlas. The company says it’ll make a hosted version of this tool available in Atlas in the future.
While MongoDB didn’t announce any detailed new stats for Atlas usage, the company did say that the service is now in use by “thousands of organizations across the world,” including the likes of online dating service eHarmony and biotech company Thermo Fisher.

Story 176
ANZ Bank chief executive Shayne Elliott's pay has fallen by almost $1 million since 2017, the bank's annual report said, as the variable pay of top executives was cut in response to fallout from the royal commission.
ANZ's annual report, published on Monday, said Mr Elliott was awarded $5.25 million in remuneration in the 2018 financial year, compared with $6.2 million in 2017.
ANZ chief executive Shayne Elliott. Credit:Louise Kennerley
In "statutory" terms, which takes in the accounting value of deferred remuneration, including from previous years, Mr Eliott's remuneration was virtually unchanged at $5.6 million, the report said.
The remuneration report, which also revealed chairman David Gonski and board members would take a 20 per cent pay cut, said ANZ's board had "materially" cut variable remuneration of ANZ at all levels, including among for executives.

Story 177
CLOSE Here are some of the top stories we're following for today. 10/4/19 Damian Giletto, The News Journal
Croda Inc. has repaid the Delaware River and Bay Authority nearly $150,000 in lost revenue after a toxic gas leak forced the Delaware Memorial Bridge to close in late November.
"We pride ourselves on being a good corporate citizen and a longstanding responsible member of this community. Reimbursing the DRBA is the right thing to do," Robert Stewart, Croda's managing director of North American operations, said in a statement Tuesday.
Shortly after 4 p.m. on the heavily-traveled Sunday after Thanksgiving 2018, Croda employees found that toxic ethylene oxide was leaking from a new plant at the base of the bridge. The incident commander that night made the call to shut down the bridge for fear of fire and people inhaling the toxic chemical, officials said.
BACKGROUND: Croda gas leak reportedly among worst of its kind in country this year
Buy Photo Croda Inc., located at the base of the Delaware Memorial Bridge near New Castle, had an ethylene oxide leak on Nov. 25, 2018, causing the bridge to be shut down for several hours. (Photo: Jennifer Corbett, The News Journal)
Ethylene oxide is a known carcinogen that is also highly flammable and explosive. Exposure causes a slew of medical problems including skin rashes, breathing issues, gastrointestinal problems and, in severe cases of prolonged exposure, coma, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Internationally, ethylene oxide is used as a fumigant and fungicide, to make ethylene glycol for antifreeze, to sterilize medical equipment and other consumer goods, and as a chemical intermediate, according to the CDC.
At Croda, ethylene oxide is used to make surfactants and emulsifiers, chemicals industrial customers use to create liquids that combine mixtures that otherwise would separate, like in face creams and cosmetics.
The highway and Delaware Memorial Bridge were closed for seven hours while the leak was contained, resulting in lost revenue and operating expenses of $142,610 for the Delaware River and Bay Authority, officials said.
Delaware Memorial Bridge closure (Photo: John J. Jankowski Jr.)
The agency formally requested repayment from Croda, which was fulfilled on Tuesday, officials said. The company also has agreed to work with the DRBA to find ways "to explore ways to help keep the community safe," the DRBA said in Tuesday's statement.
"Croda officials have been extremely responsive to our questions and suggestions," DRBA Executive Director Tom Cook said in a statement.
Company and state environmental regulators are investigating the leak, which prompted a handful of Croda employees to seek medical attention but caused no other reported injuries.
Communication gaps criticized after toxic gas leak near Delaware Memorial Bridge
CLOSE Croda company official Robert Stewart offered apologies in the wake of a gas leak that shut down the Delaware Memorial Bridge and alarmed nearby residents weeks ago while speaking to the public at a meeting Thursday. William Bretzger, The News Journal
About 2,600 pounds of the chemical escaped from the gasket that night, a portion of which was contained by water spray, company officials told the public about a month after the incident.
Company officials said a few days after the leak that it had been caused by an incorrect gasket installed on the new plant at the company's facility at Atlas Point, which has been a hub of industrial activity for more than 75 years.
Once the leak and incorrect gasket were discovered, the company halted operations. Croda officials have said the plant will not manufacture ethylene oxide until all equipment has been thoroughly checked and state environmental regulators give the greenlight to reboot operations.
While the plant where the leak occurred is relatively new—operations began in late August, just months before the leak—Croda has been using ethylene oxide in its operations at the site since it purchased the plant from Uniqema in 2006.
The faulty equipment was located on a newer portion of the facility, designed to convert bioethanol instead of petroleum-based products into ethylene oxide for use in Croda's other on-site manufacturing processes.
Contact reporter Maddy Lauria at (302) 345-0608, mlauria@delawareonline.com or on Twitter @MaddyinMilford.
DELAWARE'S TOP NEWS
State raids Wilmington French cafe for serving alcohol without a license
Inmate's suicide note points to state's star witness as Vaughn uprising mastermind
After a fire at Delaware City Refinery, residents wary of their industrial neighbor
Subscribe to The News Journal Support local journalism. Get unlimited digital access along with access to events, deals and more when you subscribe to The News Journal.

Read or Share this story: https://www.delawareonline.com/story/news/local/2019/02/05/chemical-company-repay-lost-tolls-linked-chemical-leak/2779036002/

Story 178
Facebook published an internal memo today trying to minimize the morale damage of TechCrunch’s investigation that revealed it’d been paying people to suck in all their phone data. Attained by Business Insider’s Rob Price, the memo from Facebook’s VP of production engineering and security Pedro Canahuati gives us more detail about exactly what data Facebook was trying to collect from teens and adults in the U.S. and India. But it also tries to claim the program wasn’t secret, wasn’t spying and that Facebook doesn’t see it as a violation of Apple’s policy against using its Enterprise Certificate system to distribute apps to non-employees — despite Apple punishing it for the violation.
For reference, Facebook was recruiting users age 13-35 to install a Research app, VPN, and give it root network access so it could analyze all their traffic. It’s pretty sketchy to be buying people’s privacy, and despite being shut down on iOS, it’s still running on Android.
Here we lay out the memo with section by section responses to Facebook’s claims challenging TechCrunch’s reporting. Our responses are in bold and we’ve added images.
Memo from Facebook VP Pedro Canahuati
APPLE ENTERPRISE CERTS REINSTATED
Early this morning, we received agreement from Apple to issue a new enterprise certificate; this has allowed us to produce new builds of our public and enterprise apps for use by employees and contractors. Because we have a few dozen apps to rebuild, we’re initially focusing on the most critical ones, prioritized by usage and importance: Facebook, Messenger, Workplace, Work Chat, Instagram, and Mobile Home.
New builds of these apps will soon be available and we’ll email all iOS users for detailed instructions on how to reinstall. We’ll also post to iOS FYI with full details.
Meanwhile, we’re expecting a follow-up article from the New York Times later today, so I wanted to share a bit more information and background on the situation.
What happened?
On Tuesday TechCrunch reported on our Facebook Research program. This is a market research program that helps us understand consumer behavior and trends to build better mobile products.
TechCrunch implied we hid the fact that this is by Facebook – we don’t. Participants have to download an app called Facebook Research App to be involved in the stud. They also characterized this as “spying,” which we don’t agree with. People participated in this program with full knowledge that Facebook was sponsoring this research, and were paid for it. They could opt-out at any time. As we built this program, we specifically wanted to make sure we were as transparent as possible about what we were doing, what information we were gathering, and what it was for — see the screenshots below.
We used an app that we built ourselves, which wasn’t distributed via the App Store, to do this work. Instead it was side-loaded via our enterprise certificate. Apple has indicated that this broke their Terms of Service so disabled our enterprise certificates which allow us to install our own apps on devices outside of the official app store for internal dogfooding.
Author’s response: To start, “build better products” is a vague way of saying determining what’s popular and buying or building it. Facebook has used competitive analysis gathered by its similar Onavo Protect app and Facebook Research app for years to figure out which apps were gaining momentum and either bring them in or box them out. Onavo’s data is how Facebook knew WhatsApp was sending twice as many messages as Messenger and it should invest $19 billion to acquire it.
Facebook claims it didn’t hide the program, but it was never formally announced like every other Facebook product. There were no Facebook Help pages, blog posts, or support info from the company. It used intermediaries Applause (which owns uTest) and CentreCode (which owns Betabound) to run the program under names like Project Atlas and Project Kodiak. Users only found out Facebook was involved once they started the sign-up process and signed a non-disclosure agreement prohibiting them from discussing it publicly.
TechCrunch has reviewed communications indicating Facebook would threaten legal action if a user spoke publicly about being part of the Research program. While the program had run since 2016, it had never been reported on. We believe that these facts combined justify characterizing the program as “secret.”
How does this program work?
We partner with a couple of market research companies (Applause and CentreCode) to source and onboard candidates based in India and USA for this research project. Once people are onboarded through a generic registration page, they are informed that this research will be for Facebook and can decline to participate or opt out at any point. We rely on a 3rd party vendor for a number of reasons, including their ability to target a Diverse and representative pool of participants. They use a generic initial Registration Page to avoid bias in the people who choose to participate.
After generic onboarding people are asked to download an app called the ‘Facebook Research App,’ which takes them through a consent flow that requires people to check boxes to confirm they understand what information will be collected. As mentioned above, we worked hard to make this as explicit and clear as possible.
This is part of a broader set of research programs we conduct. Asking users to allow us to collect data on their device usage is a highly efficient way of getting industry data from closed ecosystems, such as iOS and Android. We believe this is a valid method of market research.
Author’s response: Facebook claims it wasn’t “spying,” yet it never fully laid out the specific kinds of information it would collect. In some cases, descriptions of the app’s data collection power were included in merely a footnote. The program did not specify data types gathered, only saying it would scoop up “which apps are on your phone, how and when you use them” and “information about your internet browsing activity.”
The parental consent form from Facebook and Applause lists none of the specific types of data collected or the extent of Facebook’s access. Under “Risks/Benefits,” the form states “There are no known risks associated with this project however you acknowledge that the inherent nature of the project involves the tracking of personal information via your child’s use of Apps. You will be compensated by Applause for your child’s participation.” It gives parents no information about what data their kids are giving up.
Facebook claims it uses third-parties to target a diverse pool of participants. Yet Facebook conducts other user feedback and research programs on its own without the need for intermediaries that obscure its identity, and only ran the program in two countries. It claims to use a generic signup page to avoid biasing who will choose to participate, yet the cash incentive and technical process of installing the root certificate also bias who will participate, and the intermediaries conveniently prevent Facebook from being publicly associated with the program at first glance. Meanwhile, other clients of the Betabound testing platform like Amazon, Norton and SanDisk reveal their names immediately before users sign up.
Did we intentionally hide our identity as Facebook?
No — The Facebook brand is very prominent throughout the download and installation process, before any data is collected. Also, the app name of the device appears as “Facebook Research” — see attached screenshots. We use third parties to source participants in the research study, to avoid bias in the people who choose to participate. But as soon as they register, they become aware this is research for Facebook
Author’s response: Facebook here admits that users did not know Facebook was involved before they registered.
What data do we collect? Do we read people’s private messages?
No, we don’t read private messages. We collect data to understand how people use apps, but this market research was not designed to look at what they share or see. We’re interested in information such as watch time, video duration, and message length, not that actual content of videos, messages, stories or photos. The app specifically ignores information shared via financial or health apps.
Author’s response: We never reported that Facebook was reading people’s private messages, but that it had the ability to collect them. Facebook here admits that the program was “not designed to look at what they share or see,” but stops far short of saying that data wasn’t collected. Fascinatingly, Facebook reveals that it was closely monitoring how much time people spent on different media types.
Did we break Apple’s terms of service?
Apple’s view is that we violated their terms by sideloading this app, and they decide the rules for their platform, We’ve worked with Apple to address any issues; as a result, our internal apps are back up and running. Our relationship with Apple is really important — many of us use Apple products at work every day, and we rely on iOS for many of our employee apps, so we wouldn’t put that relationship at any risk intentionally. Mark and others will be available to talk about this further at Q&A later today.
Author’s response: TechCrunch reported that Apple’s policy plainly states that the Enterprise Certificate program requires companies to “Distribute Provisioning Profiles only to Your Employees and only in conjunction with Your Internal Use Applications for the purpose of developing and testing” and that “You may not use, distribute or otherwise make Your Internal Use Applications available to Your Customers.” Apple took a firm stance in its statement that Facebook did violate the program’s policies, stating “Facebook has been using their membership to distribute a data-collecting app to consumers, which is a clear breach of their agreement with Apple.”
Given Facebook distributed the Research apps to teenagers that never signed tax forms or formal employment agreements, they were obviously not employees or contractors, and most likely use some Facebook-owned service that qualifies them as customers. Also, I’m pretty sure you can’t pay employees in gift cards.

Story 179
For 52 straight days this winter, Shannon Hovey woke up in the company of five other men in a metal tube, 20 feet long and seven feet in diameter, tucked deep inside a ship in the Gulf of Mexico. He retrieved his breakfast from a hatch (usually eggs), read a briefing for the day, and listened for a disembodied voice to tell him when it was time to put on a rubber suit and get to work. Life in the tube was built around going through these same steps day after day after day … while trying not to think about the fact that any unintended breach in his temporary metal home would mean a fast, agonizing death.
Hovey works in one of the least known, most dangerous, and, frankly, most bizarre professions on Earth. He is a saturation diver—one of the men (just about all have been men*) who do construction and demolition work at depths up to 1,000 feet or more below the surface of the ocean.
Diving to that depth—or just about any depth—involves breathing pressurized air. Inert gases in it, such as nitrogen, dissolve benignly into your blood and tissues—as long as the weight of all the water above you keeps them compressed. But when you want to return to the surface, that gas needs time to diffuse out slowly. If not, if a diver shot straight to the surface, the gas would form bubbles, like in a shaken can of soda. Inside that diver’s body, it would be as if millions of tiny explosives began to detonate. Known as the bends or, more technically, decompression sickness, the condition can be catastrophically painful and debilitating, and, depending on the depth, nearly impossible to survive. Diving to 250 feet for an hour, for example, would require a five-hour ascent to avoid getting even slightly bent. (The condition was first seen in the 19th century, when men leaving pressurized caissons, used to dig tunnels and build bridges, mysteriously took ill and began dying.)
The world—and, specifically, the oil and gas industry—needs commercial divers like Hovey who can go to the seabed to perform the delicate maneuvers required to put together, maintain, and disassemble offshore wells, rigs, and pipelines, everything from flipping flow valves, to tightening bolts with hydraulic jacks, to working in tight confines around a blowout preventer. Remotely operated vehicles don’t have the touch, maneuverability, or judgment for the job. And so, a solution. Experiments in the 1930s showed that, after a certain time at pressure, divers’ bodies become fully saturated with inert gas, and they can remain at that pressure indefinitely, provided they get one long decompression at the end. In 1964, naval aquanauts occupied the first Sea Lab—a metal-encased living quarters lowered to a depth of 192 feet. The aquanauts could move effortlessly between their pressurized underwater home and the surrounding water, and they demonstrated the enormous commercial potential of saturation diving. It soon became apparent that it would be easier and cheaper to monitor and support the divers if the pressurized living quarters weren’t themselves at the bottom of the sea. At this moment, all around the world, there are commercial divers living at pressure inside saturation systems (mostly on ships, occasionally on rigs or barges), and commuting to and from their jobsites in pressurized diving bells. They can each put in solid six-hour working days on the bottom.
Hovey and his fellow divers spent that six-week assignment working at the relatively shallow (but still quite deadly) depth of 250 feet, and living in a shipboard capsule pressurized to the same level. Pressure can be measured in atmospheres (atm) or pounds per square inch (psi). Pressure at sea level is 1 atm, or 14.7 psi. Inside a bicycle tire is about 65 psi. Hovey was living at over 110 psi. An ocean-and-a-half away, diver Steve Tweddle was making his way through a 28-day job in “storage,” as they call it, for work at a depth of 426 feet (190 psi) in the North Sea. The Gulf of Mexico and the North Sea share a history of offshore drilling, sparked by the worldwide oil crisis of the 1970s, which sent prices skyrocketing and saw offshore oil and gas rigs pop up like giant galvanized lily pads. The vast majority of saturation dives are for maintaining or taking down this oil and gas infrastructure.
The divers spend their waking hours either under hundreds of feet of water on the ocean floor or squeezed into an area the size of a booth at Applebee’s.
A saturation diver starts a job when he leaves the “beach” (any solid ground) and steps onto a flat-bottomed ship known as a dive support vessel (DSV). Every piece of equipment and person on the ship is there to support the work and lives of the divers. There are subsea managers and dive supervisors, life support supervisors, life support technicians, and assistant life support technicians. They control what the divers breathe and eat, supply personal necessities, and even help remotely flush the toilet—whatever is necessary to keep them comfortable (such as it is) and alive.
Before taking up residence in the saturation chamber, the core living space of the system, every diver must pass a medical workup including, among other things, a hunt for any signs of infection. Even a simple cold can be incredibly hazardous to a saturation diver—clogged ears and sinuses trap air that the divers won’t be able to equalize to the pressurized air, potentially causing permanent damage that can end a career. Before entering the sat system, Tweddle always takes a shower with antibacterial soap to scrub off any hitchhiking germs.
Remotely operated vehicles don’t have the touch, maneuverability, or judgment for the job.
In their last moments before a job, both Hovey and Tweddle call their families, even though they can use cell phones while in the chamber. Hovey, a 42-year-old American with intense, mournful eyes and a gray-dappled beard, used to work as a sound engineer and is now (most likely) the only saturation diver who works as an herbalist when on the beach. He tries to find a sunny spot on the ship’s helipad for his phone call. It’s his last chance to breathe fresh air, and his last chance to speak in a voice his family will understand. Once he’s at pressure, he’s going to sound like Donald Duck after huffing a roomful of helium balloons.
Air—compressed or otherwise—is about 21 percent oxygen, 78 percent nitrogen, and one percent everything else. Below about 100 feet divers breathing compressed air, including recreational scuba divers, can develop what’s known as nitrogen narcosis, which does an excellent job of mimicking the feeling of being drunk. The deeper you go, the drunker and more incapacitated you feel: Beyond 200 feet you might become acutely disoriented, at 300 feet you can black out. It’s not a good condition to be in when you’re in a place where you have to be calm, careful, and methodical if you want to survive. In addition, that amount of compressed oxygen becomes toxic to the human body. Around 1919, electronics engineer and inventor Elihu Thompson figured that divers could avoid nitrogen narcosis by breathing a mixture of helium and oxygen. In the following decades a gas cocktail called heliox was developed—mostly helium, with sufficient oxygen and maybe a little nitrogen. (Other breathing gases, such as trimix and nitrox, are also used by deep divers.)
Divers at the Navy Experimental Diving Unit prepare the Ocean Simulation Facility for a simulated dive to 500 feet. Mass Communication Specialist 2nd Class Fred Gray IV/ US Navy
Saturation divers breathe heliox for the entire time they are in storage. And this brings us back to those final family phone calls. Helium is about seven times lighter than air, and sound waves travel much more quickly through it. The result is that buff, often ex-military men performing deadly serious jobs end up sounding like cartoon characters—and not just for a few moments, but for weeks on end. In the unfortunately named BBC series Real Men, a saturation diver in storage calls his son to wish him a happy birthday. “It’s hard to understand my dad because he talks in a duck language,” the boy says later, “and I don’t speak duck.”
The divers and their support teams adjust pretty quickly to the vocal distortion, but it can still make communication tricky—especially when accents are involved. “A helium Geordie [a native of Newcastle] from the northeast of England in a team with a South African and a Belgian makes communicating quite a challenge,” Tweddle says. Tweddle, an affable, 39-year-old former police diver with a shaved head that takes on a gray cast by the end of a job, is the Geordie in the above scenario. Support vessels are usually equipped with a kind of descrambler for when the divers need to be in constant communication with the onboard support team, but the equipment is notoriously unreliable, and many dive supervisors choose not to use it.
When it’s time to enter the chamber (Hovey calls it the “house”), the divers pass through a tight, circular hatch at one end, like one might see on an old submarine, that closes with a “tunk.” The hatch is sealed, and even though they’re on a boat, just feet from support crew and fresh air, the divers might as well be on the International Space Station. Even farther actually: It takes about 3.5 hours for an astronaut to make it back from space. Saturation divers have to decompress for days at minimum. On a dive early in his career, when Hovey was on a job at a depth of 700 feet, he learned that his wife had miscarried. It would have taken him 11 days of decompression to exit the chamber. They needed his salary (not surprisingly, saturation divers are well-compensated, up to $1,400 per day), so his wife told him to finish the job.
Steve Tweddle pauses—at more than 270 feet deep—on the diving bell’s guide weight before dropping down to his jobsite. Courtesy Steve Tweddle
The layouts of saturation systems differ from company to company, vessel to vessel, and oil field to oil field. Generally, the North Sea facilities tend to be slightly roomier, thanks to strict regulations, but that’s not to say they are in any way spacious; they are even the mildest claustrophobe’s worst nightmare. For Tweddle, entering that first hatch puts the him in a miniscule round room known as the “wet pot.” It is used to transfer the divers to the diving bell through a hatch in the ceiling—and it’s also the bathroom, with a tiny metal sink, toilet (more on that later), and showerhead. Through the wet pot, another hatch leads to the living space, where there is just enough room for four to six seats around a removable aluminum table. In other words, for up to six weeks, the divers will spend their waking hours either under hundreds of feet of water on the ocean floor or squeezed into an area the size of a booth at Applebee’s.
Beyond that, past a droopy blue curtain, is the sleeping area, with six double-stacked bunks squeezed into a “U” shape. The bunks at the far end are partially blocked by the others, and therefore particularly cramped (especially for six-foot-four-inch Tweddle). So bunk choice is a big deal. In the North Sea, divers draw lots. Among American divers, Hovey says, it’s seniority—or whoever gets there first. But at least divers do all get their own sleeping spaces. In the bad old days, Tweddle says, six guys would have to hot-bed three bunks, with one group working while the other slept. There are still ways to keep the work going 24/7. On some vessels, up to four saturation chambers can be linked together through side hatches in the wet pots, and connected by large metal hamster tubes. This enables multiple dive teams to be in constant rotation.
Once the divers are tightly ensconced in the saturation chamber, the life support crew begins pumping in heliox, and the “blowdown” begins. The time it takes to get fully pressurized depends on the depth of the work site. On this latest job, Hovey’s blowdown took a mere three hours. On another job, with a storage depth of 750 feet, blowdown was 10 hours. In essence, pressurization transforms the saturation chamber into a space in which the air around them—and filling their lungs and saturating their tissues—is exerting pressure equivalent to the weight of the water they will be working under. Getting pressed to 750 feet requires 333 psi or 22.66 atms. It means squeezing into the chamber 22 times the amount of air it would normally hold.
During the blowdown, the rapid increase in atmospheric pressure makes the chamber very hot and humid (fluid dynamics are so strange), and sometimes needs to be paused so the climate control system can catch up. Later, the thermostat will get turned up to 90 degrees because the poor thermal properties of helium leave the divers perpetually chilly. The divers fan themselves and work constantly to equalize their ears: yawning, swallowing, and using the Valsalva maneuver (the formal name for pinching your nose, closing your mouth, and blowing). The blowdown also leaves them achy for hours or even days. “Anything not liquid or solid is affected by the physics of the gas,” says Hovey. “The cartilage in your joints is porous and shrinks for a couple days. All your joints hurt or click with movement.”
The bell, shaped like an egg and about the size of a shower stall, is even the mildest claustrophobe’s worst nightmare.
Once the divers are at pressure, they can only try to get comfortable, and make the chamber something of a home. In truth, they don’t bring or need a lot of gear—just a few items of clothing, toiletries, magnets for attaching family pictures to the walls, reading material, some personal electronics, the occasional Star Wars pillowcase. Everything else can be sent in via one of the two airlocks—a porthole-sized one in the living quarters known as the medlock and a larger one, for things such as their dive suits, off the wet pot. An assistant life support technician (Hovey says all American divers he knows call this person a “sat Betty”) is available to collect dirty clothes and linens through the medlock. Books, tools, and dive logs also make the journey in and out regularly, with each transit taking a minute or two.
Four times a day, someone sends in a menu with meal options, which come from the ship’s mess in disposable to-go containers (more hygienic than reusable plates and cups). Not surprisingly, the food quality varies greatly by vessel and chef, but mostly it sounds like the bill of fare from a discount cruise. Steak, chicken, fish, mushy vegetables, and a salad bar including cheese and cold cuts. Mostly the divers see food as little more than fuel—they might consume up to 6,000 calories each day (more than double the recommended intake) to keep up with their demanding shifts in the water. They also take healthy doses of multivitamins, with an emphasis on vitamin D, to make up for the lack of sunlight. The food itself is unaffected by the pressure, but taste buds tend to get muted. Hot sauce is a popular personal item, but the divers must be sure to loosen the cap—otherwise the bottle of hot sauce (or shampoo, or clove oil in Hovey’s case) will implode during pressurization or explode during depressurization.
Even though they’re just feet from fresh air, the divers might as well be on the International Space Station.
The toilet and shower are in the wet pot, and it is no easy feat to flush a toilet safely at that kind of pressure. There is a famous, unverifiable, and, we can only hope, apocryphal story about a diver whose buttocks created a seal with the toilet seat, so that when he opened a valve to flush, the pressure differential—well, it’s best not to say too much more, other than that toilet safety is taken very, very seriously. “The toilet must be filled halfway with water before use,” says Tweddle. “After use we request a flush, [a technician] opens a valve on surface, allowing us to operate two valves in a particular order to empty the toilet into the holding tank, then empty the tank into the ship’s wastewater system.” In other words, every flush is at least a two-person, multi-step job.
The six-man dive crews split into teams of two or three and alternate shifts. They are woken up an hour before they need to leave the ship. They eat and hydrate and use the bathroom (Tweddle says that one quality that makes a good saturation diver is “the ability to shit on command.”) They put on a layer of their own clothing, followed by their water-tight diving suits, which are equipped with circulating hot water systems to prevent hypothermia.
The dive team seals itself off in the wet pot and then, through the hatch in the ceiling, gets into a diving bell, at the same pressure as the chamber. Both spaces are sealed, and then they disconnect—what’s known as a “transfer under pressure.” Anytime seals are made or broken under that kind of extreme pressure there is the danger that a mishap could lead to an explosive decompression. One of saturation diving’s worst accidents occurred in 1983, when a dive bell was detached from the transfer hatch before it was completely sealed. Four divers and one dive technician were killed instantly and gruesomely. (Newer saturation systems have locking mechanisms to prevent this from happening.)
Steve Tweddle and a colleague on the roof of a subsea manifold, a transfer point for oil or gas from nearby wells into a pipeline, 260 feet down. Courtesy Steve Tweddle
The bell, shaped like an egg and about the size of a shower stall, is crammed with gauges, switches, communication equipment, and loops of hoses, referred to as umbilicals, that carry gas, electricity, voice communication, hot water, and video feeds back and forth between the divers’ helmets and the ship, via the bell. Once the bell detaches from the chamber, it is guided over to a moonpool—a hole in the boat’s hull, essentially—where it is lowered by cable to the working depth. One diver stays in the bell to monitor breathing, hot water, communication, and electrical systems. The other diver (or other two) puts on a dive helmet (a “hat” to the divers) and departs out the bottom for six uninterrupted hours in the water. During that time, urinating isn’t an issue—it’s pretty much the only job in the world where it is expected that you will pee in your pants.
Hovey, on his Gulf assignment, was working to clear a hurricane-toppled, garbage-strewn platform dating to the 1970s. The job was supposed to take 14 days—52 days later work was suspended until the spring because of bad weather. Most of the work involved collecting massive amounts of junk—“anything bigger than a breadbox or smaller than a VW bus”—and placing it in large baskets that could be raised by the ship’s crane. There were old barrels and pipes and chemical tanks and stainless-steel banding material that comes in huge rolls but littered the area like 500-foot-long Slinkys. Divers carry minimal tools with them; everything else they need gets sent down directly from the ship—saws, torches, wrenches, welding equipment, collection bags.
Hovey and the others also needed to cut the platform’s original eight legs off, 20 feet below the mud. This required using a massive water jet to create ditches around them and then cutting through the legs with an oversized band saw—all while keeping an eye out for a mudslide in near-zero visibility. “Say an old diesel engine that’s halfway up your ditch wall finally starts working its way out,” Hovey says. “Everything kind of moves slow, so you’ll notice a little mud going past your leg and then all of a sudden there’s this huge bunch of pressure on your lower back and then it’s on your upper back and it’s starting to push you over and unless you climb onto the top of it you’ll definitely get buried.” Generally, the divers aim for neutral buoyancy, but they’re not swimming around with fins like recreational divers. They hop-walk like moon men, often in beat-up rubber boots.
It’s pretty much the only job in the world where it is expected that you will pee in your pants.
Nobody works deep at the bottom of the ocean without an extensive background in commercial diving in shallower waters and lengthy, costly training in areas such as mixed-gas and closed-bell diving. Just signing up for those advanced courses requires a substantial amount of commercial dive time and even once one is fully certified, it can be hard to get hired for a saturation dive job without trusted people to vouch for your ability to work under those conditions without losing it. Despite all this effort, the occupation has a high attrition rate—though leaving the field isn’t always voluntary. Hovey guesses that of every 20 guys who graduate from a training program, maybe one is still doing the work after five years. Some leave because of the difficulty or long weeks away from home, but this is also a job that takes lives. There are not good statistics about saturation diving death rates, but a Centers for Disease Control and Prevention report from 1998 estimated that the occupational fatality rate for all commercial divers is 40 times the national average for other professions. Many divers have close calls that convince them that it’s not worth the risk.
Hovey recalls moments of deep panic. Once, his umbilicals got tangled up in a tool rack that had been lowered down. The movement of the boat above began to jerk him around and he worried the force was about to separate him from his gas supply. “You have to calm down, take some breaths, and say, ‘You are the only one that can help yourself. No one’s going to come down here and help you.’” Some divers have cheated death, with help from their partners, or through a combination of discipline, training, and luck, but usually when things go wrong, they go wrong very fast, with catastrophic consequences.
“You are the only one that can help yourself. No one’s going to come down here and help you.”
In 2016, Hovey was working in the Gulf of Mexico, replacing a long piece of vertical pipe. The crew attached a temporary support, a heavy rod they call a “strong back”—to keep the pipe from bending during installation. Because of a miscommunication, the strong back was released from the top before the bottom. It rolled around and, Hovey believes, crushed a diver—the one on the shift just after his—against the pipe. Back in the sat system, Hovey got word that there had been an accident. As attending medic, he readied first-aid items, but when the bell returned, he saw right away that the diver’s hat had been crushed. Protocol required Hovey and the other divers to perform 45 minutes of CPR. Then they respectfully moved his body to a hyperbaric lifeboat/decompression chamber available to all sat systems. The support team could do an accelerated, emergency decompression, since he was already dead. It still took two days.
Tweddle believes that all the crazy stuff he saw as a police diver (dead bodies) makes him pretty hard to rattle, but he’s had scary moments, too. In particular, there have been the times when he started breathing so hard that the system couldn’t keep up. It’s a perfect storm for panic, as you breathe an excess of carbon dioxide and begin to huff harder and harder. The only way out is to wrestle down the fear and breathe as slowly as possible until the system catches up. It’s so common a phenomenon that divers have a name for it, “Breathing past your hat.”
In addition to the physical demands, moving around large pieces of equipment in a medium the human body is not well suited to, the work requires incredible focus and is done in near-zero or zero (black water) visibility. The dive hats have lights, but that can make things worse when particles in the water scatter light around. The divers must be in constant communication with the topside dive supervisor, who guides the work, troubleshoots, and sends down equipment. But ultimately whether they succeed or fail at the job—and stay alive—is on the divers alone.
In addition to the physical demands, the work requires incredible focus and is done in zero or near-zero visibility.
Much of Tweddle’s work these days is helping plug and cap wells. You might imagine that beneath each platform is a single well, but wells might be as far as five or six miles away from the platform, and they often come in clusters—imagine using 10 straws to drink a milkshake instead of just one. But now the North Sea oil run is winding down, as the price of oil stagnates and the cost of extraction from increasingly empty fields grows. New exploration has gravitated to areas too deep for even saturation divers. Soon, the jobs will be harder to come by.
Days in sat become a blur of work and rest and boredom, perhaps punctuated by fear. Sometimes, despite dynamic positioning systems that compensate for wind and swells, bad weather suspends work, and the vessel might even return to port without the divers knowing—until a strange face suddenly pops up outside one of the chamber’s portholes. The divers soon realize that they are being stared at like monkeys in a cage. Or, rather, monkeys in a small, pressurized metal tube.
The general rule for depressurization—desat—is 24 hours for each 100 feet of pressure. Those are some of the hardest days, the divers say, with no work to break the monotony and with the comforts of home—sunlight, big beds, privacy, home-cooked food, wives, kids—so close. Desat mostly takes place in the chamber, but Hovey has done two-man desats in the small hyperbaric lifeboat (which can keep the divers under pressure for 72 hours if the ship were to sink), so work can continue with a new team.
They emerge pale and disoriented, like prisoners released from solitary, drained and irritable.
Even desat is stressful on the body. Divers report joint pain, headaches, shortness of breath. Experienced divers know the difference between these symptoms and the start of something more serious. On one job, Tweddle worked with a relatively inexperienced diver who felt panicky about his symptoms during desat. The only cure for early signs of the decompression sickness is to return to higher pressure, so the whole team had to start again. It’s imperative, in this job, to err on the side of safety.
When the divers finally come out of the chamber, the adjustment is both emotional and physical. They emerge pale and disoriented, like prisoners released from solitary, drained and irritable, body clocks out of whack. Tweddle finds it hard to train his body not to eat quite so much. He has to be on guard for waistline expansion since there are now strict body mass index guidelines for North Sea divers.
Hovey owns some land in the central Texas pine woods, and he usually spends a few days there alone before trying to reintegrate with the noise and chaos of family life. His kids give him a wide berth after a job, and he and his wife like to start dating all over again as a way to reconnect. It’s hard to shake the feeling that he is in suspended animation while in sat, even though life goes on. “My family is constantly trying to grow and be better versions of themselves,” he says. “Sometimes being away for work, I get left in the dust.”
But by the time the phone rings for the next job, both he and Tweddle will be ready. There’s something about the isolation and asceticism and discipline (and, of course, the money) that they are drawn to. Or maybe it’s the idea that they are working on the edges of human capability, facing danger with calm and planning, members of a club with very, very few members. They are, in so many ways, like astronauts. Only no one’s ever heard of them.
* Correction: This article was updated for the correct spelling of Steve Tweddle’s name, and to clarify, upon hearing from readers, that there may indeed be active female saturation divers.

Story 180
Image 1 of 3 ▼ Gail and Leo Cash have 27 storm-damaged shingles. They think their insurance company should cover a full roof replacement because Atlas Chalet shingles have been discontinued and there are no suitable replacement shingles of the same size.
After years of complaints, Georgia's insurance commissioner has finally taken action involving a roofing shingle you may have on your home right now.

An estimated 100,000 houses were built with the Atlas Chalet shingle, a product that was discontinued seven years ago. And that's the problem.
Often, homeowners suffer storm damage to only a portion of their roof. Because the Atlas Chalet is a unique size and are no longer in stock, roofers say the only way to repair the damage is to replace the entire roof. Yet some insurance companies balk at the cost, claiming they should only have to replace the damaged shingles, regardless of whether they can truly be replaced. Homeowners wind up having to pay for the entire roof replacement themselves.
"It just isn't fair," complained Gail Cash. Her home in the Magnolia Cottages neighborhood in Acworth was built with Atlas Chalet shingles. According to her roofer, 27 shingles were damaged by recent storms and need to be replaced. She's already got a leak in her garage.
Her insurance company will only pay to replace the 27 shingles, an amount of money that's lower than her deductible.
“We've never filed a claim," she stressed. "Never. And the time we file it, we don't get anything.”
Roofers like Alberto Mizrahi of WRC Roofing says replacing individual shingles would make the roof look like a checkerboard.
Advertisement
“It's not going to look normal," he explained. “How am I going to warranty my work when I'm only fixing a little patch with a shingle that's not the same shingle?”
In 2015, we brought this conundrum to Georgia insurance commissioner Ralph Hudgens. His answer seemed pretty clear.
“If they have storm damage then the insurance company needs to replace it," he told me then.
The whole roof?
"Yep. I think if they can't match these shingles because they're no longer being manufactured, then I think the insurance company probably ought to go ahead and satisfy the consumer and do the whole roof."
Several roofing companies quickly posted links to his interview on their business website, hopeful that reluctant insurance companies would start approving full roof claims.
But some still don't. Through a spokesman, the insurance commissioner says he was only offering his personal opinion. It carries no legal weight.
“So... why do we have a state insurance commissioner if he's not going to help people like me?” Gail Cash asked.
She's looking at a minimum of $10,000 out of pocket to replace her roof.

Some homeowners are trying a different tactic – going to court claiming the Atlas Chalet shingles themselves are defective. But this year a federal judge in Atlanta denied a request to make the case a Class Action lawsuit. That would have opened it up to as many as $100,000 homeowners like the Cashes. If they decide to go it alone, it won't be an easy fight. Atlas denies the shingles are defective and so far no judge has ruled otherwise.

Earlier this year, the insurance commissioner did take some action. American Family Insurance agreed to pay a $125,000 fine for canceling 18 policies simply because they had Atlas Chalet shingles. The company agreed to a consent order without admitting wrongdoing.
“I expected insurance companies to do the right thing and replace the whole roof if matching shingles could not be found," Commissioner Hudgens said in a written statement to the FOX 5 I-Team. "The investigation into American Family Insurance Company, however, revealed that some policies expressly state that they will not pay for matching. Because I believe most consumers are not aware of this policy limitation, I have asked American Family to remove the policy limitation which has caused so much confusion. In addition to requesting that policy change, my office fined American Family over one hundred thousand dollars for violations discovered during our investigation. While this policy limitation has not helped matters, I believe the manufacturer of Atlas Chalet Shingles bears significant responsibility for the trouble that its discontinued and allegedly defective product has caused Georgia consumers.”
But that $125,000 won't be given to homeowners. It goes into the state's general fund.

“I'm a little aggravated," declared Gail Cash. "I'm irritated. And something needs to be done. They need to be held responsible. When you get homeowners insurance you kinda think they're standing behind you. They're not standing behind anybody.”
American Family Insurance released this statement:
"Overall, we feel vindicated by the results of the exam. It affirmed our claim practices are proper and our policy language is clear, questioned only a limited number of underwriting decisions and identified a technical fraud-reporting error. We apologize for the errors and have taken steps to prevent them from happening again. We’re excited to continue our focus on our customers.
The commissioner has asked us to change certain policy language that is currently consistent with policy language of other insurance companies. We are committed to providing exceptional customer value, which means striking an effective balance of insurance coverage people want and can afford. We are open to discussions with the commissioner’s office on this topic and its customer impacts."

Story 181
Ontario entrepreneur Farhan Abbas decided to look west a couple years ago and set up a string of Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen restaurants in Calgary.
The recession made for a rough-and-tumble business environment. But the chief executive of PLK Holding Inc. wanted to capitalize on lower construction costs and create a beachhead in the city.
He has since opened eight outlets in the area, creating about 300 jobs.
Abbas has even bigger expansion plans, but high property taxes in Calgary — including more than $113,000 annually for just one location along 17th Avenue S.W. — has him wondering what’s in store next.
“It is literally $10,000 a month. It’s unimaginable. A single place, selling fried chicken, has to pay $10,000 in property taxes?” he said in an interview.
“They are going to drive me out of the city and eventually that’s going to hurt the city.”
Homeowners and businesses across Calgary are now receiving annual property assessment notices, providing a market value that’s used to calculate municipal property taxes.
Mandated by provincial legislation, the process is meant to be revenue neutral, meaning it doesn’t generate additional cash for civic coffers. It does help determine who pays, and how much they pay, for their share of municipal property taxes.
With more than one in four office buildings empty, the well-documented problems of Calgary’s downtown are creating turmoil for companies outside the core that have to pick up more of the load.
A larger shift is occurring this year because almost one-third — or $7.3 billion — of the total value of Calgary’s office buildings disappeared in the past year.
The plunge means a greater burden is falling on other non-residential property owners, particularly retail and industrial businesses outside the core.
If council doesn’t make moves in the coming weeks to limit the increases, 8,000 commercial property owners — or 64 per cent of all non-residential accounts — will face double-digit tax hikes in 2019.
And 1,316 non-residential property owners will experience increases of 30 per cent or more because of reassessment.
“This is no surprise. But it certainly is a difficult turning point for Calgary,” said Coun. Druh Farrell, who represents part of the downtown.
City administration is meeting with business groups to look for solutions. Council has discussed dipping into its reserve funds to limit tax hikes at 10 per cent. (In the previous two years, councillors capped increases at five per cent.)
Farrell said Calgary has relied on a booming downtown for years to cover a large share of the overall tax bill, but those days are over.
“We have no choice but to dip into our fiscal stability reserves” to cap tax hikes this year, Farrell said.
Entrepreneurs like Abbas say they can’t afford to see tax rates climb significantly without it impacting their future.
“In the next five years, our plan was to build 21 restaurants in Calgary and outside (the city), but right now, it depends on how 2019 turns out,” he added.
Michael Evans, president of Atlas Development Corp., which owns the building on 17th Avenue that houses Popeyes, said he’s seeing similar issues in other parts of the city.
Evans believes city hall must come to grips with the shifting tax burden instead of simply pushing it all on to other businesses.
He notes the 17th Avenue property, which used to house a Wendy’s restaurant, had an assessed value of $3.5 million in 2016, and an annual property tax of $55,000.
By the time Popeyes opened up in the same spot last summer, the assessment sat at nearly $6 million.
The property tax bill last year was more than $113,000.
For 2019, the assessed value has climbed to $6.9 million. Another tax hike is on the way.
Evans said the city has assessed the property’s value based on its highest possible use — such as if it contained a high-rise condo — and tenants are facing a huge tax bite.
“All this is going to do is hollow out 17th Avenue southwest and hollow out Fourth Street. They are killing, just absolutely killing, businesses,” he said.
“Calgary is business unfriendly.”
According to a study released last fall by real estate research firm Altus Group, Calgary commercial property owners pay civic taxes roughly three times that of a similarly-valued residential property.
Evans said the city should be shifting more of the tax burden on to homeowners, something council is going to start to do this year, and significantly cut city spending.
Kay Gupta, a co-owner of Cetus Automotive Repair Centres, expects her northeast Calgary business will likely see a double-digit property tax hike this year based on a higher assessment.
Calgary needs to be careful companies aren’t driven out of business by rising taxes, making the load even heavier for those that remain.
“If they eliminate the rest of the entrepreneurs or make it more difficult, ultimately Calgary will not be able to recover,” she cautioned.
Maureen Macdonald, whose company CMS Real Estate owns seven properties in the city, has seen the assessment on the building she’s based out of climb by 54 per cent in the past year.
Yet, the property hasn’t seen any changes in tenants or had any upgrades.
“I am recommending to every building owner I know to appeal their property taxes, just for the point to send a message to city hall,” she said Monday.
“This isn’t just a downtown problem, it’s city-wide.”
Related
Council is expected to make a final decision on the cap after it receives a report from administration examining its options.
Coun. Shane Keating notes the city has phased out Calgary’s business tax and consolidated it into the commercial property tax system, one of the reasons companies are paying higher property taxes.
But like Farrell, he favours some limit on the maximum increase companies will see in 2019 due to reassessment.
“We capped it for two years and maybe we could cap it for one more year,” he said. “We can’t cap it for every year because eventually, something has to give.”
For business operators like Abbas and Evans, 2019 might be the year something does give — their patience with an increasing tax load in Calgary.
Chris Varcoe is a Calgary Herald columnist.
cvarcoe@postmedia.com

Story 182
Singapore — Russia's Rusal, the world's second largest producer of primary aluminum, and US-based Braidy Industries have signed a letter of intent, which will make Rusal a strategic partner in Ashland, Kentucky's Braidy Atlas aluminum mill, with Rusal investing up to $200 million, the two companies said Sunday.
Not registered? Receive daily email alerts, subscriber notes & personalize your experience. Register Now
The $200 million letter of intent is viewed as the "strategic, cornerstone investment that paves the way for the nearly $1.7 billion total investment," Rusal and Braidy executives said.
Rusal and Braidy also have negotiated an exclusive 10-year supply contract under which Rusal will supply aluminum slab and P1020 to the Kentucky mill, officials told S&P Global Platts. That contract's estimated value would be "approximately $500 million per year at today's [primary aluminum] prices," Braidy CEO Craig Bouchard said.
"We are very fortunate to have the best smelting company in the world join us as our partner and as our lead, exclusive supplier," Bouchard added, continuing, "No other company could have supplied us with the low-carbon slab, prime aluminum contract that we've negotiated."
Bouchard maintains that the partnership has three pillars -- low-cost, high-quality, low carbon. The mill will be the low-cost producer of aluminum sheet; but it also aims to produce the highest quality product from Rusal's low-carbon primary aluminum. The operation's furnaces might be fed by 50% prime aluminum and 50% scrap -- as opposed to the more typical practice of a 70:30 scrap-to-prime ratio, according to Bouchard.
Soon to debut: Braidy Atlas Rusal
With full production planned for 2021, the nearly $1.7 billion Braidy Atlas mill is the first greenfield aluminum rolling mill being built in the US in more than 35 years. Its hot mill output is estimated at 500,000 mt/year and finished sheet at 300,000 mt/year.
Bouchard is quick to acknowledge that Braidy Industries "is in the lead at the rebuild of Appalachia. It's a very important social responsibility, we take it very seriously and we only want the best partners in the world to help us."
Bouchard said that what's now known as the Braidy Atlas mill ultimately will be referred to as Braidy Atlas Rusal. The two boards are expected to consider the letter of intent next month, followed by four to eight weeks of contractual work. The documentation process will likely be completed by early summer.
In a factsheet handout, Braidy Industries, the parent company notes that it is seeking $500 million in total capital, has more than 560 investors, more than 100 institutional funds and accredited investors, $1 billion "substantial indications of interest," and $45 million in cash on-hand with zero debt.
"Today marks the first step in a long-term relationship between our groups focused on creating real value in the emerging low-carbon economy," Lord Barker, executive chairman of EN+, Rusal's parent company, told Platts. "This is a unique opportunity -- globally -- and one that both companies are uniquely positioned to create -- lowest cost, highest quality, low-carbon -- is the future."
Barker noted how Chinese smelters generate 22 mt of carbon for every metric ton of aluminum produced, whereas Rusal's smelters generate just 3.7 mt of carbon for every mt of aluminum made.
"We are marrying lowest cost with lowest carbon, meaning that being environmentally responsible is no longer the preserve of those who can afford to pay for it, but actually becomes the right of every consumer," Barker explained one major appeal of the partnership.
"Happy" to pay the tariffs: Bouchard
The Kentucky facility, located within a day's drive of 50% of US automotive production, will target the automotive, aerospace and industrial markets for lightweight exposed aluminum sheet.
The US Treasury recently lifted sanctions on Rusal, but having the primary producer as a long-term supply partner will still require Braidy to pay the existing 10% tariff on its aluminum imports. But the quality material Rusal delivers, according to Bouchard, is worth it.
"Happy to pay the tariffs. Absolutely," Bouchard said.
-- Joe Innace, joseph.innace@spglobal.com
-- Edited by Norazlina Jumaat, newsdesk@spglobal.com

Story 183
Equal Pay Day, the symbolic annual reminder of how far women have to work into the new year to earn the same pay white men earned the previous year, took place this year on April 10th. Now, four months later, Black Women's Equal Pay Day has finally arrived. On average, black women have to work eight additional months to achieve pay equity with white men. (This year, Native American and Latina women won't cross this threshold until September 7th and November 1st, respectively.) Currently, black women are paid 38 percent less than white men and 21 percent less than white women, according to new data released by SurveyMonkey and LeanIn.org in partnership with the National Urban League. Over the course of a typical career, this amounts to nearly $870,000 in lost wages. Systematic issues of discrimination and workplace bias play a huge role in these statistics. But in addition to drawing attention to the need to combat these problems, Black Women's Equal Pay Day provides an opportunity to discuss how black women can be better advocates for themselves at work. CNBC Make It interviewed five black women about their compensation history and the negotiating advice they have for other women looking to earn what they're worth. Here's what they told us:
Tonya Rapley, millennial money expert, founder of My Fab Finance
My Fab Finance founder Tonya Rapley
Tonya Rapley is a nationally-recognized millennial money expert. She founded the award-winning site, My Fab Finance, in 2013. Rapley has been featured on several platforms including Forbes, NY Daily News, Cheddar, Essence.com and Refinery29. What was your first job out of school? My first job out of college was working as a customer service representative for Windstream Communications. It was a means to an end, as I was having a hard time getting hired out of college. I know for sure I wasn't making more than $16 an hour. Were you paid fairly for the work you were doing at that time? If not, how did you find out you were underpaid? Absolutely not, but I learned I was not alone in this, and most of the individuals who started in my position were underpaid so I'm not sure if negotiating would have made a difference. It was one of the most stressful jobs I have ever done, which is why I lasted less than six months before finding a position that was more related to my degree. What negotiating advice do you wish you had known in your 20s? To ask anyway. Just because it appears to be corporate protocol does not mean there isn't wiggle room for more money. What advice do you have for black women today who are thinking about asking for a raise? No matter how qualified you are, don't underestimate the benefit of stating your value and what you bring to the table in your request. You should also understand your skill sets and leverage them when making your ask. And in the event that you don't get the raise, don't automatically take it personally. While it could be personal, immediately defaulting to this response and belief puts you in an emotional state, rather than a strategic one.
April Reign, Senior Director of Marketing at Fractured Atlas
Senior Director of Marketing for Fractured Atlas April Reign
April Reign is a senior director of marketing at non-profit arts organization Fractured Atlas. In addition to her day job, she is a speaker and diversity consultant who built a large online following in 2015 with her viral #OscarsSoWhite hashtag, which challenged Hollywood's lack of representation in film. What was your first job out of school? Right after college I went to law school and I didn't have a job in between. So my first job after law school was working as a young lawyer at a law firm. Were you paid fairly for the work you were doing at that time? If not, how did you find out you were underpaid? I honestly don't know, and I think that is part of the problem. There is this lack of transparency in respect to salary. It was enough, but I don't know if it was actually fair. What negotiating advice do you wish you had known in your 20s? To research my job and its starting salary in my geographic location so that I could know the average pay. What advice do you have for black women today who are thinking about asking for a raise? I think women always, especially black women, undervalue what we do. So you should always determine what you deserve and then add 25 percent. At my current job at Fractured Atlas, they were very transparent about salary and I absolutely love that. So I knew what the starting salary was going into the interview. And so when they gave the offer I said, "You know what, based off what I am bringing to the table, I think I am this plus 25 percent." And my team lead, because we don't actually have bosses, said, "I needed you to say that." She said, "I needed you to ask for more money because I wanted to give it to you, but I couldn't just offer it." So, they came back to me and were like, "Yes, we will give you everything you asked for." And you know, that is an amazing feeling.
Karen Civil, CEO of Live Civil and Always Civil
Karen Civil, CEO of Live Civil and Always Civil
Karen Civil is CEO of the marketing and branding agency Always Civil and founder of the blog site, Live Civil. She's been dubbed a "self-made marketing guru for the hip-hop generation" by Complex and has created branding campaigns for artists and companies including Lil Wayne, Beats by Dre and Nipsey Hussle. What was your first job out of school? My first job was at Burger King in Elizabeth, New Jersey. I was making $5.15 an hour. Were you paid fairly for the work you were doing at that time? If not, how did you find out you were underpaid? At the time, I thought I was. But after a few months, I learned that certain people who lacked the skills I possessed were getting paid $5.75 an hour. When the shift managers didn't find it necessary to give me a raise, I decided to move forward with a new job at Nautica where I was making $7.25 an hour. What negotiating advice do you wish you had known in your 20s? When you're an independent contractor/entrepreneur, you have to realistically know what's worth your time. My motto now is to never step over a dollar to pick up a nickel. You just have to understand that certain projects are not worth the energy. What advice do you have for black women today who are thinking about asking for a raise? If you're in a male-dominated industry, like myself in entertainment, you have to work twice as hard just to be respected or given the same opportunities as others. Some women think the way to combat this is to up-sell their talents while offering them at a discount. But the biggest mistake we can make is to undersell and overwork ourselves. If you do quality work, then you need to believe in yourself and never lose sight of your worth. Remember, don't be afraid to do your research and add that to your negotiation. You can include details like, "Other people in this position are making this annually," or "The average pay rate for this company is." This will show how serious and detail-oriented you are when dealing with business.
Minda Harts, CEO of The Memo
The Memo LLC founder Minda Harts
Minda Harts is the founder and CEO of The Memo LLC, a career development platform for women of color. She's also the creator of the #SecuretheSeat podcast and in 2016 was named a Change Maker at The White House State of Women Summit. What was your first job out of school? My first job out of college was an administrative assistant position. They offered me $28,000 and I asked for $30,000 and received it. It was more than my family's total household income growing up and I felt like it was a lot of money since I had spent my formative years working at fast food restaurants and grocery stores for minimum wage. Were you paid fairly for the work you were doing at that time? If not, how did you find out you were underpaid? At the time, I had no idea if I was being paid fairly or how to negotiate. I solely based my desired salary on how much my bills would be each month. Shortly after college, I signed a lease for a studio apartment in the Lincoln Park neighborhood of Chicago. I knew that I had to make at least $30,000 to pay all of my bills and have a little bit left over. So that was the reason why I asked for more. What negotiating advice do you wish you had known in your 20s? In my 20s, I let companies and hiring managers tell me what I was worth. The main piece of advice I would give my younger self is to know your worth before you start any negotiation process because knowing your worth is the most important mindset shift you will ever make. What advice do you have for black women today who are thinking about asking for a raise? I think its important for young black women to conduct research on their desired position. Negotiation is a high stakes game and you can't show up unprepared. At the very least, you should know what the market rate is for the job. Knowing this information will set you up for success and allow you to incorporate this information into your counter-argument if you are being offered a salary lower than the going market rate.
Leslie Mac, community organizer, activist and writer
Community organizer and writer Leslie Mac

Story 184
Thousands of customers may have worthless car rental bookings through Atlas Choice this holiday season, according to a report by The Guardian.
Atlas Choice customers have reported being told at the rental car counters that their bookings wouldn’t be honored unless they paid again. Atlas Choice hadn’t paid the car’s actual provider for the bookings, says the report.
Angry customers have posted comments about the London-based company on Twitter and other social media.
Chris Clifton-Brown wrote online: “Booked through them recently, and when I turned up to collect my car the hire firm made me aware that Atlas Choice are not paying the actual hire firms. I had to pay the hire firm for the car again even though Atlas Choice had already taken my money.”
Operating since 1999, Atlas Choice has partnered with several web-based travel businesses and used the booking agent website via the TravelSupermarket comparison website. A TravelSupermarket spokeswoman told the Guardian that it pulled Atlas Choice from its listings three weeks ago when Atlaschoice missed a payment and couldn’t be reached.
Currently, the Atlas Choice website says it’s not accepting any new bookings.
“We have requested that all car hire companies keep cars in place to fulfill bookings and honor the previously agreed price,” Atlas Choice states on its website. “In the event that this does not occur, we recommend that you visit a travel search engine like Skyscanner or TravelSupermarket to source an alternative supplier — at the present time, Atlas Choice is unfortunately unable to assist. Please accept our sincere apologies for any inconvenience that this may cause you, especially at this time of year.”
Click here to read the full Guardian report.

Story 185
MongoDB, the company behind the eponymous open source database, is launching Atlas today, its third major revenue-generating service.
Atlas is MongoDB’s database-as-a-service offering that provides users with a managed database service. The service will offer pay-as-you-go pricing and will initially allow users to deploy on Amazon Web Services (AWS), with support for Microsoft Azure and Google Cloud Platform coming later.
MongoDB Atlas complements the company’s commercial offering for enterprises who want to run the service on-premise, and MongoDB Professional, which provides businesses with support and access to the company’s Cloud Manager and other tools. Atlas fits somewhere between these two services. It allows anybody who wants to use MongoDB to quickly provision it in the cloud, get support, and only pay an hourly fee.
MongoDB’s VP of Strategy Kelly Stirman tells me that he believes most developers love MongoDB because it makes them productive (though it’s worth noting that there are, of course, also plenty of developers who don’t love MongoDB). “MongoDB is great for developing the application,” he said. “But when it comes to deploying the application in production, that’s where developers can get stuck. With this, we took all the experience we have supporting large systems and deployments in production — and the software we developed to help people. As a user, you don’t need to know much more than where you want to deploy and what size database you need.”
With DynamoDB, Amazon also offers its own NoSQL database, of course. Stirman, however, argues that companies end up locking themselves into Amazon’s platform by using this service. “Our strategy here is to give you independence from the underlying cloud provider and let you find the providers that has the best set of SLAs and region support — and you can continue to use MongoDB even if you change the underlying cloud provider,” he said.
The company argues that Atlas will offer users a database platform that is fault-tolerant and self-healing. Atlas will monitor the databases and provide backups as well, with the data always being replicated in different availability zones. As for security, MongoDB says it provides end-to-end encryption of all of your data and it’s using Amazon’s own tools like its Virtual Private Cloud feature to keep databases safe.
MongoDB tells me that prices will start at “less than a cup of coffee” (which in the age of third-wave roasters is a pretty flexible definition, of course) and will depend on the size of underlying AWS server you want MongoDB to provision for you.
In addition to the new Atlas service, MongoDB also today announced that its connector for Apache Spark has now hit general availability. With this, MongoDB users can now use Spark’s analytics processing engine to query live MongoDB data. MongoDB worked closely with Databricks, the creators of Spark, on this integration.

Story 186
In a surprise move, Citi president Jamie Forese, long known as the heir apparent to CEO Michael Corbat, announced Wednesday that he is leaving the bank at just 56 years of age. His exit appears completely voluntarily, though questions remain why he is choosing now to walk away. Potential reasons for his exit are sparking additional intrigue.
As head of Citi’s Institutional Clients Group (ICG), which contains its investment banking and trading units, among others, Forese and his division were ultimately responsible for generating roughly half the bank’s totals revenues in 2018. ICG revenue had increased more than 10% under Forese. A source told the Financial Times that Forese, who has spent over three decades at Citi, didn’t want to wait another three to five years for Corbat, 58, to retire, and that he wanted to leave the bank “while things are going well.”
Whether that comment portends bad news is debatable, though Citi’s chief financial officer recently warned that trading revenues fell in the first quarter following a Q4 where fixed income trading revenues plummeted by 21% compared to year earlier. Much of the damage occurred within Citi’s Asia-Pacific division, which suffered a $180m trading loss in the fourth quarter. Francisco Aristeguieta, CEO of Citigroup Asia, is also leaving the bank, according to a company memo.
Meanwhile, a different source told Bloomberg that Forese had become frustrated with not having his voice heard over the direction of the bank’s consumer division. That frustration reportedly mounted after Corbat wasn’t named chairman last year when the seat opened – a move that Forese felt would provide him more influence, the source told Bloomberg. The elevation of Corbat to chairman could also have conceivably provided motivation to push up his timeline in naming a successor as CEO.
“To many of you, the timing of my decision might come as a surprise, to others perhaps less so,” Forese wrote in a letter to Citigroup staff that may only heighten speculation over his departure.
Either way, Citi has seen a mass exodus of senior executives over the last year of the kind that typically only occurs when a new CEO his named (see Goldman Sachs since David Solomon took the helm). Counting Forese and Aristeguieta, eight of Citi’s 14 executive officers as of last February have now left or are on their way out. Forese’s deputy, Paco Ybarra, will take over leadership of ICG on May 1.
Elsewhere, the Lincoln Center’s annual Alternative Investment Industry Gala took place this week , featuring big-name hedge fund managers like Steven Cohen, Neil Chriss and Steven Tananbaum. But they weren’t the main focus of the event, which raised $1.7 million for charity. The gala honored Ilana Weinstein, founder of executive search firm IDW Group.
“I work with her all the time. She’s tenacious. Irrepressible. Whatever it takes, she gets it done,” Cohen said of Weinstein during his speech, before half-jokingly suggesting Weinstein is the force behind rampant talent poaching among hedge funds. “I was sitting there the other day going, ‘This is weird, nobody benefits,’” Cohen said of the industry’s recruiting war. “And then it hit me that there’s one person who benefits all the time -- it doesn’t matter which way they’re going, she does well.”
All jokes aside, Weinstein seems to be the person to know if you want to get a job on the buy-side. Anyone who can convince Steven Cohen to make jokes on stage has some panache.
Meanwhile:
Citi announced other leadership changes in addition to Forese’s departure. Carey Lathrop, chief operating officer for Citibank NA, and Andy Morton, global head of G10 rates, markets treasury and finance, have been named the new co-heads of the bank's markets and securities division. Mary McNiff, Citi’s chief auditor, has been appointed the new head of Citibank NA. ( FT )
Goldman Sachs’ new fixed income trading strategy includes courting more asset managers, brokers and non-finance corporations. The bank is looking to diversify its client base, which has historically been dominated by hedge funds. ( FT )
The public spat between Barclays and activist investor Edward Bramson was elevated on Wednesday when the bank called Bramson’s understanding of the bank “simplistic and flawed.” The comments came after Bramson sent a letter to fellow Barclays shareholders urging them to elect him to the board next month. Bramson, who maintains a 5% stake in Barclays, has been pushing the British lender to take a knife to its investment bank. ( Financial News )
Shareholder adviser Glass Lewis has urged investors to reject UBS’s compensation proposal, which includes $14 million in pay for CEO Sergio Ermotti. UBS shares were down 32% last year and Ermotti has signaled that the first quarter of 2019 may have been a rough one. ( Bloomberg )
Commerzbank Chairman Stefan Schmittmann dismissed reports that some board members want to oust CEO Martin Zielke and end merger talks with Deutsche Bank. He said the rumors were “made up out of thin air.” ( Reuters )
New jobs openings at U.K. fintech firms were up 61% in 2018. And fintechs have been even more active through the first three months of this year. ( Bloomberg )
Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez grilled J.P. Morgan Chief Executive Jamie Dimon during a committee hearing that included the CEOs of many of the biggest U.S. banks. She pushed Dimon on whether more people should have gone to jail for their role in the financial crisis. Dimon had previously criticized aspects of Ocasio-Cortez’s Green New Deal proposal. ( NY Post )
Former Barclays CEO Bob Diamond has hired a familiar face to join his investment firm. Tom King, head of Barclays investment bank through 2016, has been named a partner at Diamond’s Atlas Merchant Capital. ( Financial News )
Small banks are becoming frustrated with three “core service providers” that act as the backbone of the modern banking system’s infrastructure. Fiserv, Fidelity National Information Services and Jack Henry Associates combine to provide much of the technology utilized by smaller banks, making them extremely reliant on the small group of service providers who have reportedly taken advantage of their position with onerous contracts, according to some industry groups. Lawsuits have been filed and banks have begun looking to smaller fintech companies as alternatives. ( WSJ )
Have a confidential story, tip, or comment you’d like to share? Contact: btuttle@efinancialcareers.comBear with us if you leave a comment at the bottom of this article: all our comments are moderated by actual human beings. Sometimes these humans might be asleep, or away from their desks, so it may take a while for your comment to appear. Eventually it will – unless it’s offensive or libelous (in which case it won’t).

Story 187
MUMBAI/NEW YORK (Reuters) - Indian energy giant Reliance Industries will pay $1.7 billion to form a joint venture at one of the most promising natural gas deposit regions in the U.S. with Atlas Energy, becoming the latest foreign company to invest in shale plays that are expected to be very lucrative.
A gas drilling site on the Marcellus Shale is seen in Hickory, Pennsylvania February 24, 2009. REUTERS/ Jason Cohn
Reliance, controlled by billionaire Mukesh Ambani, has been working hard to expand its presence outside India, break into new markets and broaden its various businesses including refining, oil and gas exploration and petrochemicals.
India’s largest listed firm will pick up a 40 percent stake in Atlas’s operations in the booming Marcellus Shale — a gas project that spans parts of Pennsylvania, West Virginia and New York in the United States and which, according to some geologists, could hold enough natural gas to satisfy U.S. demand for a decade.
With this move it joins a number of international oil companies including BP Plc, Total, Statoil and Mitsui & Co who have bought into shales, rock formations that could hold vast amounts of natural gas.
While the shale formations have proven to be lucrative, they are also very expensive to develop and environmentally sensitive. The joint ventures have given the independent oil companies who own much of the acreage in these areas access to capital and should allow foreign oil companies to pick up expertise in new drilling techniques developed for the shales.
“This marks Reliance’s foray into a totally new venture altogether. Reliance is going to generate a lot of cash flows going ahead and investments in shale gas could be a good growth opportunity,” said Deepak Pareek, oil and gas analyst with Angel Broking.
Reliance Chairman Ambani, who according to Forbes is the world’s fourth-richest man with a net worth of $29 billion, has made no secret of the firm’s overseas ambitions as the company has raised a war chest of $2 billion by selling stock in recent months.
But Reliance, founded by Ambani’s father Dhirubhai, a school teacher’s son, had not met with much success until now in its foreign takeover attempts.
Bankrupt petrochemicals firm LyondellBasell recently rejected a bid from Reliance that valued the target at about $14.5 billion, and the Indian firm also lost a race for Canadian oil sands firm Value Creation, in which it wanted to take a majority stake for $2 billion.
Shares in Reliance closed up 1.8 percent on Friday, while the Mumbai market rose 1.2 percent.
Atlas Energy shares jumped $6.44, or 20.3 percent, to $38.25 on the Nasdaq on Friday.
Shares of other companies with acreage in the Marcellus Shale, including Exco Resources and Range Resources, were also boosted by the news.
More joint ventures in the region can be expected to follow, bankers said. Exco, in particular, should be closely watched. Chief Executive Doug Miller said in February that the company was in discussions for a potential joint venture with its acreage there.
JOINT VENTURE
Atlas’s core Marcellus position consists of about 300,000 acres, largely in southwestern Pennsylvania, out of which about 120,000 acres will go to Reliance, the companies said.
Upon closing Reliance will pay about $340 million in cash and must also contribute $1.36 billion to the joint venture to develop the shale project, Atlas said in a statement.
Reliance is paying around $14,000 an acre for its share of the Marcellus acreage, which is in line with what Japan’s Mitsui paid for its joint venture with Anadarko Petroleum Corp announced in February [ID:nN16229402]. Still, the price is more expensive than most of the previously announced deals.
The members of Atlas’s management team have a background in finance and are known for their deal making skills, said Marshall Carver, energy analyst at Capital One Southcoast in New Orleans.
Atlas Energy Chairman Edward Cohen is also chairman of Resource America Inc, a publicly traded asset management company, and Chief Operating Officer Richard Weber was head of energy investment banking at KeyBanc Capital Markets from June 1997 to March 2006.
“This deal was certainly done at a good price” for Atlas, Carver said.
Atlas will serve as the development operator for the joint venture, and will retain a 60 percent undivided interest in the acreage.
Reliance will have the option to buy 40 percent in all new acreages, and also has the right to first offer for potential future sales by Atlas of about 280,000 additional Appalachian acres controlled by the U.S. firm.
Debate over drilling in the region has sharpened in recent months. Environmentalists claim the drilling fluids needed to crack the rock and free the gas can contaminate drinking water, an assertion the industry hotly disputes.
Jefferies & Co was the lead financial advisor, while J.P. Morgan Securities was another advisor to Atlas.
Barclays advised Reliance on the deal, which is expected to close by the end of April.

Story 188
Chaque année, 37 gigatonnes de CO 2 sont relâchées dans l'atmosphère, principalement par les activités humaines (combustion d'énergies fossiles, déforestation...). Voici les premiers pays contributeurs, l'évolution de leurs émissions et le classement des émissions de CO 2 par habitant.
Les émissions mondiales de CO 2 ont triplé entre 1970 et 2017, et la tendance ne semble pas s'inverser. Nous sommes ainsi loin de la trajectoire de l'accord de Paris pour rester sous les 2 °C, qui exigerait une diminution drastique de nos émissions. Depuis le début du siècle, la Chine en particulier connaît une croissance exponentielle de ses émissions de CO 2 , parallèle à sa croissance économique soutenue (entre 7 % et 10 % par an). Le pays carburant en grande partie au charbon, l'énergie la plus polluante, ses émissions ont logiquement explosé.


La Chine a connu une croissance affolante de ses émissions de CO 2 depuis les années 2000, même si celles-ci plafonnent depuis quelques années. © C. Deluzarche, données Global Carbon Atlas.
Les 10 pays qui émettent le plus de CO 2
Avec 9,84 milliards de tonnes de CO 2 émises en 2017, la Chine est de loin le premier émetteur de gaz à effet de serre, devant les États-Unis et l'Inde. Il serait toutefois injuste de lui faire porter le chapeau du réchauffement mondial, car le pays exporte la majorité des biens fabriqués dans ses usines... pour notre consommation. Les pays riches ont en quelque sorte « délocalisé » leur pollution vers l'Asie. Avec des émissions de 356 millions de tonnes de CO 2 en 2017, la France fait partie des bons élèves, grâce à son industrie nucléaire, contrairement à l'Allemagne encore dépendante du charbon.


La Chine, les États-unis et l’Inde sont les plus gros émetteurs de CO 2 . © C. Deluzarche, données Global Carbon Atlas.
Les 10 pays qui émettent le plus de CO 2 par habitant
Avec près de 50 tonnes de CO 2 par an, le Qatar est le plus gros émetteur de CO 2 par habitant, suivi par le Koweït et les Émirats arabes unis. Par comparaison, chaque Français émet « seulement » 5,48 tonnes de CO 2 par an. Rien d'étonnant : ces pays du Golfe émettent de grosses quantités de CO 2 en raison de l'exploitation pétrolière et gazière, et comme ils sont peu peuplés, le ratio par habitant est très élevé. Autres gros pollueurs : les États-Unis, peu connus pour leur sobriété énergétique, et l'Australie, cette dernière étant dépendante du charbon à 80 %.


Les pays du Golfe, faiblement peuplés et gros producteurs de pétrole, sont les plus gros émetteurs de CO 2 par habitant. © C. Deluzarche, données Global Carbon Atlas.
Intéressé par ce que vous venez de lire ? Abonnez-vous à la lettre d'information La question de la semaine : notre réponse à une question que vous vous posez, forcément. Toutes les lettres d’information Futura Votre e-mail S'abonner ! Merci pour votre inscription.
Heureux de vous compter parmi nos lecteurs !
Cela vous intéressera aussi

Story 189
The first major flagship phones for 2019 have set sail from Samsung. Last week the company unveiled the Galaxy S10e, S10 and S10 Plus, with a decent jump up from last year's models and extra cameras crammed onto the back. So how well do they stack up against their biggest competitors – the most recent iPhones? New Atlas compares the specs and features of the Samsung Galaxy S10e, S10 and S10 Plus with the iPhone XR, XS and XS Max.
Size
Size
In physical terms, the phones tend to pair up. The Galaxy S10e and the iPhone XS are close to tied as the smallest devices – interestingly though, that's Apple's middle tier and Samsung's entry level device. After a bit of a gap, the Galaxy S10 and the iPhone XR are again within a few millimeters of each other. And finally, the two premium phones are again close to the same size, with the iPhone XS Max measuring just 3 mm wider than the Galaxy S10 Plus.
Weight
Weight
There's no such pairing up in weight though – Apple's devices are heftier across the board. The lightest iPhone is a couple grams heavier than the heaviest Galaxy. The only exception is if you opt for the special model of the Galaxy S10 Plus, which comes with a ceramic backing that adds an extra 23 g. For reference, a US nickel weighs exactly 5 g, so the differences between them is equivalent to walking around with a few extra coins in your pocket.
Colors
Colors
Samsung seems excited about its new "Prismatic" designs, which apparently catch the light in a way that shines with different colors. Or there's a bright pink, if that's more your jam. If you're going for the ceramic finish on the S10 Plus, you have the option of black or white.
The iPhone palette is a little more basic, with silver, gray and gold on the XS and XS Max. Apple has let loose a bit more on the XR though, throwing in blue, yellow, coral and red options.
Build
Build
All six of these phones are built with glass front and back, ringed in metal for support. On the three Galaxy phones and the iPhone XR, that metal is aluminum, while the iPhone XS and XS Max go for stainless steel.
Again, there's a special edition of the Galaxy S10 Plus with a ceramic backing.
Water resistance
Water resistance
All six of these phones have a good water resistance rating. For most that's IP68, which officially means they're dust-proof and can withstand being submerged in water down to a depth of 1.5 m (4.9 ft) for 30 minutes. Apple goes a little further and claims the iPhone XS and XS Max can dive down to 2 m (6.6 ft). The iPhone XR's rating of IP67 means it should be fine down to 1 m (3.3 ft).
In practice though, it's still not a good idea to take your phone swimming, but it's nice to know that a quick accidental dunk won't be the end of it.
Display size
Display size
Much like with the physical sizes, the phones pair up when it comes to display sizes. The iPhone XS and Galaxy S10e have 5.8-inch screens, while the mid-tier Galaxy S10 and entry-level iPhone XR bump it up to 6.1 inches. The Galaxy S10 Plus stretches out to 6.4 in while the iPhone XS Max lives up to its name with a 6.5 in display.
Screen-to-body ratio
Screen-to-body ratio
It's well established by now that modern phone designs are all about pushing the screen as close as possible to the edge of the device, and all six of these phones look pretty slick in that department.
Where that ratio starts to drop is in how they handle the front-facing camera. These three iPhones have all adopted the "notch" from 2017's iPhone X, where the camera lens is contained in a small black bar that juts down from the top. It's a divisive feature, since it eats up a bit of screen real estate.
With the Galaxy S10 series, Samsung has a new solution – the so-called "hole punch". There's now just a small circular spot in the corner holding the camera, which we first saw on Huawei's 2019 phones a few months ago. It might also take some getting used to (for users and UI designers alike) but it seems like a neater solution.
Display resolution
Display resolution
Apple does a good job of hiding it, but in terms of raw pixels, iPhone screens are consistently lower than the competition. In fact, the iPhone XR has dropped below Full HD, which itself has been towards the low-end of expectations on phones for years.
The iPhone XS and XS Max fare better, with resolutions somewhere between the murky definitions of 2K and Quad HD. The Galaxy S10e is in the same ballpark, albeit not quite as high a resolution as the two higher-end iPhones.
The Galaxy S10 and S10 Plus sport the highest resolutions of this bunch, and are among the sharpest of any current flagship phones.
Display type
Display type
The industry seems to be moving towards Organic Light-Emitting Diode (OLED) technology for displays. The low-end iPhone is the only hold-out with an In-Plane Switching Liquid Crystal Display (IPS LCD).
OLED – and its advanced variants like Active Matrix (AMOLED) and Super AMOLED – have a few advantages over LCD. Because each pixel is individually lit, the display is capable of brighter colors, darker blacks and better contrast. They can also be thinner since they don't need a backlight like LCD – it's no coincidence the iPhone XR is the thickest device here.
Biometrics
Biometrics
After just two generations, Samsung has ditched the iris scanner and focused on the tried-and-true fingerprint sensor and facial recognition. The Galaxy S10 and S10 Plus have an ultrasonic fingerprint scanner built into the lower section of the screen, while the S10e has a capacitive one on the side of the phone. That might seem like a strange place for it, but we guess it is where your fingers go while holding the device.
Apple, meanwhile, dropped fingerprint sensors a few years ago, leaving the Face ID system as the only biometric unlocking method.
Processor
Processor
The three Samsung phones are all powered by Qualcomm's latest chipset, the Snapdragon 855 (or the equivalent Exynos 9820 in Europe, the Middle East and Africa). The iPhones use Apple's most recent processor, the A12 Bionic.
RAM
RAM
In pure numbers, the iPhones have about half the RAM of the Galaxies. But that doesn't necessarily translate to noticeably slower speeds – Apple has tight control over its operating system, so is known to be able to squeeze more out of less power.
Samsung, on the other hand, has broken a new barrier in flagships by offering the option to kit out the Galaxy S10 Plus with a monstrous 12 GB of RAM – but that doesn't come cheap.
Built-in Storage
Built-in storage
It wasn't long ago that 64 GB was a roomy bonus for built-in storage, but now it's the low end of the scale, and is all but phased out. That's the basic option for all three iPhones, while the smallest amount you'll get on a Galaxy is 128 GB.
The two entry-level phones – the iPhone XR and the Galaxy S10e – cap out at 256 GB, which is still pretty generous. When the iPhones launched late last year, 512 GB seemed like a lot, but now it's been eclipsed by the Galaxy S10 Plus as the first major phone to offer 1 TB.
MicroSD
MicroSD
If you do fill up your phone, Samsung gives the option to top it up with a MicroSD card, up to an extra 512 GB. Prospective iPhone owners will need to be a bit more careful about which model they buy though – there's no expanding it later on.
Battery
Battery
The Galaxy S10 Plus is the first major flagship to break through the 4,000-mAh capacity mark for batteries. The other two Galaxies fall more in the usual range of smartphones.
Again, in pure numbers the iPhone batteries fall well short of most rival phones, but Apple's tight control over the hardware and software means it can make the most of what it has.
It's also worth keeping in mind that these figures aren't the be all end all of battery life. Other factors include certain settings, what you're using the phones for, etc. In practice, you should get more than a day's worth of regular use out of all these phones, or maybe two of light use.
Fast charging
Fast charging
All six of these phones can be fast-charged, if you need a quick top-up before heading out. But there's a catch – the iPhones need a dedicated fast charger, which is a separate purchase of about US$70. For a feature that's been standard for four or five years on almost every other major phone, that decision is frankly baffling on Apple's part.
Wireless charging
Wireless charging
All six phones can also be charged wirelessly, but this time a separate purchase is required by both companies. In fact, we're yet to see a phone released with a wireless charger in the box.
An interesting little quirk of the Galaxy phones is a feature Samsung calls PowerShare. Not only can the phones themselves be wirelessly charged, but you can charge another phone or device by placing it on top of the Galaxy.
Ports
Ports
The Galaxy line charges through industry-standard USB-C, while the iPhones use Apple's proprietary Lightning ports. If you still have a pair of plug-in headphones, you'll be happy to know that Samsung is still hanging onto the 3.5 mm audio jack.
Front camera
Front camera
The Galaxy S10e and S10 have decent front cameras, with 10 megapixels and an aperture of f/1.9. The S10 Plus adds a second camera, with 8 MP.
The 7-MP cameras on the front of the iPhones have depth sensors built-in, which Apple calls TrueDepth 3D.
Rear camera
Rear cameras
The iPhone XR is the only phone in this list to have just one rear camera – a decent 12-MP number with an aperture of f/1.8. The other two iPhones sport a dual camera setup, with a wide angle and a telephoto lens.
The Galaxy S10e has a wide-angle and an ultra-wide camera, with 12 MP and 16 MP respectively. The S10 and S10 Plus have the same setup and add a 12-MP telephoto lens to the mix.
Photo/video
Photo/video
Many of the usual camera modes are present and accounted for in all six of these phones. They can all shoot stills with high dynamic range (HDR), and video in resolutions up to 4K with optical image stabilization (OIS) to keep things looking smooth. With multiple cameras now the norm, the bokeh effect – where the background can be blurred to different degrees to make the subject pop – is better than ever.
You can speed up time with the classic timelapse (or what Samsung calls Hyperlapse) mode, or slow it down with slow-motion at up to 240 frames per second. And one of the key selling points of the Galaxy S9 series is back on the S10s – Super Slo-mo, which crawls at a snail's pace of 960 frames per second.
Apple was the first to roll out augmented reality (AR) features like Animoji and Memoji. Users make cartoon versions of themselves that mimic their facial expressions, and can be sent as short videos. Samsung's AR Emoji system is basically the same thing, except it also includes licensed characters like Mickey Mouse.
Operating system
Operating system
Both sets of phones are running the latest versions of their operating systems. The Galaxy phones all come equipped with Android 9 Pie, while the iPhones are running iOS 12.
Assistant
Assistant
The quintessential Siri is here to stay on Apple's devices, complete with a few new tricks as of iOS 12. For example, you can now create custom commands called Siri Shortcuts for things you do regularly.
Samsung has its own version, dubbed Bixby, which is basically the same thing but not quite up to the same standard.
Release date
Release date
Apple started releasing this generation of iPhones back in September last year, with the entry-level iPhone XR following a month later. The Galaxy S10 series is due to launch in March 2019.
Price (US$)
Price (US$)
All of this new tech doesn't come cheap, and prices seem to be trending upwards in recent years. The lowest you'll pay is $749 for either a 64 GB iPhone XR, or a 128 GB Galaxy S10e. For an extra 50 bucks, you can double that storage space on the XR.
The next cheapest is the 256 GB model Galaxy S10e at $849, followed by either a 128 GB S10 or 256 GB iPhone XR for $899. Beyond that, prices start cracking the thousand-dollar mark.
When the iPhone XS Max was announced, we balked at the $1,449 price tag for the 512 GB edition. But Samsung has now one-upped them, with the 1 TB Galaxy S10 Plus retailing for an eye-watering $1,599.

Story 190
The American West is home to roughly 82,000 wild horses and burros. As idyllic as that sounds, their grazing damages rangeland and some begin to starve when their numbers grow too large, according to a report from Boise State Public Radio.
Typically, the US Bureau of Land Management captures wild horses and keeps them in corrals, where they cost the agency around $2,000 per year in food and veterinary care. But with 6,000 animals currently in their care, the BLM corrals are at capacity, and numbers of the wild-roaming population continue to rise, Boise radio reports.
So the agency is offering to pay people who adopt one.
Through the BLM’s adoption incentive program, anybody willing to adopt one of the untrained animals from its corrals will be paid $1,000.
But adopting such a creature is not for everyone. For those who find the idea charming mostly in theory, the BLM Flickr page of successful wild horse adoptions may be a better fit.

Story 191
"Medicare for All" is, arguably, the rallying cry for progressive Democrats these days. Health care costs were a major issue in the midterm elections and the best way to fix everything once and for all, say progs, is to give all Americans the same sort of coverage given to those of us who are 65 and over. What's not to like about Medicare, say proponents. Seniors love it and it's a proven form a single-payer health care.
Er, no, says a concise and persuasive op-ed in The Wall Street Journal, by Scott W. Atlas of the Hoover Institution. For starters, there is the cost problem:
For California alone, single-payer health care would cost about $400 billion a year—more than twice the state's annual budget. Nationwide "Medicare for all" would cost more than $32 trillion over its first decade. Doubling federal income and corporate taxes wouldn't be enough to pay for it. No doubt, that cost would be used to justify further restrictions on health-care access.
In 2017, Eric Boehm noted at Reason that a single-payer bill passed by New York's state assembly would cost $173 billion annually (the state generates about $71 billion a year in revenue). Even when you factor in savings from people not having to pay insurance premiums and co-payments, there's just no way to raise the revenue on such plans. In 2014, Boehm writes, Vermont had to throw in the towel because it "would have required an extra $2.5 billion annually, almost double the state's current budget, and would have required an 11.5 percent payroll tax increase and a 9 percent income tax increase."
But cost isn't the only problem. Atlas writes that in Great Britain, "a record 4.2 million patients were on England's [National Health Service] waiting lists." And there's this:
In Canada last year, the median wait time between seeing a general practitioner and following up with a specialist was 10.2 weeks, while the wait between seeing a doctor and beginning treatment was about five months. According to a Fraser Institute study, the average Canadian waits three months to see an ophthalmologist, four months for an orthopedist and five months for a neurosurgeon.
In contrast, wait lists are not a major concern in the United States.
Finally, there's also the development of new drugs. Atlas writes:
Single-payer systems also impose long delays before debuting the newest drugs for cancer and other serious diseases. A 2011 Health Affairs study showed that the Food and Drug Administration approved 32 new cancer drugs in the decade after 2000, while the European Medicines Agency approved 26. All 23 drugs approved by both Europe and the U.S. were available to American patients first. Two-thirds of the 45 "novel" drugs in 2015 were approved in the U.S. before any other country.
Most proponents of Medicare for All say they don't want to fully nationalize health care, as Canada has done. Instead, they want to guarantee a basic, accessible, free (or near-free) system. Atlas has an answer for that, too: "America's poor and middle class would suffer the most from a turn to single-payer, because only they would be unable to circumvent the system." In fact, he warns that,
the nations most experienced with single-payer systems are moving toward private provision. Sweden has increased its spending on private care for the elderly by 50% in the past decade, abolished its government's monopoly over pharmacies, and made other reforms. Last year alone, the British government spent more than $1 billion on care from private and other non-NHS providers, according to the Financial Times. Patients using single-payer care in Denmark can now choose a private hospital or a hospital outside the country if their wait time exceeds one month.
Read the whole article here.
Our health care system is definitely screwed up, but that's because we refuse to let markets function with the same sort of effectiveness they do in other parts of the economy. There are ways to take care of people who have pre-existing conditions that don't end up causing costs for everyone to go berserk. We can speed up drug trials without compromising safety, and we also need to rethink how we certify and license doctors, nurses, and everyone else who provides some dimension of health care.
Given the way the Republicans refused to take health-care policy seriously in the wake of Obamacare's passage, it seems unlikely that we'll be moving toward market-friendly solutions any time soon. That's a damn shame and if we do end up with Medicare for All, the bill will be almost incalculable in terms of more than taxes.
Related video (from 2012): Meet Keith Smith, a doctor in Oklahoma who brought market forces to bear on the delivery of surgery.

Story 192
Twitch
It has been an absolutely absurd week in the gaming industry, where a new game from EA and Respawn, Apex Legends, went from rumored to leaked to released in the span of just a few days. After that, it went from somewhat buzzy to worldwide phenomenon in 72 hours, which is as long as it took to amass 10 million players and 1 million concurrents, something I have genuinely never seen in the industry before.
Apex Legends is fun. It is deeply, unequivocally fun, and I say that as someone who, despite writing roughly 200 Fortnite guides over the past year, is generally not a fan of the battle royale genre overall (I’m more of a loot shooter guy). But everything Respawn has done here, mostly minor UI/usability tweaks paired with smooth, accessible but challenging combat, has taken Apex Legends to the next level.
As a result, Apex Legends has dominated Fortnite at least on Twitch for the entire past week. First inching past it, then blowing past it by anywhere from 50 to 100% more viewership. At the time of this writing, Apex has roughly 5x the viewers of Fortnite early this morning here before the biggest streamers are playing either game. Twitch is not a full gauge of a playerbase, obviously, and Fortnite has 200 million players and had 10 million concurrents as recently as last weekend, and yet the question is still being asked.
Is this happening? Is Apex Legends the chosen one? The Fortnite killer?
Respawn
This is a complicated question I’ll try to dissect, but the fact we’re even asking it about a game that was announced and released literally a week ago is significant in its own right.
For the most part, usually when a game “wins” a popular genre, you don’t see it unseated. Think League of Legends in the MOBA scene. Overwatch for hero shooters. World of Warcraft for MMOs if you want to go way back. Players have too much time and money invested, and the game has perfected its form too much for people to leave en masse for other titles in the genre, and if there are declines, it’s because players are moving on to other types of games entirely (Overwatch’s current, pressing problem).
Fortnite, arguably bigger than any of those games listed, has felt secure in its Battle Royale throne for the past year, not just as a popular game, but practically as a lifestyle for many kids especially, the game acting as essentially a new form of social network for the youths. But then here comes Apex Legends to upset the apple cart and suddenly every kid’s favorite Fortnite streamers are going all-Apex, all the time.
But I think it is way, way too soon to rush to judgement about what’s happening here, and far too early to count Epic and Fortnite out the way some are doing, jokingly (jokingly?) declaring Fortnite a “dead game” when just a week ago it was throwing a live Marshmello concert for 10 million players at a time.
The Apex Twitch numbers are a bit skewed because EA’s entire marketing campaign was to pay pretty much all the top Twitch content creators to stream Apex for its first few days of launch. And yet now that the campaign is over, most of them are still streaming it anyway because A) the game is super fun and good and B) they’re getting tons of viewers by playing it, so there’s no reason to stop. This is the best case scenario for what EA’s streamer campaign was trying to achieve.
Epic
With that said, it is just so early. Fortnite has been a monster for a solid year now, and this is week one of Apex Legends. I also remember the week that Call of Duty: Blackout came out, that was routinely beating Fortnite on Twitch as well, and it seemed like the first real formidable competition in the battle royale space in ages. And yet, where is Blackout now? Not that it’s unpopular per se, as I know many people still do like it, but it absolutely did not make a dent in Fortnite’s playerbase or cultural relevancy over the long term. As I write this, Black Ops 4 is the #38 most viewed game on Twitch, behind Atlas and ASMR streams. That seems like its own kind of problem for Activision, but that’s a discussion for another day.
We’re going to need at least a month or two to see where Apex lands. This is still the honeymoon phase, and even if I really can’t see any potential, glaring major problems ahead, there’s a lot of stuff to consider. Fortnite has succeed because Epic has been able to add content to it and make balance changes at an extremely rapid pace, and I wonder if Respawn can do anything approaching that level of constant updates. The design of Apex will require not just new weapons or items, but also full-on new heroes, which are more involved to design than anything Fortnite has to do with its cosmetic skins.
Also, Fortnite is currently in a bit of a lull at the end of the season, in between major esports event. You can believe that once Fortnite starts throwing out millions upon millions in prize money to top streamers that they won’t switch right back to the game to try and snag some of that. Epic has a multi-billion dollar war chest that they can unleash however they want, and now that they finally have some real competition, who knows what they’re capable of doing. In addition to prize money and big updates, I can also imagine Epic just flat-out taking some of the things people like about Apex and putting them into Fortnite. The ping system for better play with randoms. The group drop system. Apex probably won’t exclusively own those concepts for long.
I am not on “Team Fortnite” here, I just think it’s way, way too early to start declaring Apex a Fortnite killer in week one because of how entrenched the latter is in popular culture and the resources Epic has at its disposal. I genuinely enjoy Apex Legends more than Fortnite, my own personal preference, but it’s just too soon to know what’s going to happen here. Though if enough people feel the same way, who knows where we could be 3-6 months from now.
Follow me on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. Read my new sci-fi thriller novel Herokiller, available now in print and online. I also wrote The Earthborn Trilogy.

Story 193
Faraday Future has sold its Los Angeles headquarters in a move to help fill the EV startup’s exhausted coffers, according to property documents obtained by The Verge. A subsidiary of New York-based real estate firm Atlas Capital purchased the headquarters on March 8th and immediately began leasing the building back to Faraday Future for an undisclosed amount.
The documents did not reveal how much Faraday Future received in the sale of its headquarters, which consists of two buildings just off of South Figueroa Street in the city of Gardena, California, about 15 miles from downtown Los Angeles. One former employee familiar with the sale pegged the number at around $10 million. It could be higher; Faraday Future took a $17 million loan against its headquarters in May 2018, which it has since repaid, according to the lender iBorrow. The EV startup also took a $14 million “rescue loan” against the headquarters in July 2017 during the early stages of a separate financial crisis. The company finished paying back that loan in January 2018. It bought the buildings in 2014 for $13.2 million.
Have information about Faraday Future or Jia Yueting? Email the author at sean.okane@theverge.com, or use SecureDrop or Signal to securely send messages and files to The Verge without revealing your identity.
The sale of the headquarters is the latest move by Faraday Future to keep itself afloat after a nasty breakup with Chinese real estate conglomerate Evergrande, which backed out of a $2 billion investment deal at the end of 2018. Just last week, Faraday Future announced that it is selling the 900 acres of land it owns in Las Vegas and is looking for $40 million, confirming a February report by The Verge. Faraday Future also recently decided not to bring back hundreds of employees who have been on unpaid leave since at least December.
Faraday Future once planned to build a $1 billion factory on the Las Vegas land where it would produce the company’s all-electric luxury SUV, the FF91. It canceled those plans in 2017 in favor of leasing a smaller, existing factory in Hanford, California, where tire company Pirelli used to operate. The company has made a few prototypes of the FF91, but it has been unable to start production due to the clash with Evergrande.
John Schilling, Faraday Future’s director of communications, confirmed the sale of the company’s headquarters in an email. “As with the sale of the Las Vegas property, the sale of our Gardena HQ is part of our optimization of business strategies as we direct all of our resources at our core goal of delivering FF 91 later this year,” he wrote. Atlas Capital did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
The startup is also trying to sell 900 acres of Las Vegas land for $40 million where it once wanted to build a $1 billion factory
The relationship with Evergrande started to publicly fray last October after the Chinese conglomerate announced that Faraday Future founder and CEO Jia Yueting had spent the entire first installment of the $2 billion investment — $800 million — by July 2018, way ahead of schedule. Jia asked Evergrande to advance $700 million of the remaining $1.2 billion that was promised, which the conglomerate initially agreed to, court records showed. Evergrande asked Jia to reduce his role at the company in return for the money, but it wasn’t satisfied with the evidence that he did, so the conglomerate never sent more money.
As a result, Faraday Future found itself very low on cash. The startup had just $18 million in the bank at the start of September, and it was carrying a payroll of $15.8 million per month, according to court records. It also owed around $59 million to suppliers and contractors, those same records showed. So in October, it laid off some employees and cut salaries across the company. A co-founder and a number of key executives resigned as a result, and hundreds more employees were furloughed in December.
Evergrande and Faraday Future struck a truce at the end of December and agreed to restructure the deal. Evergrande walked away with some of the assets that the two companies had built up in China (including land for a factory), and it’s now working on building its own EV empire. (The conglomerate also still holds a 32 percent stake in the startup, though.) Jia retained his control over Faraday Future, but Evergrande pulled the remaining $1.2 billion off the table.
It’s unclear what the buildings sold for, but Faraday Future borrowed $17 million and $14 million against them in the past
The split left Faraday Future without a main source of investment money. Jia was, at one point, a billionaire, thanks to the empire he built in China with Leshi, which was once referred to as the “Netflix of China.” But he has been living in the United States in self-exile since 2017 because of the massive amount of debt he owes to creditors of that company. Faraday Future says it has spent the months since the breakup with Evergrande holding discussions with potential investors, but it still has no deal in place.
Faraday Future had around 250 employees at the LA headquarters working on the FF91 through the furlough at reduced pay as of December, according to current and former employees. Schilling said the number is closer to 400, as some employees have been brought back from leave.
Either way, the startup needs close to $500 million in order to get the FF91 into production at the Hanford factory. In the meantime, lawsuits from suppliers and contractors are piling up. The Verge learned last month that at least 11 companies are individually suing the startup for unpaid bills, with the total owed running close to $80 million. In a new lawsuit that was filed in Los Angeles Superior Court after that piece was published, FedEx claims Faraday Future owes the delivery company nearly $400,000, too.
Update March 21st, 1:07PM ET: Added clarification from Faraday Future on how many employees remain with the company at its headquarters.

Story 194
Saxco International and its big Solano County packaging-distribution hub sold to Atlas Holdings
Saxco International, a major adult-beverage packaging distributor that made a big move into the California North Coast wine market a few years ago, has been acquired by an East Coast investor in manufacturers across various industries.
Greenwich, Connecticut-based Atlas Holdings LLC on Jan. 4 announced it picked up San Francisco East Bay-based Saxco from The Sterling Group, which has owned it since 2010. Saxco has fulfillment centers glass, metal, and plastic containers, capsules, closures and custom packaging for wine, spirits, craft beer and food producers across the U.S. and Canada.
Saxco has over 5,000 customer wineries, distillers, brewers and specialty-food manufacturers.
“Saxco’s proud heritage and sector expertise position the company well for sustained growth, particularly as specialty brands and craft producers gain market share across all beverage categories,” said Sam Astor, partner at Atlas Holdings, in a statement. “There are eight times as many breweries in the U.S. as there were a decade ago, and seven times as many distilleries. The number of wineries during this period has also continued to grow steadily. Saxco’s leadership team and dedicated workforce will now have the added capital and support to meet this growing demand by delivering value-added, superior customer service.”
Saxco CEO Guy Marsala said the new owner is known for putting money back into its acquisitions.
“Atlas’ proven record of investing the human and financial capital to strengthen fundamentally strong businesses is a perfect fit for where Saxco is today,” he said in the announcement. “The future of our business got brighter today, and we’re thrilled to seize the many opportunities ahead.”
The Sachs family started Saxco in 1936. The company started an acquisition growth spurt at the dawn of the 21st century, picking up Wine Bottle in Toronto and Pacific Coast Container in Vancouver, Washington. Saxco expanded to the Bay Area with the acquisitions of California Glass in Oakland, Demptos Glass in Fairfield and Synergy Glass & Packaging in Benicia. That growth and dominance of alcoholic-beverage packaging distribution attracted The Sterling Group, a Houston-based private equity investment firm, to acquire Saxco in December 2010.
Saxco consolidated multiple Bay Area fulfillment centers into a large warehouse in Solano Logistics Center in Fairfield in 2014, the Business Journal reported at the time.
Another Atlas Holdings company has had past dealings with the North Bay. In 2011 Boise, Idaho-based engineered-lumber maker RedBuilt purchased Windsor-based Standard Structures from the Caletti family. A large portion of that property is now being used to reprocess debris from properties destroyed in the October 2017 wildfires into other construction products.

Story 195
Years ago, a man named Jake made a daily pilgrimage to the Piedra Colorada area of the Southern Nicoya Peninsula to build balanced rock statues along the shore. He would rebuild the sculptures that were knocked over by the tide and create new statues to add to the remaining collection every day.
When he moved away, travelers continued the tradition to ensure the beach would be continually marked with the delicate and often perplexing balanced rock statues called cairns. The quietude of the cairns surrounds the final resting place for Nicolas Wessberg. With his wife, Karen Mogensen, Wessberg convinced the Costa Rican government to create its first protected nature reserve. They established the nearby Cabo Blanco in the early 1970s, and today, the two trails that travel through the preserve are called the Swede’s path and Dane’s trail, after their respective home countries.
Many environmentalists from around the world followed their lead, buying acres of Costa Rican land to ensure that no development would mar the complex ecosystem that is Costa Rica. Today, its the home of two UNESCO World Heritage Sites. Conservation was not a popular idea just a few decades, ago, though. In 1975, Mogensen found her husband’s bones near Corcovado, where he was focusing his last protective efforts. While never proven, the commonly held belief is that he was assassinated by those that wished to exploit that land. A plaque honoring the duo’s efforts, perseverance, and vision now stands amidst the fitting tribute of the cairns.

Story 196
The US government shutdown has blown a nearly $5 billion hole in federal workers’ finances. That’s the amount of back pay that has accumulated since the shutdown began on Dec. 22, according to calculations by data technology company Enigma.
Several key federal agencies have been without funding after negotiations on a new spending bill fell through because of disagreements over the border wall Donald Trump wants to build between the US and Mexico. The president is demanding more than $5 billion to get started on the project; Democrats are refusing to grant it. So far, neither party shows any sign of giving in.
At 24 days as of Monday (Jan. 14), the current government shutdown is the longest ever. Over that period, 826,531 federal workers have gone without their paychecks, according to Enigma. About half a million of them, those whose jobs are considered “essential,” are working without pay. The rest have been furloughed.
Having workers stay home is not only pinching their personal budgets; it’s delaying vital government activities, from trash collection to scientific research.
Here are current staffing levels at the federal agencies, as calculated by Enigma:
Some departments, such as Defense and Veterans Affairs, are fully staffed during the shutdown, because they already received funding from a previous spending bill.
But other agencies are having to make do with a significantly reduced staff. The Securities and Exchange Commission, for example, is currently operating with just 285 of its nearly 5,000 regular employees. There are a mere 20 out of 570 working at the Consumer Safety Product Commission, which oversees product recalls.
The National Endowment for the Arts, meanwhile, has a single employee, of a total 213, on the job. That’s one more than at the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation, whose workforce has been 100% furloughed during the shutdown.
Enigma compiled the data on affected workers from the contingency plans submitted by federal agencies to the Office of Management and Budget. The information on salaries comes from FederalPay.org, a non-governmental service that publishes pay scales for federal workers based on government data.
It also tracked the 2013 government shutdown, which was triggered when Tea Party Republicans refused to pass a spending bill that funded the Affordable Care Act. During that 16-day period, 883,392 federal workers were furloughed, over $3 billion in salaries were delayed, and $211 million worth of WIC food vouchers (for women, infants, and children) went unpaid.
Enigma is updating its delayed wage count for the current shutdown in realtime; it is rising at approximately $2,000 per second.
Congress has approved a bill that will pay back wages to furloughed workers—once the shutdown is over.
This post has been updated with revised federal salary data from Enigma.

Story 197
Editor’s Note: This is Part One of a four-part series on the challenges brought on by the shortage of diesel technicians in the U.S. You can read Part Two of the series by clicking here. Read Part Three, here.
Construction technicians talk pay, why they leave As part of a broad-based report on technicians, Equipment World parent Randall-Reilly queried 70 technicians working in construction firms, dealerships, independent garages and other places of employment. In total, the report had 1,219 respondents, including 822 in heavy-duty trucking, 139 in agriculture, and 188 in automotive. Click here to download the full report. What level of technical education/training have you completed? Construction technicians trend higher in total pay Construction technicians’ top 4 reasons in choosing a new job Click here to download the technician wage survey
Today’s market heights have put an exclamation point on the construction equipment technician shortage, one that’s having a direct impact on contractors.
Contractors can’t find the people they used to hire to take care of the equipment to the level they did in the past. Their go-to dealerships have had to raise service rates to keep up with technician pay raises, an inevitable outcome of demand outstripping supply. Plus, dealerships may not be able to get to their down machine in a timely manner.
The Associated Equipment Distributors says the heavy equipment technician shortage is costing its members $2.4 billion in revenue each year. “You take that down to the dealer level, it’s costing each dealer $6 million on average,” says Steve Johnson with the AED Foundation. At the technician level, the cost is over $300,000 per technician. “It’s a very big problem,” he says.
AED research has placed the immediate technician shortfall among AED dealers at more than 4,000. “And in the next five years or so, we’re talking about adding around 20,000 technicians,” says Cory Hayes with the AED Foundation. “That’s just in the heavy construction equipment sector. Everyone wants the same person, so it’s important for us to start finding these students as early as possible for our members.”
“It’s just escalating as time goes on,” says Diane Benck, vice president of West Side Tractor Sales, a John Deere dealer in northern Illinois, Indiana and southern Michigan. The direct impact for dealerships such as hers is loss of revenue. “If you can’t meet their needs, they will go somewhere else,” she says. “It really boils down to our ability to respond quickly because contractors are looking for the fastest response. Downtime costs them a tremendous amount of money. If we tell them they’re going to have to wait a week before we can even take a look at their equipment, they are going to find another solution.”
“We’ve turned down business because of the lack of mechanics,” says Michael Vazquez, vice president of MECO Miami, which carries Atlas Copco, Dynapac and Sany lines in South Florida. “If I’ve got two machines that need to be fixed within the next couple of weeks, and I’m already booked with current clients, I can’t help you. I turned down work just recently because we didn’t have the mechanics.”
It’s everyone’s problem
This is not just a dealer problem. “Our customers are struggling with the exact same problem,” Benck says. “They can’t go out and hire someone to even do their routine maintenance work. So they are relying more on the dealer channel to do their maintenance work.”
And stealing techs from another dealer or contractor does nothing to fix the problem, Benck asserts. “It just solves an immediate need.”
Raises in technician pay have resulted in increased shop rates, says Steve Meadows with Berry Companies, a Bobcat and Komatsu distributor with 33 locations in six Midwestern states. “We always want to be able to keep our great technicians. You’ve got to keep an eye on where your pay is, or your technicians will get picked off by a competitor. We need these people to be both good at their jobs and satisfied with what they’re doing.”
“We’re presently looking for five to 10 mechanics to hire in the next year,” Vazquez continues. “If we could hire five today, I’d be extremely content.”
Kim Rominger, CEO of the Equipment Dealers Association, says that most of the group’s members need at least three more technicians each.
“There’s just a huge shortage,” he says. “And the market is pretty thin. It’s not just equipment dealers. It’s auto dealers, over-the-road trucking firms. Everybody is looking for techs.”
Dirty, dark and dangerous…not
“None of the three D’s – dirty, dark and dangerous – are really true these days,” Benck says. “Today the most important tool that our technicians have is their laptop. It really takes highly skilled people to fix the machines of today. It’s not anything like it was 25 years ago.”
“Today’s shops are often well-lit, well-tooled and good working environments,” says Wayne Brozek, aftermarket vice president for 21st Century Equipment, a John Deere dealer serving Nebraska, Colorado and Wyoming.
“You don’t just come in and replace greasy, dirty parts. You use your laptop, you train well, you get paid well.”
“It really boils down to our ability to respond quickly because contractors are looking for the fastest response. Downtime costs them a tremendous amount of money.”
– Diane Benck, vice president, West Side Tractor Sales
A good technician after three to five years in an efficient, well-run shop – where the tech’s job is spent working billable hours and not sweeping floors or other menial tasks – can make a six-figure salary, Rominger says. Dealers are also offering to pay for training, as well as offering tool reimbursement and other bonuses and incentives.
“The tech is kind of like an accountant or a lawyer, the only thing he has to bill is his time,” Rominger says. “So the more time he spends working, doing what he’s supposed to be doing and billing that time out, the better for the dealership and better for the tech.”
Brozek says that when he goes into local high schools to recruit young talent, he often finds deep misconceptions about the career opportunities for a technician. But when he brings in technicians who can tell how they started out making $35,000 and now make $100,000-plus, the mindset changes.
“It blows people’s minds,” he says. “When we go out and educate our high school counselors and teachers, they’re like, ‘What?’”
Brozek tells them: “Do you realize I will pay your student $20 an hour and pay for all his school, all his tools and guarantee him a job for four years?”
Make ’em rock stars
Many believe the industry hasn’t done a good enough job of getting that message out.
Keaton Turner is the president of Turner Mining Services, a company that specializes in recruiting and retaining millennial and Gen Z workers using social media. When it comes to attracting techs, the industry is failing not due to lack of effort, but from poor branding, he says.
“They need to make their technicians rock stars and part of their branding and marketing,” Turner says. “I don’t think there is anybody out there who is making the career of a diesel technician appear to be sexy.”
Janet Goble faced a similar image problem when she took over as the director of Career and Technical Education at the Canyons School District in Sandy, Utah. The district’s diesel technician training program had suffered from benign neglect, and students and their parents had an indifferent view of the profession.
“They need to make their technicians rock stars… I don’t think there is anybody out there who is making the career of a diesel technician appear to be sexy.”
– Keaton Turner, president of Turner Mining Services
The program had just two diesel engines for 25 to 30 students to work on, and those were Tier 0 engines. And despite the area’s booming mining and energy resources, the students were not connected with the industry as potential employees.
So the district formed a Diesel Industry Partnership program with trucking and construction vendors such as Cat, Komatsu and Cummins. Cummins donated 12 newer engines to the program. The partners took students to their workplaces and let them job shadow technicians. The high schools coordinated their curriculum with the community college so students could get college credit for advanced technician training in high school. As a result, the industry is getting more technicians trained at a higher level, and the district’s diesel training program has a waiting list of students to get in.
And when these partners visited parents and students they wore button-down shirts and talked about the pay and job prospects, especially as it compares to the four-year college route. “Once they understand what the environment for a diesel mechanic is like today, they’re usually 100 percent on board,” she says.
Despite the improvements, the demand for diesel technicians in the Salt Lake City area will not be fully met in the foreseeable future, Goble adds. “We’re doing the best we can to offset it. But we just don’t have the facilities or the teachers to accommodate the demand. A majority of the teachers here come from industry. There is a severe national shortage of teachers, and everybody is looking for ways to address that.”
Complicated machinery, low experience
As a diesel technician, Dan Ammon has seen all facets of the industry, from washing parts and changing oil as an apprentice to working at Cat and Deere dealerships. He’s also worked jobs with oilfield services company Schlumberger and engineering-construction firm AECOM. At AECOM, he got involved with the Association of Equipment Management Professionals and became the chairman of the AEMP Workforce Development Committee. When the opportunity arose about a year ago to teach diesel mechanics at Western Dakota Tech, he jumped at it.
One of the reasons the country is facing a shortage of techs is the complexity of the equipment, says Ammon. This has made the job harder to fill and potential recruits less skilled, he says.
“For years you could take a hose off, run down to the local shop and have a new one made, put it back on and away you’d go,” Ammon says.
Now with today’s complex machine electronics, you need specialty tools, laptops and diagnostic software and that often means a dealer service call and fewer opportunities for independent mechanics.
Likewise, today’s cars and trucks are more complex than they were 20 years ago, and that has an impact on young people coming into the trade, says Ammon. In the past, it was typical for a young person who wanted to be a mechanic to have some experience tearing down engines or rebuilding cars. On their first day of vocational school, they already knew their way around the engines and tools. Now that’s not necessarily the case.
For some, this means the skill level is lower and that makes bringing young techs up to speed more challenging. This isn’t a huge detriment, say Ammon, but it does slow things down.
And students may find they just don’t like the work, Ammon says.
“With the high school vocational classes closing, students are losing the opportunity to explore different careers. Shop classes are a way to figure out what you want to do before you graduate high school.”
Another headwind for the industry in training new techs is the cost of setting up and running a program.
“They’re expensive to run,” says Ammon. “You have to have trucks and equipment, something to work on.” Tools are another expense.
Keeping techs
Another underlying factor is that as machine technology expands older technicians are scrambling to keep up, says MECO Miami’s Vazquez.
“Tier 4 engines are completely different, and a lot of the older mechanics are not trained in that,” Vazquez says.
“There may be four or five technology systems on one machine, which presents a challenge to older technicians,” Berry Companies’ Meadows says. “You kind of have to reinvent yourself as a technician to keep up. You don’t want to be the technician who just works on all the older equipment.”
Ross Morgan with H&R AgriPower, an equipment dealership serving parts of Kentucky, Tennessee, Illinois, Alabama and Mississippi, says that each new product from manufacturers often requires new training for the dealership’s techs. He also notes that as techs get older and retire, they’re getting harder to replace. So few people have the diagnostic skills necessary to repair the new equipment.
“The problem is not finding people who can replace and calibrate,” he says. “It’s where the (repair) problem is intangible with multiple possibilities.”
That all puts more pressure on dealerships to hang on as best they can to their experienced techs to keep them from jumping ship.
“In order to win it’s all about the talent you keep within your organization,” West Side Tractor Sales’ Benck says. “We know that they’re always going to get job offers, so we want to make sure that they’re happy where they are and say they’re not interested when those offers come up.”
“If I’ve got two machines that need to be fixed within the next couple of weeks, and I’m already booked with current clients, I can’t help you. I turned down work just recently because we didn’t have the mechanics.”
– Michael Vazquez, vice president of MECO Miami
Brad Hershey, store manager and part owner of Hoober Incorporated, a dealership serving parts of Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia and Delaware, says the company has had to raise pay to keep its techs, and it provides generous benefits.
“You quickly find that talent has options,” he says. “And you’ve got to be willing to pay for talent.”
Ammon is part of a Facebook group for diesel mechanics, and while not a scientific survey, he asked the members to list the top reasons they left an employer and the top reasons they stayed longer than five years.
The number one reason they stay, he says, is “great pay, great company. Good work-life balance is also important.”
On the other hand, the top reason they leave is that the shop is disorganized and chaotic, followed by low pay and managerial problems.
Some may also fear the cyclical nature of the construction industry and the ensuing layoffs during economic downturns. Meadows suggests, however, that a technician’s job may be immune to this.
“During the last recession, I was president of Bobcat of Kansas City, and we determined that in order to survive we needed to lay off about 30 percent of our employees, which was very hard to do. Through that process we worked really hard to save our good technicians. We were very creative in what they could do so they could stay, with the hopes that things would turn around at some point. And boy did they.”
The center of the dealership
Losing technicians and being unable to attract new ones also hits a dealership’s bottom line, affecting all aspects of the business.
“All areas rely on our technicians,” Meadows says. That includes sales, service, parts and rental.
“The service department is the heart of the branch because they have to prep machines and get them ready to sell,” he says. “Once a customer owns them, they have to keep the customer satisfied. The rental department is relying on them to keep their rental machines going. The parts department needs them to install parts. Then it goes back to sales because we need the service department to take care of the customer so that we can sell the next machine.”
Brozek expects the tech shortage to last at least another four to six years, but he’s optimistic that the industry will ramp up its educational efforts to dispel outdated perceptions.
“There needs to be progress on all fronts in fighting that stereotype,” Johnson says. “These are professional jobs. Technicians are on the front line with the customer.”
But to change that perception will require everybody in the industry working on the problem, asserts Benck.
“It’s really all hands on deck,” she says. “It’s a huge problem, not only for us but for our customers as well.”

Story 198
Atlas Tube will pay the 25% duties levied on its Canadian shipments destined for the United States, the company told customers in a letter dated Thursday May 31.

Atlas Tube, a division of Chicago-based Zekelman Industries, “will pay the import tariff for products shipped to you from our Canadian facilities,” the company said. Atlas operates a tube mill in Harrow, Ontario, as well as a warehouse in Oak Bluff, Manitoba, along with four facilities in the US.

US President Donald Trump imposed 25% duties on imports of Canadian steel starting June 1, Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said on May 31.

“We want to assure you that Atlas Tube is prepared for this development,” the company said. “We anticipate no interruption in supply and have sufficient capacity to supply your structural tubing needs.”

American Metal Market’s assessment of US hollow sections ex-mill ASTM A500 structural tubing prices were flat at $1,100-$1,150 per short ton on May 31, although market participants braced for the impact of finalized Section 232 tariffs.

There’s a question about whether Canadian tube mills could leverage Canadian-US dollar exchange rates to offset some of that 25% duty, one structural tube buyer said on May 31, before hearing of Atlas’ letter.

For Canadian mills to raise their sales prices to US customers by 25% overnight is a “huge, huge increase,” this buyer said, citing Atlas and Welded Tube of Canada as two of his bigger Canadian hollow structural sections suppliers.




Story 199
In case you haven't noticed, pickup trucks are more expensive than ever. Last September, the average price of a new full-size truck was $48,369. Exactly 10 years prior it was $32,694. The new Ford Ranger only starts at $24,300 and a few option packages will easily push that price tag north of $32,000. The car-based 2019 Honda Ridgeline? At least $30,000. Volkswagen, however, sees opportunity in these high prices, hence its decision to bring the Tarok concept to this year's 2019 New York Auto Show.
Speaking with Volkswagen Group of America CEO Scott Keogh, we were told "this vehicle will be made for the South American market. The reason it's intriguing for me is that there's no A-size pickup right now (in the US)."

Story 200
“We’ve launched our last satellite,” John Donovan, CEO of AT&T Communications, said in a meeting with analysts on Nov. 29.
The AT&T executive effectively declared the end of the satellite-TV era with that statement. AT&T owns DirecTV, the US’s largest satellite company—and second largest TV provider overall, behind Comcast.
DirecTV will continue offering satellite-TV service—it had nearly 20 million satellite video subscribers as of September, per company filings. But the company will focus on growing its online video business instead, Donovan said. It has a new set-top box, where people can get the same TV service they’d get with satellite, through an internet-connected box they can install themselves. It expects that box to become a greater share of its new premium-TV service installations in the first half of 2019. It also sells cheaper, TV packages with fewer channels through its DirecTV Now and WatchTV streaming services, which work with many smart TVs and streaming media players like Roku and Amazon Fire TV devices.
The practice of getting TV through satellite dishes propped up in backyards and perched on rooftops first took hold in the US in the last 1970s and early 1980s, after TV networks like HBO and Turner Broadcasting System started sending TV signals to cable providers via satellites. People in areas without cable or broadcast TV began putting up their own dishes to receive the TV signals, and that grew into a TV business of its own. But in recent years, consumers have shifted to new digital TV offerings like Netflix and Hulu or the live, PlayStation Vue service. That shift away from traditional TV services has hit satellite particularly hard. The US pay-TV industry reportedly lost a record number of TV subscribers last quarter, and the satellite services from DirecTV and Dish Network (which also owns internet-TV service Sling TV) were the hardest hit.
In 2017, AT&T lost 554,000 satellite video subscribers, and it continued to hemorrhage customers this year, according to company filings.
“He’s not going to launch more satellites,” AT&T’s top boss, chairman and CEO Randall Stephenson, said of Donovan, during the meeting. “We’re kind of done.”
Looking for more in-depth coverage from Quartz? Become a member to read our premium content and master your understanding of the global economy.

Story 201
On April 22, HBO's hit series "Westworld" returns for another season of scandal, murder and seduction, but the show's math may be just as interesting. (Stay with me for a second.) In the show, guests pay to stay overnight in a Wild West-style theme park where they can gamble in the Mariposa Saloon, face off against villainous robbers or embark on steamy affairs. The park is filled with sophisticated lifelike robotic "hosts" that can be tortured or murdered but are prohibited by their programming from inflicting harm. Guests are paying for custom-made bespoke clothing, immersive nostalgia and the power to do whatever their hearts desire — at no risk. Would running Westworld be worth it? That depends on how much the park stands to lose — and how much it takes in.
HBO
Revenue = guest rate x number of guests The park charges each guest $40,000 for each overnight stay and that, it turns out, is just the base rate. There are also Silver ($75,000) and Gold ($200,000) rates, which offer additional amenities and privileges. For now, let us assume that all guests are paying the standard rate of $40,000. In the first episode, Westworld's Head of Quality Assurance Theresa Cullen (Sidse Babett Knudsen) notes that there are 1,400 guests in the park. The official Westworld website indicates that there is a very long wait list, so we will assume the park is always open, always full and that there are no returns or refunds. $40,000 x 1,400 guests per day = $56,000,000 a day $56,000,000 a day x 365 days = $20,440,000,000 a year in revenue If all 1,400 guests pay the only standard rate of $40,000 a day, then the park is bringing in over $20 billion a year in revenue.
HBO
But how much of that is profit? In the U.S., the industry with the highest net profit margin is the accounting industry, at 19.6 percent. Since investors are apparently clamoring to get involved in the Westworld business and the company's majority shareholder is astronomically wealthy, we will assume that Westworld's profit margin should be similar. Let's say 20 percent. 20 percent x $20,440,000,000 = $4,088,000,000 That leads us to believe that the camp should bring in over $4 billion in profit annually. To put that in perspective, together all 11 of the Disney theme parks generate about $15 billion in revenue and $2.2 billion in profit. Does it hit that mark?
Lawrence K. Ho | Getty Images
Operating cost = revenue - profit If the park generates $20 billion in revenue and makes $4 billion in profit, its operating costs must be the difference between the two numbers, or $16 billion. Based on these assumptions, it takes over $16 billion to run Westworld for one year and $44,800,000 to keep the lights on for one day — scandal, murder and seduction come at a cost. Of course there are many variables not included in these calculations. Maintenance, insurance and other considerations would add up. Let's take a look at those big-ticket items. Artificial intelligence Creating artificial intelligence is expensive. Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg spent 100 hours building his AI butler Jarvis, and Jarvis is limited to simple voice commands and texts. He can start your toaster, turn off your lights, and play you some music. That pales in comparison to what the hosts of Westworld can do. Leading AI start-up Sentient Technologies has $144 million in funding. Sentient has been around for less a decade, so it is safe to say that Westworld would likely need to spend more than $144 million to develop its near-perfect artificial intelligence.
Facebook CEO and co-founder Mark Zuckerberg. Mangel Ngan | Getty Images
Mechanical engineering Creating the physical structure of the Westworld hosts would also be an expensive challenge. Honda's Asimo can hop on one foot and serve you a drink, but it still has far fewer abilities than the Westworld hosts. A previous generation of Asimo reportedly cost $1 million to manufacture back in 2006. In 2002 a few Asimo models were leased for $150,000 a month. Boston Dynamic's Atlas robot is more powerful than Asimo but is far from realistic and weighs 330 pounds. Since all of Westworld's hosts must be lifelike, weight would be a major design hurdle. Atlas has a price tag well above $1 million as of 2014. Neither of these robotic examples meets the mechanical sophistication of the Westworld hosts. $1.5 million is therefore a conservative estimation of the cost to manufacture each of the park's robots. The show mentions that there is a 10:1 host to guest ratio. It would therefore cost $21 billion to manufacture the 14,000 hosts. Though perhaps some of the costs of manufacturing could be brought down by show's 3-D-printing-like technique.
NurPhoto | Getty Images
Maintenance The Westworld hosts are abused and repaired almost daily by a team of medical/mechanical engineering technicians. Hospitals such as these are very expensive to operate. Johns Hopkins Hospital reported nearly $7 billion in expenses in 2015. The operating costs of Westworld could be commensurate. Exteriors and interiors of camp buildings, and items of furniture, would also need replacement and repair.
HBO
Insurance Mitchel Kalmanson, president of insurance company Lester Kalmanson Agency, mused that a real world Jurassic Park (another brainchild of Michael Crichton's) would probably have a $1.5 million annual premium and would likely be responsible for the first $5 million claim or so. According to the Terms and Conditions on the Westworld site, guests have died from "buffalo stampede, self-cannibalism, accidental hanging, drowning, 3rd-degree burns, auto-erotic asphyxiation, blunt force trauma, allergic reaction to non-native plant life, falling from great heights, common manslaughter, and tumbleweeds." With all of these risks, Westworld's insurance plan would likely be as expensive as Jurassic Park's.
Getty Images
Time The final unaccounted factor is time. Westworld takes place in the future, so technology has likely improved, lowering manufacturing and repair costs. Perhaps the hardest calculation to make is just how far in the future Westworld lies. Technological advancements happening today could be leading us toward a Westworld reality in which life is cheap and robots are even cheaper.

Story 202
NTSB: Atlas Air crew lost control 18 seconds before black box stopped recording
In this photo, taken on March 3, 2019, NTSB investigators and member of the recovery team retrieving the flight data recorder of the Atlas Air Flight 3591, a Boeing 767-300 cargo jet, that crashed in the muddy marshland of Trinity Bay Feb. 23, 2019, about 30 miles from Houston's George Bush Intercontinental Airport. (NTSB photo) less In this photo, taken on March 3, 2019, NTSB investigators and member of the recovery team retrieving the flight data recorder of the Atlas Air Flight 3591, a Boeing 767-300 cargo jet, that crashed in the muddy ... more Photo: Handout/NTSB Photo: Handout/NTSB Image 1 of / 54 Caption Close NTSB: Atlas Air crew lost control 18 seconds before black box stopped recording 1 / 54 Back to Gallery
Audio recovered from doomed Atlas Air cargo flight indicates the pilots may have lost control of the Boeing 767 aircraft before it plunged into Trinity Bay, federal investigators said.
A cockpit recording fished from the muddy wreckage of Flight 3591 captured the final moments of Capts. Ricky Blakely and Sean Archuleta and First Officer Conrad Aska during a Feb. 23 contract flight from Miami to Houston's Bush Intercontinental Airport with cargo from Amazon and the U.S. Postal Service.
The three crew members were 40 miles away from their destination and in contact with air traffic control with plans to land at runway 26L. The pilots then made communications "consistent with a loss control of the aircraft," according to the National Transportation Safety Board's initial review.
The recording stopped 18 seconds later, according to a NTSB news release.
It took about 30 seconds for the plane to plunge 11,750 feet and nose dive into the bay near Anahuac in Chambers County.
It was not known if the end of the recording signified the moment of impact. It is possible for cockpit voice recorders to stop working when the engines shut off, NTSB spokesman Keith Holloway said.
The investigation into the cockpit audio continues, although engineers noted it was difficult to understand the crew members because of the poor quality of the audio. A copy of the two-hour-long recording was not available.
"The quality of the audio is poor," the statement read. "There are times during the recording when the content of the crew discussion is difficult to determine. At other times the content can be determined using advanced audio filtering."
Investigators expect to release a transcript of the final transmissions in at least a week, officials said.
Search crews were unable to find black boxes containing the cockpit recorder and flight data until about a week after the crash. A layer of mud in the shallow waters made it difficult for divers to hear the pings both devices were emitting.
The audio was recovered Friday, while a black box containing flight data was pulled from the crash site on Sunday afternoon. The second mud-caked device arrived at a Washington D.C. lab just before midnight with a hard drive containing data from final flight and 16 others inside. The drive was "disassembled, cleaned and dried" and the data downloaded Monday, according to investigators.
The data accounted for the plane's functions, altitude and other measures for 54 hours in flight.

Story 203
A cashier working in a lottery store in California, where the minimum wage is now $11 an hour, or $12 an hour for companies with more than 25 employees. John Locher/AP
Raising the minimum wage helps low-paid workers without damaging the broader economy, the authors of two new research papers find.
The United States now has its highest minimum wage ever (even when adjusting for inflation), but only if you take into account the new minimum-wage laws that states and cities have recently adopted. As The New York Times reported earlier this week, the effective national minimum wage has risen to $11.80 an hour. That’s substantially higher than the federally mandated minimum of $7.25 per hour, which has remained unchanged for a decade. Conservative economists and pundits have long argued that higher minimum wages cause firms to reduce employment, especially of low-wage workers, and thus they inflict damage on the U.S. economy. But two new papers provide powerful evidence that higher minimum wages in fact boost the conditions of workers—especially the least skilled and lowest paid among them—without doing broad economic harm.
The first paper is forthcoming in the prestigious Quarterly Journal of Economics and is currently available as a NBER working paper. (There is also a shorter, more reader-friendly research brief available.) It tracks the economic effects of more than 100 minimum-wage hikes across the country between 1979 and 2016. Economist Arindrajit Dube of the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, who is perhaps the leading expert on the economic impact of the minimum wage, and his co-authors Doruk Cengiz (also at UMass), Attila Lindner of University College London, and Ben Zipperer of the Economic Policy Institute conducted the study. They used detailed data and advanced statistical methods to parse the effects of minimum-wage increases on low-skilled workers—including those making at or around the minimum wage—as well as on high-skilled workers and the economy as a whole. The study finds that minimum-wage increases occurring over more than three-and-a-half decades resulted in higher wages for low-skilled workers, with no reduction in low-wage employment five years out. This was true overall, and separately for younger workers, less educated workers, and minorities. Low-wage workers saw a wage gain of 7 percent after an increase in the minimum wage. Furthermore, the authors find that higher minimum wages have positive effects (what economists call “spillovers”) for a wide range of lower-skilled workers, including those who make up to $5 an hour more than the new minimum. A higher minimum wage boosts these workers’ wages as well, and without causing any additional unemployment or damage to the economy. However, the spillover benefits mainly accrue to incumbent workers (those who had their jobs before the minimum-wage increases were put in place) and not to new workers.
Dube and his co-authors caution that these findings hold for minimum-wage increases up to about 60 percent of the prevailing local median wage. After that point, increases may be economically counterproductive, although this remains an open research question.
The second paper, written by Donald Grimes of the University of Michigan and Penelope Prime and Mary Beth Walker of Georgia State University, and published in Economic Development Quarterly, looks at the effects of the minimum wage in sectors that have concentrations of low-paid service workers. Grimes, Prime, and Walker analyze the effect of higher minimum wages and other factors (such as unionization, education, population size, age, and gender) on wages at the 10th, 50th, and 90th percentile levels across more than 400 U.S. metros. They also adjust for regional differences in cost of living. Specifically, they study the impacts of higher minimum wages on workers in four types of service jobs that, together, employ huge numbers of Americans: food preparation and serving; personal care services; healthcare support; and building and grounds cleaning and maintenance. These jobs pay a median wage for full-time work of between $20,800 and $27,900 per year, and accounted for nearly half of all U.S. job growth in the decade spanning 2006 and 2016. During that period, they grew at nearly triple the national average for all jobs. Cities are changing fast. Keep up with the CityLab Daily newsletter. The best way to follow issues you care about. Subscribe Loading... Interestingly, these authors find that the broad structural factors typically believed to drive local wages have little impact on the wages of low-earning service workers. (Such factors include higher levels of educational attainment, higher shares of college graduates, tighter labor markets, and higher rates of unionization.) And wages at the 10th-percentile level do not increase with higher housing costs, making the lowest-paid workers more burdened by the cost of housing—something my own research has documented. The factor that has the biggest effect on the wages of these workers is a higher minimum wage. “The preeminent factor in explaining wage differences for these lowest paid workers across geographic areas is the minimum wage,” the study notes. “Our results indicate that if local communities want to raise the wages for these workers, raising the minimum wage would have a direct impact. Furthermore, since the lowest paid workers are not compensated for higher housing costs, perhaps the minimum wage should vary over geographies, depending on the relative housing costs.” Some 70 million Americans—amounting to nearly half of the country’s workforce—hold low-wage service jobs. The only way to combat rising economic inequality and the decline of the middle class is to massively upgrade these jobs. The minimum wage is a powerful policy tool for doing just that, establishing a wage floor that benefits the lowest-paid and most vulnerable workers. Local and state efforts to increase the minimum wage are a great start. But increasing the federal minimum wage and indexing it geographically, to account for local wage differences and the cost of living, should be a central campaign plank of whoever ends up being the Democratic candidate for president in 2020. CityLab editorial fellow Nicole Javorsky contributed research and editorial assistance to this article.

Story 204
For Alejandro Chafuen, the gathering this spring at the Brick Hotel in Buenos Aires was as much a homecoming as it was a victory lap. Chafuen, a lanky Argentine-American, had spent his adult life working to undermine left-wing social movements and governments in South and Central America, and boost a business-friendly version of libertarianism instead. It was a lonely battle for decades, but not lately. Chafuen was among friends at the 2017 Latin America Liberty Forum. The international meeting of libertarian activists was sponsored by the Atlas Economic Research Foundation, a leadership-training nonprofit now known simply as the Atlas Network, which Chafuen has led since 1991. At the Brick Hotel, Chafuen was reveling in recent victories; his years of work were starting to pay off, thanks to political and economic circumstances — but also because of the network of activists Chafuen has been working for so long to cultivate. Over the past 10 years, leftist governments have used “money to buy votes, to redistribute,” said Chafuen, seated comfortably in the lobby. But the recent drop in commodity prices, coupled with corruption scandals, has given an opportunity for Atlas Network groups to spring into action. “When there is an opening, you have a crisis, and there is some demand for change, you have people who are trained to push for certain policies,” Chafuen noted, paraphrasing the late Milton Friedman. “And in our case, we tend to favor to private solutions to public problems.” Chafuen pointed to numerous Atlas-affiliated leaders now in the spotlight: ministers in the new conservative government in Argentina, senators in Bolivia, and the leaders of the Free Brazil Movement that took down Dilma Rousseff’s presidency, where Chafuen’s network sprang to life before his very eyes. “In Brazil, I have been in the street demonstrations, and I’m like, ‘Hey, this guy I met when he was 17, 18 — he is up there on the bus leading this. This is crazy!’” Chafuen said, excitedly. Those in Atlas’s orbit were no less excited to run into Chafuen in Buenos Aires. Activists from various countries stopped Chafuen intermittently to sing his praises as he walked through the hotel. For many, Chafuen, from his perch at Atlas, has served as a mentor, fiscal sponsor, and guiding beacon for a new political paradigm in their country.
Ousted Honduran President Manuel Zelaya, left, looks down inside a car on the outskirts of San Jose on his way to the airport to board a flight to Nicaragua, June 28, 2009. Photo: Kent Gilbert/AP
A rightward shift is afoot in Latin American politics. Triumphant socialist governments had once swept the region for much of the 21st century – from Argentina’s Cristina Fernández de Kirchner to land reform populist Manuel Zelaya in Honduras – championing new programs for the poor, nationalizing businesses, and challenging U.S. dominance in hemispheric affairs.
In recent years, however, leftist leaders have fallen one after another, sometimes in spectacular fashion. Zelaya was led from the presidential palace in his pajamas in a military coup; in Argentina, a real-estate baron swept to the presidency and Kirchner was indicted for corruption; and in Brazil, the ruling Workers’ Party, facing a growing corruption scandal and a mass protest movement, was swept out of office via impeachment over charges of budget chicanery. This shift might appear as part of a larger regional rebalancing, merely economic circumstances taking hold. And yet the Atlas Network seems ever-present, a common thread nudging political developments along. The story of the Atlas Network and its profound impact on ideology and political power has never been fully told. But business filings and records from three continents, along with interviews with libertarian leaders across the hemisphere, reveal the scope of its influential history. The libertarian network, which has reshaped political power in country after country, has also operated as a quiet extension of U.S. foreign policy, with Atlas-associated think tanks receiving quiet funding from the State Department and the National Endowment for Democracy, a critical arm of American soft power.
Though recent investigations have shed light on the role of powerful conservative billionaires, such as the Koch brothers, in developing a business-friendly version of libertarian thought, the Atlas Network, which receives funding from Koch foundations, has recreated methods honed in the Western world for developing countries. The network is expansive, currently boasting loose partnerships with 450 think tanks around the world. Atlas says it dispensed over $5 million to its partners in 2016 alone. Over the years, Atlas and its affiliated charitable foundations have provided hundreds of grants to conservative and free-market think tanks in Latin America, including the libertarian network that supported the Free Brazil Movement and organizations behind a libertarian push in Argentina, including Fundación Pensar, the Atlas think tank that merged with the political party formed by Mauricio Macri, a businessman who now leads the country. The leaders of the Free Brazil Movement and the founder of Fundación Eléutera in Honduras, an influential post-coup neoliberal think tank, have received financial support from Atlas, and are among the next generation of political operatives that have gone through Atlas’s training seminars. The Atlas Network spans dozens of other think tanks across the region, including prominent groups supporting right-wing forces behind the unfolding anti-government movement in Venezuela and the campaign of Sebastián Piñera, the right-of-center candidate leading the polls for this year’s presidential election in Chile.
People demonstrate in favor of impeaching Brazil’s President Dilma Rousseff in front of the National Congress in Brasilia, Brazil, Dec. 2, 2015. Photo: Eraldo Peres/AP
Nowhere has the Atlas method been better encapsulated than in a newly formed network of Brazilian free-market think tanks. Recently formed institutes worked together to foment anger at socialist policies, with some cultivating academic centers, while others work to train activists and maintain a constant war in the Brazilian media against leftist ideas. The effort to focus anger solely at the left paid dividends last year for the Brazilian right. The millennial activists of the Free Brazil Movement, many of them trained in political organizing in the U.S., led a mass movement to channel public anger over a vast corruption scandal against Dilma, the left-of-center president popularly known by her first name. The scandal, nicknamed Operação Lava Jato, or Operation Car Wash, is a still-unfolding tale of bribery involving leading politicians from all of Brazil’s major political parties, including the right-wing and center-right parties. But the social media-savvy Free Brazil Movement, known by its Portuguese initials, MBL, managed to direct the bulk of outrage squarely at Dilma, demanding her ousting and an end to the welfare-centric policies of her Workers’ Party. The uprising, which has drawn comparisons to the tea party movement, especially considering the quiet support from local industrial conglomerates and a new conspiracy-minded network of far-right media voices, ended 13 years of rule by the Workers’ Party by removing Dilma from office through impeachment in 2016. The landscape that MBL sprang from is a new development in Brazil. There were perhaps three active libertarian think tanks 10 years ago, said Helio Beltrão, a former hedge fund executive who now leads Instituto Mises, a nonprofit named after the libertarian philosopher, Ludwig von Mises. Now, he said, with the support of Atlas, there are close to 30 such institutes active in Brazil, all working collaboratively, along with groups, such as Students for Liberty and MBL. “It’s like a soccer team. Defense is the academia. The forward guys are the politicians. We’ve scored a few goals,” he said, referring to Dilma’s impeachment. The midfield, he said, are the “cultural guys” that shape public opinion. Beltrão explained that the think tank network is hoping to privatize the national post office in Brazil, calling it “low-hanging fruit” that could lead to a larger wave of free-market reforms. Many of the conservative parties in Brazil embraced libertarian campaigners when they showed they could mobilize hundreds of thousands of people to protest against Dilma, but haven’t yet adopted the fundamentals of supply-side theory.
Fernando Schüler, an academic and columnist associated with Instituto Millenium, another Atlas think tank in Brazil, made the case another way. “Brazil has 17,000 unions paid by public money, one day of salary per year goes to unions, completely controlled by the left,” said Schüler. The only way to reverse the socialist trend has been to out-maneuver them. “With technology, people could by themselves participate, organize at low cost — WhatsApp, Facebook, YouTube, using networks, a kind of public manifestation,” he continued, explaining the way libertarian organizers mobilized a protest movement against left-leaning politicians. Organizers against Dilma had created a daily barrage of YouTube videos mocking the Worker’s Party government, along with an interactive scoreboard to encourage citizens to lobby their legislators to support impeachment. Schüler noted that the Free Brazil Movement and his own think tank receive financial support from local industrial trade groups, but the movement had succeeded in part because it is not identified with the incumbent political parties, most of which the general public views with suspicion. He argued that the only way to radically reshape society and reverse popular sentiment in support of the welfare state was to wage a permanent cultural war to confront left intellectuals and the media.
Photo: Screen shot from YouTube
One of the founders of Schüler’s Instituto Millenium think tank, Brazilian blogger Rodrigo Constantino, has polarized Brazilian politics with hyperpartisan rhetoric. Constantino, who has been called the “Breitbart of Brazil” for his conspiratorial views and acidic right-wing commentary, chairs yet another Atlas think tank, Instituto Liberal. He sees the Brazilian left’s every move as a veiled attempt at subverting democracy, from the use of the color red in the country’s World Cup logo to the Bolsa Família cash assistance program to poor families.
Constantino is credited with popularizing a narrative that Worker’s Party supporters are limousine liberals, wealthy hypocrites that flock to socialism to claim the moral high ground while snubbing the working classes they claim to represent. The Breitbartization of public discourse is but one of the many ways the Atlas network has subtly influenced political debate. “It’s a very paternalistic state. It’s crazy. It’s a lot of state control, and that’s the long-term challenge,” said Schüler, adding that despite recent victories, libertarians had a long way to go in Brazil. He hoped to copy the model of Margaret Thatcher, who relied on a network of libertarian think tanks to push unpopular reforms. “This pension system is absurd. I would privatize all education,” Schüler, rattling off a litany of changes he would make to society, from defunding labor unions to repealing the law that makes voting compulsory. Yet the only way to make all that possible, he added, would be to build a network of politically active nonprofits all waging separate battles to push the same libertarian goals. The existing model — the constellation of right-wing think tanks in Washington, D.C., supported by powerful endowments — is the only path forward for Brazil, Schüler said. Atlas, for its part, is busy doing just that. It gives grants for new think tanks, provides courses on political management and public relations, sponsors networking events around the world, and, in recent years, has devoted special resources to prodding libertarians to influence public opinion through social media and online videos. An annual competition encourages Atlas’s network to produce viral YouTube videos promoting laissez-faire ideas and ridiculing proponents of the welfare state. James O’Keefe, the provocateur famous for needling Democrats with his undercover videos, has appeared before Atlas to explain his methods. Producers from a Wisconsin group that worked to create online videos to discredit teacher protests against Gov. Scott Walker’s law busting public sector unions have also provided instructions for Atlas’s training sessions.
Crowd members burn a puppet of Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez at Plaza Altamira in protest against the government. Photo: Lonely Planet Images/Getty Images
Among its other exploits of late, Atlas has played a role in a Latin American nation roiled by the region’s most acute political and humanitarian crisis: Venezuela. Records obtained through the Freedom of Information Act by author and activist Eva Golinger, as well as State Department cables disclosed by whistleblower Chelsea Manning, reveal U.S. policymakers’ sophisticated effort to use Atlas think tanks in a long-running campaign to destabilize the reign of Venezuelan leader Hugo Chávez. As early as 1998, Cedice Libertad, Atlas’s flagship think tank in Caracas, Venezuela’s capital, received regular financial support from the Center for International Private Enterprise. In one grant letter, NED funds marked for Cedice are listed to help advocate “a change in government.” The director of Cedice was among the signatories of the controversy “Carmona Decree” supporting the short-lived military coup against Chávez in 2002. A 2006 cable laid out a strategy from U.S. Ambassador William Brownfield for funding politically active nonprofits in Venezuela: “1) Strengthening democratic institutions, 2) penetrating Chávez’s political base, 3) dividing Chavismo, 4) protecting vital U.S. business, and 5) isolating Chávez internationally.” In Venezula’s current crisis, Cedice has promoted the recent spate of protests against President Nicholás Maduro, Chávez’s embattled successor. Cedice is closely affiliated with opposition figure María Corina Machado, one of the leaders of the massive anti-government street demonstrations in recent months. Machado has publicly recognized Atlas for its work. In a videotape message delivered to the group in 2014, she said, “Thank you to the Atlas Network, to all freedom fighters.”
Venezuelan opposition leader María Corina Machado has recognized Atlas for its work: “Thank you to the Atlas Network, to all freedom fighters,” she said in 2014.
At the Atlas Network’s Latin American Liberty Forum in Buenos Aires, young leaders buzzed back and forth, sharing ideas on how to defeat socialism at every level, from pitched battles on college campuses to mobilizing an entire country to embrace impeachment. Think tank “entrepreneurs” from Peru, the Dominican Republic, and Honduras competed in a format along the lines of “Shark Tank,” an America reality show where start-up businesses pitch to a panel of wealthy, ruthless investors. Instead of seeking investments from a panel of venture capitalists, however, the think tank leaders pitched policy marketing ideas for a contest that awarded $5,000. In another session, strategies were debated for attracting industry support to back economic reforms. In another room, political operatives debated arguments “lovers of liberty” can use to respond to the global rise of populism to “redirect the sense of injustice many feel” toward free-market goals. One young leader from CADAL, a think tank in Buenos Aires, presented on an idea to rank each Argentine province using what he called an “economic liberty index,” which would use the level of taxation and regulation as the main criteria to generate buzz for free-market reforms. The idea is consciously modeled on similar strategies from the U.S., including the Heritage Foundation’s “Index of Economic Freedom,” which measures countries based on criteria that includes tax policies and regulatory barriers to business formation. Think tanks are traditionally associated with independent institutes formed to develop unconventional solutions. But the Atlas model focuses less on developing genuinely new policy proposals, and more on establishing political organizations that carry the credibility of academic institutions, making them an effective organ for winning hearts and minds. Free-market ideas — such as slashing taxes on the wealthy; whittling down the public sector and placing it under the control of private operators; and liberalized trade rules and restrictions on labor unions — have always struggled with a perception problem. Proponents of this vision have found that voters tend to view such ideas as a vehicle for serving society’s upper crust. Rebranding economic libertarianism as a public interest ideology has required elaborate strategies for mass persuasion. But the Atlas model now spreading rapidly through Latin America is based on a method perfected by decades of struggle in the U.S. and the U.K., as libertarians worked to stem the tide of the surging post-war welfare state.
Map of Atlas group locations in South America. Map: The Intercept
Antony Fisher, a British entrepreneur and the founder of the Atlas Network, pioneered the sale of libertarian economics to the broader public. The tack was simple: Fisher made it his mission to, in the words of an associate, “litter the world with free-market think tanks.” The basis for Fisher’s ideals came from Friedrich Hayek, a forbearer of modern thought on limited government. In 1946, after reading the Reader’s Digest version of Hayek’s seminal book, “The Road to Serfdom,” Fisher sought a meeting with the Austrian economist in London. As recounted by his close colleague John Blundell, Fisher suggested Hayek enter politics. But Hayek demurred, replying that a bottom-up focus on shifting the public discourse could better shape society. Meanwhile, in the U.S., another free-market ideologue, Leonard Read, was entertaining similar notions after leading the U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s Los Angeles branch into bruising battles with organized labor. To counter the growth of the welfare state, a more elaborate response would be necessary to share popular debates around the direction of society, without the visible link to corporate interests. Fisher was propelled forward by a fateful visit to Read’s newly formed nonprofit, the Foundation for Economic Education, in New York, which was founded to help sponsor and promote the ideas of free-market intellectuals. There, libertarian economist F.A. Harper, at the time working at FEE, advised Fisher on methods for creating his own nonprofit in the U.K. During the trip, Fisher also traveled with Harper to Cornell University to observe the latest animal industry breakthrough of battery cages, marveling at the sight of 15,000 chickens housed in a single building. Fisher was inspired to bring the innovation home with him. His factory, Buxted Chickens, grew rapidly and made Fisher a substantial fortune in the process. Some of those profits went into the other goal fostered during his New York trip: In 1955, Fisher founded the Institute of Economic Affairs. IEA helped popularize the once-obscure set of economists loosely affiliated with Hayek’s ideas. The institute was a place to showcase opposition to British society’s growing welfare state, connecting journalists to free-market academics and disseminating critiques on a regular basis through opinion columns, radio interviews, and conferences. Businesses provided the bulk of funding to IEA, as leading British industrial and banking giants — from Barclays to BP — pitched in with annual contributions. According to “Making Thatcher’s Britain,” by historians Ben Jackson and Robert Saunders, one shipping magnate remarked that, since universities were providing ammunition for the unions, the IEA was an important source of bullets for business. As the economic slowdown and rising inflation of the 1970s shook the foundations of British society, Tory politicians gravitated more and more to the IEA to provide an alternative vision — and IEA obliged with accessible issue briefs and talking points politicians could use to bring free-market concepts to the public. The Atlas Network proudly proclaims that the IEA “laid the intellectual groundwork for what later became the Thatcher Revolution of the 1980s.” IEA staff provided speechwriting for Margaret Thatcher; supplemented her campaign with policy papers on topics as varied as labor unions and price controls; and provided a response to her critics in the mass media. In a letter to Fisher after her 1979 victory, Thatcher wrote that the IEA created “the climate of opinion which made our victory possible.” “There’s no doubt there’s been enormous progress in Britain, the Institute of Economic Affairs, which Antony Fisher set up, made an enormous difference,” Milton Friedman once said. “It made possible Margaret Thatcher. It made possible not her election as prime minister but the policies that she was able to follow. And the same thing in this country, the developing thought along these lines made possible Ronald Reagan and the policies he was able to follow.” IEA had come full circle. Hayek set up an invitation-only group of free-market economists called the Mont Pelerin Society. One of its members, Ed Feulner, helped found the conservative Washington think tank the Heritage Foundation, drawing on IEA’s work for inspiration. Another Mont Pelerin member, Ed Crane, founded the Cato Institute, the most prominent libertarian think tank in the U.S.
Photo: Paul Popper/Popperfoto/Getty Images
In 1981, Fisher, who had settled in San Francisco, set out to develop the Atlas Economic Research Foundation at the urging of Hayek. Fisher had used his success with IEA to court corporate donors to help establish a string of smaller, sometimes regional think tanks in New York, Canada, California, and Texas, among other places. With Atlas, though, the scale for Fisher’s free-market think tank project would now be global: a nonprofit dedicated to continuing his work of establishing libertarian beachheads in every country of the world. “The more institutes established throughout the world,” Fisher declared, “the more opportunity to tackle diverse problems begging for resolution.” Fisher began to fundraise, pitching corporate donors with the help of letters from Hayek, Thatcher, and Friedman, including an urgent call for donors to help reproduce the success of IEA through Atlas. Hayek wrote that the IEA model “ought to be used to create similar institutes all over the world.” He added, “It would be money well spent if large sums could be made available for such a concerted effort.” The proposal was sent to a list of high-level executives and soon, money began pouring in from corporate coffers and Republican mega-donors, including Richard Mellon Scaife. Companies, such as Pfizer, Procter & Gamble, and Shell, all gave to Atlas. But their influence would need to remain cloaked for the project to work, Fisher contended. “To influence public opinion, it is necessary to avoid any suggestion of vested interest or intent to indoctrinate,” Fisher noted in a proposal outlining the purpose of Atlas. Fisher added that IEA’s success hinged on the perception that it was academic and impartial. Atlas grew rapidly. By 1985, the network featured 27 institutions in 17 countries, including nonprofits in Italy, Mexico, Australia, and Peru. And the timing could not have been better: Atlas’s international expansion came just as the Reagan administration was doubling down on an aggressive foreign policy, hoping to beat back leftist governments abroad. While in public, Atlas declared that it received no government funding (Fisher belittled foreign aid as just another “bribe” used to distort market forces), records show the network quietly worked to channel government money to its growing list of international partners. In one 1982 letter from the International Communication Agency, a small federal agency devoted to promote U.S. interests overseas, a bureaucrat at the Office of Private Sector Programs wrote to Fisher, in response to an inquiry about acquiring federal grants. The bureaucrat said he was barred from giving “directly to foreign organizations,” but could cosponsor “conferences or exchanges with organizations” hosted by groups like Atlas. He encouraged Fisher to send over a proposal. The letter, sent one year after Atlas’s founding, was the first indication that the network would become a covert partner to U.S. foreign policy interests. Memos and other records from Fisher show that, by 1986, Atlas had helped schedule meetings with business executives to direct U.S. funds to its network of think tanks. In one instance, an official from the U.S. Agency for International Development, the principal foreign aid arm of the federal government, recommended that the head of Coca-Cola’s subsidiary in Panama work with Atlas to set up an IEA-style affiliate think tank there. Atlas’ partners also drew funding from the coffers of the National Endowment for Democracy, a government-charted nonprofit, founded in 1983, that is funded largely by the State Department and USAID to build U.S.-friendly political institutions in the developing world.
Alejandro Chafuen, of the Atlas Economic Research Foundation, back right, shakes hands with Rafael Alonzo, of Venezuela’s Freedom Center for Economic Studies, CEDICE, left, as Peruvian writer Mario Vargas Llosa applauds during the opening of the “Freedom and Democracy” international forum in Caracas, May 28, 2009. Photo: Ariana Cubillos/AP
With corporate and U.S. government funding pouring in, Atlas took another fortuitous turn in 1985 with the arrival of Alejandro Chafuen. Linda Whetstone, Fisher’s daughter, remembered in a tribute that, in 1985, a young Chafuen, then living in Oakland, showed up to Atlas’s San Francisco office “and was willing to work for nothing.” The Buenos Aires-born Chafuen hailed from what he described as “an anti-Peronist family.” They were wealthy and, though raised in an era of incredible turmoil in Argentina, Chafuen lived a life of relative privilege. He spent his teenage years playing tennis, dreaming of becoming a professional athlete. Chafuen credits his youthful ideological path to his appetite for devouring libertarian texts, from Ayn Rand to booklets published by FEE, the Leonard Read group that had originally inspired Fisher. After studying at Grove City College, a deeply conservative Christian liberal arts school in Pennsylvania, where he served as the president of the student libertarian club, Chafuen returned to his home country. The military had stepped in, claiming a threat from communist revolutionaries. Thousands of students and activists would be tortured and killed in the crackdown on left-wing dissent following the coup d’etat. Chafuen remembers the time in a mostly positive light, later writing that the military had acted out of necessity to prevent a communist “takeover of the country.” While pursuing a teaching career, Chafuen encountered “totalitarians of every style” within academic life. After the military coup, he wrote that he noticed that his professors became “gentler,” despite their differences with him. In other Latin American countries, too, libertarianism was finding a receptive audience among military governments. In Chile, after the military swept out the democratically elected government of Salvador Allende, Mont Pelerin Society economists quickly flocked to the country, setting the stage for widespread libertarian reforms, including the privatization of industry and the country’s pension system. Throughout the region, under the watch of right-wing military leaders that had seized power, libertarian economic policies began to take root. For his part, Chafuen’s ideological zeal was on display as early as 1979, when he published an essay for FEE titled “War Without End.” He described the horrors of leftist terror, “like the Charles Manson family, or in regimental strength, like the guerilla troops in the Middle East, Africa, and South America.” There was a need, he wrote, for the “forces of individual freedom and private property” to fight back. His enthusiasm garnered attention. In 1980, at age 26, Chafuen was invited to become the youngest member of the Mont Pelerin Society. He traveled to Stanford, an opportunity that put him in direct contact with Read, Hayek, and other leading libertarians. Within five years, Chafuen had married an American and was living in Oakland. He began reaching out to Mont Pelerin members in the Bay Area, including Fisher.
Throughout the region, under the watch of right-wing military leaders that had seized power, libertarian economic policies began to take root.
According to Atlas’s board meeting notes, Fisher told his colleagues he had made a $500 ex gratia Christmas payment that year to Chafuen, and hoped to hire the young economist full-time to develop Atlas think tanks in Latin America. The following year, Chafuen organized the first Atlas summit of Latin American think tanks in Jamaica. Chafuen understood the Atlas model well and worked diligently to expand the network, helping to launch think tanks in Africa and Europe, though focusing his efforts in Latin America. Describing how to attract donors, Chafuen once noted in a lecture that donors cannot appear to pay for public surveys because the polls would lose credibility. “Pfizer Inc. would not sponsor surveys on health issues nor would Exxon pay for surveys on environmental issues,” Chafuen noted. Libertarian think tanks, such as the ones in Atlas’s network, however, could not only present the same survey with more credibility, but do so in a way that garnered coverage in the local media. “Journalists are very much attracted by whatever is new and easy to report,” Chafuen said. The press is less interested in quoting libertarian philosophers, he contended, but when a think tank produced a survey people would listen. “And donors also see this,” he added. In 1991, three years after Fisher died, Chafuen took the helm of Atlas and would have the opportunity to speak to donors with authority about Atlas’s work. He quickly began to rack up corporate sponsors to push company-specific goals through the network. Philip Morris contributed regular grants to Atlas, including a $50,000 contribution to the group in 1994, which was disclosed years later through litigation. Records show that the tobacco giant viewed Atlas as an ally for working on international litigation issues. Journalists in Chile, however, found out that Atlas-backed think tanks had worked to quietly lobby against smoking regulations without disclosing their funding from tobacco companies, a strategy similar think tanks repeated across the globe.
Corporate giants, such as ExxonMobil and MasterCard, were among Atlas’s donors. But the group also attracted leading figures in libertarianism, such as the foundations associated with investor John Templeton and the billionaire brothers Charles and David Koch, which lavished Atlas and its affiliates with regular contributions. Chafuen’s fundraising prowess extended to the growing number of wealthy conservative foundations that were beginning to flourish. He was a founding member of Donors Trust, a secretive donor-advised fund that has doled out over $400 million to libertarian nonprofits, including members of the Atlas Network. He also serves as a trustee to the Chase Foundation of Virginia, which was founded by a Mont Pelerin Society member and similarly sends cash to Atlas think tanks. Another wellspring of money came from the American government. Initially, the National Endowment for Democracy encountered difficulty setting up U.S.-friendly political nonprofits. Gerardo Bongiovanni, the president of Fundación Libertad, an Atlas think tank in Rosario, Argentina, noted during a lecture with Chafuen that the early seed money from NED’s grant partner, the Center for International Private Enterprise, totaled $1 million between 1985 and 1987. The think tanks that received those initial grants quickly folded, Bongiovanni said, citing lack of management training. Atlas, however, managed to turn U.S. taxpayer money coming through the NED and Center for International Private Enterprise into an important source of funding for its growing network. The funding vehicles provided money to help boost Atlas think tanks in Eastern Europe, following the fall of the Soviet Union, and, later, to promote U.S. interests in the Middle East. Among the recipients of the Center for International Private Enterprise’s cash is Cedice Libertad, the group thanked by Venezuelan opposition leader María Corina Machado.
Sebastian Gorka, White House deputy assistant to the president, participates in a television interview outside the West Wing on June 9, 2017, in Washington, D.C. Photo: Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images
At the Brick Hotel in Buenos Aires, Chafuen reflected on the last three decades. Fisher “would be overall pleased, and he would not believe how much our network grew,” Chafuen said, noting that perhaps the Atlas founder would not have expected the level of direct political engagement the group is involved in.
Chafuen lit up when U.S. President Donald Trump came up, offering praise for the president’s appointees. And why not? The Trump administration is littered with alumni of Atlas-related groups and friends of the network. Sebastian Gorka, Trump’s Islamophobic counterterrorism adviser, once led an Atlas-backed think tank in Hungary. Vice President Mike Pence has attended an Atlas event and spoken highly of the group. Education Secretary Betsy DeVos and Chafuen were close through their leadership roles at the Acton Institute, a Michigan think tank that develops religious arguments in favor of libertarian policies — which now maintains an affiliate in Brazil, the Centro Interdisciplinar de Ética e Economia Personalista. Perhaps Chafuen’s most prized figure in the administration, however, is Judy Shelton, an economist and senior fellow at the Atlas Network. After Trump’s victory, Shelton was made the chair of the NED. She previously served as an adviser to the Trump campaign and transition effort. Chafuen beamed when he talked about it. “There you have the Atlas people being the chair of the National Endowment for Democracy,” he said. Before ending the interview, Chafuen intimated that there was more to come: more think tanks, more efforts to overturn leftist governments, and more Atlas devotees and alumni elevated to the highest levels of government the world over. “The work is ongoing,” he said. Later, Chafuen appeared at the gala for the Latin America Liberty Forum. Along with a panel of Atlas experts, he discussed the need to ramp up libertarian opposition movements in Ecuador and Venezuela. Listen to reporter Lee Fang discuss his investigation of the Atlas Network on our podcast Intercepted:

Story 205
As pubs and bars in the UK get busier in the run up to Christmas, Barclaycard has uncorked a way to reduce the time people spend waiting to be served. Pay @ Pump is a beer pump that allows customers to pour their own pint and pay with a contactless card in as little as a minute.
According to Barclaycard, people spend an average of 12 minutes per order waiting to be served over the Christmas period. The Pay @ Pump system is designed to reduce customer queuing time and speed up service.
"I'm sure everyone has been stuck behind the person who orders the most complicated cocktail on the menu or a round of 10 drinks for their group of friends," explains Barclaycard's commercial director for digital consumer payments Tami Hargreaves. "When people told us that waiting time was one of their biggest annoyances, we wanted to help solve a common problem with a simple solution."
The prototype pump has a touchscreen on which drinks are ordered. The customer then uses a "contactless card" or device to pay and positions a glass underneath the nozzle. A sensor detects glass placement and triggers the pump to begin dispensing the drink.
At present, the pump is set up to dispense ale, but it could be configured to dispense any drink. Barclaycard says the whole process can take just 60 seconds, assuming there is no queue for the pump itself.
The Pay @ Pump prototype was installed and tested this week at Henry's Café and Bar in the Piccadilly area of London.
Source: Barclaycard

Story 206
Farmers in China’s Yunnan Province have been quietly growing tea for thousands of years. This mountainous region, which borders Vietnam, Laos, and Myanmar, may be the birthplace of Camellia sinensis, the bush that gave rise to all tea. The area’s signature cakes of sun-dried, fermented leaves, known as pu’er, have long been a staple of daily life. To hit the road (specifically, the South Silk Road, which became known as Tea-Horse Road), sellers wrapped dried leaves in bamboo and strapped the discs to their animal. On the journey, traders, horses, and goods were exposed to sunshine, heat, and rain. Fermentation began, perhaps, as nothing more than consequence.
Today, locals press leaves (from Camellia sinensis var. assamica) into dense bricks, then age them for weeks, months, or even years to produce pu’er. The more tightly a cake is compressed, the longer it takes to age. When the tea is deemed ready, drinkers use a knife to chip off bits for brewing. Its flavor and aroma varies greatly with time. Tasters describe younger pu’er as “vegetal and fragrant with gentle bitterness and a tickling sun-dried pungency” and older varieties as dark, elegant, and earthy.
In the 1990s, wealthy outsiders noticed the humble operation. Pu’er, which holds government designation as an exclusively Yunnan-made good, became an object of desire. China’s elite gave the aromatic bricks in festive wrapping as gifts—something to be enjoyed, shared, and felt. Fans often treat it as much like a drug as they do a drink, describing a subtle, incomparable high from drinking the brew and asserting that no two bricks produce a tea that tastes the same. Between the 1980s and 2000s, prices skyrocketed from pennies per kilo to hundreds of dollars for the same product. Like wine, there are even prized vintages of pu’er. In the case of one 64-year-old vintage, a die-hard fan shelled out $150,000 for a mere 500 grams.

Story 207
Horseshoes, 61 nails, an axe and billhook are part of the rent London owes to the Queen. Epics/Hulton Archive/Getty Images
Earlier this October, at a ceremony at the Royal Courts of Justice, London paid its rent to the Queen. The ceremony proceeded much as it had for the past eight centuries. The city handed over a knife, an axe, six oversized horseshoes, and 61 nails to Barbara Janet Fontaine, the Queen’s Remembrancer, the oldest judicial position in England. The job was created in the 12th century to keep track of all that was owed to the crown.
In this case, the Remembrancer has presided over the rent owed on two pieces of property for a very long time—since 1235 in one case, and at least 1211 in the other. Every year, in this Ceremony of Quit Rents, the crown extracts its price from the city for a forge and a piece of moorland.
No one knows exactly where these two pieces of land are located anymore, but for hundreds of years the city has been paying rent on them. The rate, however, has not changed—the same objects have been presented for hundreds of years.
The Ceremony of Quit Rents is not well-publicized or much talked about: news services have covered it occasionally over the years, but the only official references I could find to this year’s ceremonies were a notice about a city-sponsored essay contest where the prize includes the privilege of attending the ceremony and an off-hand reference by the Lord Chief Justice of England and Wales.
But each fall, usually in October, the city and the crown perform the same exchange, for no particular reason other than that they always have.
Royal Courts of Justice Elisa.rolle/CC BY-SA 3.0
The older rent is paid on a piece of land that’s supposed to be in the county of Shropshire, far from London. Known as “the Moors,” its exact location was lost long ago (although UPI reported in 1980 that London’s then-mayor Peter Gadsden picked a piece of land in the area and declared it the Moors in question).
The rent on the Moors is a billhook—a knife-like tool used in agriculture—and an axe. The billhook is supposed to be dull: one early instruction said it should “bend in green cheese,” Copley News Service reported in 1972. About three centuries after this rent was first recorded, though, the standard had changed: the billhook should be in such a condition that it could strike a one-year-old hazel stick and make “little or no mark.”
The axe, on the other hand, is supposed to be sharp. The current version of the ceremony tests both: First, the city representative uses the billhook to hack away at a pile of sticks. After that tool is proved ineffective, the axe gets its turn—and swipes cleanly through the same wood. “Good service,” the Remembrancer says.
Long View of London from Bankside, 1647 Wenceslaus Hollar/Public domain
The second rent is for a piece of land closer to home. In the neighborhood of what’s now the Royal Courts of Justice, back in the 13th century, the king held a tournament during which the knights needed help repairing their armor; the man who stepped up to do the work was then given a lease on the land to create a forge. (In a different version of the story, his job was to reshoe the horses of the Templar Knights. It’s possible both stories are true, since with the Temple Church just down the street, those knights would have been the farrier’s most obvious customers.)
The forge is long gone, but the rent remains the same—six horseshoes and 61 nails. The horseshoes, which are themselves centuries old, are giant. When presented with the horseshoes and nails, the Remembrancer says, “Good number.”
These two “quit rents” are not the only ones owed to the crown. London also owes a yearly token rent of 11 pounds on the “town of Southwark,” now a high-end area where Shakespeare’s Globe and the Tate Modern are located. Outside of London, landowners are on the hook for a variety of quit rents: a bucket of snow on demand, three red roses, a small French flag, a salmon spear. Some rents only kick in only if the king or queen visits: the renter must provide the crown with a bed of straw, in one agreement, and in another, the renter must offer a single white rose.
Kachina dolls were used in Arizona as a more modern quit rent. C.C. Pierce/USC Libraries Special Collections
One landholder keeps his place only on the condition that, if the monarch shows up, he must “ride his horse into the sea, until the water reached the saddle girths, to meet his sovereign,” the Southam News Service reported. Another has to fight anyone the king wants him to. Possibly the best quit-rent ever conceived is this one: “three glasses of port on New Year’s Eve for the ghost of the King’s grandmother.”
For the most part, quit rents are relics of medieval agreements, but there was at least one quit rent agreement that was forged in the past century, in Lake Havasu City, Arizona. It started when the city imported a bridge from London—one which had spanned the Thames river and was auctioned off in the late 1960s. Robert McCulloch, Lake Havasu City’s founder, bought the bridge, and by the early ’70s, the bridge had been reinstalled in Arizona.
As a gift to London, during the dedication ceremony, McCulloch offered an acre of Arizona land, reports the Havasu News, and years later, when the city wanted to use that land for a visitor’s center, London agreed to lease it back to Lake Havasu. They settled on a token quit rent: a Kachina doll, a carved Hopi figure representing an immortal being.

Story 208
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Atlas Energy LP has a deal for investors eager to get in on the U.S. energy boom: Contribute at least $25,000 in a partnership that will drill for oil and gas in Texas, Ohio, Oklahoma and Pennsylvania and then share any revenue from the wells’ output.
Retired engineer Bill Jenkins and his wife Carol look over documents concerning their investment in Reef's Income & Development Fund II at their home in Orlando, Florida, October 31, 2014. REUTERS/Steve Nesius
Atlas Resources LLC, a subsidiary of the Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania-based energy group, aims to raise as much as $300 million before the offer closes Dec. 31. The company says it will toss in up to $145 million of its own capital, too.
But not all investors are created equal in this undertaking. Atlas’s confidential offering memorandum, reviewed by Reuters, shows why.
Up to $45 million of the money raised will be paid to Atlas affiliate Anthem Securities to cover commissions to broker-dealers who market the deal, the memorandum says. As much as $39 million more will be used to buy drilling leases from another affiliate. Atlas-affiliated suppliers may also get some of the $53 million set aside for buying drilling and transport equipment.
An additional $8 million of Atlas’s investment is not an investment at all; it is a 15 percent markup on estimated equipment costs. As soon as drilling begins, Atlas will pay itself nearly $52 million in various other fees and markups.
In short, Atlas’s $145 million exposure is reduced by at least 40%, and possibly much more, after taking into account payments to group affiliates and markups. Further, if and when the venture starts generating revenue, Atlas is entitled to a 33 percent cut, reflecting the size of its stake before accounting for those payments and markups.
Atlas is raising money for the venture, called Atlas Resources Series 34-2014 LP, in what is known as a private placement - a sale of unregistered securities through broker-dealers to a limited number of investors. And as the offering details suggest, oil and gas private placements tend to be structured so that “the house always wins,” said Mitch Little, a Frisco, Texas-based lawyer who has represented investors in and issuers of private placements.
QUICK AND EASY
Private placements, a lightly regulated market comprising hundreds of billions of dollars a year in new issues, have a long history in the oil and gas sector. Small prospectors, known as “wildcatters,” have for years used them as a quick, easy way to fund the expensive and highly speculative process of drilling, drawing in investors keen to take advantage of generous federal tax breaks on energy exploration. In the new century, the U.S. “fracking” boom has prompted a new wave of prospecting, attracting tens of thousands of investors.
Reuters was able to review offering memoranda and other marketing material for six oil and gas private placements issued over the past 15 years by four companies: Atlas; Reef Oil & Gas Partners of Richardson, Texas; Discovery Resources & Development LLC of Frisco, Texas; and Black Diamond Energy Inc of Buffalo, Wyoming.
These documents contain details on multiple previous private placements by each company, and they show that the deal Atlas is now marketing adheres to a common template: The issuers typically charged between 15 percent and 20 percent in upfront fees from investors, while paying brokers – often affiliated with the issuer - an additional 10 percent of the total offering in sales commissions.
The upshot is that the issuer often starts out at an advantage relative to outside investors.
For slightly more than half of 43 private placements Atlas issued over the past three decades, outside investors lost money or just about broke even. In 29 of those deals, Atlas did better than those investors.
Of 34 deals Reef has issued since 1996, only 12 have paid out more cash to investors than they initially contributed, according to Reef’s latest publicly available financial statements. The statements show Reef sold an additional 31 smaller deals between 1996 and 2010 for which it collected a total of $146 million and paid out just $55 million.
Brian Begley, Atlas Energy’s vice president for investor relations, declined to comment.
Reef Chief Executive Officer Michael Mauceli said in a statement: “We have conducted our business with the utmost integrity, meeting and surpassing ethical, business and regulatory standards.”
Energy ventures are by their nature risky prospects, narrow bets on a single commodity. Wells can come up dry. Volatility in oil and gas prices can sink returns. As Atlas warns in the memorandum for its offering: “These securities are speculative and involve a high degree of risk. You should purchase these securities only if you can afford a complete loss of your investment.”
UNPAID FOR RISKS
Beyond the inherent risks, though, these deals are often unfair to outside investors, said David Miller, a Houston-based lawyer who represents investors in lawsuits against issuers and brokers of private placements. “Investors are taking on huge risks, but simply are not getting paid for those risks,” he said.
Issuers say that criticism ignores the tax benefits of their deals. Investors can write off more than 90 percent of their initial outlay the year they make it.
But investors in oil and gas deals comprise not just the savvy, high-income individuals meant to use the tax break. Of the 28 people interviewed for this article who invested in deals from Reef, Atlas, Discovery Resources and Black Diamond over the past 10 years, 17 were retirees who had low tax burdens when they signed on.
Under U.S. law, brokers can market private placements only to institutions and accredited investors, the latter defined as American residents with either $1 million in assets, not including the investor’s primary residence, or $250,000 in annual income.
Those criteria were set in 1982. Since then, inflation has greatly expanded the number of people who qualify. Now, they include people like Arla Funk, a 79-year-old retiree who works part-time for the Salt Lake City, Utah, school system in a job that pays $10 an hour.
In 2006, Funk invested $100,000 in a private placement called Atlas American Series 27-2006. “We were looking for some long-term retirement kind of income,” Funk said. She said the broker who sold her on the deal told her she would receive “a paycheck that comes every month.”
As of Dec. 31, 2013 - seven years after she gave Atlas her money - she and other outside investors had earned back just 31 percent of their principal. For her and other unhappy investors in private placements, selling isn’t a realistic option: There is no active secondary market for the securities.
“When I finally found out what a scam it was, I was upset because it was too late for me to do anything,” Funk said.
In addition to the Atlas and Reef deals reviewed for this article, thirteen from Black Diamond between 2001 and 2006 failed to generate enough revenue to return investors’ initial contribution.
Black Diamond filed for bankruptcy in 2011 after a major bank creditor called its loans. It never completed the bankruptcy process. Its principals, one of whom, Charles Koval, was a founder of Atlas Energy, are trying to sell Black Diamond’s leases and equipment. Koval declined to comment.
Discovery Resources, which issued four private placements between 2006 and 2009, filed for bankruptcy in 2010, as did its founder Richard Weyand. Federal prosecutors in March charged Weyand with filing a false tax return for 2008 to hide $101,000. He pleaded guilty in April and is currently awaiting sentencing.
Weyand’s lawyer, Jeff Boggess, said Discovery Resources’ deals provided tax breaks to investors and therefore could not be called unsuccessful.
LARGE AND OPAQUE
All sorts of businesses – including banks, heavy industry and, especially, investment pools like hedge funds and private equity firms - use private placements to raise money for all sorts of purposes.
The market is vast: A Reuters analysis of nearly 100,000 filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission found that between 2008 and the second quarter of this year, issuers intended to raise as much as $5.5 trillion through private placements. And that sum excludes the 22,000 issues intended to raise “indefinite” sums. (The number of issuers does not include those who submitted paper, rather than electronic, filings before 2009.)
The market is also opaque. The required documents filed with the SEC typically state the name of the issuer, the maximum amount sought, and little more. There are no follow-up filing requirements.
The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the securities industry’s self-regulatory body, requires that brokers perform due diligence on each issue they sell to ensure its suitability for investors. But as Reuters reported in a previous article, many brokers rely on outside due-diligence firms that are in fact paid by the issuers - a setup under which some issuers have engaged in multimillion- and even multibillion-dollar frauds.
In the oil and gas sector, the SEC data show that since 2008, nearly 4,000 private placements have sought to raise as much as $122 billion.
Brad Bennett, head of enforcement at FINRA, said in a statement that brokers need to be “meticulous in their consideration of the types of customers for whom [oil and gas private placements] may be suitable.” He added that the deals should be “only recommended to clients whose financial goals are consistent with the products and who understand the risks inherent in them.”
State and federal regulators have little scope for oversight of private placements, and the scant reporting requirements give them little information to work with.
In a 2013 alert to the public, the SEC said investors needed to keep in mind that oil and gas private placements were especially risky, that they often carried hidden fees, and that issuers routinely made money even when drilling yielded no oil or gas.
A spokesman for the SEC declined to comment.
Issuers stay on the right side of securities laws through voluminous disclosures in their offering documents, which brokers are required to provide to investors. Fred Rosenberg, a former investment broker who analyzes oil and gas private placements for parties in legal disputes, reviewed the offering memorandum for Atlas’s latest deal at Reuters’s request. He said the 407-page document made the risks of the investment clear. “This looks, on my first reading, to be a legitimate offering,” he said.
Among other things, the document says investors might never get their money back, and it warned investors that there could be conflicts of interest between them and Atlas, and that the conflicts might not be resolved in their favor.
However, Rosenberg said: “If the investor expects a profitable return and income stream over his lifetime ... think otherwise.”
HARD SELL
In the past decade, investors have been drawn to oil and gas placements as a way to profit from the revolution in drilling technologies that have opened up huge stores of oil and gas in previously inaccessible locations. One of them was Bill Jenkins.
In early 2007, the retired engineer, now 77 years old, attended the Money Show, a convention held in several locations every year that brings together investors and providers of money-making opportunities.
At Reef’s booth, he picked up a printed breakdown of some older Reef deals. Over six to eight years, the flier said, an initial outlay of $100,000 would have paid back, depending on the deal, between $176,160 and $231,310.
Jenkins then got a call from Richard Main, who worked for Reef’s affiliated securities broker. Jenkins said Main told him that Reef’s Income & Development Fund II required a minimum investment of $100,000 – more than Jenkins and his wife had available – but that he could get them in for just $25,000. Main told them they had to hurry, though, because the deal was just about to close, Jenkins said.
The couple went for it.
Main told them to expect some paperwork. “ ‘You’re not going to understand it, but don’t worry, I’ll walk you through it,’ “ Jenkins said the broker told him.
Jenkins received a 52-page offering memorandum, marketing materials and other documents, and a postage-paid return envelope. He said Main told him: “As soon as you get the package, call me because I need to get this thing back.”
On the phone, Jenkins followed along as Main guided him to pages where he had to sign. When they were done, Jenkins said, Main told him: “ ‘Now if you can’t get this in the mail today, give me a call and let me know so I can maybe work with my boss and get you into it.’ “ After the couple sent the package back to Main, “He called back and said, ‘Yeah, you guys did good, you made it,’ “ Jenkins said.
Soon, the couple began receiving monthly checks ranging from $150 to $300.
Though the offering documents fully disclosed the risks of the venture, Jenkins said he didn’t realize until much later that he and his wife had signed dozens of pages of paperwork attesting to their understanding of the deal and their willingness to accept the possibility of losing all of their investment.
If he had looked more closely at the time, Jenkins would have found that the offering memorandum clearly stated that the minimum investment was $25,000. It also contained a long section about the risks of the investment, such as conflicts of interest among Reef’s various entities.
Under the terms, investors would turn over $50 million to Reef, and right away Reef would keep $7.5 million for fees and broker commissions. After that, Reef would receive a monthly management fee of $41,667 from the fund. Reef would also charge drilling and operating, legal and other expenses to the fund.
The amounts of these expenses would be determined by other Reef entities hired to do work for the venture. No more than half of the money would be used to buy oil and gas properties in areas where there were proved reserves. Once the properties started producing revenue, Reef would determine how much would be available for distribution.
Main declined to comment. His lawyer, John R. Fahy, disputed much of Jenkins’s account. He said Main never told Jenkins the minimum investment was $100,000 and didn’t rush Jenkins through the process.
DWINDLING RETURNS
In November 2007, as the checks from the $25,000 investment were rolling in, Jenkins received another call from Main. He was now touting Reef Income & Development Fund III.
The couple put in another $25,000. This time, they got some relatives in on the deal. When checks from Fund II started to dwindle, they didn’t worry. Reef newsletters reassured them that volatility was normal.
But then the size of the checks from Fund III began to shrink. Soon they were arriving only every three months. Jenkins said a friend and fellow Reef investor noticed that separate monthly statements from the two funds were identical; money from both had gone into the same wells. “We called them and they said, ‘Oh, we forgot to plug in the numbers for III,’ “ Jenkins said.
Jenkins and his fellow investors asked for their money back in 2011, but Reef declined. Under terms of the deal, Reef is not required to buy back the shares.
In 2012, Jenkins, along with friends and relatives who had invested with him, filed an arbitration claim with FINRA against Reef Securities, claiming Reef had defrauded them by misrepresenting the two deals. The investor group sought nearly $2 million in compensatory and punitive damages.
FINRA arbitrators ruled on July 14 that Reef Securities was “liable on the claim of negligent failure to supervise” and that Reef should return $188,000, or slightly more than half of the investors’ money. It did not provide a public explanation for the basis of its decision.
Reef CEO Mauceli noted that the amount was far less than what the group of investors was seeking and that it did not include punitive damages.
The panel awarded the Jenkinses $32,500. The couple’s lawyer, Daxton White, will get 40 percent of the total award to investors. He said he doesn’t expect the decision will alter Reef’s way of doing business. “As long as they can sell it, they’ll keep doing it, because they make money regardless of the deal’s outcome,” he said.
Reef has gotten back 48 percent of the capital it put into Reef Income and Development Fund II and 61 percent of what it put into Reef Income and Development Fund III, while investors have gotten just 16 percent and 4 percent of their capital back on those deals, respectively.
Slideshow (2 Images)
Mauceli said the “disproportionate returns” reflect Reef’s “carried interest” as general partner in the deals, “which is a long-standing and well-respected standard in the oil and gas industry.” He stressed that the differences also did not take into account tax benefits investors may have enjoyed. “The investments we offer are highly speculative opportunities designed for sophisticated, accredited investors, such as Mr. Jenkins,” he said.
Main left Reef in 2008. FINRA suspended his broker’s license in 2010 after he failed to respond to the regulator’s request for information, records show. He is now one of two principals at an oil and gas investment business, FIG Tree Capital Ventures, his lawyer said.
Reef’s two most recent private placements are showing early promising results – mostly for Reef. The company has earned back 182 percent on a 2011 deal; outside investors are still in the hole, having earned just 21 percent of their outlay. And for a 2012 deal, the company has already recouped nearly 20 percent of its capital; other investors have gotten 3 percent of theirs.

Story 209
The market capitalization for Adyen, the payment company based in Amsterdam, has surged almost 50% this year to around $22 billion. That’s about that same as the latest valuation for Silicon Valley-based Stripe, another darling of the fintech scene.
Adyen’s stock price has risen along with revenue, which jumped 54% in the second half of 2018 to €192.5 million ($219 million), according to a statement today (Feb. 27). The payment processor for Gap and Spotify said it handled €89 billion in transactions during that period, a 50% increase.
Investors are betting heavily on payment companies as more transactions take place digitally. Adyen, which says it specializes in sorting out tangled digital payment channels (international payments, for example) has scooped up customers like H&M, Facebook, and Ebay, the early proving ground for PayPal.
The Dutch company’s shares have come back to earth somewhat after rocketing more than 200% in the months following its June IPO. But they’re still up 170% from Adyen’s listing price. Stripe’s valuation has also soared, climbing to $22.5 billion (paywall) in January after it raised an extra $100 million from Tiger Global Management. That’s up from $20.25 billion in September, according to PitchBook data. Adyen was started in 2006, and Stripe came along four years later.
The jockeying between Adyen and Stripe in market valuations is a bright spot for European entrepreneurship. While the region lacks a tech giant of Alibaba- or Google-size proportions, a number of highly ambitious fintech founders think they can give Silicon Valley a run for its money. That said, Europe still has some catching up to do in areas like venture capital investment.
In its earlier days, Stripe was seen as a payment system that focused on startups and developers, but its client list now includes the likes of Uber and Google. Is Adyen seeing greater competition from the Silicon Valley upstart? Not really, says Adyen CEO Pieter van der Does. “We don’t lose customers to anyone,” the co-founder said today in a conference call. “The loyalty to our platform is very high.”
In a separate interview, the CEO said banks, however, are losing market share to Adyen and its payment technology. While some legacy providers are a complex mashup of systems brought together via acquisitions, Adyen markets itself as a single platform that’s designed to operate smoothly across many geographies and jurisdictions. He said small- and medium-size companies look to Adyen when their businesses get bigger and more complex.
A key question for the fast-growing companies is whether they’ll be able to meet sky-high investor expectations. Van der Does said, diplomatically, that the daily stock price isn’t a key data point for the company: “We are focused on the longer term,” he said.
This story has been corrected in the fourth paragraph to show the correct amount of funding raised by Stripe.

Story 210
Steve Nicol and Craig Burley explain why Man United's win over Norwich was a sign of progress for the club. (1:30)
The transfer windows in Europe's top leagues are closed, but it's never too early to look forward to January. Click here to view the latest transfers, and keep up to date with the newest gossip below.
Top 10 free agents in 2020 | European transfer review
TOP STORY: Man United ready to go for Sancho
Manchester United are ready and willing to match Borussia Dortmund's demands for Jadon Sancho, the Mirror reports.
The young Englishman is reportedly valued at around £100 million if not more, with Dortmund being eager to keep hold of him for as long as they possibly can. United, on the other hand, aren't afraid to dive into their pocket in order to get a deal done.
Sancho has been linked with a switch to Old Trafford as far back as the recent summer transfer window, as his star continues to rise.
The 19-year-old left Manchester City two years ago in search of first-team opportunities at one of Europe's major clubs, and has since scored 18 goals for Dortmund and netted his first senior internationals goals earlier this season with a brace against Kosovo.
LIVE BLOG
22.00 GMT: That will do it for the latest edition of our LIVE Transfer Talk blog. We hoped you enjoyed following along with us and remind you to check back shortly for the latest transfer rumours, reports and rumblings. Goodnight!
21.53 GMT: Brescia president Massimo Cellino claims that Pep Guardiola and Man City want to sign 19-year-old phenom Sandro Tonali.
The Brescia and Italy midfielder is among the most highly-rated youngsters in world football and is firmly in the sights of some of Europe's biggest clubs. However, Gazzetta quote Cellino as saying he values Tonali at £260 million (€300m) and warned the player of the risks of leaving his club too soon in his career.
"All the big Italian clubs, and abroad Atletico Madrid, PSG and Manchester City," Cellino said as he named the interested parties in Tonali. Manchester United have also been linked.
An all-round midfielder that has been compared to Andrea Pirlo, Tonali debuted for Italy back in October and is currently enjoying his first steps in Serie A with Brescia.
21:03 GMT: Sticking with Man United for a moment, the Red Devils have identified French duo Moussa Dembele (Lyon) and Boubakary Soumare (Lille) as transfer targets, sources have told ESPN FC.
United have been linked with Lyon striker Dembele for some time now but Soumare is a relatively fresh name when it comes to Old Trafford. The France Under-21 international, 20, is seen as a potential heir to Paul Pogba and is rated around €35-40 million. That said, if he doesn't re-up his expiring contract he could be bought for free from the French side from January on.
Meanwhile, Dembele, 23, has scored 21 goals in 41 games for Lyon since his €22 million move from Celtic in August 2018. Man United desperately need a new striker and creative midfielder and Dembele and Soumare both check the boxes of United's new buy young and build for the long-term transfer policy. We'll see what Ole Gunnard Solskjaer and Co. have up their sleeve in the winter window.
20.10 GMT: Napoli once considered themselves contenders for Red Bull Salzburg star Erling Braut Haaland but do so no more claim Corriere dello Sport.
According to the report, the Italian side have pulled out of the race for the 19-year-old striker, as they do not think they have the financial might to contend with Manchester United among others.
When asked, Napoli scout Loris Boni told Corriere dello Sport:
"Definitely in a great club. Salzburg, an excellent team, can only be a springboard for someone like him.
"If, then, his compatriot Solskjaer remains as coach at Manchester United, I think he can go there.
"Solskjaer was also the one who made him debut at Molde, as he coached the club at the time."
Haaland has scored 21 goals in 14 games this season for Salzburg and has been linked with many of Europe's biggest clubs.
19.21 GMT: More bad news for Loris Karius...
Besiktas have run out of patience and reportedly want to end the German's two-year loan deal early and return him to Liverpool in January, according to Turkish publication Takvim. Karius, who infamously struggled in the 2018 Champions League final against Real Madrid, has never regained his confidence since that fateful night in Ukraine and now looks to be on the move again. Still just 26, Karius likely will need to find a new spot to try and re-launch his once very promising career.
18.29 GMT: LAFC's Carlos Vela is in the midst of maybe the greatest individual season in MLS history, having broken the league's single-season scoring record with 38 goals in 35 games. But now could Europe come calling for the Mexican?
The 30-year-old, who previously played 12 seasons in Europe (most notably with Arsenal and Real Sociedad), has been linked with a return to La Liga, specifically with Barcelona. Vela recently told the New York Times he would not turn down a loan move to Barca if the opportunity arose saying: "Who could say no to play with Messi for four months and then return to Los Angeles? Enjoy, learn and then go back home."
Barca boss Ernesto Valverde has weighed in on the links, telling ESPN's Jordi Blanco: "I remember that last year was an option that emerged and there was talk about it ... Now we are not in the transfer market but we have the players we have."
It sounds as if Vela will not be heading to the Camp Nou after all.
17.56 GMT: Celtic winger James Forrest, 28, has been in splendid form this season (nine goals, 11 assists in 21 appearances) and is set to be rewarded for his efforts with a new contract.
Manager Neil Lennon had earmarked a new deal for Forrest at the start of the season and the winger said: "It's near enough done, everything is basically agreed. I'll be delighted to get that done really soon and just keep focusing on playing.''
"I've always stated from the start of pre-season that I want to stay at Celtic and the club have done the same thing. The talks have been really positive and it's maybe near the end."
Forrest, who made his first-team debut in 2010 after graduating from the club's Academy, has made over 350 appearances for the Hoops, scoring 82 goals and adding 81 assists.
17.13 GMT: With Tammy Abraham scoring at will (eight goals), Olivier Giroud has faded even more into the background at Stamford Bridge.
The 33-year-old has played just 120 minutes for Chelsea in the Premier League so far this season, increasing speculation that the Frenchman could leave the club in January in search of more playing time ahead of Euro 2020. Soccer Link states that Lyon have "made contact" with Chelsea regarding Giroud and are considering him as a replacement for Moussa Dembele, if the latter is sold in the winter window. Giroud's contract with the Blues expires at the end of the season and there is no shortage of interest in France for the World Cup winner.
Stay tuned...
16.20 GMT: Barcelona will make a decision in December on whether to loan out Riqui Puig for the remainder of the season or keep the midfielder with their B team, according to AS.
The 20-year-old, who is under contract at the Catalan club until 2021 with the option of a two-year extension, will reportedly sit down with Eric Abidal and Ramon Planes over the coming weeks to discuss his immediate future.
If Puig is to leave on loan, second-tier Spanish side Real Zaragoza represent a possible destination, given the club expressed interest in the young Spaniard last summer.
15.35 GMT: Rafael van der Vaart has called for his former side Tottenham to sign Hakim Ziyech from Ajax.
Morocco international Ziyech, 26, scored against Spurs in the second leg of his team's Champions League semifinal defeat earlier this year.
Van der Vaart, who made 63 appearances for the north London club between 2010 and 2012, said Ziyech "can become a sensation" in the Premier League with Tottenham.
14.35 GMT: Napoli have denied that they passed up the chance to sign Norway prodigy Erling Haaland for just €5 million in 2018.
In an interview in Italian paper Il Mattino, scout Loris Boni reportedly said the 19-year-old was offered to Napoli and Juventus before moving to Red Bull Salzburg last summer.
But in a statement on Napoli's Twitter, the club said: "We have read that Il Mattino has interviewed a talent scout who claims Haaland was offered to Napoli for €5million.
"This is fake news and it is astonishing that the journalist did not contact the club to receive confirmation or denial before writing this."
13.30 GMT: The Sun has reported that Manchester United avoided signing Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang before the Gabon international moved to Arsenal, instead opting for Romelu Lukaku.
Aubameyang has excelled at Arsenal, netting 49 times in 77 appearances since joining from Borussia Dortmund for £56m in January last year.
United ended up spending almost £20m more than that to sign Lukaku, who left for Inter Milan this summer after a mixed two-year spell with the Red Devils.
12.05 GMT: According to Bayern Munich sporting director Hasan Salihamidzic, Muller will not leave the club this January.
The forward has struggled for playing time under manager Niko Kovac, but if he is to leave the Bundesliga champions, it will likely not be until next summer.
"That's a story you want to write [Muller being sold]," Salihamidzic told Sky Sport. "We have two players [Niklas Sule and Lucas Hernandez] out for months and you are trying to tell us to sell a player.
"There's no reason for doing this."
10.40 GMT: In further Real Madrid news, talkSPORT has reported that Los Blancos are eyeing another swap deal, with this one seeing Gareth Bale depart and Paul Pogba arrive.
Zinedine Zidane's side will reportedly attempt to convince Manchester United to let Pogba leave by offering Wales international Bale and £85m.
Both midfielder Pogba and winger Bale are out with injuries at the moment, but have been rumoured to be on the way out of their respective clubs for some time.
09.55 GMT: Real Madrid are ready to offer €20m and Isco in exchange for Napoli's Fabian Ruiz, according to Mundo Deportivo.
The midfielder, whom Napoli signed from Real Betis last year, is reportedly a target of Madrid, Barca and Manchester City.
Napoli are said to be opposed to any swap deals, however, preferring a larger transfer fee for the Spain international.
09.10 GMT: Italian publication La Gazzetta dello Sport has reported that Inter coach Antonio Conte wants to add Arturo Vidal to his midfield in the January transfer window.
Whether or not Barcelona would let the Chile international leave is unclear, with the La Liga champions already seemingly set to show Rakitic the door.
If Conte can't pry Vidal from Barca, he will reportedly look to sign Manchester United's Nemanja Matic, who he worked with at Chelsea.
08.35 GMT: Manchester City will attach a £100m price tag to striker Gabriel Jesus amid interest from PSG and Bayern Munich, according to The Sun.
The Brazil international extended his contract with the Premier League champions until 2023 last year, though Sport Bild recently reported that he was offered to Bayern, whose forward Thomas Muller may be on the way out.
If true, Bayern's indecisiveness may have set them back as the German champions now seem to be up against the champions of France in a fight to secure Jesus.
08.00 GMT: Arsenal manager Unai Emery has said the club has supported him in his decision to drop midfielder Mesut Ozil.
Ozil has been absent from Arsenal's last five matchday squads, but recently said he wants to stay at the club until at least 2021.
"Here, we have one agreed strategy as a club and as a team, because the most important thing is the club, the team and finding a performance," Emery said.
"Previously we were all speaking between us to take that decision.
"I know all the supporters want to know something, but now is not the moment. I think it is not the moment to speak about him.
"We are going to play on Sunday and in the next matches and we are going to decide, and when we can speak about him something differently we will look."
Ozil was linked to MLS side D.C. United this summer despite his desire for game time at Arsenal.
PAPER TALK (by Harry Kettle): Barca usher Rakitic towards the exit
Barcelona and Ivan Rakitic have both come to terms with his departure from the club, according to Marca.
The Croatia international has been on the verge of leaving the Camp Nou for some time now, but a deal never seemed to materialise. The club now has seven first-team midfielders on the books, leading to a lack of opportunities for Rakitic.
Ernesto Valverde is looking towards the January transfer window as the veteran's proposed exit after five years of service.
Bruce wants James on Tyneside
Steve Bruce has struggled to field a dependable right-back in Newcastle's defence this season, so as the January transfer window approaches, that's one area the club are looking to strengthen.
One name who fits the bill, according to the Sun, is Chelsea's Reece James. The heir apparent to Cesar Azpilicueta has struggled for minutes this season, so the Magpies are hopeful a six-month loan could appeal to both the club and the 19-year-old.
Chelsea, however, are keen to keep the England U20 international in West London.
Tap-ins
- Manchester City are on the verge of bringing Kai Rooney, the son for Manchester United legend Wayne, back to the club's academy, the Express reports. Kai previously moved to City from Manchester United back in 2016, but following his time in the United States with the Bethestar Soccer Club, he's edging closer to completing a return.
- The return of successful loanees like Sergio Reguilon, Martin Odegaard, Achraf Hakimi, Takefusa Kubo and Dani Ceballos will allow Real Madrid to pinch enough pennies to spend a massive €300m on Paris Saint-Germain forward Kylian Mbappe, according to AS.

Story 211
House aviation committee lawmakers have introduced a bill intended to prohibit the US from granting commercial aviation permits to foreign carriers that could potentially undermine labor and competition standards.
The "Fair and Open Skies Act" would require the US Department of Transportation to ensure new permits granted to foreign airlines meet the labor and competition standards set by the US-EU-Norway-Iceland Air Transport Agreement. The full text of the bill is available online.
The main sponsor of the bill, Peter DeFazio, chairman of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, says some foreign carriers seek to sidestep regulations by basing parts of their businesses in different countries – what he calls "flags of convenience" operations. Such competitors, he says, enable a "race to the bottom" in aviation that threaten the ability of US to compete internationally.
"This bipartisan bill protects American jobs from predatory and unfair competition, and it protects the American flying public from deception,” DeFazio says.
Union members stood with DeFazio and other lawmakers on the Capitol building lawn on 10 July to announce the bill. Those included Air Line Pilots Association president Joe DePete, who criticised flag of convenience operations that "threaten to erode the proactive safety culture that we demand and that we have fostered here in the US”.
“These venue-shopping efforts allow the airlines to undermine workers’ pay and benefits", DePete says.
The bill resembles legislation DeFazio introduced in 2016 in response to a permit granted to Norwegian Air International, which he says established itself in Ireland to avoid Norway’s labor protections. The airline also contracted with a Singapore-based firm to provide flight and cabin crews on cheap short-term contracts.
Not everyone in the US aviation community supports the bill. The US Airlines for Open Skies lobbying group says in a statement that the bill addresses "a problem that does not exist".
"This unnecessary bill only invites retaliation by our international Open Skies partners, with the flying public shouldering the greatest consequences", says the lobbying group, which includes Atlas Air Worldwide, FedEx, JetBlue Airways and the Cargo Airline Association.
This bill also escalates pressure on the Trump administration amid conflicting lobbying efforts from different sides of the aviation industry about whether Qatar Airways has violated international agreements through its 49% stake in Air Italy.
Executives of Atlas Air, JetBlue Airways and FedEx have warned US Secretary of Transportation Elaine Chao that retaliation against Qatar and Air Italy could have a “crippling impact on US passenger carriers seeking new service to the EU and halt any ability to bring down ticket prices in the outrageously expensive transatlantic market”.
A rival camp of companies called the Partnership for Open and Fair Skies has said investments by Qatar in Air Italy create an unfair market for employees of US airlines by violating a commitment made in 2018 by the Doha-based carrier not to add new flights to the US market. That partnership includes American Airlines, Delta Air Lines and United Airlines.

Story 212
For people who don’t want to fly over the Nazca Lines, or who want to see them closer up, the Nazca Lines Observation Tower offers an alternative (and cheaper) view of three of the Nazca geoglyphs.
The Nazca Lines Observation Tower (Mirador de Las Lineas de Nazca) sits alongside the Panamericana Sur highway, about 16 miles northwest of Nazca. And while there’s no doubting that a flight over the Nazca Lines offers a far better view of the 19 square miles of geoglyphs, the observation tower does have some benefits.
If you don’t like flying, then the 42-foot-tall metal tower offers a far smoother experience than the light aircraft that bank and roll above the Nazca Lines. It’s just four staircases to the top, with only the desert wind occasionally buffeting the tower.
It’s cheaper, too, compared to the $80 US or more that you’ll spend on a 30-minute Nazca flight. It costs just S/ 2 (about $0.60) to enter the tower, although you’ll spend more than that getting there.
And then there are the views, which are… decent. From ground level, the Nazca Lines are impossible to see, at least in terms of making out any kind of shape (and it’s illegal to walk near them). From the top of the tower, you get an oblique view of two geoglyphs: the Tree and the Hands. They’re not the most interesting of the geoglyphs, but you can at least see them from a relatively close distance, something you can’t do from the plane (unless something goes badly wrong).
A third geoglyph, the Lizard, is also viewable from the tower. It, however, had an unfortunate encounter with the highway. Unlike the many local lizards who get squashed trying to cross the road, in this instance the road ran right over the Lizard. The Panamericana cuts right across its tail, so it doesn’t look great from the tower.
The builders of the Panamericana Sur generally maintain that the Nazca Lines were discovered after the construction of the highway, but that isn’t strictly true. Work began on the Panamericana (Pan-American Highway) in Peru in the 1930s, but the Peruvian archaeologist Toribio Mejía Xesspe had spotted the Nazca Lines in 1927. That said, the true extent of the Nazca Lines was only known after the highway was built, with more geoglyphs still being discovered today.

Story 213
It is tempting for people to make sweeping statements about the weather and climate based on a few isolated observations or experiences. As a meteorologist, I see this all of the time. People make broad commentaries about climate change because it snows or define the entire global climate based on what they observe in their backyard. This week Southeast Texas experienced another extreme weather event as the remnants of Tropical Storm Imelda dumped multiple feet of rainfall on the region. Numerous water rescues and hazards were reported from Beaumont to Houston and surrounding areas. Some residents say it was worse than Hurricane Harvey for them, which affirms that every storm is different, and they should be treated in that manner. However, there is compelling evidence that the rainfall in Texas is changing. Here’s the proof.
HOUSTON, TX - SEPTEMBER 19: A kayaker paddles though the flooded street of Little York on September ... [+] 19, 2019 in Houston, Texas. Gov. Greg Abbott has declared much of Southeast Texas disaster areas after heavy rain and flooding from the remnants of Tropical Depression Imelda dumped more than two feet of water across some areas. (Photo by Thomas B. Shea/Getty Images) Getty Images
Last December, the National Oceanic and Atmosphere Administration (NOAA) quietly released a press release redefining how much rainfall is required to qualify as a 100-year or 1000-year event in Texas. Before I go further, a definition of what a 1000-year event means is required. Many people are confused by the concept. It is common to interpret a 1000-year event as one that happens once every 1000 years. I cannot blame them based on how the concept is identified. In actuality, a 1000-year event has a 1 in 1000 or .1% chance of happening in any year. Hydrologists or civil engineers will say that a 1000-year event has a 1000-year recurrence interval. The graphic below summarizes some of the more common intervals.
Brian Bledsoe is the Director of the Institute for Resilient Infrastructure Systems (IRIS) at the University of Georgia. He wrote in a 2017 Washington Post editorial,
most people are still surprised, if not astonished, to learn that the 100-year flood at a given location has more than a 1 in 4 chance of occurring within the term of a 30-year mortgage. For most of us, this 26 percent chance our home will be flooded before we have a chance to pay it off is troubling if not unacceptable Dr. Brian Bledsoe, Professor of Civil Engineering, University of Georgia
Recurrence intervals USGS website
According to the NOAA press release, things have changed in Texas, and updates were required. It explicitly states:
The study, published as NOAA Atlas 14, Volume 11 Precipitation-Frequency Atlas of the United States, Texas, found increased values in parts of Texas, including larger cities such as Austin and Houston, that will result in changes to the rainfall amounts that define 100-year events, which are those that on average occur every 100 years or have a one percent chance of happening in any given year. In Austin, for example, 100-year rainfall amounts for 24 hours increased as much as three inches up to 13 inches. 100-year estimates around Houston increased from 13 inches to 18 inches and values previously classified as 100-year events are now much more frequent 25-year events. NOAA
These frequency atlases are not academic tools. They have real-world applications. They are used for planning activities at all levels and in infrastructure design. The information associated with these metrics also helps FEMA manage risks and development in floodplains under the auspices of its National Flood Insurance Program.
Updated rainfall values in inches that define certain extreme events, such as the 100-year storm. NOAA
According to NOAA, the updated values will replace values dating back 50 years. The rainstorms of 2019 are very different than rainstorms of 1965. Peer review literature has established that the top 1-2% rainfall events are more intense than 50 years ago. Additionally, studies suggests that stalling tropical storms like Imelda and Harvey may be more common. Much of the stormwater management infrastructure in municipalities is designed for the storms of last century. According to a University of Georgia press release, Bledsoe argues for “investments in hybrid systems of traditional “gray” and natural “green” infrastructure that work together along with nonstructural measures such as insurance reform, zoning, buyout and relocation to improve outcomes across a wide range of future extreme weather scenarios.”

Story 214
A 'SIGHTING' of missing toddler Madeleine McCann sparked a massive manhunt in the Atlas Mountains after a local woman was spotted carrying a small blonde girl, a Netflix documentary claims.
Numerous tourists reported Madeleine sightings in the country shortly after she went missing in Praia da Luz, Portugal, in 2007.
9 A picture released on 25 September 2007 taken by a couple of Spanish tourists in Morocco - sparking suspicions she could be Maddie Credit: EPA
9 McCanns backer Brian Kennedy then made a trip to investigate the tip-off, and took this photo confirming it wasn't her Credit: Getty Images
9 When he arrived he quickly realised the young girl was not Madeleine Credit: AFP
One tourist took a photograph of a woman carrying a blonde child on her back and it was picked up by tycoon millionaire and McCann financial backer Brian Kennedy.
He dashed by private jet to Africa in a bid to find Madeleine.
The entrepreneur, 50, and son Patrick, 32 — who had pledged to help Maddie’s parents find their daughter — flew their £1.5million Cessna from Manchester to Tangier before driving into the Atlas Mountains.
They tracked down the girl, only to find it was not Maddie and then made the heartbreaking call to her parents, Kate and Gerry, to break the bad news.
MOUNTAIN SEARCH
He told of the trip in the Netflix documentary The Disappearance of Madeleine McCann: “There was a sighting of a family up in the Atlas Mountains and this mother carrying on her back a child, a blonde child, that absolutely looked like Madeleine."
Once they'd arrived in Morocco, he said they "jumped in the car and drove right up into the Atlas mountains."
He added: “The thing that shocked me, in the middle of these mountains, in the middle of Morocco, was the amount of blonde-haired kids.”
I took a picture, sent the picture back to Kate, and I said ‘sorry, it’s not Madeleine’ Brian Kennedy
Brian told of the moment they had to tell Kate they had been unsuccessful: “We were sitting looking at this lady carrying this child which was the photograph that this tourist had taken. I took a picture, sent the picture back to Kate, and I said ‘sorry, it’s not Madeleine’”.
Patrick said: “They were shattered. You can’t even imagine how they must have felt.”
Maddie's parents Kate and Gerry refused to take part in the Netflix documentary amidst fears it could "hamper" the search for their daughter.
MADDIE SIGHTINGS
The Spanish tourist who took the photo told the Daily Mail in 2007: "I am totally convinced I saw Madeleine with a Muslim woman crossing the street in Zaio towards the end of May.
"I saw her face clearly from just a few yards and immediately thought 'That's Madeleine!'
"The woman was acting strangely, hiding her face from the traffic, which struck me as odd.
"I screamed at my husband for him to stop the car so we could get to the woman and challenge her.
"But by the time we stopped the car and jumped out, the woman and the girl had disappeared.
"I was in tears, distraught and felt totally powerless."
MILLIONAIRE'S TRIP
Brian and Patrick also spoke about the £30,000 trip on the tenth anniversary of Maddie’s disappearance.
Brian, worth £350million, offered to help the McCanns in the weeks after their girl, then three, vanished.
The tycoon kept his plane scrambled ready to help.
He said: "To see Kate and Gerry suffering so much really touched me."
He and Patrick "dropped everything" after hearing the tourist had photographed the blonde girl being carried on the back of a woman in Morocco in September 2007.
MOST READ IN NEWS FRIGHT NIGHT Britain to freeze in -4C temperatures on Halloween before SNOW sweeps country Exclusive AMAZIN! Students sting Amazon for THOUSANDS after discovering reusable discount code glitch 'BRAVE MAN' Family of man who died on top of chimney reveal he was struggling with 'trauma' IN FOR THE KILL Moment US Special Forces storm ISIS leader Baghdadi's lair in dramatic raid Exclusive HORROR BY BARRACKS Soldier has acid thrown in his face and is slashed with blade near base Exclusive COSTA LOT NHS 'cost cutter' lounges in Spanish mansion while charging taxpayer £2,000 a day
After arriving in Tangier, they hired a guide and found the girl in the mountain village of Zinat.
Patrick said: "We realised very quickly it was not Madeleine. We were shattered because we had got so driven by the lead."
9 Entrepreneur Brian, 50, and son Patrick, 32, tracked down the girl only to find it was not Maddie Credit: News Group Newspapers Ltd
9 Kennedy flew his £1.5million Cessna from Manchester to Tangier before driving into the Atlas Mountains
9 Brian then had to break the news to Maddie's devastated parents Credit: Rex Features
9 Kate and Gerry McCann told of the £30,000 trip on the tenth anniversary of Maddie’s disappearance Credit: Getty Images
9 The tycoon offered to help the McCanns in the week after Maddie vanished Credit: Getty Images
9 Maddie went missing in Praia da Luz, Portugal, in 2007 Credit: PA:Press Association
We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online news team? Email us at tips@the-sun.co.uk or call 0207 782 4368 . You can WhatsApp us on 07810 791 502. We pay for videos too. Click here to upload yours.

