Story 0
During the company's Q4, 2019 financial results conference call, Apple's CEO, Tim Cook, announced a new feature coming to Apple Card in the future: The ability to buy the iPhone and pay it off over 24 months with zero percent (0%) financing.
Users of the Apple Card will also still get the usual 3% cashback for using the card for the purchase. Which — math! – kinda makes it -3% financing? (Don't quote me on that... I'm terrible at fractions!)
Cook also called Apple Card the most successful credit card launch in history. Whether you consider that hyperbole or not, Apple Card has been adding cashback options regularly and seems to be off to a very strong start.
At least in the U.S. Still no word on when or if it might become available in other geographies.
So, if you have an Apple Card, will you go for the new financing? If you don't, is the new financing enough for you to consider it?

Story 1
Source: Cardpay
Cardpay – global fintech provider and fast-growing payment processor serving the needs of eCommerce businesses selling internationally announces its further expansion into 5 new major markets including United States, Mexico, Brazil, China and Singapore.
Kirill Evstratov, Group CEO of Cardpay, said: “This is an important milestone for our company and we are excited about the opportunity to offer our services to customers on 4 continents. We are constantly looking for the ways to serve our customers better and make it even easier for them to accept local payment methods around the world. Adding these large and growing countries allows our customers to market their good and services to almost 2 billion consumers there.”

With global eCommerce market to reach $4 trillion next year more and more merchants are looking for a cost-effective way to accept payments from their customers across multiple geographies. Cardpay’s partnership with Visa, MasterCard and China UnionPay allows processing these payments in a fast, simple and secure way. Its all-in-one payment platform enables merchants to improve conversion rates and increase their revenue as a result.

Kirill added: “No secret that in many cases a high cart abandonment rate is linked to merchants’ inability to provide local payment methods. With our platform this becomes a thing of the past as our customers can accept 300+ payment methods including Alipay and WeChat Pay in China, Boleto in Brazil, Oxxo and PayNet in Mexico. We are streamlining the payment process by bringing our customers the widest range of local payments possible while keeping their cost of accepting international payments down”.

Story 2
Kendallville, IN (46755)
Today
Cloudy with periods of rain. High 44F. NNW winds at 5 to 10 mph, increasing to 10 to 20 mph. Chance of rain 100%. Rainfall around a half an inch..
Tonight
Snow this evening will give way to some clearing late. Low 26F. Winds WNW at 15 to 25 mph. Chance of snow 90%. Snowfall around one inch. Winds could occasionally gust over 40 mph.

Story 3
OK
For optimum operation, this website makes use of cookies. For more information click here

Story 4
After a slow rollout over the past few couple of weeks, Apple Card is now available for any U.S. iPhone user who wants to apply. You can find the application inside the Wallet app, where you'll be able to begin the approval process.
While technically an Apple product, Apple Card is a MasterCard backed by Goldman Sachs. Apple has given it a hefty dose of smarts and iOS integration, however, with an emphasis on privacy and security features, and cash-back rewards delivered daily into your Apple Pay Cash balance. As a launch-day surprise, Apple has announced that Uber and Uber Eats can take advantage of the 3 percent rewards tier that was originally reserved solely for Apple purchases.
To apply for the Apple Card, you must be 18 or older and a U.S. citizen or lawful resident. You must also have an iPhone capable of using Apple Pay as. well as an iCloud account with two-factor authentication enabled to receive Daily Cash rewards.
The wallet.apple.com site has instructions for how to sign up, including a video. You sign up through the Wallet app and are able to use the card for online purchases and Apple Pay within minutes. A physical card for other purchases can then be mailed to you.
Open the Wallet app on your iPhone. Tap the (+) button in the upper-right. Select Apple Card. Fill in your info: name, date of birth, email, and phone number. You’ll be presented with a screen showing your credit limit and interest rate. Tap Accept.
Apple Card features and rewards
The Apple Card will pay you 3 percent back on Apple Store purchases and iTunes downloads, and 2 percent back on all other purchases made using Apple Pay. When you use the physical Apple Card, however, you’ll only get 1 percent back. Apple also announced Tuesday that it will be extending the top-tier 3 percent Daily Cash offer to select third-party merchants and apps, beginning with Uber and Uber Eats. Apple said it will continue to add more merchants and apps in the coming months.
This Daily Cash back goes directly onto your Apple Pay Cash balance, which is accessible inside the Wallet app. From there you can transfer money to a back account if you wish. The Wallet app is also designed to help you keep on top of payments and interest, and to smartly track and categorize your spending.
Apple Apple’s smart spending analyzer will tell you how much interest you’ll owe based on your payment.
Apple proudly proclaims that Apple Card has no fees: no late fees, no annual fees, no foreign transaction fees, no overage fees. Additionally, the physical card is titanium and has no card number, expiration date, or CVV number on it. That information is in the Wallet app if needed, where you can activate. a new card number if you need to.
For more details on all the things we already know about Apple Card, check out our FAQ.

Story 5
Source: UFC
Source: @GamebredFighter on Twitter
Jorge "Gamebred" Masvidal (34-13) has yet to capture an official UFC championship, but he is considered to hold a respected title in the MMA world — BMF. Jorge earned this distinction one fight at a time, and the UFC has an official resume explaining why Masvidal deserves this kind of respect. He has a reputation for a take-no-prisoners approach to making fight matches. This may be his first time headlining a UFC Pay-Per-View, but with thirteen years as a pro fighter he can't be labelled an overnight success. Masvidal has shown a feast or famine approach, with five of his last six victories by knockout but all four of his recent losses coming by Decision. His last fight set a UFC record, as Masvidal scored the fastest knockout in UFC history with a knee to Ben Askren in five seconds flat. Can Jorge score another big knockout in this main event?
Source: @NateDiaz209 on Twitter
Nate Diaz (20-11) created this match with a mic in his hand, and now he has the chance to claim a title singlehanded moved from reputation to reality. After overwhelming Anthony Pettis at UFC 241, Diaz took the opportunity to callout Masvidal, but not in a traditional way. Instead of labeling him as overrated, weak, or for avoiding fights, Diaz gave him a nod as one of the true "gangsters" of the sport who could do a fight the right way. Diaz' win at UFC 241 was his first fight back after three full years away from the sport, which came after splitting two legendary fights with Conor McGregor as Pay-Per-View headliners. With McGregor returning to the UFC as well, the promotion is sure to have an eye on a third match if Diaz is able to take care of business in NYC. His boxing background mixed with Masvidal's kickboxing skills could mean lots of stand-up striking by both fighters. Can Nate's fists backup his mouth again? UFC President Dana White is creating a new belt for that unofficial title and bringing it to this fight. In fact, White also told TMZ Sports that Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson will be at UFC 244 to present the winner with the newly created title. This fight was almost off when Diaz announced he wouldn't be attending due to potential drug violation, but he was later cleared by the USADA so the fight goes on.
How to get UFC 244 Prelims on ESPN2 ESPN networks owns over 10 different channels, but for the UFC 244 Prelims you only need ESPN2. The Prelims Card includes four big fights, and is anchored two huge names in the Light Heavyweight weight class. Corey "Overtime" Anderson will make his bid to crash the top contender ranks as he battles Johnny Walker, who is riding a ten fight winning streak including his win in Dana White's Contender Series. This fight could've headline an event of its own, like a UFC Fight Night, with the 7th and 11th ranked Light Heavyweights going head to head. You can get the UFC 244 Prelims from ESPN2 on five of the largest live TV streaming services. Hulu with Live TV and some of the other services offer a variety of free trials, while Sling TV's Orange Plan offers the lowest regular price. Check out the options, and select the one that is best for you. Then you can use the login and password for these streaming services in the ESPN app to watch the Prelims.. Hulu with Live TV The cost: $45 a month after a one week free trial
$45 a month after a one week free trial UFC 244 Prelims on Hulu - Yes, with ESPN2.
Tap Out Cable Hulu with Live TV Get ESPN2 & the UFC 244 Prelims without cable Hulu has live TV, plenty of sports options, and a huge back catalog of shows. ESPN2 is part of Hulu, which means the UFC 244 Prelims are here. $45 after free trial
Sling TV - Sling Orange The cost: $25 a month after your first month for $15
$25 a month after your first month for $15 Sling TV
UFC 244 Prelims on Sling TV: Yes, with ESPN2.
Big Matches, Small Price Sling Orange Get the Prelims without busting your budget. Sling is the more economical way to get ESPN2. It costs about half the price of other services and still gets you access to the UFC 244 Prelims. $25 at Sling
New Name, Same Deals AT&T TV Now The Plus Plan lets you see the UFC 244 Prelims easily. AT&T TV Now has a long list of channels in their lineup. The Plus Plan has ESPN2 to allow you access to the UFC 244 Prelims. Every plan includes HBO too. $50 a month
Like, Comment, Subscribe YouTube TV OK Google, Watch the UFC 244 Prelims YouTube TV is one of the easiest streaming services to understand, with a single plan, a ton of channels — including ESPN2 for the UFC 244 Prelims. $50 a month
How to watch UFC 244 The ESPN app has everything you need to watch UFC 244. Our advice is to install the app, and log in with your ESPN+ account and your Live TV streaming credentials before the event begins. The ESPN app is available on the major streaming platforms and game consoles including iOS and Android devices, Apple TV, Android TV, Chromecast, Fire TV, Roku, Samsung Smart TVs, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One. UFC 244 Schedule and Fight Card All times shown are Eastern time. Early Prelims: 6:15 p.m. on ESPN+ and ESPN2
Prelims: 8 p.m. on ESPN+
Main Card: 10 p.m. on PPV
Post Show: 1 a.m. on ESPN+ The full event fight card, subject to change as always, is as follows: Main Card — Pay Per View Jorge Masvidal (34-13) vs. Nate Diaz (20-11)
Kelvin Gastelum (16-4) vs. Darren Till (17-2-1)
Stephen Thompson (14-4-1) vs. Vicente Luque (17-6-1)
Derrick Lewis (21-7) vs. Blagoy Ivanov (18-2)
Kevin Lee (17-5) vs. Gregor Gillespie (13-0) Prelims — ESPN2 Corey Anderson (12-4) vs. Johnny Walker (17-3)
Shane Burgos (12-1) vs. Makwan Amirkhani (15-3)
Brad Tavares (17-5) vs. Edmen Shahbazyan (10-0) Early Prelims — ESPN+/ESPN2 Andrei Arlovski (28-18) vs. Jaizinho Rozenstruik (8-0)
Katlyn Chookagian (12-2) vs. Jennifer Maia (17-5-1)
Lyman Good (20-5) vs. Chance Rencountre (14-3)
Julio Arce (16-3) vs. Hakeem Dawodu (10-1-1) You can order UFC 244 Masvidal vs. Diaz today. New ESPN+ subscribers pay $79.99 for this pay-per-view and 1 year of ESPN+. Existing subscribers can pay just $59.99 for just the event, or $79.99 to upgrade from monthly to a 1 year subscription with the event. Either way, you will get an exciting night of top fights including Masvidal vs. Diaz.
UFC 244 Rocks the Octagon ESPN+ UFC Pay-Per-View It's the one that says BMF on the Main Event. ESPN+ has major UFC events on the regular, including this Pay-Per-View event. Multiple fights featuring BMF action are on the main card. You can also get a year of live on ESPN+ if you choose the bundle. From $60 at ESPN
How to watch Masvidal-Diaz with a VPN if you're outside the U.S. Sometimes some of us find ourselves outside of our home country when it big sporting event is taking place. And that's when regional limitations can rear their ugly heads. The good news is there's a way around that, via a virtual private network. Yep, a VPN. The gist is that a VPN tunnels all of your internet traffic through a specific route. One side effect is that it potentially can make your traffic more secure (assuming you trust the VPN provider, or course). Another side effect is that it allows you to route your traffic through specific countries. So, for instance, if you're in Spain but want to watch a fight on a service that's only in America, a VPN may be your best bet. And for that, we recommend checking out:

Story 6
In today’s global economy, commerce truly has no borders. Customers and revenue can come from anywhere, which opens new doors for both established industry players and emerging SMBs. Yet, despite the ongoing innovation spree and fintech disruption with AI and real-time payments, online merchants are setting borders for some clients often without even being aware of it.
By and large, online payment challenges may well be addressed by giving online merchants and B2Bs a variety of card payment options and alternative payment methods (any form of payment other than a credit card) to choose from, which eventually speeds up the purchase process (especially on mobile), and lowers shopping cart abandonment rate. The above is true on both the consumer and business sides, particularly for those merchants who seek to grow their e-commerce business internationally and increase the customer base. Let’s dive in to outline the benefits that diverse payment options bolster for major e-commerce stakeholders in a broader sense.
Getty
Benefits to the Consumer
First off, the checkout process gets way easier, which ultimately reduces the cart abandonment rate. Depending on the merchant’s target market, in the world, there are different social, financial, and convenience factors that contribute to people’s payment preferences.
Mistrust of banking institutions and credit cards. (for example, the infamous “corralito” in Argentina in 2001, which froze all bank accounts for a period), ineligibility for banking products (young adults and low-income consumers in emerging economies) Or just a preference for convenient, mobile payments make alternative payment methods replace cards. In China, in particular, 65% of e-commerce spending in 2017 was with mobile wallets. Mobile digital wallets (or eWallets) like Alipay, WeChat Pay, and PayPal can be preloaded with funds or connected directly to a bank account. They save users from carrying a physical card and manually entering payment information.
Imagine spending hours searching the web for an item from your wishlist only to realize at the checkout that the store only accepts cards while the only option you have is WeChat Pay. How frustrating would that be? What a huge mistake to limit access to the huge Chinese target market! That’s why by offering diverse payment methods, an online store owner ensures that their shoppers have preferred (and often the only available) payment method at hand, and get to choose which one to use.
China is not the only country to opt mostly for alternative payment methods. Brazil is another country where an alternative payment method, Boleto Bancário accounts, for around 40% of the market. This is a payment slip issued through banks with all the relevant information for purchasing a product. Boleto enables both payments through the customer’s bank account and cash payments.
Another major driver for customer satisfaction and loyalty is exceeding expectations. Yet again, having multiple payment choices gives them a chance to choose the preferable way to complete the purchase. When a customer proceeds to the card checkout, they most often imagined a limited amount of payment options, but when they get to see the variety, they will likely be pleasantly surprised. And come back for more.
Benefits to Your Business
No doubt that following through with a purchase is an ultimate goal for any e-commerce seller, and giving choice is a powerful tool one can leverage to achieve it.
Shopping cart abandonment is a real issue facing online business owners. The latest estimates put the cart abandonment rate at over 75%.
Even though there are many reasons for cart abandonment such as unexpected fees, a confusing checkout process, or shoppers not being ready to buy simple inaccessibility of a buyer’s payment methods is something a merchant could fix buy selecting a suitable payment service provider. According to a survey, 8 percent of 1,799 respondents reported that they abandoned a shopping cart during checkout because there were not enough payment options. Obviously, we would get a far more important rate if the survey was conducted in China. And since payment options are a big point of friction for consumers, they could make all the difference between whether they make the final purchase or not.
More so, sticking to offering more options at the checkout will earn you a much larger customer base. Naturally, when running an e-commerce business, you may be targeting your local area, but how about getting customers from all around the world. But just like individuals have their preferred payment methods, different countries have their general preferences in terms of payment options as well. So, the higher number of diverse payment options you offer, the broader consumer base you will appeal to. If you're willing to do business and ship internationally, you can open your business to the entire world simply by adding a variety of payment options to your website’s checkout.
Essentially, it all comes down to on-boarding a secure and fast payment service provider that will help your business to break down cross-border payment barriers. And while the choice is staggering here with new players entering the field every other month, there is actually a few that have proven to deliver on their promise.
Cardpay appears to be one of those leading in the field of end-to-end payment processing and acquiring services. By supporting all the major payment methods, around 300, and robust API, their all-in-one payment platform guarantees compatibility with pretty much any e-commerce platform. Founded ten years ago, the company has emerged to become a reputable player in the payment solutions market with offices in the US, Europe, LatAm, and Asia, with five new locations opened this year only and some more in the pipeline. The best part is that Cardpay actually built an SDK and rest API, which allows quick onboarding to accept payments online. With all your vital information stored in one convenient business-centric dashboard with a bunch of unbeatable features, such as real-time analytics, advanced reporting and dispute management that allows merchants seamlessly do the chargeback mitigating the associated risks, you get a quicker turnaround and better user experience overall.
One more thing before we wind up. The competition over customers in e-commerce is getting fierce than, and sometimes that’s the minor detail that drives the customer choice. That’s why making sure that you are one step ahead in terms of seamless UX is essential, and going for a PSP that has transparent credit card processing fees, reliable customer and developer support, and individual approach does just that.

Story 7
There was a problem loading this page. Please try again in a few minutes.

Story 8
NORWALK, CT — A pair of Norwalk Public Schools employees have sued the district in a pay dispute in which they claim the district "committed wage theft" by altering time cards.
Hope Coles and Sadiya DeIrish filed the class action lawsuit last week in Stamford Superior Court and accused the district of "removing time from all hourly wage employees to circumvent the concession of benefits and avoid the obligation to pay additional wages."
Both Coles and DeIrish have administrative jobs, with Coles earning $34.11 per hour, and DeIrish earning $22.78 per hour. Click here to read the lawsuit on the state Judicial website.
The two claim that over the past couple of year, and maybe longer, the district systematically changed "all of the employees' timecards to reflect their 'schedule' instead of actual hours worked." Coles and DeIrish claim other administrative employees were ordered to log into the district's computer system to make the changes.
The changed time cards rarely went above 37.5 hours worked, with part-time employees' time cards rarely reflecting more than 29 hours.
"Defendants' wage theft scheme effectively cheated Plaintiffs, and all those similarly situated to Plaintiffs, out of countless hours worked for which they were owed wages at their respective hourly rates," the lawsuit says.
Patch reached out to a district spokesperson Brenda Wilcox Williams for comment, but she declined, citing pending litigation.
She referred questions to Deputy Corporation Counsel M. Jeffry Spahr, who told Patch that the two plaintiffs had not submitted a complaint over the issue prior to filing the lawsuit.
"We believe that this is a labor matter that should be handled through the grievance process," Spahr said. "If she believed that the time records were being handled improperly, she should have brought this up. It is unclear why she would wait and then file litigation."
The lawsuit does not say how much the two are seeking in damages on behalf of the class, but it asks for the standard amount of more than $15,000, and estimates that time cards were reduced 10-15 hours per week for many of the employees.
To view the lawsuit, click here.

Story 9
Cookies on the Malayalam Website
Malayalam has updated its Privacy and Cookie policy. We use cookies to ensure that we give you the better experience on our website. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on the Malayalam website. However, you can change your cookie setting at any time by clicking on our Cookie Policy link at any time. You can also see our Privacy Policy

Story 10
Among the TV shows, magazines, and games services unveiled at Apple’s “Show time” event was a surprise entry into a category that couldn’t be further outside Apple’s wheelhouse: a credit card. Dubbed Apple Card, it’s not a traditional plastic credit card that gives you points on things you buy. Rather, it’s a whole new way to shop online and offline. Here’s everything you need to know about it.
Updated 10/30/19: Added the announcement of a special 24-month interest-free installment plan when buying a new iPhone.
What is the Apple Card?
The Apple Card is an Apple-branded credit card from MasterCard. Unlike the current Barclaycard Visa with Apple Rewards, which is a partner card, the Apple Card is owned and operated by Apple.
When will it be available?
Apple Card is now available to all U.S. iPhone users.
How do I apply for the Apple Card?
With your iPhone, of course. Applications go through Apple Pay in the Wallet app, which means you’ll probably be periodically bothered to apply if you don’t already have one.
You must be 18 or older and a U.S. citizen or lawful resident to apply.
The wallet.apple.com site has instructions for how to sign up, including a video.
1. Open the Wallet app on your iPhone.
2. Tap the (+) button in the upper-right.
3. Select Apple Card.
4. Fill in your info: name, date of birth, email, and phone number.
5. You’ll be presented with a screen showing your credit limit and interest rate. Tap Accept.
To apply on your iPad, go to Settings > Wallet & Apple Pay.
Apple Signing up for Apple Card is easy. It just requires an iPhone that can use Apple Pay.
So I have to have an iPhone?
Sort of. Apple wants you to use this with your iPhone, the card information is stored in the Wallet app.
Will my old iPhone work?
Probably. Any iPhone that supports Apple Pay and the Wallet app will work, so unless you have an iPhone 5s, you’re good.
Apple The Apple Card can be used anywhere, but the best benefits are when purchases are made using Apple Pay.
What about the iPad?
You can’t download the Wallet app on the iPad, and it doesn’t have NFC so you can’t use it in stores. You can, however, access your Apple Card details inside the Wallet and Apple Pay tab inside the Settings app, and apply from there as well.
Can I get a physical card or is it virtual only?
Apple is also offering a laser-etched titanium card for those times when Apple Pay isn’t available. In true Apple fashion, the card is minimal and gorgeous, with no numbers, expiration date, or CVV code to muck it up.
What if I need my card number or expiration date?
You’ll find that information in the Wallet app.
What if I lose my Apple Card?
Apple will provide a button in the Wallet app so you can freeze your card and order a new one.
What bank is issuing the card?
Apple has partnered with Goldman Sachs. Of note, this is the bank’s first consumer credit card.
How quickly will I be approved?
Apple says approval takes minutes, so the whole process probably takes about as long as it would when applying for a store card.
Apple You balance and due date are front and center when you launch the Apple Card tab inside the Wallet app.
When can I start using my Apple Card?
Since all of your card information is stored on your phone, you’ll be able to start using your new card as soon as you’re approved.
How do I make purchases?
Just like you would with any other card. When you buy something at a store that accepts Apple Pay you’ll be able to hold your phone near the contactless reader or double-click the home or power button (depending on your iPhone model) to quickly bring up the pay screen, and authenticate using Touch ID or Face ID.
Can I use the Apple Card with my Apple Watch?
Of course. Since it’s a regular credit card, it’ll work the same way as any other card.
Can I schedule payments for things like recurring bills and utilities?
Since you’ll have a standard number, expiration date, and CVV in the Wallet app, you’ll just need to input that information in the payment page for whatever bill you want to add.
Does Apple Card have any special purchase plans or bonuses?
During its fourth quarter 2019 financial earnings call, Apple CEO Tim Cook revealed a special program for new iPhone buyers. Using the Apple Card, you can get a special 24-month installment plan with no interest or fees. And since it’s an Apple puchase, you get 3 percent cash back. However, during the call, Apple did not announce when this plan will be available.
Is there a rewards program?
Yup! The primary reward is a daily cash back program that Apple calls Daily Cash. Rather than a complicated points system, it simply pays you cash back for every purchase you make.
Apple Apple Card rewards are tallied each day and delivered via a cash card.
Because the Apple Card is a MasterCard, it also carries many of the other benefits common to MasterCards. This includes free fraud and identity theft protection, two-day shipping from brick-and-mortar stores through ShopRunner, travel booking services, and more. For a complete list, look at this MasterCard page.
What’s the Daily Cash rewards rate?
The Apple Card will pay you 3 percent back on Apple Store purchases and iTunes downloads, and 2 percent back on all other purchases made using Apple Pay. When you use the physical Apple Card, however, you’ll only get 1 percent back.
Apple is also offering 3 percent back for some third-party businesses, including:
Duane Reade
T-Mobile
Uber
Uber Eats
Walgreens
Is there a limit to how much Daily Cash I can get?
Nope, Apple doesn’t set a ceiling on how much Daily Cash you can earn, but the amount you earn is based on how much you spend, and there is a limit on that.
Can I spend my Daily Cash immediately?
That’s why it’s called Daily Cash. Instead of waiting a month or a year to get a rewards check, anything you’ve earned will be automatically deposited into your Wallet in the form of an Apple Pay Cash card. From there, you’ll be able to transfer it to your bank account, send money to a friend, or just use it to buy something at any store that accepts Apple Pay.
What if I need to return something that I’ve already received a reward for?
If you return a product, Apple will charge your card the amount that was received in Daily Cash in addition to the credit that was. issued.
Where can I see a record my transactions?
Everything that you need to see will be right inside the Wallet app, including payment due date, transaction and payment histories, and spending analyzers. Apple will also color-code spending categories so it’s “easy to spot trends in your spending. ... See a lot of orange? That’s things like lunch and coffee. Green? Must be those tickets to Miami.”
Are there any annual fees?
Nope.
Are there any late fees?
Also nope.
What about foreign transaction fees?
Again, nope. Apple says there are no fees at all for the Apple Card, even if you accidentally go over your spending limit.
Apple Apple’s smart spending analyzer will tell you how much interest you’ll owe based on your payment.
What are the interest rates?
Apple boasted that their interest rates are among the lowest in the industry, but they’re not exactly friendly. On the Apple Card site, Apple says the variable APRs range from 12.99 to 23.99 percent as of August 2, 2019. That’s slightly lower than the originally announced rates of 13.24 to 24.24 percent.
Can I get a cash advances?
You cannot use your Apple Card for cash advances.
When will my bill be due?
Instead of a flexible due date, Apple is making all card payments due on the last day of the month, regardless of when you applied. In simple terms, that means a new statement begins own the 1st of each month and your bill is at least 28 days after the close of each billing cycle, depending on how many days are in the month.
How do I pay my bill if I don’t have access to my iPhone?
Apple has the details on how to pay your Apple Card bill, but it doesn’t say how you can pay if you don’t have access to your iPhone because it’s lost or stolen. According to a BuzzFeed report, you have two options:
Pay by using another iOS device (like an iPad) to access the Wallet app.
Contact Apple Support, where you will be connected to an Apple Card specialist at Goldman Sachs, and you can make a payment over the phone. You will have to provide your full name, date of birth, last four digits of your Social Security number, and the phone number associated with your account.
Apple or Goldman Sachs does not offer a website or mobile app that lets you make payments on an Apple Card account.
What if I miss my payment due date?
Since there aren’t any late fees, it isn’t clear how Apple will be applying interest changes to your bill. Credit cards are required to offer at least 21 days between when your bill arrives and it’s due, but since there will presumably be no paper statements with the Apple Card, we’ll have to wait to see the final terms and conditions.
How do I make a payment?
You’ll make payments inside the Wallet app using a Pay button.
Can I make more than one payment a month?
Yes, in addition to standard monthly payments, Apple will also let you set up “weekly or biweekly payments to match when you get paid.”
How can I see my interest rate and penalties?
Before you submit your payment, Apple will show a smart payment suggestion wheel that lets you know how much interest will accrue based on how much you pay.
Is the Barclaycard Visa with Apple Rewards going away?
For new customers, yes. Apple is ending this particular promotion with Barclaycard, though the company does still promote the financing of Apple products through a regular Barclaycard Financing Visa. And if you already have a Barclaycard Visa with Apple Rewards, you can still earn points and redeem them for Apple rewards.
Will Apple see all of my transactions?
Apple says transaction history and spending summaries are all generated on your iPhone, so Apple won’t be able to see any of your card data.
What about Goldman Sachs?
Since they’re the ones lending you money and securing each transaction, Goldman Sachs will have a record of every purchase and payment you make with your Apple Card.
Will Goldman Sachs sell my data?
Apple says Goldman Sachs has agreed to “never share or sell your data to third parties for marketing or advertising.”
Apple Apple makes it easy to see your transactions and spending inside the Wallet app.
What if I need to contact support?
Apple has baked Apple Card support right into Messages via Business Chat. Instead of calling an automated service, however, you’ll simply send a text and a person will respond 24 hours a day, seven days a week.

Story 11
Katie Brockman
The Motley Fool
Nearly everyone carries some form of debt, whether it's a mortgage, student loan, car loan or credit card debt.
However, not everyone fully understands how their debt affects their finances – or whether they're in debt at all. A survey from U.S. News & World Report found that one in five U.S. consumers isn't even sure whether they carry debt or not, and of those who do have credit card debt, 30% don't know what they're paying in interest.
The survey also found that nearly a quarter of those with credit card debt carry a balance of more than $10,000. With a balance that high, you could rack up thousands of dollars in interest charges – especially if you're only making the minimum payment each month.
Drowning in debt:What to do if you can't afford your monthly bills
If you're drowning in debt and are struggling to pay it down, you may think you have no choice but to slowly chip away at it for years, accumulating loads of interest along the way. However, there is a simple and easy tool that can reduce your interest rate and quickly pay off your debt: the balance transfer card.
What is a balance transfer card?
Nearly half (48%) of consumers with credit card debt have never used a balance transfer card, according to U.S. News & World Report. So if the term is unfamiliar, you're not alone.
With a balance transfer card, you're simply transferring your existing credit card balance to a new card. As incentive to transfer, the new card will offer an introductory period (typically 12 to 21 months) where you're charged an interest rate as low as 0% APR. So if you move your balance to a new card offering 0% APR, all your payments during the introductory period will go directly to your outstanding balance – not interest charges. As a result, you can eliminate (or at least significantly lower) your credit card debt within a year or two and end the debt cycle once and for all.
Balance transfer cards are a powerful tool to have in your toolbox when chipping away at debt, but it is important to fully understand how they work so you're not hit with unexpected fees or other surprises.
Debt crisis:Americans are in heavy credit card debt
Most balance transfer cards will require some type of fee to move your money to the new card, which is typically between 3% and 5% of the amount you transfer. So if you're transferring $10,000 to your new card and you're charged a transfer fee of 5%, that's a $500 fee right off the bat. Before you sign up for a new card, be sure to read the fine print to avoid getting hit by a surprise charge.
A few other factors to consider include the length of the introductory period, the "go-to" rate, and how those figures compare to the amount of debt you're trying to pay off. After the introductory period is over, the go-to rate is the new interest rate you'll be paying. If you don't think you'll be able to pay off your entire balance within the introductory period, you'll want a card with a relatively low go-to rate. If your new rate is the same or even higher than the rate you were paying on your old card, you'll simply be stuck paying hefty interest charges again if you haven't paid off your entire balance.
Conquering credit card debt once and for all
If you've found a new card with terms you like, the next step once you've made your transfer is to work as hard as you can to pay off the entire balance before the introductory period ends. Otherwise you'll be back to paying a high interest rate, and it will be harder to pay off your debt completely.
Some people with a lot of credit card debt will simply surf between balance transfer cards, signing up for a new card as soon as the introductory period on their current card ends. In theory, that sounds like a smart idea. If you continue to move your balance to new cards with 0% APR introductory offers, you can take your time paying off debt while still avoiding interest payments.
There are a couple potential problems with this approach, however. First, if you have to pay balance transfer fees, even if you're not paying interest, you could still end up paying hundreds or thousands of dollars in fees over time. And second, opening multiple credit cards in a relatively short period of time won't do your credit score any favors. If you're signing up for a new card every year, your credit score will take a beating. And if your score dips too low, credit card companies may be unwilling to let you open a new account.
'I had to escape this prison':A college grad flees U.S. to avoid student loan debt
In addition, it's not ideal to procrastinate when paying off debt because you never know when unforeseen circumstances will arise. For instance, you may be surfing between balance transfer cards and land on one with a 22% go-to rate. That's no problem, you think, as you'll simply open a new card once your introductory period ends. But after opening so many cards, your credit score has dropped enough that you don't qualify for any other offers — so you're stuck with your current card and its sky-high rate. Then on top of that, if you're hit with a sudden financial emergency like an illness or accident and can't afford to pay for it, you may have to add those costs to your credit card balance. Now you're not only stuck with a high-interest credit card, but your balance is higher than ever, too. In this type of situation, prolonging paying off your debt in the first place can just lead to more problems.
Debt can be a tricky topic, and there are plenty of sketchy offers out there that promise to help you get out of debt free and solve all your problems. A balance transfer card really can help solve some of your financial problems and eliminate debt once and for all – but only if you use it effectively.
The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The Motley Fool is a USA TODAY content partner offering financial news, analysis and commentary designed to help people take control of their financial lives. Its content is produced independently of USA TODAY.

Story 12
A bill looking to require taxi drivers in the U.S. Virgin Islands to accept a form of electronic payment was on the agenda during a Tuesday Senate session, but was eventually held in the Committee of the Whole (a rarely used option), for what Senator Marvin Blyden said would be further consideration.
Initially, Mr. Blyden, who made the motion to remove the bill from the agenda, moved to have the measure sent back to the Committee on Rules and Judiciary. However, Senator Kurt Vialet, the bill’s sponsor, amended the motion to have the measure remain in the Committee of the Whole until the next session. Senate President Novelle Francis had to seek the Senate’s legal counsel opinion on the matter to determine whether such an amended was allowed. Legal counsel said the Senate had no clear rules relative to Mr. Vialet’s amendment, and that it would be prudent to either send it back to Rules and Judiciary or keep it within the Committee of the Whole in the care of the Senate president.
There was no reason given as to why the measure was held, and there appeared to be no debate on the bill yesterday.
What is known is the staunch opposition the measure has received from the powerful Taxicab Commission in St. Thomas, whose voting bloc is believed to be so large that going against the commission’s interests could spell detriment for a politician.
The measure has also received mixed reactions from Virgin Islanders, with some stating electronic payment should be an option that taxi drivers choose — not forced — to utilize.
“Here is the thing, I don’t think this should be a law. I think business owners need to get with the program and use common sense. I think random business audits should take place more often. This should be an option, not a law. If they don’t get with the program, their competition will simply run them out of business. I mean really, its 2019, why don’t you accept VISA?” wrote Iffat Attiah on The Consortium’s Facebook platform.
Others were more supportive. “This needs to be the norm. For me the cash-only can be a bit much especially when you have to go to the ATM for cash and those fees. They need to get the Cash App or use PayPal which shows up immediately. This will also address that accountability piece and also provide data on how the economy is doing because income is tracked,” wrote Rachel Lewis.
In previous hearings, Mr. Vialet explained his position and the reason for the measure. In May, he said it was time for the territory to adapt to 21st Century norms to make life easier for travelers to the territory, especially with tourism being the USVI’s main product. And he said allowing the taxi drivers to self-implement the credit card option had failed. One service from MasterCard, a leader in electronic payments, that gives taxi drivers in the USVI the option to accept credit cards, has been unsuccessful. It was revealed that out of the 3,000 taxi drivers in the territory, only 3 had utilized the payment system.
“And that is my point,” Mr. Vailet pounced. “We have waited for the industry to do what is right, we have waited for the industry to offer flexibility for individuals visiting these islands and it has been met, time after time, with resounding failure.”
He added, “MasterCard has been here offering all of the services for free, and [MasterCard] is an international platform, and we rejected that. So the issue I want to know was why is there such a resistance? Why is there such a resistance to be able to utilize services that would allow you to expand what you’re able to offer that would add to our visitors’ comfort level?”
To stress his point that the technology was awash in the territory, Mr. Vialet said even Carnival Village in St. Thomas and Festival Village on St. Croix had vendors offering electronic payment options using apps on cellphones.
He said the bill offers flexibility to the Taxi Cab Commission, including a minimum payment threshold, which the senator suggested should be $10. “This is not for the dollar safaris. This is not for the pay bus as we call it on St. Croix. The commission has the ability to establish conditions and requirements for the payment system’s use. So one of those conditions that the commission would set would be that safaris and pay bus operators are exempt from that. You’re not going to use a credit card for a two-dollar ride,” Mr. Vialet said.
And the excuse used as one of the main reasons against the implementation of electronic payment options in the USVI, which is that taxi drivers are unable to operate such systems, was no longer valid, Mr. Vialet contended. “We cannot continue to push it back and use the same excuse over and over that we’re not ready, or our taxi drivers lack the necessary skills to do it, because they don’t. They all have smart phones using for all types of stuff,” the senator said.
The idea behind the measure, Mr. Vialet explained, is to ascertain that the visitor experience to the USVI is without hindrance to the tourist, especially in St. Thomas whose reliance on the industry goes along with its survival. “St. Thomas is driven by tourism, we cannot be afraid to change the product that we’re offering,” he said. “We’re offering the same old product that worked in the 70s and 80s, and then we’re complaining about why we’re not able to move to a next level. We cannot move to a next level because we refuse to diversify the product that we’re offering.”
Mr. Vialet said the territory’s airports and docks should mandate in contracts that taxis must accept electronic payment options. Hotels, too, he said: “You can’t have a guest ready to go on an excursion and because of [the lack of payment options] they’re turning back and going to their room, or they’re just utilizing the beach. Transportation allows individuals to spend money.”

Story 13
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. This includes cookies from third party social media websites and ad networks. Such third party cookies may track your use on Goodreturns sites for better rendering. Our partners use cookies to ensure we show you advertising that is relevant to you. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on Goodreturns website. However, you can change your cookie settings at any time. Learn more

Story 14
BJP
Sadhvi Pragya
Bhopal
Congress
Digvijaya Singh
मैं साध्वी प्रज्ञा जी का भोपाल में स्वागत करता हूँ। आशा करता हूँ कि इस रमणीय शहर का शांत, शिक्षित और सभ्य वातावरण आ… https://t.co/yrCTRdUwH2 — digvijaya singh (@digvijaya_28) 1555503776000
Theleadership on Wednesday announcedSingh Thakur, who is facing trial in the Malegaon blast case, as its candidate for theLok Sabha seat. Party sources said the BJP had to settle for an outsider -Sadhvi Pragya - as no one from the state was willing to take on seniorleaderThakur’s candidature was cleared after at least 2 former CMs including Uma Bharati and Shivraj Singh Chauhan refused to take on Digvijaya Singh in the Madhya Pradesh capital. The sadhvi herself had joined the party hours before her name was announced.The sadhvi,who is out on bail in the Malegaon case blast case, had stringent MCOCA cases dropped against her by the NIA. With her in the fray, the BJP hopes to play the Hindu terror card against the Congress leader at least in Madhya Pradesh where it lost power to the Congress in December 2018.Sources close to Digvijaya Singh said the entry of the sadhvi in saffron was not a cause for worry for the 2-term MP Chief Minister . In fact, Digvijaya even tweeted a welcome message for the BJP candidate. "We had hoped some BJP heavy weight would enter the fray. Since we had begun our campaign work about a month ago, we have covered a lot of ground. As for the BJP candidate, let her begin her campaign then I guess we will be able to deal with all the issues she raises," Digvijaya’s brother Lakshman Singh told Mirror. The Congress side was aware and sympathetic to the fact that the BJP candidate is a cancer survivor .Congress sources asserted that Digvijaya would sail through in Bhopal and BJP’s attempt to play any divisive card or debate would not yield any result. “ People are tired of divisive politics," said state Congress leader Ramniwas Rawat. At the same time, party leaders accepted that the BJP would do well in Indore – a seat held by Lok Sabha Speaker Sumitra Mahajan. While Digivijaya’s camp was confident of adequate support from the local people of Bhopal, it was alert to the fact that some elements from Delhi could try to sabotage his election.Significantly, the BJP did not yield to the request of former CM Shivraj Chouhan for a ticket for his wife from Vidisha. Foreign Minister Sushma Swaraj used to represent Vidisha in Parliament. Earlier this year, Swaraj had said she would not be contesting the Lok Sabha elections. In Guna , where there is a sizeable Yadav population, the BJP has given a Yadav candidate, K P Yadav who faces senior Congress leader Jyotiraditya Scindia.

Story 15
Write CSS OR LESS and hit save. CTRL + SPACE for auto-complete.

Story 16
Paying your taxes with a credit card is possible, but it requires some extra steps, several fees and shouldn't be done just to reap credit card rewards.
Using a credit card to pay your taxes is a potential last resort if you really can't afford your tax bill with the cash you have on hand. But before you decide to pay using plastic, know these fee implications.
Can you pay your taxes on a credit card?
The short answer is that you can pay most types of taxes on a credit card. However, you will need to use a payment processor and pay a fee to the processor. The IRS lists your options for payment processors, which include:
PayUSAtax.com: This processor charges a fee equal to 1.96% of the taxes you pay, with a minimum fee of $2.69. You can pay personal or business taxes online or call 844-729-8298 to make a payment.
Pay1040.com: This processor charges a fee of 1.87% of the amount paid, with a minimum of $2.59. Again, you can pay personal or business taxes and do so online or at 888-729-1040.
OfficialPayments.com/fed: You'll pay a fee of 1.99%, with a minimum of $2.50, if you use this service to make business or personal tax payments. The number is 888-872-9829.
You can also use an integrated e-file and pay service, which means that the service both files your return and allows you to pay taxes via credit card. The IRS lists two options for this service:
fileonline.1040.com: This service charges a 2.35% fee, with a minimum of $3.95. The phone number is 888-877-0450.
FileYourTaxes.com: You'll pay a fee of 3.93%, with a minimum convenience fee of $2, if you use this service to file and pay your taxes. You can get help by phone at 805-644-9398.
Whether you choose an integrated service or use a payment processor, there are limits to the number of times you can pay by credit card. For example, if you're making estimated tax payments using Form 1040-ES, you can make up to two credit card payments per quarter. But if you're paying your current or prior-year tax from your 1040 form, you're limited to two credit card payments per year, unless you're on an installment plan.
Most states also allow you to pay taxes on a credit card, although each state has its own rules on what credit card processors it works with or whether it accepts credit card payments at all.
Should you pay your taxes by credit card?
Although you can pay your taxes on a credit card, you'll need to decide if it actually makes sense.
If you were hoping to pay taxes on your card to earn rewards, it probably doesn't make sense once you factor in the fees you'll pay. Unless the rewards are more than the convenience fee, you'd actually lose money. And even if you earn 2% rewards or cash back and pay a 1.87% fee, it's usually not worth the hassle to net such a small amount of points or cash back. If you do put your taxes on your credit card, pay off the card in full when it comes due to avoid paying interest.
If you're considering paying on a credit card to avoid IRS late fees and penalties, be sure to do the math to confirm that it's actually cheaper.
Generally, interest on unpaid taxes starts accruing from the date the tax was due, and the interest rate equals the federal short-term rate plus 3 percentage points. If you're paying 17% interest on a credit card, chances are good that you'd pay more interest to your credit card company than you would to the IRS, even with penalties and interest factored in.
The IRS offers payment plans, including a short-term plan you can set up online with no setup fee, which allows you to pay your taxes in 120 days or less -- as well as longer-term installment plans with small setup fees that can be waived for low-income taxpayers. Signing up for one of these plans helps you avoid any risk of the IRS taking collection activities against you for late payments, without paying the interest that comes with putting your taxes on credit.
If you manage to get a credit card with a 0% promotional rate, you can charge your taxes with no interest and buy time to pay what you owe -- and the credit card fees to facilitate this could be cheaper than the IRS interest. In this rare case, it may make financial sense to charge your taxes. But pay off the balance before the promotional rate expires, because otherwise interest rates go way up.
Understanding your options for paying taxes by credit card
Now you know how to pay taxes on a credit card, and can decide if it's the best course of action. If so, you can use any of the IRS recommended payment processors to facilitate your payment. Just make sure to file taxes on time and pay as soon as possible in order to minimize the interest and fees.

Story 17
Contactless card payments are booming, and the technology is about to receive a double boost. Next week the card limit will rise from £20 to £30. Meanwhile, one of Britain’s biggest retailers, Sainsbury’s, is finally about to embrace the “wave and pay” revolution.
However, there are still millions of people who are locked out of contactless. Several banks and building societies are still sending out cards that can’t be used in that way. For example, while HSBC’s debit cards are contactless, for some undisclosed reason the banking giant has decided not to give its credit card holders access. Similarly, Nationwide’s credit cards don’t allow contactless payments.
Mass take-up of the technology was slow to start with, but usage exploded last year: MasterCard this week revealed that spending by British consumers on contactless cards has rocketed by 560% in the past 12 months. As an example, MasterCard has been working with the venues hosting Rugby World Cup matches – next month and in October – to ensure they can take contactless payments. Twickenham has connected more than 450 terminals, including all its shops, bars and concession stands.
More retailers are set to sign up to the technology as a result of the limit being upped to £30 from Tuesday 1 September. However, the change is not going to happen everywhere overnight. All terminals will need a software update, though most outlets will probably be ready by 31 October.
Contactless card payment limit set to rise Read more
The new payment limit is psychologically important because the average debit and credit card transaction in a supermarket is worth just over £25. It is the supermarkets that arguably hold the key to contactless really challenging cash and chip-and-pin, but in the past, the low limits meant they were less interested than other retailers such as coffee chains and fast food outlets.
So it is surely no coincidence that Sainsbury’s has just confirmed it will launch contactless payments in its stores “before the end of the year” and expects the roll-out to be complete during the first half of 2016.
Tesco already has contactless in its London stores – around 500 outlets – but it won’t be drawn on whether and when it plans to roll out contactless across the rest of the UK.
It’s not all been smooth sailing for the technology. Last month researchers at consumer organisation Which? claimed users could be unwittingly opening up their bank account to fraudsters. They bought cheap, widely available card scanners that allowed them to read crucial card data that was meant to be hidden – enabling them to go on an online shopping spree. Industry body the UK Cards Association dismissed the findings, saying Which?’s report was “not a new story”.

Story 18
Apple Card has generated a huge amount of interest. Here is everything we know so far about the card, updated to the present and with links to additional resources.
Introducing Apple Card
“Apple Card is designed to help customers lead a healthier financial life, which starts with a better understanding of their spending so they can make smarter choices with their money, transparency to help them understand how much it will cost if they want to pay over time and ways to help them pay down their balance,” said Jennifer Bailey, Apple’s vice president of Apple Pay, announcing the service.
So, what do we know?
Late breaking news on Apple Card
We were already aware the card would link up with a clear app, offer up to 3% cashback on Apple purchases, and more.
Since then we’ve learned there will also be an iPad app, and it will be possible to raise financing for some products (particularly Apple products).
Reuters confirms that financing payments won’t attract interest so long as customers remain on schedule – so you might get 3 percent cash back on your next Mac and pay zero percent interest on the purchase over 24-months, for example.
Now 3% Daily Cash on Uber and Uber Eats
As Apple Card became more widely available on Tuesday August 20, Apple announced that it will offer 3% Daily Cash on purchased made using the card from Uber and Uber Eats.
It also promised additional merchants and apps would be added to the list in future.
This shows how easily and quickly the company can improve and enhance its Apple Card product. (Updated 8/20/19).
You need an iPhone, iPad
Apple Card is built to work with your Wallet and you need to own an iPhone to set it up. Each card is uniquely connected to your device. An Apple Card account app will be available for iPads.
You need an Apple ID
You must have an Apple ID/iCloud account and must have two-factor authentication enabled on that account.
How long does it take to sign up?
You can join the service in a few minutes and begin using it almost immediately.
How do I apply for Apple Card?
If you are 18 or over and a U.S. resident you can apply for the card from within the Wallet app, just follow these steps to signup for Apple Card:
Open Wallet app
Tap the plus button (top right).
Choose Apple Card, then tap Continue.
You'll be asked for your personal details, once you enter these tap Next.
You will be given your terms for use of the card.
NB: The process requires a hard search of your credit history.
Apple Card shipped August 20
Apple CEO Tim Cook confirmed Apple Card would ship in August in the U.S. It was eventually made widely available on August 20 2019.
When will Apple Card be available outside the U.S.?
We don’t know. We understand Apple is discussing it.
How do I activate the card?
Tap the physical card with your iPhone when your receive it to activate it.
Where are the card numbers?
You’ll find no long number on Apple Card – to get that number you must look at it inside the Wallet app. Even then you will only see the last 4-digits of the actual card number.
How do I use a card without a number?
Apple provides you with a virtual card number and CVV code inside the app. You can keep this number as long as you like and use it to pay for items online or over the phone.
Apple Apple makes it easy to see your transactions and spending inside the Wallet app.
Apple Card is not contactless
You can use Apple Pay and your iPhone to make contactless payments, but you cannot use the physical Apple Card to do so.
Must I use a signature?
A signature is not required to use Apple Card.
You must use Touch or Face ID
You are expected to use Touch or Face ID to authorise payment. When you do a pop-up will appear depicting the card and you press the activation button.
What happens if I lose my physical card?
You can get a free replacement. You can also freeze the card using the app on your iPhone.
What about Apple Pay on Safari?
When you set-up your card Safari will automatically receive the virtual payment authorisation number (PAN). Next time you want to purchase something online it will be available to you.
Apple You'll be able to get a clear overview of your spending right inside the Wallet app on your iPhone.
How does the card know who it is?
When you set-up your Apple Card a unique device number is created on your iPhone. This is kept safely in the Secure Element, which can only be unlocked by you.
The unique security and privacy architecture created for Apple Card means Apple doesn’t know where a customer shopped, what they bought or how much they paid.
Can I create a new number?
You can generate a new primary Apple Card number if you wish, such as when you fear your payment details are compromised.
Does Apple Card support multi-person accounts?
You can’t have more than one person associated with an Apple Card, unlike some systems that let couples share a card.
What is the physical card made of?
The physical card you receive is made of titanium. It bears your name which is laser etched onto the card. You can replace it for free.
Will Apple Card work with Android?
No.
Apple The Apple Card can be used anywhere, but the best benefits are when purchases are made using Apple Pay.
How do you pay for things?
When you authorize Apple Card the Wallet app will provide a one-time security code which you’ll use on the credit card scanner.
What does this mean?
That Apple Card creates its own single-use security code makes it really, really hard for people to use the card without your permission – not least because the CVV code (the three numbers on the back of most cards) is also dynamic. In order to use your card, attackers will need to steal your phone and your face of fingerprint.
What are the fees?
There are no annual fees, no transaction or penalty fees and no other fees, the company said.
There is no foreign exchange rate fee when making transactions in currencies other than dollars (though conversion is performed by Mastercard International, and I’m uncertain how their conversion rate tracks standard foreign exchange rates.
What is the interest?
The APR is 13.24% to 24.24% based on creditworthiness, which seems a little high at the top end – however, the lack of fees may compensate for this. You may accumulate additional interest if you fail to meet a payment.
How does Apple decide what APR I pay?
Apple will use normal credit checks to assess what interest you should pay. Those with better credit will pay less, however, it will always place people at the lower end of the tier their credit score places them in, which means you’ll pay a little less.
Can I use Apple Card for financing?
In early August reports claimed it will be possible to use Apple Card to finance certain product purchases. Under these deals you won't be charged interest so long as you maintain your agreed payments.
Foreign exchange rates are controlled by Mastercard
You don’t pay any fees though.
How do I repay the card?
You can use Apple Cash to pay your balance. You can also pay directly from your bank account.
Macworld
What are the reward rates?
You get 3% on purchases from Apple, 2% when you use Apple Pay and 1% cashback when you use your physical card.
Which Apple purchases are eligible?
The cashback accrues to almost any good or service purchased from Apple, including retail and online store purchases, iTunes, Apple Music and “other Apple-owned properties”.
It's important to note that you don't get the 3% cash on purchases made via third-party retailers, including Apple Authorized Resellers.
Update: Apple announced Uber and Uber Eats would also deliver the 3% cash back in August, and promised additional merchants and apps would be supported on this tier in future.
How are rewards paid?
You can have cash awards paid into your Apple Cash account, or applied as a credit on your balance.
How often are rewards paid?
Apple pays cash back daily. It calls this “Daily Cash”.
What if I return a product?
If you return a product purchased using Apple Card you'll be charged back the value of the Apple Pay Cash reward you received.
What about financial management?
The Apple Card app in Wallet will record spending, categorizing purchases to make it easier for you to find that you spend most of your spending money in restaurants and bars. The app also lets you review interest rates, spending and cash back.
What about personal information?
Apple made the point that personal data won’t be sold if you use Apple Card. Goldman Sachs has promised not to sell what data it collects for marketing purposes, though it may use some information for internal or regulatory reporting (which is normal). Data will not be shared with others, or used for internal or external marketing.
What do I do if I need help?
If you have a problem with your Apple Card account you can get immediate assistance – just contact customer support in Messages.
What does the app look like?
The highly visual Apple Card app lives inside Wallet on your iPhone. Open it and you will see an image of your card, your balance, account activity, see when your next payment is due and will be able to review your recent transactions.
You can pay money into your account to reduce your balance, tap items for further information and tap Activity to get insights into what you have been doing.
How does the payments view work?
One useful view lets you see how much you owe the card and review all available payments through a rotating view. This is designed to show you how to reduce your interest payments (ie. By paying the balance off in full), but also lets you see what difference an extra or large payment will make – and lets you pay that.
What if I lose my iPhone?
There is a bit of a problem if you lose your iPhone, it breaks and you can’t replace it, or in other situations in which you can’t access the device you used to create the account, which Goldman Sachs calls the “Required Device”.
“Without a Required Device, you will only be able to manage your Account by contacting us by phone or mail, and your Monthly Statement will only be sent to you by email or mail. If you do not maintain a Required Device, we may close your account,” the T&C’s warn.
Presumably there’s some system by which you can define a replacement device as your ‘Required Device”, but I haven't seen it yet.
Will people use Apple Card?
It looks like Apple’s reward scheme is just enough to get people using Apple Card – more importantly, it will very likely accelerate use of Apple Pay.
Will Apple’s plan work?
It looks like there’s plenty of interest in Apple Card – 85% of existing users are at least ‘Somewhat Interested” in using the service, a poll claims. Not only this, but 42% of existing iPhone users say they are “extremely interested” in using the service. Just 15% of iPhone users claim to have no interest in Apple Card.
Where can I see the terms and conditions?
Goldman Sachs Friday published the terms and conditions that will relate to the card, these included a ban on cryptocurrency purchases and jailbreaking, both of which may invalidate the account.
When can I get an Apple Card?
Apple’s new service will be available this summer, including in Apple Stores.
Must or miss?
Judging from the level of interest I’ve experienced in the card this week, Apple Card is going to push use of Apple Pay and iPhone customer retention over the edge. It also sets the new standard consumers should expect from any credit card. I think Apple will grab a big chunk of users for this service.
Has the service been tested?
Apple and Goldman Sachs employees have been trialling Apple Card this summer. Goldman Sachs Head of Digital Finance, Harit Talwar, who is testing Apple Card, recently said:
“I love using the card It is top of my wallet both physical and digital wallets… I must tell you, the moment I take out the physical card everybody says ‘Wow’…”
What can’t I buy?
You can’t use Apple Card to pay for criminal transactions, nor are you permitted to purchase cryptocurrency using the card. You’re also not permitted to jailbreak your Apple Card device.
Where can I find more information?
Apple has published some resources to help you get to know Apple Card:
Please follow me on Twitter, or join me in the AppleHolic’s bar & grill and Apple Discussions groups on MeWe.

Story 19
MANILA, Philippines — Convenience is one of the most appealing parts of online transactions. You have a wide array of choices before you, you can browse to your heart’s content until you find something that matches your preferences, and you can complete the transaction with just a couple of clicks.
That is, until you realize that the website only accepts credit card payments.
This is a huge factor that makes a lot of Filipinos hesitant to try booking their hotel rooms online. Lack of payment options, meanwhile, leaves them frustrated.
Usually, users end up either borrowing someone’s credit card and then paying them back in cash — or they simply head over to a travel agent’s office and book with them instead. There are also some people who, despite having credit cards, prefer to pay in cash. Then there are those who pay through banking apps because they feel that these methods are more secure.
Thankfully, with Traveloka you can pay for your flight and hotel bookings through BPI or BDO online transfer.
Once you’ve made a booking, all you have to do is select “Bank Transfer” when asked to choose a payment method. Choose between BPI or BDO transfer and from there, you will receive further instructions on how to complete your payment.
A couple of reminders though, do note that BDO transactions are limited to P10,000 per transfer. Also, when booking through the Traveloka App, just copy and paste the account details to the respective banking app.
Make sure to take note of the time you have to complete the payment, as well. Once the transfer is confirmed, simply toggle back to the Traveloka App and click the “I have completed the payment” button. You can also upload a photo of the confirmed transfer to help Traveloka verify the payment faster. Then, all you have to do is wait for your voucher to arrive.
Should you encounter any difficulties with your booking, Traveloka has made it convenient to reach out to their 24/7 local customer support team. You can contact them via phone call, Facebook message, email, or the live chat feature on the Traveloka website.
To further provide you with #CrazyEasyTravels, Traveloka also has a host of features that help you track the prices of both flights and hotel rooms, and that give you a real-time notifications when either one falls within your budget.
Just visit the website today and discover how Traveloka can transform your experience from complicated trips to #CrazyEasyTravels.

Story 20
Welcome to Consumer Reports.
We’re so glad to have you as a member. You now have access to benefits that can help you choose right, be safe and stay informed.

Story 21
End of the credit card? With one swipe of an iPhone you'll be able to pay for your shopping
It is being promoted as the beginning of the end for high street shopping with a plastic card.

Technology that will allow people to make purchases by swiping their mobile phone across a till scanner is to be rolled out from this summer.

Consumers will be able to buy a cinema ticket, a sandwich or cup of coffee without the need for a card or cash.
Payment by iPhone: Technology that will allow people to pruchase goods by swiping their mobile phone across a till scanner is to be introduced
Barclaycard and the UK's biggest mobile phone network, Everything Everywhere, which includes Orange and T-mobile, have signed a partnership to bring the system to 40,000 tills.
The two claim it will be the the biggest revolution in payments since credit cards were introduced in this country more than 40 years ago.
Chief development officer for Everything Everywhere, Gerry McQuade, said: 'This is the beginning of a revolution in how we pay for things.
'It’s a cultural shift that is as important as the launch of the personal credit card or cash machines.'
He added: 'We’re making something that’s been talked about for many years a reality and, very soon, using your mobile to buy a sandwich, a cinema ticket or, in time, even something bigger like a computer will simply be the norm.'

Initially, there will be a cap of £15 per transaction, however the banking industry expects this to rise, allowing virtually any purchase to be authorised with a swipe of a handset.
It represents a landmark move in the development of the mobile phone into a must-have tool of modern life.
The handsets has already moved way beyond simple calls and texts with the addition of music, videos, email and internet access. In future, it will become a virtual wallet.
The bank and mobile phone networks are in talks with handset manufacturers, including Apple, Blackberry and Nokia, on including the technology in their devices.
The system works by installing a tiny chip and antenna in the phone, which ties the handset to the owner and their credit card or bank account.
The antennae sends a radio signal to a till scanner which recognises the handset, authorises the payment and then deducts the money from the owner's account.
The till scanners capable of communicating with the handsets are already being used by thousands of retailers to handle payments through swipe cards available from Barclays and others.
Thing of the past: Supermarket shoppers pay soon be able to pay good without the need for cash or a debit card
For example, coffee shop chains like Pret a Manger and EAT, have the terminals installed. The Oyster card system used on the London Tube and bus network uses similar technology.
However, many consumers may be suspicious of the claimed technological advance. Any system that encourages people to use their credit card more often, even for small value purchases, could generate huge interest charges.
There will be also be suspicions about the security of the technology, given the recent history of bank innovations.
The introduction of four digit PIN numbers and microchips in cards in 2006 was supposed to effectively kill card fraud. However criminals simply found new ways to create clone cards and raid the accounts of victims.
The creation of mobile payments would suggest a possible security issue if a customer's phone was lost or stolen but Orange have insisted the system is secure.
A spokesperson said customers would be able to use a single contact number to cancel their phone and 'mobile wallet', meaning no transactions could be carried out.
Swipe technology: Similar chip technology to that used in Oyster cards could be introduced to mobile phones
Customers also have the option of adding a PIN code and Orange insisted mobile payments would be subject to the same fraud guarantees as transactions nationwide.
Mr McQuade said: 'Orange and Barclaycard customers will be the first to be able to use their mobiles to make payments on the high street wherever contactless payments are accepted.
'This is part of our wider strategy to re-define what people use their mobiles for, with mobile payments being the start.'
Chief executive of Barclaycard Consumer Europe, David Chan, insisted the new regime is secure.
He predicted 'explosive growth' in payments via mobile phone.
'I believe that future generations will find it surprising that early this century we were stil carrying separate items to buy goods and to communicate with each other,' he said.

Story 22
If you'd prefer not to use a credit or debit card online, you can still order things from Amazon.
The online retailer today introduced Amazon Cash, which provides shoppers with a special barcode redeemable at participating stores like CVS. Show it to the cashier, and add as much cash as you like to your Amazon Balance; that's it.
"It's simple, quick, and there are no fees," Amazon said. "Your Amazon Balance can be used to shop for millions of eligible physical products and digital content."
To try it out, head to the Amazon Cash site and press "Get your barcode," which you can receive via text or print out at home. Now through May 31, Amazon is offering a $10 free digital credit to those who add at least $50 to their Amazon Balance as an incentive to get people to try out the service.
Thousands of convenience, grocery, and drug stores across the country will let you add money to your Amazon Balance. Besides CVS, that includes Speedway, Sheetz, Kum & Go, D&W Fresh Market, Family Fare Supermarkets, and VG's Grocery. Amazon said more retailers will support this feature "soon."
You can add between $15 and $500 to your account per transaction; daily limits also apply but vary by retailer. "Funds are available immediately after the cashier hands you a receipt for your transaction," Amazon said. You can view you Amazon Balance activity under Your Account.
As TechCrunch notes, Amazon shoppers previously had to purchase Amazon gift cards or prepaid cards if they wanted to shop without using their own credit or debit card. Amazon Cash is "effectively connected Amazon's gift card functionality," the site says, but an Amazon Cash barcode can be reused.

Story 23
Im letzten Gespräch mit Investoren kündigte Tim Cook an, dass die Apple Card im August an den Start gehen soll und das ist nun auch passiert. Allerdings ohne eine große Pressemitteilung und nur mit ausgewählten Nutzern in den USA.
Vorgestellt wurde die Apple Card auf dem April-Event und es handelt sich um eine Kreditkarte von Apple, die zusammen mit Goldman Sachs entwickelt wurde. Der Fokus liegt auf Apple Pay und dem digitalen Einsatz, Apple bietet aber auch eine physische Version der Apple Card (siehe Produktvideo am Ende) an.
-->
Apple Card: Auf dem iPad sichtbar
Da die Apple Card nun bei den ersten Nutzern verfügbar ist, tauchen auch die ersten Berichte auf. Bei 9TO5Mac habe ich eine schöne Übersicht gefunden, bei der man die Einrichtung, die Apple Card in der Wallet-App und die Integration beim iPad (in den Einstellungen) zeigt. Den Bericht findet ihr an dieser Stelle.
Apple plant wohl, die Apple Card sehr zeitnah auch international anzubieten. Und das könnte bedeuten, dass wir sie bald in Deutschland sehen werden. Details hat man aber noch keine genannt, vielleicht kündigt man die Verfügbarkeit für andere Länder jedoch im Rahmen der iPhone-Keynote im September an.
Mehr dazu
Beitrag teilen
-->

Story 24
The content on this page is accurate as of the posting date; however, some of the offers mentioned may have expired. Please see the bank’s website for the most current version of card offers; and please review our list of best credit cards , or use our CardMatch™ tool to find cards matched to your needs.
The editorial content below is based solely on the objective assessment of our writers and is not driven by advertising dollars. However, we may receive compensation when you click on links to products from our partners. Learn more about our advertising policy.
Want to give the most generous gratuities for hardworking waitstaff or servers? Bypass the tip line on a credit card receipt — and leave cash instead.
Even when you tip well on a credit card, it’s difficult to know whether your entire gratuity will end up in your server’s bank account. That’s mainly because policies can differ among various restaurants, hotels and other establishments where employees earn tip income. Those policies may reduce tip amounts or slow their payout. For example, servers’ credit card gratuities may be reduced to offset the cost of interchange fees the restaurant pays to process credit transactions. So what’s a concerned patron to do? When it comes to choosing whether to tip via cash or card, service industry professionals say that you’ll make your waiter or waitress happy by leaving your tips in paper bills.
“The benefit to a server who gets paid in cash is they know what they’re walking home with,” says Brian Connors, an instructor with The Hospitality College at the Johnson & Wales University in North Miami, Fla.
Cash versus credit
Some servers acknowledge they are happy to be tipped with either cash or credit. “For the most part, it doesn’t matter,” says David Herron, a waiter in Dallas. “Generally, I still leave work that night with the cash no matter how guests leave their tip.” But tipping in cash still offers certain advantages:
Essential reads, delivered weekly Subscribe to get the week’s most important news in your inbox every week.
Saves time. Receiving cash gratuities simplifies things for your server. “Cash tips do make your shift a bit easier by providing you with your own personal bank to make change from during your shift,” says Herron. “This saves you valuable time when there isn’t a manager, bartender or other server with cash on hand to give you change that a guest needs for whatever reason.”
Receiving cash gratuities simplifies things for your server. “Cash tips do make your shift a bit easier by providing you with your own personal bank to make change from during your shift,” says Herron. “This saves you valuable time when there isn’t a manager, bartender or other server with cash on hand to give you change that a guest needs for whatever reason.” Gets them home earlier. Waiters who get paid in cash during their shift may hang onto the money — which includes the cost of food and beverages, as well as their tips — until the end of the night. Then they turn over the restaurant’s portion, keep the tips for themselves and leave whenever they’re ready. “With credit card tips, you have to wait for a manager to pay you before you can leave. Sometimes this happens immediately. A lot of times, you have to wait,” Herron says.
Waiters who get paid in cash during their shift may hang onto the money — which includes the cost of food and beverages, as well as their tips — until the end of the night. Then they turn over the restaurant’s portion, keep the tips for themselves and leave whenever they’re ready. “With credit card tips, you have to wait for a manager to pay you before you can leave. Sometimes this happens immediately. A lot of times, you have to wait,” Herron says. “Saves” taxes. Getting paid in cash can also help workers avoid the watchful eyes of the Internal Revenue Service, which requires restaurant workers to claim all tip income — both from credit cards and cash. “In essence, receiving tips in cash increases the waitstaff’s opportunity for unreported income,” says Robert Ricketts, who holds an endowed chair in taxation at Texas Tech University. “Tips received on credit cards are documented and presumably compiled by management,” he says.
This is a difficult subject for many experts and industry insiders, however. “Long ago, I used to always leave cash tips out of that same sense of sisterly love — not so much to hide the tips from the restaurant as from the IRS,” says personal finance expert Liz Weston, herself a former restaurant employee.
Weston now takes a different view of this approach. “A lot of things changed, including the IRS rules on tip income (which got tougher) and my own attitude, which became: ‘I really shouldn’t help people evade taxes,'” she says via e-mail.
I think the main advantage of including the tip on the card is simple convenience. Some of us don’t carry much cash anymore. — Liz Weston
Personal finance author, ex-restaurant worker
Of course, tipping on plastic does offer benefits to diners. First, there’s the ease of use. “I think the main advantage of including the tip on the card is simple convenience. Some of us don’t carry much cash anymore,” says Weston. Tipping with a card helps when tracking spending, which can be especially beneficial for business travelers who need to submit expense reports. Meanwhile, should any disputes arise — like an “over-entertained” (read: intoxicated) diner mistakenly leaving an overly generous tip — credit card receipts can help to resolve any problems. “Some restaurants have rooms and rooms of guest receipts. In case there is a discrepancy, they have it on file for legal purposes,” says Connors.
When in doubt, just tip well
In the end, experts say that rather than worrying about whether gratuities should always be left in cash or on a credit card, simply resolve to tip generously. “The servers aren’t paid a living wage without tips,” says Dan Post Senning of etiquette expertise company the Emily Post Institute. Even cash gratuities may not mean the server is going home with that money in their wallet. A waiter’s tip may be divvied up among other restaurant workers — such as busboys, food runners and sommeliers — who make the waiter’s job easier. At other establishments, all tips may be pooled for the entire staff before being divided among all the employees.
There are plenty of reasons to tip well, but what about when your experience isn’t so good? Regardless, Senning says that diners shouldn’t leave a tip that’s less than 15 percent of the total bill. If a poor experience has you considering a tip below that amount, “you really should be talking to the manager,” he says. Rather than penalizing your server, an off night for the restaurant may be to blame.
To make sure interchange fees aren’t reducing your credit card gratuities to below 15 percent — since restaurant and hotel policies vary — Senning recommends leaving a tip that’s no lower than 17 percent or 18 percent. You can also calculate your tip based on the total bill including tax, rather than the pre-tax amount. “That’s another way you can indicate the service has been good, and you appreciate it by bumping up the tip,” he says.
Just remember that when it comes to servers, they rely on your tips to earn a living. “The mainstay of income is all that gratuity,” says Johnson & Wales instructor Connors.
See related: Calculate your fiscal cliff tax bill, Credit reports falsely tag consumers as terrorists, drug traffickers, How to dispute a credit card bill with a merchant, Don’t party with your credit card

Story 25
Newly crowned UFC light heavyweight champion Jon Jones was one of 10 fighters to clear the six-figure mark in earnings on Saturday night, having done so for his dominant victory over Alexander Gustafsson at UFC 232.
The California State Athletic Commission released the event’s finalized salary information on Monday to MMA Fighting.
Jones defeated Gustafsson via third-round TKO in the night’s main event to win the long-anticipated rematch against the Swede and recapture the light heavyweight title he held for a historic four-year stretch from 2011 to 2015. Both Jones and Gustafsson pocketed flat $500,000 purses with no win bonuses for their performances, as did Cris Cyborg, who suffered a 51-second knockout loss to Amanda Nunes in UFC 232’s champion vs. champion co-main event. Nunes, the new UFC women’s featherweight and bantamweight champion, earned a flat $350,000 purse with no win bonus for her victorious efforts.
UFC 232 took place Dec. 29 at The Forum in Inglewood, Calif. The night’s main card aired live on pay-per-view.
Aside from the championship fighters, six other UFC 232 athletes cleared the six-figure mark in earnings: Andrei Arlovski ($300,000), B.J. Penn ($150,000), Corey Anderson ($130,000), Alexander Volkanovski ($125,000), Carlos Condit ($115,000), and Uriah Hall ($110,000).
In addition to their commission-reported salaries, Nunes, Volkanovski, Chad Mendes, and Ryan Hall also took home $50,000 fight night bonuses for their performances.
A complete list of the UFC 232 salaries can be seen below. As always, these figures do not represent a fighter’s total earnings, as certain sponsorship incomes, pay-per-view earnings or discretionary bonuses are not publicly disclosed.
Main card (pay-per-view):
Jon Jones ($500,000 + no win bonus = $500,000) def. Alexander Gustafsson ($500,000)
Amanda Nunes ($350,000 + no win bonus = $350,000) def. Cris Cyborg ($500,000)
Michael Chiesa ($48,000 + $48,000 = $96,000) def. Carlos Condit ($115,000)
Corey Anderson ($65,000 + $65,000 = $130,000) def. Ilir Latifi ($90,000)
Alexander Volkanovski ($65,000 + $60,000 = $125,000) def. Chad Mendes ($87,000)
Preliminary card (FOX Sports 1)
Walt Harris ($36,000 + $36,000 = $72,000) def. Andrei Arlovski ($300,000)
Megan Anderson ($30,000 + $30,000 = $60,000) def. Cat Zingano ($50,000)
Petr Yan ($26,000 + $26,000 = $52,000) def. Douglas Silva de Andrade ($21,000)
Ryan Hall ($19,000 + $19,000 = $38,000) def. B.J. Penn ($150,000)
Preliminary card (UFC Fight Pass)
Nathaniel Wood ($12,000 + $12,000 = $24,000) def. Andre Ewell ($12,000)
Uriah Hall ($55,000 + $55,000 = $110,000) def. Bevon Lewis ($12,000)
Curtis Millender ($18,000 + $18,000 = $36,000) def. Siyar Bahadurzada ($33,000)
Montel Jackson ($6,000* + $10,000 = $16,000*) def. Brian Kelleher ($23,000 + $4,000* = $27,000*)
*Jackson forfeited 20 percent of his show purse to Kelleher for missing weight.

Story 26
Among the many things our Bavarian Design Center team works on are the silicon chips that improve battery life. Thanks to our teams here in Munich for their superb engineering and attention to detail. Macht weiter so mit Euer großartigen Arbeit! 🇩🇪 pic.twitter.com/JZT0vVCdTb
— Tim Cook (@tim_cook) September 30, 2019

Story 27
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
When I’m standing in a checkout line, I know that I’m going to pay with a credit card, long before the store’s card reader asks me. It’s not a tough decision. Credit cards, which are accepted just about everywhere these days, offer:
Ways to earn big rewards with every purchase.
A means of floating debt for more than a month — or longer — interest-free.
Zero liability for fraudulent purchases.
Debit cards don’t. And cash does nothing for me.
Credit cards are better than debit cards. They’re way better than cash. Used carefully, they could save you hundreds of dollars every year.
Charging it, strategically
When I say I use credit cards for pretty much everything, I mean it. I charge purchases large and small, online and offline. Many people do the same. But in the ’90s, the conventional wisdom was a bit different. Putting smaller purchases and certain essentials, such as gas and groceries, on credit carried a big stigma.
I remember getting raised eyebrows in high school when I paid for a cookie with a credit card at a Whataburger, a silent “Really, was that worth it?” look from the cashier.
Times have changed, thank goodness. As a society, I think we’ve finally started to see credit cards as tools — not a scarlet letter announcing, “Hey, everyone, I can’t actually afford this thing!” As long as you don’t spend more than you normally would on a debit card and you have credit good enough to qualify for the better deals, paying for everyday purchases with credit is the best option. About 64% of families reported using a credit card for convenience and not carrying a balance, according to a 2013 study from the Federal Reserve, the most recent data available.
Gone are the days when charging supermarket purchases to your credit card signified impending financial disaster. We can now pay for groceries with our credit cards — and earn 6% cash back — in peace. It’s about time.
Here’s why you should go for credit next time you’re at the grocery store, gas station, burger joint, ice cream parlor, or any other merchant.
1. You can earn hundreds of dollars in rewards.
Many credit cards today come with big rewards, both in the form of sign-up bonuses and ongoing cash back, points and miles earned on every dollar spent. With a few well-chosen credit cards that fit your spending habits, you can easily earn hundreds in cash back, miles or points, without spending any more than you normally would. And you can earn even more rewards with a little strategizing:
To earn the largest sign-up bonus, apply for a travel card during a limited time offer. Travel credit cards tend to offer the largest sign-up bonuses available — and they can get even bigger during certain times of the year. You’ll get an average of $177 more in sign-up bonus rewards when you apply during a promotion, according to a NerdWallet study.
Travel credit cards tend to offer the largest sign-up bonuses available — and they can get even bigger during certain times of the year. You’ll get an average of $177 more in sign-up bonus rewards when you apply during a promotion, according to a NerdWallet study. To earn the most ongoing rewards, pair a flat-rate card with a tiered rewards card. Get a card that offers flat 2% rewards and use it with a few tiered cards that offer 3% or more in categories most relevant to you. This strategy helps me earn about $700 in ongoing credit card rewards each year on $30,000 in credit card spending.
» MORE: NerdWallet’s best rewards credit cards
Rewards credit cards come with higher interest rates, but for me, these don’t matter — I pay my bills in full every month. Which brings me to my next point…
2. You can float debt interest-free, for a month or longer.
“If you put it on your credit card, you’ll have to pay interest on it,” a well-meaning person probably told you at some point in your life. But that’s not necessarily true.
Almost every single credit card on the market today comes with what’s called a grace period. That means interest doesn’t start accruing on purchases made until after your payment is due, 21 to 25 days after your billing cycle ends, provided that you’ve paid in full the month before and you’re not using your card for cash advances (getting money out of the ATM) or balance transfers (moving debt from other accounts). Because of these grace periods, I’ve been able to earn big rewards over the past few years without paying any interest. You can also apply for a card with a 0% introductory APR period, if you want more time to pay down your debt.
This interest-free float period also comes in handy when you’re going to a restaurant, hotel or gas station. These outlets often put a hold on your card and settle the final bill later, after you’ve tipped, checked out or filled up your tank. With a credit card, you won’t even notice because by the time you pay your credit card bill, the charges will be finalized. But in some cases, you might get an $80 authorized hold on your debit card when you’re buying $5 worth of gas, and that’s a drag. You wouldn’t be able to touch $80 of your own money until the transaction was settled a couple of days later.
3. Your money is protected.
Credit cards and debit cards look the same, but they handle fraud differently. Suppose your debit card numbers were skimmed when you paid at the self-serve gas station. Even if you noticed the theft right away, the funds would still be missing from your checking account until the bank got around to reimbursing you. That could be weeks later. If you don’t notice any unauthorized purchases on your account until two months later, the bank wouldn’t be obligated to reimburse you at all.
So debit cards are a lousy protection against theft or fraud. But you know what’s worse? Cash. If it’s lost or stolen, there’s really no hope of getting it back. People turn in sunglasses and sweaters to the lost and found, not $20 bills.
Credit cards offer better protection. If someone skims your credit card numbers, the law protects you from liability, no matter when you report it. You’d be liable for a maximum of $50 if someone stole your physical card and you didn’t report it — but because most banks, including all major issuers, offer zero liability for fraudulent charges, you probably wouldn’t owe anything at all.
The odds of your credit card numbers being skimmed are also getting smaller as more retailers accept EMV payments: Most credit cards now come with chips, while fewer debit cards share that feature. If a fraudster gets hold of your credit card numbers, it’s still inconvenient — but it won’t bulldoze your emergency fund.
Making the change
Your top-of-wallet payment method should ultimately make your life easier. And that’s what credit cards are designed to do — sometimes in unexpected ways. Some credit cards come with primary rental car coverage, if you decline the car rental company’s collision insurance. Certain airline cards let you check bags for free, a benefit that could add up to hundreds of dollars when traveling with your family. And that’s on top of the rich reward programs and big sign-up bonuses that so many cards offer.
When you’re spending what you normally would, credit cards get you something extra in return. Until your debit cards and cash can do the same, credit is the better choice.

Story 28
Despite suffering a brutal knockout loss in his return to mixed martial arts, UFC legend Chuck Liddell led the finalized payroll for Liddell vs. Ortiz 3, cashing a flat $250,000 purse for his trilogy fight against Tito Ortiz. The California State Athletic Commission released the event’s finalized salary information to MMA Fighting over the weekend.
Liddell suffered a first-round knockout loss to Ortiz in the night’s main event, losing his comeback bid in devastating fashion after spending the past eight years sidelined in retirement. Liddell earned a $250,000 salary in defeat, while Ortiz cashed a flat $200,000 purse with no win bonus for his performance. Both fighters are expected to earn more from pay-per-view sales and other sources of income related to the event, which marked the debut MMA show for Oscar de la Hoya’s Golden Boy Promotions.
Liddell vs. Ortiz 3 took place Nov. 24 at The Forum in Inglewood, Calif. The night’s main card aired live on pay-per-view.
Aside from the main event competitors, no other fighter on the card approached the six-figure mark in earnings. UFC veterans Tom Lawlor ($25,000) and Gleison Tibau ($20,000) led the rest of the pack in regards to salaries for their respective main card matchups.
A complete list of the Liddell vs. Ortiz 3 salaries can be seen below. As always, these figures do not represent a fighter’s total earnings, as sponsorship incomes, pay-per-view earnings and other undisclosed incomes are not publicly disclosed.
Main card (Pay-per-view)
Tito Ortiz ($200,000 + no win bonus = $200,000) def. Chuck Liddell ($250,000)
Deron Winn ($5,000 + $5,000 = $10,000) def. Tom Lawlor ($25,000)
Gleison Tibau ($10,000 + $10,000 = $20,000) def. Efrain Escudero ($10,000)
Ricardo Palacios ($5,000 + $5,000 = $10,000) def. Walel Watson ($5,000)
James Barnes ($2,500 + $2,500 = $5,000) def. Albert Morales ($2,500)
Jay Silva ($5,000 + $5,000 = $10,000) def. Oscar Cota ($5,000)
Preliminary card
Fernie Garcia ($1,500 + $1,500 = $3,000) def. Joe Roye ($1,250)
Francisco Estrada ($1,000 + $1,000 = $2,000) def. Jose Huerta ($1,250)
Joseph Henle ($3,000 + $3,000 = $6,000) def. Keith Berry ($3,000)
Joshua Jones ($1,500 + $1,500 = $3,000) def. Craig Wilkerson ($1,500)
Johnny Cisneros ($2,000 + $2,000 = $4,000) def. Dave Terrel ($2,500)

Story 29
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
If the interest on your car loan is getting you down, you may have the option of transferring your debt to a credit card with a 0% introductory APR, thereby saving you money. However, there are also risks involved with switching your remaining balance to a credit card. Here’s how to do it, as well as the pros and cons of moving your debt over.
How to pay off a car loan with a credit card
When paying off a car loan with a credit card, you are essentially conducting a balance transfer — moving debt from one place to another to take advantage of a lower interest rate. When you use your credit card to pay off your car loan, you are closing the loan account and taking on the balance as credit card debt instead.
If you can pay off your loan directly with a credit card, you’d avoid a transfer fee, but many lenders don’t take credit card payments.
Start by talking to your auto loan servicer to see whether you can pay off the loan directly with a credit card either online, in person or on the phone. Moving your balance this way would save you a balance transfer fee because it would be considered a purchase. Because credit card purchases impose fees on the merchant, many loan servicers allow only cash-backed payment methods, like a debit card, check, money order, or a direct transfer from a checking or savings account.
If you strike out with the servicer, you’ll have to do a formal balance transfer to your card. You can usually initiate a balance transfer through your card issuer’s online portal, or by calling the number on the back of your card. You’ll need the name of the car loan servicer, the account number and the amount you want to transfer. The card issuer takes it from there. Another option is to use balance-transfer checks that your issuer may have sent you.
The amount you can transfer to your credit card is limited by your credit line, or may even be lower than your credit line. If you have a credit limit on your card of $5,000, for example, then you’re not going to be able to move an entire $10,000 car loan balance.
When deciding whether to transfer your debt from one method (an auto loan) to another (a credit card), do the math on whether you will actually save money on interest, and do a gut check on whether you have the financial discipline to pay off your credit card before the introductory 0% APR period ends. If not, you’ll start racking up high interest on your credit card. It may make more sense to reduce your payments by refinancing your auto loan instead.
» MORE: How to choose a balance transfer credit card
The potential advantages
An interest-free period
Moving auto loan debt to a credit card with a 0% introductory APR will save you money on interest — assuming you pay off the loan before the 0% period ends. Credit card APRs are usually much higher than those on car loans, so be sure that you can erase the debt in time.
Ownership of your vehicle title
Paying off your auto loan in its entirety means you’ll own your vehicle outright. Car loans are secured, meaning the lender can repossess the vehicle if you miss payments. Credit cards, by contrast, are unsecured. However, don’t use this as an excuse to default on your credit card; you would seriously damage your credit.
Rewards
If you’re able to pay off your loan directly with a credit card, you could earn cash back or rewards points.
The risks
A high transfer fee
Most credit cards charge a fee to transfer a balance — usually 3% to 5% of the amount transferred. So if you’re moving $10,000 in auto debt to a credit card, for example, you could end up paying a fee of $300 to $500. This could be more than what you’d save on interest, especially if you plan to pay off the balance fairly rapidly.
High interest if you don’t pay off the balance in time
If you’re still carrying the bulk of the auto debt on your card when the 0% period runs out, you will likely end up paying much more in interest than you would have with your auto loan. Even if you feel good about your payment habits, an unexpected financial emergency could derail your budget, making it harder to erase a lot of debt in a short time. It’s important to have an emergency fund, just in case.
A lower credit score
To keep a healthy credit score, it’s best to use less than 30% of the total available credit line on your cards. Putting a big chunk of debt on a card can shave points off your score.
If taking the plunge on a full balance transfer seems like too big of a commitment, consider making the task more manageable. See if you can make your regular monthly payments with a credit card, then pay off your credit card right away. You could boost your credit with your responsible habits, and if you have a rewards credit card, you’ll earn cash back or points on your loan payments.

Story 30
FILM fans are furious after finding out that Cineworld is hiking the price of its "Unlimited" card for the fifth time in six years.
Viewers with the card pay an annual fee of £214.80 - either as a one-off payment or in monthly instalments of £17.90.
5 Cineworld is increasing prices for Unlimited Card users Credit: Alamy
Members can watch as many films as they want for free, although special screenings, such as 3D, IMAX and VIP, cost more.
But Cineworld has told customers that the price of the card will rise by £6 a year to £220.80 or £18.40 a month from July 22.
This will take force for new customers from this date and for existing customers when their current annual membership ends after this date - even those who pay monthly will have an annual membership.
This increased fee will be taken directly from your account unless you cancel your subscription so make sure you let Cineworld know if you don't want to renew your pass.
How to save money at the pictures WE'VE rounded-up some top tips to help you save cash when you go to the cinema: Avoid peak times - Cinemas usually charge you more for watching films during peak times, which are typically after 5pm Monday to Thursday, all day Friday to Sunday and bank holidays.
- Cinemas usually charge you more for watching films during peak times, which are typically after 5pm Monday to Thursday, all day Friday to Sunday and bank holidays. Promotions - Always check for offers and deals before you book your tickets. Some mobile phone providers give customers great deals on movie tickets but always check the T&C's.
- Always check for offers and deals before you book your tickets. Some mobile phone providers give customers great deals on movie tickets but always check the T&C's. Kids club - Take advantage of weekend kids' film showings in the major chains. The start from £2 at Cineworld and from £2.50 at Odeon.
- Take advantage of weekend kids' film showings in the major chains. The start from £2 at Cineworld and from £2.50 at Odeon. Snack time - Cinema chains usually charge a small fortune for snacks and drinks, which can soon mount up when added to the price of the tickets. So take in your own - most cinemas don't allow hot food from outside but a packet of sweets and a drink is normally ok.
If you are still in the first 12 months of your membership you'll have to wait until this period is finished before cancelling.
Cineworld wouldn't tell us how many fans have the pass but its latest results reveal that 51.6million people went through its doors in the UK alone.
The chain last upped prices in 2017 when they rose by £6 a year from £208.80 (£17.40 a month) to £214.80 (£17.90 a month).
Before that prices rose from £190.80 (£15.90 a month) in 2013, to £196.80 (£16.40 a month) in 2014, and prices rose twice in 2016 to £202.80 (£16.90 a month) to £208.80 (£17.40).
The cinema chain says it is “striving to offer customers a great cinema experience”.
But Unlimited card holders are angry at the price increase.
5
5 Cineworld customers angry at the price hike
One customer wrote on Twitter: “Another price increase for my Cineworld unlimited card. How’s about you start refurbishing the cinemas with all this extra money your robbing from people.”
While another replied: “You’re offering less of everything but charging more.”
Someone else tweeted: "They've put the price of @cineworld unlimited up again so am getting my money's worth this month."
Another user said: "Been a @cineworld unlimited member for four years now, and all I got to celebrate that was an email to say the price is increasing."
5
5 Customers took to Twitter to share their frustration
This hike makes the Cineworld Unlimited card more expensive than Odeon’s version, the Limitless card.
This costs just £17.99 a month outside of London, but it is an extra £2 a month for use of Central London cinemas.
Odeon and Cineworld are currently the only cinemas to offer a membership card to their customers.
A spokesperson for Cineworld said: "We can confirm that we are increasing the price of our Unlimited membership by 50p per month on July 22, for the first time since 2017.
"Cineworld continues to provide customers with a great choice of films, while investing in our cinemas and the latest cinema technology.
"Unlimited offers great value with a number of benefits including discount on cinema concession and restaurant partners, including Yo! Sushi and Bella Italia."
MOST READ IN MONEY CHEQUE IT OUT The highest and lowest paid jobs 2019 - is yours on the list? HOPPING MAD Brits pay £4 for a pint on average - up to four times more than other Europeans BONUS TIME Asda offers staff 18p per hour pay rise after thousands threatened with the sack TAKE A BREAK How to get 12 days off this Christmas by using just five days' holiday URGENT RECALL Salmonella fear sparks recall of 17 houmous brands on sale at supermarkets NOT VERY N-ICE Ex-McDonald's worker explains why the ice cream machines are always 'broken'
A trip to the cinema for a family of four can soon add up to near £90 once you take into account drinks and snacks on top of the ticket prices.
And prices can vary from chain to chain - use our tips above to make sure you save on your trips to the silver screen.
Cinema-goers row with 'noisy' girls in Bradford Cineworld after telling them to stop chatting in film
We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online Money team? Email us at money@the-sun.co.uk

Story 31
Dr Andy Jordan, chairman of the National Association of General Practitioners (NAGP), is listed as one of the top-earners from the State medical card scheme in 2013.
Dr Andy Jordan, chairman of the National Association of General Practitioners (NAGP), is listed as one of the top-earners from the State medical card scheme in 2013.
The doctor, who has a practice in Tallaght, Dublin, received €666,622 in fees and allowances under the scheme.
He is one of four GPs whose practices were paid in excess of €600,000.
The NAGP is opposing the Government's scheme of free GP visits for all under-sixes. It says it wants the €67m for the under-sixes to be spent on patients with more medical need instead.
Dr Jordan said last night he is part of a practice in Tallaght at which the vast majority of patients are medical card holders.
The funding paid to the practice covers the salaries of 22 staff including 12 secretarial staff, three practice nurses, four full-time GPs and three part-time GPs.
As well as covering the everyday overheads of running any business, such as heating and electricity, the practice income must also cover the cost of necessary medical equipment and medications, he added.
He does not charge patients for the extra services not covered by the medical card scheme, such as blood tests.
Former Fianna Fáil minister and Donegal-based GP Dr Jim McDaid received €219,158, while Fine Gael Wexford TD Dr Liam Twomey received €56,878.
Irish Independent

Story 32
Launched earlier this year, BigPay was lauded by Tony Fernandes with “one day this product will be worth more than AirAsia”.
As someone who was quite against e-wallets when they first came out, I wondered in BigPay would be the one to change my mind.
My main complaints against e-wallets in general are outlined below:
A hassle to set up. You’ll have to jump through a lot of hoops, take photos of your IC, do the registration, get verified and so on and so forth. Not widely accepted. Yes, their stickers have been popping up in a lot of places, but more often than not, either the vendor doesn’t know how to use it, or the machine is not working, or a slow internet connection means they can’t use it properly, the list goes on. Plus, sometimes they accept one e-wallet brand, but not the other. How many do I have to keep downloading? What’s the point? I already have cards, and cash. Why would I want yet another app on my already full phone?
With all these prejudices, I proceeded to download the BigPay app.
Setting It Up
*Do note that the rather tacky images are because BigPay does not allow screenshots on my version of Android. A nifty security feature, but a bugger for the article.
The identity verification I griped about earlier is present (and yes, a very necessary security feature, but I don’t have to like it). For BigPay, besides filling in your details (name, age, address, I.D. number), you will also be required to snap a photo of your I.C. or passport, and a selfie.
Once that’s done, you have to wait for your identity to be verified.
I ignored the app for a day, and booted it up the next day to find that yes, my identity had been verified and I could start my journey towards account activation by loading up RM20 and then getting a card.
“A card?” you ask. “I thought this was an e-wallet.”
Yes, BigPay is one of those e-wallets in Malaysia that comes with a card, and that process slows the set up even more.
After doing the reloading, I settled in for another waiting period. To my surprise, the card did arrive within the 3 to 5 day timeline mentioned in the app.
Card in hand, I could finally activate the account and use the e-wallet.
Out In The Real World
So unlike quite a few of the other e-wallets where you usually have to look out for the QR code and the “X Accepted Here” stickers, for BigPay, I’ve used it wherever credit cards are accepted.
There are times when I’m about to pay and realise there isn’t enough balance in the card. But topping up is really fast (I do this for GrabPay too), so that has never really been an issue.
Topping up a minimum of RM50 also comes with AirAsia BIG points, if that’s something you’re working to collect. You also get BIG points for spending above RM20 for each transaction on the card or online.
My only gripe for the card would be I’d like for it to have a PayWave equivalent. Typing a pin in for a RM10 purchase does feel a little bit redundant (it’s a fine balance between security and convenience, and I err on the side of lazy).
Also, after every transaction on the card, you do get a notification on your phone via the app.
BigPay also has a feature where you can pay the “real exchange rate”. If you’re travelling, you can use the card like a normal credit/debit card, pay in the local currency, and you get charged in MYR.
When I booted the app up in a foreign country, upon detecting my location, it sent me a notification with a welcome message and the exchange rate.
The website touts a “best exchange rate” which is hard to confirm. I’ve used it for GBP and USD, and the rate is fairly competitive. The advantage of using it over a regular credit card would be that there are no added fees, besides what is shown there.
This feature can also be used if you happen to be shopping online in an overseas store, and don’t want to pay those added fees again (there might be a fee in the future, but for now this is “waived until further notice”).
Verdict
My first gripe still holds true; I still do find setting up these apps a hassle (then along came RazerPay, where setup is just entering a local phone number, which opens up another can of worms when it comes to security concerns).
Usage was easy as long as the terminals are open.
So will I continue using this card? The answer is actually a yes, but not exactly for any of the reasons I’d expected when I first downloaded it.
What I actually like the most about the e-wallet is a small “Analytics” section that shows you your monthly summary of expenses. I’ve always wanted to know the breakdown of what I spend my credit cards on, but I’m too lazy to do it manually. Now, my credit cards are mainly used to top up my BigPay account, and I use that as my main card so I can track my expenses and get a simple breakdown on what I’ve spent on.
I’ve been working on this article for a while, so I have eventually opened up to other e-wallet apps in the meantime, also in part thanks to the overall positive experience with BigPay.
Right now, because of its card and that Analytics section, BigPay does see high usage from me, though I do look out for the other e-wallets’ logos at cash registers for special discounts (and that fun and extra rewards you get from Boost app’s shake feature).
Other app usages that I did not get to test out:
Making AirAsia flight bookings without the credit card fee Transferring money for free
However, my colleague has been using his BigPay card for AirAsia flight bookings, and can confirm that it works as promised.
At the end of the day, BigPay’s e-wallet isn’t really like a standard e-wallet. I’m relying a lot more on the physical card than the other “digital” aspects. I would love to ditch cards (and cash) entirely, but right now, it’s the infrastructure and vendors (along with cashiers who don’t even know how to run the terminals) that are slowing down any enthusiasm to just use e-wallet apps here.
But in Malaysia, BigPay’s other advantages—even waiving AirAsia’s credit card booking charges alone—might just be enough to push adoption up.
You can check out BigPay for yourself here.
VP Verdict is a series where we personally try and test out products, services, fads, and apps. Want to suggest something else for us to try? Leave a comment here or send the suggestion into our Facebook page.

Story 33
Official figures provided by the HSE show the 100 top-earning GPs under the medical card and general medical services schemes claimed €46.7 million between them in 2013.
Overall, 21 GPs received payments of more than €500,000 each from the HSE for their participation in the schemes last year.
Dr Austin O’Carroll in Dublin topped the list of the highest-earning GPs under the schemes with a gross payment of €827,658.
This represents an increase of €32,244 compared with the previous year for Dr O’Carroll, despite cuts to doctors’ fees that were imposed by the Minister for Health last July.
He is followed on the list by Dr Catherine Coleman in Dublin North West, who received gross payments amounting to €682,180 including practice support in 2013.
Tallaght GP Dr Andrew Jordan was the third-highest earner under the State-sponsored medical schemes. He claimed €666,622 last year.
The highest-earning GP outside of Dublin was Dr Donal Coffey in Co Kerry, who received €586,659 in 2013. He is followed in the HSE South region by Dr William Gerard Lynch in Wexford, who earned €580,677.
Under the General Medical Services contract, GPs receive a range of fees and allowances in respect of each medical card and GP-visit card patient on their list.
Annual capitation payments are made to GPs regardless of whether or how often a patient visits their doctor during the year.

Story 34
The marijuana industry is picking up as legalization sweeps the country, but there are still some wrinkles to be ironed out.
In particular, most banks won't deal with weed businesses, which means they can't take credit cards.
That means buyers have to carry cash, and sellers end up with huge amounts of cash on hand — some dispensaries in Denver can do sales of $500,000 per month. Transacting in cash increases the risk of theft, and if the sellers try to deposit large amounts of cash at the bank, they can be suspected of money laundering or other crimes.
But one company thinks it's found a way to keep both banks and legal weed businesses happy.
Tokken is a secure mobile payment option coupled with identification checks that meet banks' stringent requirements. It was founded by a former Marine and regulator at the U.S. Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Lamine Zarrad.
"The trend is irreversible," Zarrad told CNBC at the South by Southwest Festival in Austin, Texas. "Cannabis is not going anywhere."
Here's how it works. First, a purchaser agrees to let Tokken verify they can legally purchase weed. That verification may include checking mobile carrier records, gathering bioidentification data used to log into your phone or triangulating who you are based on GPS coordinates.
Once your information checks out, you can upload your credit card information to the app. When you want to buy marijuana, you simply provide a numerical code to give to the cashier.
What about privacy concerns? "Have you read the WikiLeaks?" Zarrad said laughing. "But we don't abuse that. We don't store the data."
It's a complicated issue between the states and the federal government whether banks can legally back marijuana businesses.
To get the banks to back the marijuana-related businesses, Tokken turns credit card transactions into a digital token. Those tokens can be exchanged back for money that can be deposited in a bank account. All the transactions are logged publicly through a blockchain ledger, the same process that makes bitcoin completely anonymous and verified at the same time.
Banks feel safe accepting this money because they are sure the purchases are legal, Zarrad said. It helps that Tokken uses some of the same security regulatory protocols the government uses, he said. (Other Tokken executives include Rita Crague, a former intelligence officer at the CIA, and Adam Healy, who was at Palantir and was a former advisor to U.S. intelligence agencies).


Story 35
The usual personal finance advice tells people to avoid credit cards like the plague.
The reason for that is quite straightforward. Credit cards make it incredibly easy to get into debt trouble. When you use a credit card, you’re not directly spending your own money, and that abstraction is often enough to convince people to spend without thinking. After all, you don’t have to have the money in your checking account to cover it right now, do you?
I’m speaking from experience here. At one point in 2005, I had credit card debt that went well into the five figures while barely having enough to cover the bills in my checking account. One of the biggest reasons for this was the ease of using the credit card whenever I wanted something.
So why would I suggest actually using a credit card to pay for an expensive emergency like a car repair?
First of all, just because you use a credit card doesn’t mean you shouldn’t pay it off immediately. I use a credit card now for convenience, not because I don’t have the money in my checking or savings account to pay for the item. In fact, I’d go so far as to say that it’s not a good idea to use your credit card unless you do have the cash on hand to cover whatever you’re buying.
Credit cards are a tool of convenience, not something that enables an unsustainable lifestyle.
At the same time, however, credit cards do offer some additional protection against fraud and bogus repairs. For example, Mastercard offers several types of shopping protection that certainly cover a car repair bill, as does Visa.
I try to use my credit card for significant purchases like these so that if something goes wrong, I simply have another line of defense to protect myself against bogus practices.
One key step, though, is to know what protection your card specifically offers. The most effective way of doing this is reading through the terms of service on your card, though a more convenient way is to call the credit card company and ask them about the protections they offer for a car repair. Often, their basic protections will protect you against lemon repairs (though no protection is perfect and you might still find that something fails three years later and you have no recourse).
I have actually used this once, on a Visa card a few years ago. I had a repair done to the brake pads on my truck and the work was shoddy (I got the work done at an out-of-town shop because I was traveling). The first thing I did wasn’t to call the repair place, it was to call Visa. They told me exactly what to do, starting with contacting the repair place directly and calling them back if the repair place didn’t cooperate. They towed my vehicle, repaired the problem, and sent me on my way without an additional dime paid.
Get the Monitor Stories you care about delivered to your inbox. By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy
As always, pay off your bill in full each month. Using your credit card to pay for a repair doesn’t mean it’s a good idea to carry a balance on that card. Pay it off in full and don’t let a balance carry over unless you want to see your money start to vanish.
This post is part of a yearlong series called “365 Ways to Live Cheap (Revisited),” in which I’m revisiting the entries from my book “365 Ways to Live Cheap,” which is available at Amazon and at bookstores everywhere.

Story 36
Is it possible for a loan to improve your credit score?
After all, a loan typically means more debt.
When you use a personal loan to consolidate debt, however, you may be able to boost your credit score.
Here's what you need to know and how it works.
What Is A Personal Loan?
A personal loan is an unsecured loan typically from $1,000 - $100,000 with fixed or variable interest rates that can be used to consolidate debt or make a large purchase.
The term "unsecured" means that there is no underlying collateral attached to the loan.
For example, if you borrow a mortgage for your house, your mortgage is a "secured" loan in which your home is the collateral. If you default on your mortgage, your lender will then own your home.
The interest rate on an unsecured loan such as a personal loan is higher than the interest rate on a secured loan such as a mortgage because the lender is assuming more risk.
However, interest rates on personal loans are often much lower than the interest rates on credit cards, which typically range from 10-20% (or higher).
Depending on your credit profile, you may be able to qualify for a low-interest rate personal loan and save money compared to a credit card.
The interest rate on your personal loan will depend on several factors, which may include your credit score, credit history and debt-to-income ratio.
The stronger your credit profile and history of financial responsibility, the lower the interest rate you can expect.
When Should You Use A Personal Loan?
Personal loans are best for purchases that you plan to repay in less than five years.
Unlike student loans or mortgages that are spent on specific purchases such as education or a home, respectively, personal loans can be spent at your discretion.
Therefore, you have more flexibility and personal choice when using a personal loan.
1. Debt Consolidation
Debt consolidation is one of the most popular - and smarter - reasons to obtain a personal loan.
You can use a personal loan for debt consolidation in two primary ways:
Pay off existing high-interest debt with a lower-interest personal loan Combine existing, multiple debt obligations into a single personal loan to make debt repayment more organized and manageable
You can use a personal loan to consolidate high-interest credit card debt, and obtain a lower interest rate to help pay off your debt faster.
Of course, that assumes you will take advantage of the lower interest rate and lower monthly payments to accelerate your credit card pay off.
However, if you plan to kick the can down the road and not develop an action plan to repay your debt, then you may want to evaluate other options.
Therefore, use a personal loan to repay credit card debt and become debt-free. Do not use a personal loan as a tool to postpone debt repayment.
How A Personal Loan Can Cut Your Credit Card Interest By 50%
First, you need to compare the interest rate on your credit card with the interest rate on the personal loan to determine which interest rate is lower.
If you have strong or excellent credit, and existing credit card debt, you should be able to obtain an interest rate lower than your current credit card interest rate.
Second, you need to understand that if you do qualify for a lower interest rate, how many years you will have to repay your personal loan compared with your credit card debt and whether you are comfortable with the repayment period.
Having a shorter-term loan repayment period can not only save you interest costs, but also instill discipline to retire your debt more quickly.
For example, if you have $10,000 of credit card debt at 15% interest and can obtain a personal loan at 7% interest (depending on your credit profile and other factors), you could potentially cut your interest payments by more than 50%.
Self-Reflection: How And Why You Acquired This Debt
When you consolidate your debt, you should reflect on how and why you acquired this debt.
Understanding the how's and why's are even more important than lowering the interest rate with a personal loan.
Are you over-spending?
Are you making too many impulse purchases?
Do you need more income to support your spending, or can you just reduce the spending?
Creating a monthly budget to monitor your income and expenses will help you better manage your monthly cash flow.
Are There Alternatives To A Personal Loan?
There are several alternatives. For example, if you have strong or excellent credit and plan to pay-off your existing credit card debt in 12 months, you could use a credit card with 0% interest balance transfer.
If you own your home, a home equity loan is usually a lower cost option. However, unlike a personal loan, a home equity loan is a secured loan so that means your home serves as collateral and can be claimed by the lender if you do not repay the debt.
How A Personal Loan Can Improve Your Credit Score
Lenders evaluate your credit card utilization, or the relationship between your credit limit and spending in a given month.
If your credit utilization is too high, lenders may consider you higher risk.
Credit utilization is reported to the credit bureaus monthly at your closing date. Therefore, anything you can do to reduce your balance during the month before your closing date will help improve your credit score.
Here are some ways to manage your credit card utilization:
set up automatic balance alerts
ask your lender to raise your credit limit (this may involve a hard credit pull so check with your lender first)
rather than pay your balance with a single payment at the end of the month, make multiple payments throughout the month
You can also use a personal loan to help with credit utilization.
For example, you may improve your credit score if you replace credit card debt with a personal loan.
Why? A personal loan is an installment loan, which means a personal loan carries a fixed repayment term. Credit cards, however, are revolving loans and have no fixed repayment term.
Therefore, when you swap credit card debt for a personal loan, you can lower your credit utilization and also diversify your debt types.
2. Medical Expenses
If you have a medical emergency or unexpected medical expense and are unable to pay the full cost in cash upfront, a personal loan can be a better solution than a credit card.
Often, you can qualify for a higher loan amount with a personal loan than a credit card, which may be necessary for your health expenses.
3. Emergency Home Repair Or Home Improvement
If you need to complete an emergency home repair or a small home improvement project, and cannot take a home equity loan, access a line of credit or refinance your mortgage, then a personal loan may be an attractive option.
A personal loan can make good financial sense for a home renovation project if the renovation improves the financial value of your home (and the cost to borrow the personal loan is less than the expected appreciation of your home as a result of the renovation project).
4. Other Uses For A Personal Loan
A personal loan can used to help pay for other key life events, including an engagement ring, wedding, moving, honeymoon and many other uses.
Like any debt obligation, ask yourself whether your reason to obtain a personal loan is a "want" or a "need."
For example, if you are planning to get married, and you do not have the financial resources to pay for your wedding, then your best bet is to consider a smaller wedding and find ways to cut costs without borrowing.
If that is not feasible, then a personal loan could save you interest costs compared to a credit card. Importantly, ensure that can repay the loan by the end of the loan term.
A personal loan, therefore, should not be an excuse to acquire more debt.
Rather, a personal loan can be a helpful tool for the smart borrower who has an action plan to get debt-free and march down the path toward financial freedom.

Story 37
Error 403 not available now
not available now
Guru Meditation:
XID: 1115567720
Varnish cache server

Story 38

How do you ride Vancouver transit with a Compass card? The short answer is: buy a Compass card and tap it on the blue Compass card logo when you board a Metro Vancouver bus or approach a train or SeaBus fare gate.
But behind that simple tap are a lot of details, and I review some of them here.
article continues below
After years of testing and delay, TransLink, Metro Vancouver’s public transit system, fully rolled out its Compass fare payment system in January.
I bought my Compass card online while at home in Victoria, reasoning that it would be handy to have it before I arrived in Vancouver. I didn’t want to go searching for a vending machine, or to line up at one.
Go to this Compass card website; you need a credit card. Pay a $6 deposit for the Compass card and buy “value” that goes toward fares, or buy up to three day passes for $9.75 each. Monthly passes are also an option. More details are at the website, and at the entertaining Ask Compass website, where dozens of arcane questions are posed and most are cheerfully answered.
As you use up the value or the passes, add more by going to the Compass website or by going to a Compass vending machine (photos below).
My Compass card arrived in the mail about a week after ordering. There is no extra charge for mailing.
With card in pocket, I rode a Victoria transit bus to Swartz Bay terminal and then B.C. Ferries to Tsawwassen terminal.
At Tsawwassen terminal, in the vending machines area of the arrivals section, next to the pop and chips, there are two Compass vending machines, which were installed in October. Their role is not obvious for visitors unfamiliar with Metro Vancouver’s transit system. Each machine has a sign at the top that says “Compass Vending Machine” — not something more to the point like Pay Transit Fares Here.
Of the dozens of people who poured off the ferry and lined up for the 620 bus that goes to Bridgeport station, I only saw one go up to the machine. Many people, like me, already had a Compass card. But many others fumbled with coins to pay the exact-change fare as they boarded the bus, often asking the driver how much they had to put in the farebox.
On my bus, a Compass card reader was at my waist level, on the windshield side. Depending on bus design, it can be elsewhere near the driver.
You tap your card on a blue patch with the Compass “C” logo, which is below a green screen with an arrow pointing down that says Tap Card. Hold your card flat against the blue patch for about a second. Touching the blue patch with the edge of the card does not appear to work. If the tap is a success, a checkmark appears on the green screen and there’s a beep.
Here’s a TransLink video showing how you should tap.
On buses, $2.10 will be deducted from the value on your Compass card. If you have loaded a day pass, the day pass will be activated. If you have both a day pass and dollar amounts loaded on your card, the day pass will be deducted first. If you were hoping to just pay the $2.10 fare and use the day pass the next day, you’ll need two Compass cards, one with just cash value, the other with the day pass.
Fares on buses are all one zone, all day, every day. You tap to board (tap in), but you do not tap when you get off (tap out), even though there are card readers at the back doors. TransLink had wanted to charge multi-zone fares on buses, using your tap out location to determine how far you had travelled. But the tap out technology, which needs to connect to a distant computer system, did not work reliably on buses.
Tap out, however, is required when you ride the trains and the SeaBus.
At stations, you tap in at a fare gate, on the blue patch on the right side. The value remaining on your card briefly flashes on a screen. The gate, two plastic doors, opens. During the introductory period for Compass, at least one gate will be left open for people using old-style paper tickets. When you tap in, the fare for a three-zone trip (the maximum) is deducted. At your destination, you tap out at a fare gate. If you rode in just one zone or two zones, there’ll be a refund to your card.
(Based on an annoying experience in Paris, I’m inclined to wait for the person in front of me to tap and walk through before I tap. Fare evaders in Paris are known to hesitate at closed gates, and wait for bumbling tourists like me to slide in their ticket. They then walk through, while I fume behind the closed gate.)
There are Exit Ticket Machines at station exits. People can buy another fare if they lose their ticket or Compass card after they tap in. They’ll need to buy another fare to get out of the station once all fare gates are closed.
You save a bit of money when you use a Compass card, versus buying single Compass tickets (which you also tap on the blue reader).
A single one-zone ticket is $2.75, versus $2.10 if you use the card.
It’s $4 versus $3.15 for two zones, and $5.50 versus $4.20 for three zones.
I tried out the vending machines. They’re at all Canada Line, Expo Line and Millennium Line stations, the Tsawwassen and Horseshoe Bay ferry terminals, and Metro Vancouver London Drugs stores.
You can buy Compass cards, single tickets or day passes at the machines. A touch screen gives you options. They take credit cards, debit cards and cash — coins plus $5, $10 and $20 bills. I tried to buy a Compass card using my credit card, but was unsuccessful despite trying three machines. I slid my card into the credit card slot as instructed, but it was rejected. I suspect I didn’t understand the directions, which involved a yellow blinking light. There was a moment of panic when, after one rejection, I could not pull my card back out. I tugged and tugged and wiggled (the card that is), and it eventually came free. So, I ended up using cash to buy the Compass card. My credit card worked fine in other transactions that day, including at a B.C. Ferries ticket machine.
Using a Compass vending machine, you can see how much money is left on a card by selecting the View Balance button on the touch screen, and tapping your card on the blue reader. You’ll be shown the balance and also have the option of seeing where the card has been used. I found that to be a little disconcerting. TransLink has a record of where I’ve used my card, and that card is linked to my name and address. But there’s a way around that. You can buy a Compass card with cash, and not register it on the Compass card website. No name will be associated with the Compass card. If you register and lose your card, the money balance can be transferred to a new card; you don’t have that option if you don’t register.
To discourage fare evasion, transit officers with card readers patrol the system and may ask to scan your card to see if you have tapped in. They’ll also be able to see locations where the card has been recently used. Which is also disconcerting.
If you’re travelling on the Canada Line from the airport beyond Sea Island, you’ll be charged an additional $5 on top of the regular fare. It’s called AddFare, and it’s supposed to help pay for the spur line to the airport.
You can avoid the $5 surcharge by using FareSaver tickets, but they are being phased out and are no longer sold. The $5 surcharge will be added to single tickets and day passes purchased from machines at the three Sea Island stations — Airport, Sea Island Centre and Templeton. The $5 surcharge will also be applied if you use a Compass card with stored value.
But the $5 won’t be charged for monthly passes, day passes and single-use Compass tickets not purchased on Sea Island.
For Vancouver Islanders getting off a plane at YVR and wanting to ride public transit into town, the most practical way to avoid the $5 charge is to have a day pass already loaded onto a Compass card. Or have a friend bring a single-use ticket not purchased on Sea Island.
Or, just skip this surcharge-avoiding cheapness, and pay up.
More details about the confusing airport rules are here.
And why has nearly $200 million been spent on the Compass card system? The genesis appears to be provincial government unhappiness about fare evasion. Under the old system, there were no fare gates. Riders could just walk onto trains without having to show a ticket, unless they encountered a random check.
There was also a desire to better track how the transit system is being used so that TransLink officials can respond more effectively to changing travel patterns.
Here’s an explanation from Ask Compass.
And perspectives from Wikipedia and The Tyee.

Compass card vending machine

Compass vending machine purchase options

Compass vending machine screen shows card's travel history
- - -
More Wanderings
- - -
Most-popular posts:
Eight years of riding an electric-assist bicycle almost every day
Why newer dishwashers run for an alarmingly long time
Most credit cards charge 2.5% for currency conversion; a few charge 0%
Why paying $720 for a phone can be a better deal than a 2-year contract
Tips to make applying for a passport a little easier
What a credit report reveals, and how to get yours
Do you know your Gulf Islands? Here's help memorizing 14 (of 200)
What happens when a cross-country Via train is 16 hours late
How to line up at busy Greater Victoria restaurants
Running a smartphone for $10 a month
Via rolls out rooms with double bed on Vancouver-Toronto train
To stay cool, leave house windows closed or open?
A guide to public toilets in downtown Victoria
How to block unwanted text messages
Why B.C. Hydro bills sting more on Vancouver Island
How to pronounce Ucluelet, Tsawwassen, and that outdoor gear place

How to travel between Victoria and Vancouver on public transit
- - -

Story 39
Jed Jacobsohn/Getty Images
The "Action Heroes" pay-per-view fight card was another Golden Boy Promotions hit. It had a good lineup of stacked action-packed fights from top to bottom.
On the free televised portion of the card was the veteran retired comeback fight of Nate "Galaxy Warrior" Campbell vs. undefeated rising prospect Danny "Swift" Garcia.
Garcia was far too much for the older, should-have-stayed-retired Campbell, winning an easy, comfortable unanimous decision. Garcia may need to work on his conditioning and stamina for he gave the much older Campbell some opportunities in the later rounds and his punches seemed to lose their snap as well.
Then was the Paul Malignaggi vs Jose Miguel Cotto fight, which was at the welterweight limit. Paulie has spent most of his career at 140 but now seems to desperately want to make a new name for himself at 147.
Unfortunately, much like most of his fights, he can at the very best outbox his opponents on points. He lacks the true power to stop or even hurt most fighters hence why he has only a 18 percent KO rate.
Taking on Miguel Cotto's less popular, less talented and less dangerous brother Jose Miguel Cotto is probably not the type of fight that one should be taking in order to prove their worth at 147.
Like most of Malignaggi's fights there was very little excitement, for again he pretty much outboxes and dances around his opponents to a comfortable decision as he did in this fight as well. Probably the highlight of this fight was when his shoe came off, much like when he needed an emergency haircut in his previous fight.
One final thought on this fight was it was on the free televised portion of the pay-per-view card. You can make your own opinion on that.
Then came probably the biggest bomb, dropping shocking news that boxing has had in such a long time when the James Kirkland vs. Nobuhiro Ishida came.
James Kirkland, who recently was released from prison, was on a very fast-paced track to knocking out everyone in his way back to the top of the game. He knocked out both of his opponents with ease within the first two rounds, fighting twice in March before this fight with Ishida.
Prior to this fight, both Jim Lampley and Max Kellerman talked about how Ishida was purposely chosen to make Kirkland look really good by not having any knockout power and by not being an accomplished fighter by the age of already 35 with only seven knockouts on his record. (Still a higher KO percentage rate than Paul Malignaggi).
Ishida came in with a big goofy smile on his face; his fighter profile photo even had a goofy smile on it as well. But now as we all know Ishida had every right to have a big goofy smile on his face, for he knew what none of us knew and that was he was going to knock out the undefeated, invincible wrecking machine who was highly underestimating him.
Ishida knocked Kirkland down three times with much ease, causing the fair but firm Joe Cortez to stop the fight. In fact, if you watch the video Cortez even jumps on Kirkland and lays on top of him for some very strange reason, and then presses his body against Kirkland up against the ropes.
Ishida's enormous upset win erupted the fight fans forums, having everyone and their mother on YouTube searching what they had to see with their own eyes to believe.
No one believed in Ishida so much that they had to improvise and get a last minute Japanese translator for the postfight interview, who did a horrible job since he could barely speak English/Japanese himself.
Ishida's upset was the constant theme and subject for the remainder of the night, having both Lampley and Kellerman constantly talking about it and drawing parallels, and even Oscar De La Hoya reportedly said he will from now on feature a super underdog of 30 to 1 odds on every Golden Boy pay-per-view card from now on.
I personally was hoping for Friday's fight with Japan's biggest fighter Hasegawa to win a big moral victory for the people of Japan against Gonzalez, but he fell short, being knocked out. Ironically Japan's unknown underdog Ishida provided that huge moral victory for the people of Japan with his upset-of-the-year performance. The MGM grand cheered loud for the overnight sensation as he waved to the crowd.
Then came the fight of the night that most fans were looking forward to. Robert "The Ghost" Guerrero vs. Michael Katsidis. This fight opened up with high energy and excitement as Katsidis began to taunt Guerrero by screaming into the referees microphone yelling, "WHAT ARE YOU LOOKING AT?!!!"
Guerrero was all poker faced out as he stared down back at Katsidis and began what would become an exciting 12 rounds of out-classing, out-pointing and even trading and out-slugging the slugger.
There was a highly controversial knockdown overlooked early in the fight as referee Mora did not rule it a knockdown, even though Guerrero did have one of his gloves touch the canvas.
Katsidis was deducted points twice for low blows in the eighth round and referee Mora seemed to give in to the criticism of doing that by deducted Guerrero a point as well in the ninth round for low blows as well.
Guerrero pulled an impressive Action Heroes type of performance in earning a unanimous decision over Katsidis. Many were calling for the Juan Manuel Marquez fight almost as soon as this fight was coming to an end.
Guerrero should be able to land the big super fights now with this big win and big performance.
Finally in the main event, the legendary Erik Morales came into the ring to prove all the doubters wrong as he put on the comeback performance of a lifetime against the dangerous prime knockout sensation Marcos Maidana.
In the first round Morales looked horrible, shots just covering up the shots coming towards him by Maidana. Morales even suffered a black eye that closed his eye up completely forcing him to fight with only one good eye and only half of his vision for the remaining 11 rounds.
Maidana seemed to be either holding back a bit out of respect for fighting a legend such as Morales or he was attempting to fight a new more complete fighting style with his new trainer who ironically was Marco Antonio Barrera's trainer.
Maidana still being aggressive won most of the early rounds with ease. It was not until about the fifth round that Morales began to really open up and become his former young prime self trading and beating the younger Maidana to the punch.
Morales became alive for much of the second half of the fight, outboxing and out-classing Maidana and even hurting him, wobbling him at times.
Much of the crowd at the MGM Grand were now awake and excited for the older veteran legend catching his second wind and channeling his old prime self.
Harold Lederman, HBO's official ringside judge, scored the fight a draw 114-114 as much of the crowd and home viewers did or even having Morales winning it by a round or two.
The official judges scored it: a majority decision for Maidana 116-112 while the other two had it 114-114.
Morales proved most of us wrong that he could in fact be a force once again. However this also says a a lot about Maidana and that is a superior technical boxer/puncher with a decent chin can still beat him.
This in my eyes not only takes away a bit from Maidana's stock but it also takes away from Amir Khan's stock as well. For his best career-defining win is over Maidana, a fight in which he had some very troubling moments where he almost got knocked out.
I'll even go as far as saying that I now slightly favor Tim Bradley to defeat Khan when they finally meet in the ring.
Where should Maidana go from here? I think he looks best and performs best against an aggressive fighter who trades and comes forward towards him so Devon Alexander or Lucas Matthysse would make a great fight.
Morales should fight Marco Antonio Barrera one last final time and make that big money and ride his horse into the Tijuana sunset.
Word came out that Oscar De La Hoya stated that profits from "Action Heroes" pay-per-view were going to help the Japan disaster relief fund. If this is indeed true, then Oscar De La Hoya is indeed an Action Hero himself.
Also I'll even go as far as saying I am for once very happy in spending that 50 bucks for this pay-per-view card...even though I watched it at this chick's house and made her pay for it. WINK.
Subscribe: http://www.youtube.com/KingJ323
Follow on Twitter: http://twitter.com/KingJ323

Story 40
Paytm Now Lets You Use Credit or Debit Card to Pay Shopkeeper Features oi-Samden Sherpa With its assertive focus on mobile payments, Paytm is inching closer to its aim of making cashless transactions a way of life by developing alternate solutions to address this challenge.
Post demonetization, Paytm has witnessed transactions worth millions and has even registered transactions worth Rs 120 crore in a day.
Amidst the severe cash crunch situation, the company became the centre of transactions and now millions of consumers and merchants across the country are trying mobile payments on the payment platform for the first time.
SEE ALSO: Reliance Jio Lets You Get Change For Rs. 2,000, Shop Cashless, Transfer Money to Bank and More
While Paytm has been stepping up its game introducing many new features, yet again it has announced a new update to its app.
More importantly, the new update will help regular merchants to accept Credit/Debit cards as a mode of transaction.
Paytm has launched a new feature for its mobile app dubbed as POS (Point of Sale). The update might be India's first app based POS which will allow all small and medium merchants to accept all card payments including Rupay, Visa, MasterCard and Maestro.
In essence, the app based POS will act as a virtual POS in shops and stores where a user can just enter their card details and make a payment using the merchant's smartphone when a POS machine might not be working or is not present.
Click Here For New Laptops Best Online Deals
To be more precise, a shopkeeper after generating the bill on the app POS will then give the phone to the payee to enter his card details. After entering the details, the payee will receive an OTP on his or her phone and the payment will be approved once the correct OTP is entered.
SEE ALSO: Airtel Successfully Acquired Aircel's 4G Spectrum in 8 Circles to Combat Reliance Jio
The transaction limit is fixed up to Rs. 50,000, after which customers will be required to submit their documents for KYC.
What's important and the key highlight of the update? The feature will immensely benefit small merchants as they will now be able to accept card payments without installing a bank provided swipe machine.
Moreover, Paytm will impose zero transaction fee for the payments made until December 31, 2016.
Paytm's CEO, Vijay Shekhar Sharma on a positive note, communicated that the company is expecting up to 10 million POS app downloads by the end of the week. He affirmed that around 1.5 million merchants have already started using Paytm after demonetization to accept payments.
He further added that Paytm was on a mission to democratize payments and empower even the smallest merchants to be able to accept credit and debit card payments from their customers. The company is very proud of being able to contribute to the digitization of the Indian economy.
As for Android users, the Paytm app has already been updated. It will now show a list of merchants who accept Paytm payment through QR codes or Credit/Debit card. The list can be found under the "Accept Payment" option in the app.
Similarly, Paytm is working on an update for its iOS app.
Click Here for New Smartphones Best Online Deals
Best Mobiles in India

Story 41
Newly crowned UFC heavyweight and light heavyweight champion Daniel Cormier was one of seven fighters to clear the six-figure mark in earnings on Saturday night, having done so for his historic victory over Stipe Miocic at UFC 226.
The Nevada Athletic Commission released the event’s finalized salary information on Monday to MMA Fighting.
Cormier defeated Miocic via first-round knockout to become only the second-ever dual-division UFC champion in the night’s main event. Cormier pocketed a flat $500,000 purse for his win, while Miocic earned an event-high $750,000 purse in a losing effort.
UFC 226 took place July 7 at the T-Mobile Arena in Las Vegas, Nevada. The night’s main card aired live on pay-per-view.
Aside from the main event competitors, five other fighters cleared the six-figure mark in earnings at UFC 226: Anthony Pettis ($284,400), Derrick Lewis ($260,000), Raphael Assuncao ($130,000), Paulo Costa ($110,000), and Francis Ngannou ($100,000).
In addition to their commission-reported salaries, Cormier, Pettis, Costa, and Khalil Rountree also took home $50,000 fight night bonuses for their performances.
A complete list of the UFC 226 salaries can be seen below. As always, these figures do not represent a fighter’s total earnings, as certain sponsorship incomes, pay-per-view earnings or discretionary bonuses are not publicly disclosed.
Main Card (Pay-Per-View)
Daniel Cormier ($500,000 + no win bonus = $500,000) def. Stipe Miocic ($750,000)
Derrick Lewis ($130,000 + $130,000 = $260,000) def. Francis Ngannou ($100,000)
Mike Perry ($40,000 + $40,000 = $80,000) def. Paul Felder ($46,000)
Anthony Pettis ($149,400* + $135,000 = $284,400) def. Michael Chiesa ($33,600*)
Khalil Rountree Jr. ($19,000 + $19,000 = $38,000) def. Gokhan Saki ($85,000)
Preliminary Card (FOX Sports 1)
Paulo Costa ($55,000 + $55,000 = $110,000) def. Uriah Hall ($48,000)
Raphael Assuncao ($70,000 + $60,000 = $130,000) def. Rob Font ($33,000)
Drakkar Klose ($22,000 + $22,000 = $44,000) def. Lando Vannata ($25,000)
Curtis Millender ($15,000 + $15,000 = $30,000) def. Max Griffin ($20,000)
Preliminary Card (UFC Fight Pass)
Dan Hooker ($30,000 + $30,000 = $60,000) def. Gilbert Burns ($31,000)
Emily Whitmire ($10,000 + $10,000 = $20,000) def. Jamie Moyle ($12,000)
*Chiesa forfeited 30 percent of his purse as a result of missing weight

Story 42
Getty Images
August 1, 2016. The day I'd been dreading. Sydney had finally abolished paper train tickets and I was getting ready to erase my identity.
The Australian state of New South Wales had been gradually transitioning away from paper tickets for more than two years. In the interests of entering the digital era, Transport NSW introduced the new 'tap-on, tap-off' Opal card. A contactless travel card, named after Australia's distinctive rainbow-hued Opal gemstone, it's similar to London's Oyster card and San Francisco's Clipper.
Welcome to the future! No more paper tickets! Top up your Opal card online! Set up a direct debit, download the accompanying app and track your spending, you mouth-breathing luddite -- this is the 21st century!
But if this was my ticket to the future, I was not on board.
I'm not against going digital. I have an email account. I use internet banking. I have even foregone my family's tradition of using a cool, damp sack to store milk in favor of putting it in the "refrigerator."
But in the context of an increasingly pervasive culture of state-sanctioned digital surveillance in Australia and across the world, this smart card smarted.
Surveillance state
In 2015, during the transition from paper to Opal, Australia passed sweeping new data retention laws. These laws required all Australian internet service providers and telecommunications carriers to retain customers' phone and internet metadata for two years -- details like the phone number a person calls, the timestamps on text messages or the cell tower a phone pings when it makes a call.
Suddenly, Australians were fighting for the right to stay anonymous in a digital world.
On one side of the fence: safety-conscious civilians. They argued that this metadata was a powerful tool and that the ability to track a person's movements through phone pings or call times was vital for law enforcement.
On the other side of the fence: digital civil libertarians. They argued that the data retention scheme was invasive and that this metadata could be used to build up an incredibly detailed picture of someone's life.
And sitting in a barn two paddocks away from that fence: me, switching out burner phones and researching VPNs.
When it emerged that police had the power to search Opal card data, track people's movements and match this to individual users, it was the last straw. August 2016 rolled around, paperless tickets were phased out and I hatched my plan.
The Black Opal.
Now playing: Watch this: Here be monsters: A guide to the dark web
Going off the grid
The concept of the Black Opal is simple. Buy your transport card. Pay cash. Top up with cash (preferably in a new location each time). Never register it. Never link it to your credit or debit card. Live off the grid. Stay away from The Man.
I went dark in early 2016, when I needed to catch a train through the city. It was simple enough. Most Opal cards are sold at newsagents or corner stores -- the card itself is free, and you fill it with credit in increments of AU$20 or AU$50. I bought a card, added credit and walked away into the night.
I tapped on at Central Station, just another faceless commuter. But as I walked through the meatspace, jostling with peak-hour travellers and being thrust into the armpits of sweat-addled corporate lackies on my packed train, I knew I was safe. Deep in the Transport NSW matrix, I was unidentifiable.
A few weeks later I needed to top up. No problem! I jumped off the train at [REDACTED] station and filled my card at the [REDACTED] across the road. I paid [REDACTED] for one Opal top-up, two [REDACTED] bars and a copy of the weekly [REDACTED] Times. Faceless, nameless bliss.
Then the problems started.
Always bet on black
I'm all for escaping the Orwellian nightmare of the modern surveillance state. But when you rage against the machine, you still have to associate with the bulls on parade.
All the top-up machines at train stations, light rail stops and ferry terminals were card-only affairs. One tap on that baby and you were back in the system.
So, if I was busing downtown for a work meeting, I'd have to factor in extra time to get to an ATM, get cash out and then find somewhere to top up my card. Running for the train with friends, I was the one who had to divert three blocks, change jackets, burn off my fingerprints and find a nondescript corner store to top up.
Here's what I learned.
Ian Knighton/CNET
No one likes the paranoid one.
I constantly harass my friends for signing up for rewards cards that track their spending. My email address (that is, my real email address, not my burner address) doesn't use my birth name. I am no fun at birthday parties, but you'd never know it... mostly because I won't reveal my actual birthday.
But I'm not alone. For someone who was mostly educated through the received wisdom of Hollywood movies, I learned a lot about what The State could do to me. I watched "The Net" as if it were a documentary. I didn't brush my hair for weeks after watching "Gattaca." I spent months walking around my house, narrating my life after watching "The Truman Show," just to give Ed Harris more material to edit.
I wish these stories weren't true. But in the grim near future of "Demolition Man" I know I would be the one hiding in the bathroom, away from the countless surveillance cameras, trying to stop people stealing my eyeballs. (At least I'll have plenty of time to work out how to use the three seashells.)
End game
I finally came undone last week. Racing for a flight, I forgot about my Black Opal. I'd had an unusually busy week on public transport, and my balance was low. On the train to the airport terminal, it hit me. Did I have enough money on my card to pay the AU$17.76 tap-off fee that they use to gouge tourists at the airport?
As I rode up the escalators and the exit turnstiles came into view, my heart sank. No ATM. No cash in my wallet. Just a row of bright green Opal readers and a top-up machine. Card only.
Today's the day. After 3 years living off the grid and topping up my Opal card with CASH ONLY (unmarked bills, small denominations) I was 9 cents short for the $17 fare to the airport. I had to top up with my EFTPOS card. It's over. The Black Opal project is dead. pic.twitter.com/TXKahak75t — Claire Reilly (@reillystyley) March 8, 2018
With one trip, my years of off-grid living were undone. (And yes, it was two years, not three. My how time flies when you're madly tweeting like a paranoid vagrant at the airport.) I slumped against the top-up machine and swiped my debit card. I was just 9 cents short, but it cost me so much more than that. My Black Opal was dead.
$19.84
I bought a new Opal last Monday. Hidden in my wallet, it represents the freedom to traverse the city undetected. I'll use the last few dollars on my Tainted Opal, but even though you'll see my human suit on the train, that won't be the real me. The real me is already beneath the mainframe: stockpiling cash, buying a collection of cheap nylon wigs and mapping out a network of newsagents with red string so I put all my money on Black.
I know my spending can be tracked on my debit card. I know virtually all my personal information is now in the system, thanks to driver's license records, electricity bills and that government-sponsored data sweep they call "the census." Hell, I even know my telco can hand over a map of every cell tower ping my phone makes as I cross the city on the train.
But as long as I'm carrying my Black Opal, there's that little shred of liberty. If this the hill I die on, at least you'll never know how I got here.
Logging Out: Welcome to the crossroads of online life and the afterlife.
Batteries Not Included: The CNET team reminds us why tech is cool.

Story 43
UFC 227 took place Saturday, Aug. 4 at the Staples Center in Los Angeles. Following the conclusion of the main event between bantamweight champion TJ Dillashaw and Cody Garbrandt, the top performers of the night will face the media for the UFC 227 post-fight press conference.
UFC president Dana White will also be in attendance to announce Fight of the Night and Performance of the Night bonuses, along with the official gate and attendance for the championship doubleheader.
The event kicked off at 6:15 p.m. ET with the three-fight UFC Fight Pass preliminary card headlined by Alex Perez vs. Jose Torres. The prelims then moved to FX at 8:00 p.m. ET, leading into the pay-per-view main card with a featured prelim between bantamweights Brett Johns and Pedro Munhoz. Kicking off the main card was a middleweight clash between Kevin Holland and Thiago “Marreta” Santos.
You can watch the UFC 227 post-fight press conference live below as soon as the pay-per-view concludes.
UFC 227 Post-Fight Press Conference
UFC 227 Fight Card & Results
MAIN CARD (pay-per-view, 10:00 p.m. ET )
Champ T.J. Dillashaw (135) vs. Cody Garbrandt (134.75) – for bantamweight title
Demetrious Johnson (125) vs. Henry Cejudo (124.5) – for flyweight title
J.J. Aldrich (115.75) vs. Polyana Viana (115)
Renato Moicano (146) vs. Cub Swanson (145.25)
Kevin Holland (184.75) vs. Thiago “Marreta” Santos (185.5)
PRELIMINARY CARD (FX, 8:00 p.m. ET)
Brett Johns (135.25) vs. Pedro Munhoz (135)
Montel Jackson (136) vs. Ricky Simon (135.25)
Kyung Ho Kang (136) vs. Ricardo Ramos (135.5)
Sheymon Moraes (146) vs. Matt Sayles (145.75)
PRELIMINARY CARD (UFC Fight Pass, 6:15 p.m. ET)
Alex Perez (126) vs. Jose Torres (125)
Danielle Taylor (115.25) vs. Weili Zhang (115.5)
Wuliji Buren (135.5) vs. Marlon Vera (135.5)

Story 44


Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC) is close to putting the finishing touches on its upcoming UFC 147 pay-per-view (PPV) fight card scheduled for the Mineirinho Arena in Belo Horizonte, Brazil TONIGHT (Sat., June 23, 2012).
Former UFC middleweight Champion Rich Franklin is stepping in on short notice to rematch Ultimate Fighter (TUF) "Brazil" coach Wanderlei Silva in the night's main event, thanks to an untimely injury to original headliner, Vitor Belfort.
UFC 147 will also feature the finals from the TUF: "Brazil" reality show in both the featherweight and middleweight divisions as well as a heavyweight showdown between grappling phenom Fabricio Werdum and Chicago cop Mike Russow.
MMAmania.com will provide LIVE round-by-round, blow-by-blow coverage of the main card action on fight night (Sat., June 23, 2012), which is slated to air at 10 p.m. ET on pay-per-view(PPV). The latest quick updates of the live action will begin to flow earlier than that around 7:00p.m. ET with the "Prelims" bouts on Facebook and FX.
Many of our readers check-in before, during and after the televised action to share their thoughts on all the exciting action. Therefore, feel free to leave a comment (or 147) before you leave and chat with all the other Maniacs during the show -- it always turns out to be a great discussion.
Keep in mind that we will also be the spot for the latest news, recaps and post-fight analysis after "Silva vs. Franklin 2."
Without further delay, see below for the latest UFC 147 results. (Note: This will go from the bottom up; therefore, scroll toward the bottom for the latest detailed round-by-round action.)
UFC 147 QUICK RESULTS:
UFC 147 PLAY-BY-PLAY LIVE MAIN CARD COMMENTARY (PPV):
Hemmi here!
Rich Franklin vs. Wanderlei Silva (190-pound limit):
Round one: Wanderlei looks cautious early on and Franklin is stalking him to get things started. Inside leg kick from Silva and Silva throws a sneaky right hand counter on Franklin's kick. Franklin goes down the middle with his straight left and Silva tries to fire back with a big right hook. Franklin is starting to open up with his lead right, whether it's a jab or a hook. Silva goes high with a head kick and Franklin catches it but eats a few punches for his effort. Short left from Franklin stumbles Silva and Franklin presses forward, catching him again and knocking him backwards against the fence. Silva is getting defensive with his winging hooks when he's cornered. Franklin is in control now. Right jab for Franklin sneaks through Silva's defenses. Nice head kick from Silva lands on Franklin and Franklin fires back with a jab. Head kick is blocked this time by Franklin. Both men exchange blows and Franklin got the better end of the punches there. 10-9 Franklin
Round two: Franklin backs Silva off with his jab and Silva fires back with a head kick. Silva is still coiled and looking to land his right hand as a counter. Front kick from Silva and Franklin is patiently throwing short strikes. Franklin lands a nice lead right hook and both men exchange. Franklin backs Silva into the fence and and unloads a nice combination. Silva is trapped here and Franklin keeps cutting him off. Silva misses with a big hook and Franklin returns fire. Nice right hook lands for Silva and Franklin backs off briefly. Nice kick from Silva there and Franklin responds with a pair of punches. Silva lands a left hand and backs Franklin up with a short flurry. Silva turns up the aggression and he swarms Franklin, landing big punches. Silva throws a huge knee in the clinch and then drops Franklin with a big right hand. Franklin recovers and it looking for a takedown but Silva stuffs it. Silva dives on Franklin and is dropping big right hands but he's running out of time. Franklin survives until the end of the round but HUGE finish to the round by Silva. 10-8 Silva
Round three: Franklin is moving forward despite being hurt at the end of last round. Ace drops a big left hand to Silva's body. Silva fires off a right head kick which is blocked. Franklin seems fully recovered from the end of the second. Perhaps Wanderlei is tired after that huge attempt to finish. Head kick from Franklin just misses. Right jab from Franklin lands and Silva is doing nothing but back up this round. Silva finally throws a nice right hand but Franklin responds with a big left body kick and a left hand. Franklin gets inside and scores a takedown against Silva. He's in half guard on top and drops a few elbows. Franklin opens up and drops big punches at the end of the round. 10-9 Franklin
Round four: Not much going on in the first minute as Franklin is picking his spots. Franklin lands a nice straight left but neither man is taking control here. Nice right hand from Franklin and then another lead right hook. Wanderlei is still moving slowly still. Franklin is starting to pick up the pace and Silva kicks him square in the junk. Franklin humps the ground and sumo stomps a few times before he;s ready to go. Silva looks a little quicker now, throwing left and right hands. Silva land a left counter and a right counter but Franklin fires off straight left and right hands from a distance. 10-9 Franklin
Round five: Not much going on early here but Franklin connects with a straight left a minute in which backs Wanderlei up. Franklin is circling well and picking his spots, leaning in and firing off straight left and right hands. Silva is coiled and trying to counter but he's just a step slow here. He's never been the same since not finishing Franklin at the end of the second. Franklin scores a nice right then a 1-2. Silva is running out of time here. Silva starts stalkign and he's got 70 seconds. He raises his hands and then he starts charging forwards. Franklin circles away and Silva charges in looking for the knockout. Silav is winging big hooks and Franklin fires back. 20 seconds left and Silva needs a miracle. Franklin pops off a nice left and right jab. Both men trade huge punches all the way to the bell and Franklin drops Silva at the bell. Silva is bleeding and both men hug it out. 10-9 Franklin
Final results: Rich Franklin defeats Wanderlei Silva via unanimous decision (49-46 x3)
- end -
(TUF Middleweight final) Cezar "Mutante" Ferreira vs. Sergio Moraes (185-pound limit):
Round one: Mutante presses forward aggressively early, winging big punches and kicks. Moraes does not want much to do with him in the stand-up as he's simply not in his league in that department. Good body kick from Moraes and Mutante connects with a snap-push kick to the face. Mutante presses forwards with a straight left and another front kick. Mutante eats a shot a backs straight into the fence. He tries to grab Mutante but can't hang on. Moraes lands a nice short right counter but the follow-up blow hits nothing but air. Mutante is utilizing really good footwork thus far to keep his distance and not get in range of being dumped on the ground. Huge kick to the groin from Mutante and we take two minute break. Moraes lunges forward with a pair of hooks but they miss. Mutante presses Moraes into the fence with a flurry but Moraes fires back with a big series of punches which land and force him to back off, drawing cheers from the crowd for his effort. 10-9 Mutante
Round two: Mutante tries to work knees in teh clinch and Moraes pulls guard and Mutate backs off immediately. Big right hand from Mutante and Moraes may have been hurt. He drops to the ground and tries to grab Mutante's leg but Mutante backs off. Huge spinning wheel kick lands for Mutante and Moraes is hurt. Mutante swarms Moraes along the fence and Moraes drops to his back. Mutante follows him this time, landing hammer fists and doing damage but he backs off again as Moraes recovers. Moraes is bleeding now under his left eye and Mutante is being patient here, giving him ample opportunity to recover. It looks now like Mutante is trying to set up a highlight-reel knockout rather than actually fight anymore. Moraes is game, though, and the crowd is behind him. Moraes throws a big right hand and Mutante is hurt. Moraes chases Mutante down and tries to swarm him with big flurry but Mutante plays just enough defense to avoid the damage. Mutante recovers and throws a kick or two before the horn. That almost won Moraes the round, but I'm still siding with Mutante, Great round, though. 10-9 Mutante
Round three: Mutante attacks early and Moraes gets clipped. Moraes falls to his back but Mutante backs off and forces him to get to his feet. The pace is slower now and Mutante scores with a pair of kicks. Mutante comes in with a lazy right and Moraes fires back with a right to the chin. Mutante is really being tentative here and Moraes can steal the round if he turns up the aggression. Just 90 seconds left and this round has been pretty awful thus far. Moraes tags Mutante again and now he's taunting Mutante. Moraes needs to go for it here. Right hand for Moraes and Mutante responds with a straight left which drops him on his butt. Kicks to the legs from Mutante and Moraes pops back to his feet. Moraes was winning that round until getting dropped. This could be anybody's fight. 10-9 Mutante
Final results: Cezar "Mutante" Ferreira defeats Sergio Moraes via unanimous decision (30-27, 29-28, 30-27)
- end -
(TUF featherweight final) Rony "Jason" Mariano Bezerra vs. Godofredo Pepey (145-pound limit):
Round one: Pepey closes the distance early with a clinch and upon separation, both trade extremely wild and crazy hooks. Pepey charges forwards and just avoids a huge right hook counter. Pepey pulls guard and "Jason" is on top of him and he's likely going to be attacking with some sort of arm attack. Pepey is hunting for a Kimura from full guard against Jason but Jason is defending for now. Jason has his hands clasped together and Pepey gives up on the attack which draws some cheers. Big punches to the body from Jason and the ref stands them up. Huge leg kick from Jason connects, Pepey charges forward and eats a gigantic flying knee from Jason. Pepey tries to pull guard, jumping guard and Jason slams him to the canvas, following up with big punches. Pepey throws elbows from bottom at the top of Jason's head as time expires. 10-9 Jason
Round two: Pepey continues to the the aggressor and Jason is really being tentative to get this fight started. Jason is mainly countering, looking to play off of Pepey's aggression but Pepey is content just pulling guard to try and take the fight to the ground. Ugh, this round is really bad 10-9 Pepey I guess
Round three: Jason finally opens strongly and connects with a huge head kick. Pepey charges forward and eats a huge right counter which staggers him. Pepey is clinching here but he backs off. Pepey presses forward but now Jason is throwing aggressively. Took him long enough. They clinch and Pepey lands a big kick to the balls. After a break, Jason turns up the aggression and he's trying to get a big knockout but Pepey is hunting for a takedown along the fence. Pepey pulls guard which draws boos from the crowd and Jason kicks at his legs. The ref stands them up and oh god, Pepey just brutally kicked Jason in the nuts again. This time was way worse and Jason is hurt bad. Both men get really heated after the fight and Jason throws his mouthpiece into the crowd. 10-9 Jason
Final results: Rony Jason defeats Godofredo Pepey via unanimous decision (29-28 x3)
- end -
Mike Russow vs. Fabricio Werdum (265-pound limit):
Round one: Werdum looks strong early, connecting with an uppercut and pressing forward with his right hand. Russow fires right hand but Werdum works for a huge knee. Big leg kick lands for Werdum and he could potentially hit that all night. Another lead left for Werdum but he misses the right follow-up. Werdum steps forward and blasts Russow with a right uppercut and Russow is hurt! Russow stumbles and drops and Werdum swarms him with huge right hands. The onslaught continues with punches and hammerfists and referee Herb Dean puts a stop to it. Huge finish there for Werdum.
Final results: Fabricio Werdum defeats Mike Russow via TKO at 2:28 of round one
- end -
Yuri Alcantara vs. Hacran Dias (145-pound limit):
Round one: Alcantara is put on the defensive early as Dias pushes him into the fence working for a takedown. Dias scores a trip and now he's on top of Alcantara working some short punches. Nice right hands from Dias and he nearly takes Alcantara's back. Dias is threatening with an arm triangle and he's got the arm positioning but his body is not on the correct side yet as the cage is helping play defense. Dias gives up on the choke but he continues to rain down some big strikes. Big elbow for Dias and Alcantara scrambles to his feet only to get slammed back to the ground. Great start for Dias. 10-9 Dias
Round two: Dias scores an immediate takedown and he's right back to work with punches and elbows. Alcantara responds with a nifty armbar attempt which actually threatened a finish but Dias squirms free. Alcantara works his way back to his feet, but he gets dumped on the ground again. Dias with a flurry of elbows that were mostly blocked, but he's very aggressive. Alcantara gets it back to standing to finish the round, but he can't make up for his lost points. 10-9 Dias
Round three: More of the same from Dias as he's back on top grinding away and dropping punishment from above. Dias is actively striking from above although his pace is slowing and wow, the ref stands them up. Awful stand-up but Dias isn't denied as he continues to outwork Alcantara. 10-9 Dias and he should take a decision here.
Final results: Hacran Dias defeats Yuri Alcantara via unanimous decision (30-27, 30-27, 29-28)
- end -
UFC 147 "PRELIMS" COMMENTARY (FX):
Hemmi here!
Rodrigo Damm vs. Medeiros Anistavio (145-pound limit):
Round one: Not much going on early and the crowd is getting restless. Damm lands with a nice leg kick and then another. Anistavio fires back with a low blow and Damm needs a second. After the reset, Damm lands a brutal left hand and then another bigshot and Anistavio is really hurt. Damm attacks, pouncing on him on the ground and he's on Anistavio's back! He sinks in a rear naked choke, it's tight and Anistavio taps! Damm is fired up!
Final results: Rodrigo Damm defeats Medeiros Anistavio via submission (rear naked choke) at 2:12 of round one
- end -
Francisco Drinaldo vs. Delson Heleno (185-pound limit):
Round one: Drinaldo opens by connecting solidly with a big left hand. Heleno is working very hard for a takedown early in response but he can't secure on as Drinado is showcasing some solid defense. Big knees to the body in response by Drinaldo. Drinaldo with a good punch and some more knees to the body. Heleno has no answer for the strikes and is still trying very hard for a takedown while Drinaldo defends. Now Drinaldo gets on top during a heated exchange and he pounds away with heavy shots on the canvas. Huge punches from Drinaldo and that's all she wrote.
Final results: Francisco Drinaldo defeats Delson Heleno via TKO at 4:21 of round one
- end -
John Teixeira vs. Hugo Viana (145-pound limit):
Round one: Both featherweights trade massive shots to get things started. They enter the pocket and both Viana and Teixeira continue to exchange. Hard right by Viana and a big leg kick in return by Teixeira. Viana with a nice combination and he's got an early advantage. Heavy leather getting swung by both men. Teixeira throws a big kick but he slips and Viana takes advantage, throwing a heavy combination. Viana finishes the round strong with a big hook and a body shot. Great start to this battle. 10-9 Viana
Round two: Both featherweights trade short inside strikes along the fence but it's Teixeira who scores a nice takedown on Viana. Viana works his way back to his feet where he forces a separation in the clinch. Teixeira is in full on stalk-mode, aggressively pushing forward and forcing Viana to fight and circle from the outside. Nice kick from Teixeira and Viana is having trouble keeping up with his offensive output this round. 10-9 Teixeira.
Round three: Viana comes out strong here, mixing in some solid kicks to go with his big punching combinations. Low blow by Teixeira causes a brief delay. Teixeira scores a takedown but Viana immediately pops up. That has to be frustrating. Good combo by Viana now. Good body kick by Teixeira. Teixeira with a takedown but Viana jumps back up again. Viana finishes strong with a nice right hand. 10-9 Viana.
Final results: Hugo Viano defeats John Teixeira via split decision
- end -
Leonardo Mafra Teixeira vs. Thiago de Oliveira Perpetuo (185-pound limit):
Round one: Perpetuo and Mafra trade leg kicks and Mafra attempts a combination but backs away. Perpetuo lands a body kick and Mafra tries to throw a big combination but misses, hanging on the fence like Spiderman afterwards. Mafra wades in and charges forwards with a big pair of kicks as both men exchange punches. They clinch briefly but nothing comes out of it. Both men trade huge punches and Mafra lands a big knee in the clinch. Mafra is smaller but he's being more active so far and landing more effectively. Perpetuo backs Mafra into teh fence and wings big punches but can't land anything flush. Perpetuo has some swelling now on his face. They clinch and exchange knees until the round expires. 10-9 Mafra
Round two: Nice body kick from Perpetuo and Mafra is trying to respond to every strike with a big combination. Perpetuo is being more patient here in the second round, landing more accurately and technically. Mafra is winging some arm punches and Perpetuo shoots in for a takedown. Mafra immediately hops onto an arm and attempts an armbar but Perpetuo spins free of danger. Mafra is again trying for the armbar but Perpetuo escapes again. Third armbar attempt from Mafra is denied and Perpetuo blasts him with a pair of huge elbows. Mafra's pace has slowed now, no longer hunting for submissions from bottom and Perpetuo si going to work with patient short strikes from above. He's mixing in punches, hammerfists and elbows well and Mafra has a big welt as time expires. 10-9 Perpetuo
Round three: Mafra aggressively wades forward but can't land. Perpetuo lands a huge right hand and Mafra is hurt. Mafra goes down and Perpetuo swarms Mafra and just crushes him with hammerfists as Mafa is doing nothing but defending. After a big series of unanswered blows, the ref puts a stop to it.
Final results: Thiago Perpetuo defeats Leonardo Mafra via TKO at 0:41 of round three
- end -
UFC 147 "PRELIMS COMMENTARY (FACEBOOK)
Hemmi here!
Marcos Vinicius Borges Pancini vs. Wagner Campos (145-pound limit):
Round one: Both men look to strike and Campos lands a solid inside leg kick. He's finding a home for that and Pancini is trying to come over the top with an overhand right to counter the kick. Campos clinches and scores a takedown, dumping "Vinicius" on his back and throwing a pair of elbows from above. Campos passes to side control, goes knee-to-belly, passes to mount and just starts raining down punches. Vinicius scrambles and Campos locks in an arm triangle. Pancini seemingly is defending and Campos gives up on it but immediately takes Vinicius down again. He finishes the round dropping nice punches from above but Vinicius responded with some solid up-kicks from bottom, even throwing one a little after the horn. 10-9 Campos
Round two: Quite a bit of posturing early from both men as neither is committing to any big strikes. Vinicius switches stances and throws a flying knee but he gets caught with a big left hand from Campos which drops him. Campos pounces and quickly passes to side control. Vinicius appears to have recovered but he's in a tough spot. Vinicius retains half guard briefly but gets passed again. Campos latches onto an arm and he's thinking about a Kimura but he gives up on it and dives back into Vinicius, passing to side control on the opposite side. Vinicius retains full guard but Campos is persistent, passing again. Vinicius throws some back-hammerfists from bottom and they actually open up a small cut near Campos' left eye. Nice upkick from Vinicius in the final 10 seconds. 10-9 Campos but he's got to be a little more careful from top position in terms of avoiding damage.
Round three: Nice front kick from Vinicius early and Campos fires off a right hook. Vinicius throws a nice knee and combination and Campos is hurt! Vinicius swarms him and just UNLOADS a huge flurry of blows against Campos along the fence. The crowd is going insane and Campos is out on his feet. The ref steps in and puts a stop to it. Once Vinicius stopped punching, Campos drops in a heap to the ground.
Final results: Marcos Vinicius defeats Wagner Campos via TKO at 1:04 of round three
- end -
Felipe Arantes vs. Milton Vieira (145-pound limit):
Round one: Both men are doing a nice staring contest in the first 45 seconds and Arantes throws a big body kick to get the crowd going. Arantes is active with the kicks, landing on Vieira. Big right hand from Arantes and Vieira takes him down immediately into half guard. Vieira drops a few short elbows thinking about passing his guard and he transitions to side control, dropping some left punches. Vieira tries an aggressive transition into an arm triangle but Arantes saves himself and retains full guard. Vieira postures up and drops a few punches and passes again to side control. He's got 30 seconds to work and Arantes again hip escapes to full guard. 10-9 Vieira
Round two: Arantes keeps the bout standing early, scoring with leg kicks and a solid flying knee. Vieira has not tried to take the fight to the ground and Arantes continues to land nice head, body and leg kicks from a distance. Big winging left hand misses for Vieira. Vieira attempts to shoot in and gets denied with ease. Nice punch from Arantes and Vieira is moving backwards. Vieira aggressively pushes forwards but the punches are pretty ugly and Arantes easily avoids them, returning fire with a leg kick. Huge left jab for Arantes as Vieira was thinking about a spinning attack. HUGE spinning wheel kick connects for Vieira and Arantes is stunned. Vieira charges in but Arantes defends himself and Arantes actually scores a takedown at the end of the frame. 10-9 Arantes
Round three: Not much happening here early both men are doing a lot of staring again. Arantes lands a few jabs then fakes the jab before connecting with a solid leg kick. Big combination from Arantes and Vieira stumbles backwards. Vieira shoots in for a takedown but gets stuffed and Vieira falls to his back, pulling guard. Arantes lands some solid punches from above but now Vieira has him tied up on the ground with 90 seconds to work. The referee stands them up with one minute left and Arantes throws a spinning back kick which nails Vieira. Vieira tries to throw a spinning wheel kick in response but it whiffs this time. Arantes plays it safe in the final 15 seconds. 10-9 Arantes
Final results: The fight is ruled a draw (29-28, 28-29, 28-28)
- end -

