Story 0
Yes, it's entirely possible to fund your existing debit card, or credit card, with your accumulated bitcoin. And I don't mean that you are shipped a generic, low-limit prepaid VISA or Mastercard from some anonymous reseller. I mean that you convert bitcoin online to dollars or euros and the funds are available to spend with a card that you are most likely already holding in your wallet.
Why is this so significant? It's important because it leverages a little-known type of transaction that is available on the VisaNet system called 'Original Credit Transaction'. The other major card payment networks have a similar feature too. These transactions act like a refund or credit transaction when you return an item to a store except that they don't have to be associated with an original purchase. Essentially, they enable your card to be a two-way payment device. Surprisingly, not many financial institutions have taken advantage of this feature yet but I expect that to change.
Visa Personal Payments, already offered by financial institutions outside the U.S., became available in the U.S. market last year marking the first time that a major payment network has introduced a global requirement for account issuers to accept incoming funds. It's the technology behind now-merged P2P service providers ZashPay and Popmoney.
Previously, it was cumbersome for bitcoin account holders to transact in national currencies because they had to go through one or more exchanges and then wait further for funds to arrive in a bank account or other intermediary like the formerly bitcoin-friendly Paxum. Now these personal payments are being offered by e-currency exchanges as a way to provide easy worldwide access to e-currency account balances most notably by AurumXchange. The digital currency exchange operated by Dominica-based Aurum Capital Holdings, Inc. supports bitcoin as well as Liberty Reserve, Pecunix, Perfect Money, and c-gold and they offer two choices for cashing out into a card-based product.
The first option is the Withdraw2Card service that does not require any sender identity verification. Requiring only the destination card number and expiration date (name and CVV code are not required), funds can be transferred to any credit or debit card in any country in the world. If the destination account currency is not dollars or euros then it will be converted to the native currency automatically. Service fee is $9 plus 1.99% (for MtGox USD) with a $1,000 maximum transfer amount and you should not send more than the credit card's limit. The bitcoin portion of the transaction is accomplished through the use of redeemable coupon codes from the popular bitcoin exchanges that act as digital bearer certificates. According to AurumXchange, they plan to offer direct two-way convertibility for bitcoin in the near future so you won't need the redeemable code.
This service is ideal for regions of the world where a large majority of the population may not have bank accounts or where international wires are cost-prohibitive. AurumXchange's General Manager Roberto Gutierrez explains, "The service so far has been tremendously popular. Just counting countries alone where people don't have access to bank accounts or foreign wires are highly taxed or scrutinized, such as Africa, Brazil and China to name a few, we have processed over 3,000 orders since we started a few weeks ago. North American and European customers have been using the service quite a lot as well especially for small transactions that would otherwise be too expensive to conduct through means such as international wire transfers."
The second option is the AurumXchange Premium Mastercard issued through North Carolina-based Four Oaks Bank which comes with instant funds availability. After a $24.99 two-year membership fee, the card will be shipped for free anywhere in the world via first class mail.
OKPAY is another interesting provider in the bitcoin debit card space. They offer the OKPAY Debit Card which is issued by CSC24Seven.com Limited, a financial institution licensed by the Central Bank of Cyprus to issue cards. Founded in 2007, OKPAY, Inc. is a subject of British Virgin Islands (BVI) regulations.
Now that they have completed their bitcoin integration into the OKPAY system, it is possible to fund your OKPAY account directly with bitcoin, withdraw via bitcoin, and use bitcoin as a payment option for purchases of goods and services. Although, they do not offer the Original Credit Transaction feature to any card, they will provide timely and direct conversion of bitcoin to their proprietary Mastercard product.
By removing friction from the process, bitcoin becomes easier to spend overall because not every merchant will accept bitcoin directly for payment yet and not all transactions demand irreversibility and privacy. Logically as a consumer, you may still want your VISA chargeback rights for certain purchases. The Original Credit Transaction is an excellent way to leverage the legacy card payment network to facilitate the growth of the bitcoin network and these two exchangers are in the vanguard.
Follow author on Twitter.

Story 1
JACKSONVILLE, Fla., July 12 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/ -- FNDS3000 Corp (OTC Bulletin Board: FDTC) (Frankfurt: "FT4," A0MWLG), an international prepaid processing company currently introducing electronic payment solutions to the South African market, today announced a series of management changes and appointments designed to strengthen the Company and position it for its next critical growth phase.
SOUTH AFRICA APPOINTMENTS
Robert Klein has been appointed as President and Country CEO, South Africa, responsible for leading the Company's South African business operations. Starting October 2009, Klein was a consultant engaged to review mobile banking platforms to be integrated into FNDS3000's system. His remit quickly extended to key account management and customer service. His success in these areas led to his becoming the logical choice for assuming the key executive management role in South Africa.
John Hancock, Chief Executive Officer of FNDS3000, noted, "When we established our operations in South Africa last year, we recruited high quality talent from the global payment processing industry to successfully navigate through our system development, testing and production launch. Now that our business has progressed to being fully operational, it became important to establish in-country leadership that strengthens our operations team, marketing and contract management expertise. Consequently, we are very pleased to welcome Robert to FNDS3000, who has fast proven to be an ideal complement to our South Africa team."
Prior to FNDS3000, Klein served as Executive Director of International Sports Media, Ltd., a digital media and content provider owned by Raymond Goldsmith, the Chairman of the Company, where he managed key industry partnerships in North America, Europe and Australasia. He also spent six years with the Union of European Football Associations (UEFA), the European governing body of the sport, where he was responsible for creating and selling new media sports rights for the organization in territories across the globe. Prior to earning a Post Graduate Sports Marketing degree from Edinburgh University, Klein graduated from Bangor University with a BA honors degree in French.
FNDS3000 also effected several key staff appointments to support Klein's efforts, including Kotie Coetzee, who has been named Chief Operating Officer, South Africa. In addition, Lenus LeRoux became Head of Operations, and Alex Braude was named Chief Technology Officer.
Joining FNDS3000 in early 2009, Coetzee currently is a Director of FNDS Tech (Pty) Ltd and appointed Public Officer for FNDS3000, South Africa. With over two decades experience in banking with emphasis in the South African Card industry, Coetzee has held senior managerial roles at Nedbank, Citibank and First National Bank.
LeRoux originally joined FNDS3000's South African operations in early 2008 to oversee the subsidiary's Fraud and Compliance division. As a member of the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners and having served as Secretary of the International Association of Financial Crime Investigators, he brought the Company a wealth of financial fraud knowledge and experience. His prior posts have included positions at Investec Bank, CSC24Seven.com, Credit Card Services Company SAL, Nedbank and ABSA.
Responsible for managing all system development and overseeing all internal and outsourced IT projects for the Company since 2008, Braude brings FNDS3000 more than 25 years experience in the field of Information Technology with several leading South African companies, including IRT, Sable Data, Landis and Gyr.
Victoria Vaksman, Executive Vice President, EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa), continues to lead the FNDS3000 executive team on creating strategic alliances designed to generate new growth opportunities for the Company in targeted developing markets; as well as developing and managing key strategic relationships with major customers, sponsoring banks and card brands.
CORPORATE MANAGEMENT CHANGES
Joe Tumbarello, who has served as FNDS3000's Chief Operating Officer since 2007, has elected to leave the Company for a new career opportunity with Global Cash Card, a valued FNDS3000 partner.
FNDS3000 has also formed three new management committees, whose respective members will steer international business development and manage corporate oversight, financial controls and communications relating to its worldwide business activities.
Concluding, Hancock added, "The combined talent, experience and dedication that can be found in our expanded leadership team are immeasurable and should serve as powerful impetuses for helping FNDS3000 achieve our most ambitious global growth objectives. In closing, I'd like to acknowledge the valuable contribution that Joe Tumbarello has made to our Company over the past three years, whose diligent efforts on our behalf have helped to solidify FNDS3000 emergence in the international prepaid arena. We wish him the greatest success in his new business venture."
About FNDS3000 Corp
Headquartered in the U.S. with operations in South Africa, FNDS3000 Corp is engaged in executing a series of international growth initiatives designed to position the Company as a major player in the world's fastest growing payment card segment: prepaid cards. Given that 40% of the adult population in South Africa is currently unbanked or underbanked, FNDS3000's initial focus has concentrated on offering tailored prepaid card programs and services to business customers in this developing prepaid market, including network branded and closed loop programs that support employee payroll, insurance, medical aid, gift cards, prepaid cellular charges and small-scale international transfer of funds. The Company provides these programs and services through a proven, proprietary U.S. processing platform that has been designed for international and cross border capability. For more information, please visit www.FNDS3000.com, or follow us on Twitter @_FNDS3000.
Forward Looking Statements
Matters discussed in this press release contain forward looking statements. Investors are cautioned that such forward looking statements involve risk and uncertainties, which could significantly impact the actual results, performance, or achievements of the Company. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the potential loss of our relationships with each of the parties that sponsor our cards and banks that manufacture, issue, and own the cards; the loss of our service providers; security breaches of our electronic information; the inability to raise sufficient capital to fund its operations; and other risks as may be detailed from time to time in the Company's periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward looking statements even if experience or future events make it clear that any of the projected results expressed or implied herein will not be realized.
SOURCE FNDS3000 Corp

