Story 0
The firm at the heart of the Paradise Papers leak provided offshore services to a bank accused of facilitating terrorist financing, transnational organised crime and the Syrian government’s chemical weapons programme.
Appleby represented the Cayman Islands holding company of FBME Bank for at least a year after the US Treasury published an extraordinary roster of allegations against the bank, and acted as its agent for more than a decade beforehand.
FBME, which was banned from the US financial system last year, denies all the allegations against it. It said Appleby regularly carried out full compliance checks on FBME Ltd, which it took on as a client in 2004.

Revelations from Appleby’s internal files, obtained by the German newspaper Süddeutsche Zeitung and shared with the US-based International Consortium of Investigative Journalists, were exposed in the Paradise Papers investigation last year.

What are the Paradise Papers and what do they tell us? Read more
The investigation was praised by politicians and campaigners for shining a light on tax havens and revealing the myriad ways in which companies and individuals can avoid tax using artificial structures.
The Guardian revealed how Appleby was repeatedly criticised by inspectors in multiple jurisdictions for failing to apply regulations designed to guard against money laundering and terrorist finance in secret reports by offshore regulators.
Appleby is suing the BBC and the Guardian over the Paradise Papers investigation, arguing that none of the articles published were in the public interest. In a statement issued at the time it denied wrongdoing but said it was “not infallible” and always acted quickly to “put things right”.
It has asked the court to permanently ban both media organisations from using its leaked files to investigate its conduct or that of its clients.
FBME was described as “a financial institution of primary money laundering concern” in a notice of finding published in July 2014 by the US Treasury’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (Fincen).
“FBME is used by its customers to facilitate money laundering, terrorist financing, transnational organised crime, fraud, sanctions evasion and other illicit activity internationally and through the US financial system,” Fincen said.
Appleby withdrew from acting as the FBME holding company’s registered agent 17 months later in December 2015. According to a US court judgment, Appleby decided that “FBME did not fit [its] risk profile”. FBME Ltd effectively ceased to exist in the Cayman Islands, a UK territory, as a result.
Appleby declined to comment on its longstanding relationship with the holding company of FBME Bank, which ended in December 2015. It said it had sold the part of the firm that handled offshore services, which is now a separate company called Estera, and so could not answer questions about the business.

Estera said it could not comment on “any historical dealings that Appleby may have had with any particular client”.
“Full compliance checks were carried out by Appleby. They requested these on a continual basis and we provided them with updated KYC and AML (anti-money laundering) documentation in line with international law,” FBME’s spokesperson said.
“Appleby declined to renew FBME Ltd’s registration despite there being no proof of any wrongdoing. The resulting lack of a registered office provider ultimately caused FBME Ltd to lose its ability to challenge Fincen in court.”
It is not known if Appleby was aware of any of the evidence of the malfeasance alleged by Fincen before the 2014 notice was published. It is unclear what its due diligence efforts specifically entailed. But some argue that offshore firms should be required to have as full as possible an understanding of their clients’ business.
Campaigners have paid increasing attention to law firms and registered agents operating in the offshore world in recent years, arguing that it is insufficient for offshore services firms to react only after allegations have been made by governments, campaigners or journalists.
Instead, they argue, the offshore industry has a responsibility to proactively vet both their clients and their clients’ business on an ongoing basis.
“Time after time, we hear registered agents proclaiming their innocence, denying they could have done anything differently and claiming their due diligence processes work just fine. To everyone else it is blindingly obvious that things are not right,” said Robert Barrington, executive director of Transparency International UK.
“Banks are particularly high-risk with regard to money laundering, and that kind of red flag requires a high standard of due diligence,” he said.
Murray Worthy, a senior campaigner on anti-money laundering at the campaigning group Global Witness, argued that as part of conducting due diligence on a client that was a bank, “that would include, you hope, who it’s providing those services to”.
He added there were “clear warning signs” that the bank warranted more thorough scrutiny prior to 2014.
“Tanzania was on the FATF [Financial Action Task Force on money laundering] blacklist from 2010 to 2014 as a high-risk or non-cooperative jurisdiction for money laundering,” he said. “Having a bank registered in a tax haven blacklist should have been a concern.”
Among the allegations made against FBME by Fincen in 2014 were that a “customer received a deposit of hundreds of thousands of dollars from a financier for Lebanese Hezbollah”, and that “as of 2008, a financial adviser for a major transnational organised crime figure who banked entirely at FBME” had “maintained a relationship” with the bank’s owners.
Fincen alleged that at least one of FBME’s customers was a front company for the Syrian Scientific Studies and Research Centre. The group, alleged to be part of the Syrian government’s chemical weapons programme, was first sanctioned by George W Bush in 2005.
FBME denies the allegations made by Fincen. “FBME has not engaged in money laundering and was never accused of such until the Fincen allegations,” a spokesperson said. “The bank has acted in compliance with all the EU and Cyprus anti-money laundering directives, as corroborated by multiple third party auditors.”
The spokesperson added that Fincen had never presented evidence that FBME facilitated weapons proliferation in court. “The outrageous claims that FBME acted for terrorists, or knowingly acted for any sanctioned individuals, are false and deliberately damaging. Any client that was sanctioned had their accounts frozen immediately and were reported to the regulator. FBME conducted all required KYC (know your client) and UBO (ultimate beneficial owner) checks.”
The bank began legal action against Fincen in an effort to block the imposition of the ban, but ultimately failed. The ban came into force in 2017.
Play Video 2:07 What are the Paradise Papers? – video
FBME: from obscurity to US Treasury target
Prior to 2014, few outside the world of banking would have heard of FBME. It was established in the early 1980s by two Lebanese brothers, Ayoub-Farid and Fadi Michel Saab, and went by its full title – Federal Bank of the Middle East – until the mid-2000s, when it became FBME Bank. Despite being headquartered in Tanzania, where it grew to become the country’s largest bank with $2bn (£1.4bn) of assets under management, the firm conducted more than 90% of its business in Cyprus.
Press reports had raised occasional questions about the profile of the bank’s customers. In 2007 the US government applied to seize funds in an FBME account that it alleged belonged to a trafficker in human growth hormone. Three years later a developer accused of hiding money offshore was reported to be a client. In 2012 employers of the murdered Russian lawyer Sergei Magnitsky alleged that some of the money connected to a tax fraud he was investigating was transferred through an FBME account.
But it was in July 2014 that the most serious allegations were levelled against the bank, by no less an accuser than the US government. The Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, an arm of the US Treasury tasked with analysing financial data to combat money laundering and terrorism, published a “notice of finding” alleging that the bank had provided financial services to perpetrators of, among other offences: terrorist finance, political corruption and transnational organised crime. Soon after the Central Bank of Cyprus seized its assets.

FBME has furiously denied all the charges against it, and has taken action to contest both Fincen’s attempt to blacklist it in the US as well as the seizure of its assets by Cyprus. Last year BuzzFeed News published an investigation into the bank and its clients, drawing upon a host of details recounted by investigators brought in to carry out an internal inquiry into the merits of Fincen’s claims.
Among them was an email sent by a senior director at the bank alleging that one of its clients profited from the distribution of images of child sexual abuse. It also reported that FBME’s head of compliance had presented a forged degree from Harvard as legitimate, and alleged that the bank had provided accounts to a network of Russian entities running a “slush fund”.
“As soon as we found out that there were issues surrounding the degree of our head of compliance, we accepted her resignation,” an FBME spokesperson said, adding that the bank had been unable to secure a replacement as a result of the US blacklisting.
“The bank and FBME Card Services reported the client allegedly involved in child pornography to the Financial Investigations Unit in Cyprus in July 2012. Even after the FIU closed their file on this client, we still pursued it through the courts in order to prevent them from being able to collect funds on illegal activity.”
The spokesperson said claims that the bank knowingly provided services to terrorists or sanctioned individuals were “outrageous” and that sanctioned clients’ accounts were immediately frozen.
In March 2016, Fincen’s effort to ban the bank from the US was approved by the courts after three attempts, and last year the bank’s appeal was unsuccessful. Regulators in Tanzania and Cyprus now retain control over the bank’s business. Meanwhile, FBME continues to fight the charges against it. Its owners have filed arbitration proceedings against the state of Cyprus and are demanding €1.5bn (£1.3bn) in damages over the fate of the bank.

Story 1
BuzzFeed News Lilit Khachatryan
The unravelling of Khachatryan’s credibility came at a watershed moment in the investigation into the grave allegations leveled at the bank by the US Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (known as FinCEN). Far from finding the evidence they needed to prove the bank’s innocence, Brown and Leighton were beginning to uncover an ever-more devastating trail of connections between FBME’s accounts and many of the world’s most destructive scourges. New evidence was emerging that the bank had facilitated transactions for clients linked to Syria’s chemical weapons program, the Russian government, and major organised crime figures. Now the very executive whose job it was to keep the bank honest had been exposed as a liar. There was no option, the detectives told the bank’s owners and their lawyers, but to fire Khachatryan, investigate all the evidence of wrongdoing fully, and consider coming clean to the US government. But FBME’s owners refused to ditch Khachatryan. “Fuck FinCEN,” Brown recalled one of the owners telling him. “She is more important.” Instead, FBME ousted Brown and Leighton, swept their findings under the rug, and kept Khachatryan in her post as the bank’s bulwark against money laundering and corruption. FBME’s top-flight lawyers at Hogan Lovells and Quinn Emanuel continued acting for their paymasters with full-throated vigour, fighting on behalf of the bank’s owners to gag the two detectives and withhold their findings from government investigators in the US and Cyprus. But files reveal internal tensions about how to handle evidence of FBME’s misdeeds. Burck initially advised the bank’s owners to mount a sweeping internal inquiry and consider approaching the US Department of Justice after the private investigators laid out their findings – and he clashed with Hogan Lovells after discovering the firm intended to obscure the discovery of Khachatryan’s forged degree certificate from FinCEN. The bank’s owners responded by sidelining Quinn Emanuel at the same time as they ousted Brown and Leighton. But when the two investigators began disclosing their evidence to the US and Cyprus governments, Burck and his firm were brought back in to help silence them by suing to enforce their confidentiality agreement. Then the two law firms joined forces in a lengthy lawsuit against the US government for violating the bank’s rights, a battle that delayed its official banishment from the American financial system by two years. Along the way they touted reports from the global accounting giants KPMG and Ernst & Young to demonstrate that FBME was an upstanding financial institution. Much of FinCEN’s evidence remains sealed in classified documents that have never been made public – but now the explosive secrets Brown and Leighton were on the cusp of exposing are revealed in a massive cache of leaked documents from inside the bank. BuzzFeed News has obtained the affidavits the investigators sent to FinCEN, which were later filed under seal in a US court. FBME told the judge that the statements included “gross, bad-faith distortions and outright falsehoods” and said in response to questions about this article that the investigators had leaked the information as retaliation over a fee dispute. But BuzzFeed News has also obtained raw emails and documents corroborating key parts of those affidavits, as well as thousands of pages of additional internal materials, and has conducted more than 80 interviews, laying bare the misdeeds of a bank blacklisted by the US government as one of the world’s filthiest financial institutions. In recent years the world has woken up to the ease with which the super-rich can form offshore companies to conceal their wealth and avoid tax legally. But the FBME files shine a light on how the proceeds of some of the world’s worst crimes have been laundered into the West. And getting away with money laundering requires the support of powerful players within the wider global system – many of whom profit by propping up bad actors without themselves breaking any laws. It requires unscrupulous financial institutions to open accounts for nefarious individuals and their sham companies without performing proper due diligence checks; accountants to overlook red flags and vouch for the books of those corrupt institutions; correspondent banks in the West prepared to wave through suspicious dollar and euro transactions without verifying the true origin of the money; and powerful global law firms prepared to fight to silence whistleblowers and bat away attempts by governments and regulators to enforce the law. The FBME files provide an anatomical insight into the secret workings of these powerful enablers within the global financial system – enablers that persist and flourish long after the institutions they have propped up, like FBME, finally fall.
Got a tip? You can email tips@buzzfeed.com. To learn how to reach us securely, go to tips.buzzfeed.com.
Today we tell the inside story of how FBME executives scrambled to lie, threaten, use forgery, and shred their way to success while Quinn Emanuel and Hogan Lovells did battle on the bank’s behalf and accountants at KPMG and Ernst & Young overlooked glaring red flags as they gave a corrupt institution their gold-plated seal of approval. In the coming days, we will expose a secret network of Moscow-based slush funds linked to the Russian government, Syrian chemical weapons, and ISIS – and reveal how an international banking giant allowed suspicious money to flood the Western financial system by facilitating FBME’s dollar transactions for decades. Hogan Lovells and Quinn Emanuel are massive global players, raking in combined revenues of more than $3 billion last year, much of which comes from “big ticket, cross-border white collar and fraud cases”, as Hogan Lovells puts it. Both were paid handsomely for their work for FBME – and BuzzFeed News can reveal that some of the money came through an unusual route. FBME’s owners, the Saab brothers, paid Quinn Emanuel more than 4 million euros and Hogan Lovells three-quarters of a million euros from the Russian bank accounts of a now-defunct Bermuda company that faces claims that it owes investors hundreds of millions. That company, Saab Financial, had previously been used to funnel tens of millions of dollars out of FBME in a transaction described by a money laundering expert hired by Quinn Emanuel in a separate case as bearing “more red flags than any other arrangement I have previously encountered”. Quinn Emanuel said the payment it received from Saab Financial was entirely lawful. Neither Hogan Lovells nor FBME’s owners responded to questions about the transaction. FBME’s owners said in a letter sent through a London law firm that they were “the innocent victims of an organised defamatory campaign” orchestrated by “corrupt individuals within corporate and state bodies” who had misled the American government into shutting the bank out of the US. They said they sidelined Brown and Leighton because they were incompetent – and that the investigators had sent false and misleading information to the US and Cypriot governments in revenge over a fee dispute.
“Any suggestion that we created a culture in which secrecy was paramount and staff were encouraged to evade money laundering protocols to protect nefarious clients is wholly denied.”
The Saabs denied FinCEN’s allegations, which they said were based on classified evidence that had never been properly tested in court. Far from being willing to service the global criminal element, as FinCEN found, the Saabs insisted that FBME was a “family-owned bank that worked strenuously to meet every compliance requirement” and had been fully open at all times with regulators. The only issues identified publicly by FinCEN, they said, were historical. Both law firms vigorously defended their work on behalf of the Saabs. Burck, who now represents White House Counsel Donald McGahn and former chief of staff Reince Priebus in the inquiry into the Trump campaign’s ties to Russia, told BuzzFeed News that he stood by his work for the bank’s owners. He said it was unfair of FinCEN to blacklist FBME on the basis of a “black box of secret evidence”, adding: “I think it’s morally reprehensible to have a system where people can lose their life, liberty, or property without being told why.” The bank had been “shot in the head” by FinCEN, he said, and it was his job to fight to save its life, not to dig into the evidence the investigators had uncovered. “When you’ve got a patient with a bullet in his head dying on the gurney, you don't try to figure out, ‘OK let me check to see if he has cancer,’” Burck said. “You try to take the bullet out.” Quinn Emanuel said in a statement that no evidence of widespread criminal wrongdoing had been found inside FBME – merely “certain historical compliance issues that had been put right by 2014” and before the firm became involved. Brown and Leighton were “not whistleblowers”, the firm said, but embittered former contractors whose allegations were “false and misleading”, and the lawsuit against them was designed not to “cover up” wrongdoing but to “enforce obligations of confidentiality”. The case against the US government did not seek to prove the bank’s innocence, but simply to demonstrate that FinCEN had failed to provide enough evidence to justify the “death penalty” of shutting it out of the US financial system. The firm said it had no knowledge of some of the evidence of the bank’s activities obtained by BuzzFeed News and could not provide details about much of the evidence that it did have at its disposal, because to do so would violate attorney-client privilege.
Hogan Lovells said in a statement that the firm’s lawyers “comprehensively reject” any suggestion that their work for FBME represented anything other than “the highest levels of integrity and professional ethics”. It said its submissions to FinCEN about Khachatryan’s degree forgery were “carefully considered, discussed and agreed with Quinn Emanuel as the correct way of handling the issue”, but declined to comment on any other details of the case. KPMG and Ernst & Young – two of the “big four” group of the largest accountancy firms on the planet, entrusted with inspecting the books of hundreds of multinational companies and financial giants – both declined to comment. Brown and Leighton also declined to comment, citing client confidentiality. But BuzzFeed News has reconstructed their investigation using the leaked files and their detailed affidavits sent to government investigators in the US and Cyprus. Everyone has a right to a lawyer, and attorneys are honour-bound to keep their clients’ secrets. But when the law firms went to work for FBME it was not under criminal indictment in the US: The bank had the chance to confess its misdeeds to FinCEN, clean house, and regain its access to the dollar. Instead, the bank’s executives launched a madcap scramble to conceal their most damning and embarrassing secrets. When the bank shut down Brown and Leighton’s investigation and its compliance chief was exposed for using a forgery, FBME’s lawyers at Quinn Emanuel and Hogan Lovells could have backed away. Documents suggest some of them even considered it. But instead they chose to launch a legal offensive on FBME’s behalf. This is the inside story of the rotten institution they fought for.
/ Alamy Stock Photo Nicosia, Cyprus.
When they landed in Cyprus in August 2014, Brown and Leighton were plunged into a dizzying crime drama playing out in the shimmering Mediterranean heat. The investigators showed up in the island’s dusty inland capital of Nicosia weeks after FinCEN named FBME a “primary money laundering concern” and threatened to shut off its access to the dollar. “FBME promotes itself on the basis of its weak Anti-Money Laundering (AML) controls in order to attract illicit finance business from the darkest corners of the criminal underworld,” the agency’s director said in a statement. FinCEN’s broadside caused all-out panic inside FBME.
In Cyprus, FBME had situated itself on a political and financial faultline that suited its aims perfectly. This was the European Union’s easternmost country, teeming with gangsters looking not just for a beach holiday, but for a Western haven for their money. For years, FBME had sheltered the funds of some of the world’s worst villains. But dollar transactions represented nearly two-thirds of FBME’s business, so if FinCEN followed through on its threatened ban, the bank would no longer be able to move the funds it harboured for its shadowy clients into the Western financial system. That would render its services all but useless. US government investigators had, it turned out, been digging into FBME’s dollar transactions dating back seven years, and claimed to have identified suspicious movements worth $1.3 billion. But, beyond what could be read between the lines of FinCEN’s brief but incendiary public notice, there was no way of knowing exactly what evidence it was based on. In order to prepare a defence that would persuade FinCEN to back off the threatened dollar ban, the bank had to figure out what the US government knew – and by extension what it didn’t. That was where the investigators came in. Leighton had done work for FBME in the past and the bank called him back with his sometime partner, Brown, to dig into what lay behind FinCEN’s move against the bank.
“When you’ve got a patient with a bullet in his head dying on the gurney, you don't try to figure out, ‘OK let me check to see if he has cancer.' You try to take the bullet out.”
The two detectives arrived at the bank’s sand-colored office building to join a formidable team of lawyers and accountants gearing up for a fight. Leighton was a wiry, silver-haired sleuth who had cut his teeth as a detective on the streets of London in the ’70s. Brown was tall and soft-spoken, a decorated former senior detective with four bravery awards and a service injury to show for his own 13-year career at Scotland Yard. Since retiring from the police, they had carried out internal investigations for a host of blue-chip companies grappling with allegations of fraud, money laundering, and bribery. Between them they liked to think there wasn’t much they hadn’t seen – but a few days in this surreal new setting would quickly make them reconsider. The detectives had been summoned by the bank’s owners, two debonair Lebanese brothers named Farid and Fadi Saab who had built FBME in the ’80s and courted clients from all over the world. They cut a cultured international profile to match, speaking several languages and flying a Yak-40 private plane on regular trips to Russia, where FBME got most of its business.
BuzzFeed News Farid Saab
Farid, in his late seventies, was the grandee of FBME, with a sparse white moustache and wire-framed spectacles perched near the end of his nose. Fadi, a decade younger, was a chain-smoking jazz pianist with a Cheshire Cat grin and a fondness for shiny, wide-lapelled suits. The brothers were instantly welcoming, folding the two detectives into the familial embrace of the patronage they bestowed on many of their employees. But they were also quick to anger. Fadi, in particular, mixed furious outbursts with flourishes of generosity. Mere moments after a savage argument, he once insisted on busting out a bottle of vintage brandy because he had just discovered it was Leighton’s birthday. The Saabs had cultivated extensive political contacts in both Cyprus and Russia, staff said, and they had become adept at ducking and diving to dodge the long arm of the law. They had even moved FBME’s nominal headquarters to Tanzania when regulators started breathing down their necks. But now they were up against the world’s most powerful government. As soon as news of the FinCEN notice broke, Western banks that FBME depended upon to facilitate its dollar transactions had halted its business, and the government of Cyprus had seized control of FBME’s accounts and sent in a special administrator to take charge. Now, with everything in jeopardy, and regulators in both the US and Cyprus crawling all over their affairs, the Saabs assembled their cavalry. FBME’s longtime law firm, Hogan Lovells, had already swung into gear, assigning a new white-collar crime partner named J. Evans Rice III to represent the bank in bringing its defence against FinCEN. Rice, fresh-faced with a toothy grin, would soon be joined by Burck, Quinn Emanuel’s older, more seasoned co-chair of white-collar crime, who came on board to represent the Saabs themselves. Burck was an outwardly affable man with soft, round features and easy smile – but his pedigree was formidable. After graduating from Yale Law School he had spent years inside the government, prosecuting Martha Stewart and working as special counsel to President George W. Bush. Brown and Leighton, the internal investigators the Saabs had hired, were to report directly to him as they dug into FinCEN’s allegations.
Steve Helber / Steve Helber / AP/REX/Shutterstock William Burck
Around the time that Burck and his team first started speaking with the Saabs, Burck’s colleagues at Quinn Emanuel were raising serious questions about FBME’s practices. Working for the Saabs’ opponents in a separate lawsuit, Quinn Emanuel hired an expert named Peter Barrie Brown to look into a complex series of transactions in which more than $30 million was moved from FBME to one of the owners’ offshore firms, Saab Financial. Barrie Brown produced a report saying that the transactions bore “hallmarks of money laundering”. Quinn Emanuel told BuzzFeed News that Barrie Brown’s report “was the opinion of one expert in a confidential arbitration” that was “not tested” because the case was settled later that year. The firm said it had run checks to confirm there would be no conflict of interest in signing up to work for the Saabs at the same time as working for their opponents, and had “maintained ethical walls” to keep the lawyers working on each case separate from each other. So Burck and his team joined the fight for FBME’s life. By that time, accountants from Ernst & Young had also been brought aboard to perform their own audit of the bank’s accounts. The year before, the bank had received a clean bill of health from another accounting giant, KPMG, which talked up FBME’s “high standard of data protection” and its “comprehensive” internal anti-money laundering procedures – though the audit was careful to note it hadn’t looked at the bank’s credit card division, which would soon prove to be a running sore. The KPMG report was sent to FinCEN as evidence of the bank’s good standing, and the lawyers hoped a second glowing appraisal from another of the world’s big four accounting firms would bolster the case still further.
"It was not surprising that FBME Bank had received the FinCEN Notice if this was how it conducted its business"
The Saabs introduced the assembled lawyers, auditors, and investigators to Khachatryan, their glamorous Armenian head of anti-money laundering compliance, with obvious pride. This was FBME’s internal watchdog, the person who had to be willing to overrule other executives to veto problem accounts. Self-contained and punctiliously professional, Khachatryan was unfailingly immaculate in sharp suits and stilettos and seemed to show a strong grasp of the problems facing the bank. The Saabs plainly adored her, telling the investigators she was like a daughter to them and boasting about her Harvard qualifications. Brown and Leighton were assured she kept detailed due diligence files that would prove the bona fides of all FBME’s clients, they wrote in their affidavits. The lawyers at Hogan Lovells quickly seized upon Khachatryan’s credentials as affirmation of the bank’s probity in the evidence they were preparing to submit to FinCEN. But however cultivated and hospitable the Saabs might be, and however impressive their hyper-efficient head of compliance, signs soon began to emerge that the detectives had entered a world of intrigue and skulduggery. There was the evening they attended a meeting at Fadi Saab’s home when a junior colleague noticed an intruder prowling in his garden. The colleague rushed out to tackle the stranger, and dragged him into the kitchen to explain himself – whereupon Fadi greeted the newcomer warmly, conducted a hushed conversation with him in the corner, and sent him on his way. An attendee at the meeting recalled that the man turned out to be a relative of a Cypriot government official bearing a morsel of inside information. Then there was the day the Central Bank of Cyprus’s special administrator turned up at the bank’s head office to start taking charge of its affairs. He was met by Fadi Saab’s tall, Dutch, chain-smoking wife, who burst in with a snarling Rottweiler and a German shepherd at her side, screaming at the man to get out of the office. It was becoming abundantly clear that this was no ordinary assignment. And, as they dug in, the investigators began to learn enough about their new employers to make them deeply uneasy.
The two detectives had initially set up camp at the Hilton Cyprus, a five-star resort with a white marble interior and ground-floor storefront displays featuring oil paintings and fur coats. When they realised the task ahead of them would not be short, they moved their base to an apartment, where they would gradually plaster the walls with flow charts mapping the ever-more sinister connections they unravelled as they delved into the bank’s accounts.
A lineup of key executives at FBME, and the Saabs themselves, had already been called in to explain the bank’s procedures, and a disturbing picture began to emerge from transcripts of the interviews conducted by Hogan Lovells. FinCEN’s central claim against the bank was that it “promotes itself on the basis of its weak Anti-Money Laundering (AML) controls in order to attract illicit finance” and was therefore “widely recognized by its high-risk customers for ease of use”. This, in the eyes of the US government, was evidence of “FBME’s willingness to service the global criminal element”. While some inside the bank maintained in their interviews that FBME had been unfairly maligned by FinCEN, others acknowledged that the bank had systematically skirted around money laundering checks on its clients for years. A core principle in the world of money laundering prevention holds that banks must find out who truly controls the money in their accounts – known as the “ultimate beneficial owner”, or “UBO” – and check that person’s credentials to ensure they are not linked to criminality or subject to international sanctions. But at FBME, the identities of the people who truly owned the money in many accounts were kept from most of the bank’s own employees, staff said, and they claimed the bank concealed the ultimate beneficial owners from regulators and the Western financial institutions that processed its dollar transactions. The lawyers were told that FBME took what customers said about where their money came from at “face value” without performing crucial checks. Some said they had even been instructed to mask the addresses on transactions to or from sanctioned countries such as Syria or Iran so that other banks and regulators wouldn’t notice. Farid Saab said in a statement that “any suggestion that we created a culture in which secrecy was paramount and staff were encouraged to evade money laundering protocols to protect nefarious clients is wholly denied”. Controversial banking secrecy laws in Cyprus impose strict client-confidentiality requirements, but the Saabs insisted that managers and regulators had full access to client files revealing the true identities of all FBME’s account owners. They had “acted in accordance with all the relevant laws and regulations at all times”, they said, noting that the US government had not made any individual allegations against the bank’s owners or other top executives, nor were they themselves charged with any crimes. One of the most disturbing claims to emerge from the Hogan Lovells interviews pointed to a scandal inside FBME’s credit card unit – a division of the bank, the lawyers were told, that had “spun out of control”.
Yiannis Kourtoglou / AFP / Getty Images The offices of FBME bank in Nicosia
Digging deeper, Brown and Leighton learned of an ant’s nest of accounts inside the credit card division that was responsible for astronomically high rates of fraudulent transactions. Fraud ratios that high could cause trouble with card processors such as Visa and Mastercard. But the account holders appeared to have devised a way around that by “miscoding” their transactions to make them look innocent, as well as buying up prepaid FBME credit cards “in bulk” and using them for millions of dollars in innocuous transactions so that the overall fraud rate would go down and the card processors wouldn’t notice. The ploy ultimately failed: Visa had noticed, and had commissioned an audit by the blue-chip global investigations firm Kroll, which in 2012 had uncovered the network of suspicious accounts. When Brown and Leighton got their hands on that audit report, they found it had uncovered thousands of questionable transactions – some purportedly for hundreds of thousands of euros’ worth of pens and designer sunglasses – from accounts linked to online gambling, pornography, and penis enlargement pills. Kroll had concluded these appeared to be sham transactions designed to “dilute” the overall fraud rate in order to duck “the scrutiny of credit card issuers sensitive to signs of laundering”. When questioned about these disturbing findings, Leighton recalled in his affidavit, Farid Saab said he had been so annoyed by the report that he had kept it locked in a safe and hadn’t shown it to anybody. But he downplayed its significance. Sure, the report had caused issues with Visa, he said, but FBME had decided to suspend its licence with the card-processing giant “voluntarily”. Asked why the licence hadn’t been reinstated for another two years, Leighton wrote, Farid spoke of “dark, conspiratorial, politically motivated forces”. After the discovery of the suspect accounts, the Saabs had fired key figures from inside the card services division and taken steps to tighten up the checks on new customers. But as the detectives probed further, they would discover that a senior executive inside the bank remained deeply entangled with the owner of dozens of the shady accounts inside the credit card division. And that executive was none other than the heir to the FBME kingdom: Fadi Saab’s son.
Michael Saab had been educated in American military-style schools and racked up banking experience at Merrill Lynch in London before returning to Cyprus in 2007 to run swaths of the FBME business, and he liked to talk as if he already owned the bank. Brown recalled how the preppy heir apparent promised his “personal assurances that FBME had done absolutely nothing wrong”. The current trouble was all the plotting of his family’s enemies, he told Brown and Leighton at their first meeting, according to Brown’s affidavit. Rival Cypriot businessmen and politicians had pulled strings to set FinCEN upon FBME. Taken aback, Brown tried to suggest that it was “extremely unlikely that even the wealthiest person in Cyprus would be able to influence a FinCen Notice”. But Michael was adamant: The bank had been framed. FBME had, he said, meticulously complied with all its anti-money laundering requirements. Indeed, its compliance chief, Khachatryan, was such a stickler that he joked he had nicknamed her the “Business Prevention Unit”.
At the outset of their investigation, the detectives had explained to the three Saabs that, if they were to get to the bottom of the FinCEN allegations, it would be a long and “intrusive” process, and they would have to ask “a lot of potentially uncomfortable questions”, they wrote in their affidavits. Fadi and Farid had signed up on that basis, but the investigators recalled that Michael didn’t seem to have got the memo.
BuzzFeed News Michael Saab
The young scion kept swinging by Brown and Leighton’s apartment, they wrote, quizzing them on what they were working on. By now, this had become their operational base, with hundreds of files stacking up and sprawling diagrams all over the walls. The constant visits became “an irritation”, and the detectives felt Michael was “trying to obstruct us and direct the way we worked”, Leighton wrote in his affidavit. But, when they told him to back off, heated arguments erupted. Michael involved himself in the most minute details, the detectives wrote, and he didn’t hesitate to try to shut down leads he didn’t like. When Brown and Leighton learned of a former Cypriot government official who wanted to talk about the bank’s activities, they said, Michael tried to stand in their way. The detectives considered this lead “very important”, Leighton wrote, but Michael responded by criticising the former official’s “reputation, capability and sexuality”, and ordered the detectives “not to pursue the enquiry line any further”. On that occasion, they stood down. But then Michael started trying to send them on what seemed to be wild goose chases. First, they said he ordered them to hunt for information to “discredit” the special administrator appointed by the Central Bank of Cyprus to take charge of the bank so that FBME could get him removed. Brown’s affidavit says Michael went on to describe “in very graphic detail how he would like to kidnap and physically torture” the administrator. This was alarming, Brown said, but he and Leighton assumed the young executive was simply “venting frustration”. The detectives also recalled Michael asking them to find information that could be used to “blackmail” a Cypriot politician he believed was responsible for triggering the FinCEN notice. The detectives refused, telling him “blackmail was totally illegal” and that “it was not surprising that FBME Bank had received the FinCEN Notice if this was how it conducted its business”, Brown wrote in his affidavit. Michael backed down on that request, Brown wrote, but continued trying to influence their inquiries.
“That’s it, I’m going to prison,” Brown said he declared. “I’m going to wear an orange jump suit.”
Michael Saab sent a short statement in response to detailed questions from BuzzFeed News. “The allegations you make against me are blatantly false and clearly defamatory and do not warrant a further response,” he wrote. A source close to him strongly denied that he interfered in the investigators’ inquiries or was involved in any impropriety, and insisted that FBME was a totally upstanding bank that had been framed by its enemies. The problems inside the credit card division were a particular sore spot, the detectives wrote in their affidavits. Michael kept interfering when Brown and Leighton asked about it, preventing them from accessing its accounts. “You are wasting your time with Card Services,” Brown recalled him telling them. But, Brown and Leighton wrote, he also let slip that he was worried: The credit card issue “might implicate me”, Michael told them in an email quoted in Leighton’s affidavit, because he knew one of the key clients “personally”. That client was a businessman with a number of interests in pornography – and he had ties to a network of accounts that Kroll had suspected of using fake innocuous transactions to dilute their overall fraud rate in 2012. His name was familiar to Leighton. The previous year FBME had asked the investigator to perform what Leighton referred to in his affidavit as “desktop” checks on the client, without giving him any background information about the concerns already flagged by Kroll, and he had reported back that there was nothing in publicly available records to cause concern. Now Brown and Leighton had access to detailed internal information about the porn baron’s suspicious network of credit card accounts – and they were disturbed to discover that his relationship with Michael Saab was uncomfortably close. BuzzFeed News is not naming the porn baron, who sent seven lawyers to a meeting with reporters to strenuously deny any impropriety, because the allegations against him did not form part of FinCEN’s public ruling against FBME. A spokesperson for the porn baron said he “categorically and emphatically denies” any allegation of wrongdoing. Farid Saab said he was aware of “no compliance issue relating to this client or allegations of wrongdoing of any kind”. Michael had lived large with the porn baron. Emails show that in May 2012, the same month Kroll issued its damning report, the young banker was hatching plans to join the client’s family on a cross-continental road race with wild parties in the cities along the way. The racing crew exchanged messages musing over how many “hero cams” they could fit on their disco green supercar. One night, when Michael showed up unexpectedly at Brown and Leighton’s apartment with a bag of cakes, he began to spill the details of his relationship with the porn baron. Leighton recalled that he told them how the pair once flew on a private jet from New York to Vancouver, then traveled down the West Coast together. The porn baron had also taken Michael to his home – complete with a walk-in safe with walls lined with firearms, high-grade military knives, and ammunition – where he had boasted of how he “used to run guns to Mexico, pick up weed and bring it back to the States”, Leighton wrote in his affidavit. The investigators said they couldn’t tell whether or not he was joking, but they were increasingly concerned. The source close to Michael said he had made no such comment.
Brown and Leighton began pressing for access to Michael’s correspondence with the client. When Burck, the Quinn Emanuel partner overseeing their investigation, flew in for a meeting with all three Saabs, the detectives seized the moment to demand unfettered access to Michael’s email account. In the presence of his father and uncle, Brown wrote in his affidavit, Michael “reluctantly agreed”. The following day, the investigators learned that Michael was holed up in his office anxiously trawling through his emails. “We were concerned that he may be deleting vital evidence, but there was very little we could do,” Brown recalled in his affidavit. Suddenly, their door flew open, revealing Michael with a panicked look on his face. “That’s it, I’m going to prison,” Brown said he declared. “I’m going to wear an orange jump suit.” He handed them a paper copy of an email he had sent the porn baron the year before, discussing a deal he was contemplating with a man connected to a separate network of accounts in the card services division. FBME had sued that client for breach of contract after becoming suspicious that companies under his control were miscoding illicit transactions to make them appear innocuous, and now Michael wanted to settle. The settlement package FBME was offering was “reasonable”, Michael had written, given that the client’s money came from “child porn and other nefarious activities”. The porn baron had no connection to child pornography, but he too had been embroiled in a dispute with this other client, so Michael had turned to him for advice. Michael confided that he had an “extremely guilty conscience” about making any kind of deal because “I know he knowingly facilitate [sic] child pornography – a crime that should be dealt with through a court system, and result in an indefinite incarceration.” And yet: “I need to focus on business development.” And so he pressed on with the proposed settlement. The Saabs told BuzzFeed News that by the time of this email, they had reported the client to the Cypriot financial intelligence unit. “This email demonstrates the hard line we took at FBME to any suspected wrongdoing by any client,” a spokesman said in a statement. “We did not tolerate any illegal activity by any of our clients and our response demonstrated our concern.” Michael’s settlement idea was a way to bring the matter to a close without racking up further legal fees, a source close to him said, but the deal never came to fruition. Brown immediately saw this as clear evidence that Michael had knowingly become “involved with people dealing in child pornography”, he wrote in his affidavit. For his part, Michael has been adamant to this day that he didn’t actually know or believe that the client was involved in child pornography, the source close to him said. Instead, Michael was just speculating that the client could be miscoding credit card transactions to cover up his involvement in all sorts of heinous crimes – even child pornography. Michael has also been insistent that he never told anyone that the email would land him in an “orange jumpsuit”, the source said, because he believed that the legal dispute with the client would show he wasn’t endorsing his behaviour. Still, the source said, Michael knew the email was “terrible” and has regretted it ever since. In any case, Brown had to break the news to Michael’s uncle. “Oh my god,” Farid said, according to Brown’s affidavit. He put his face in his hands. Soon he became angry, pacing around the room. “I knew that stupid boy would bring us all down.” But worse was yet to come.
That evening, Michael spotted Leighton walking home and offered him a ride, according to Brown’s affidavit. In the car, Michael handed him a USB stick containing more emails – and that was how the truth finally emerged about his involvement with the rot inside the credit card division.
The emails showed Michael was under intense pressure to reduce the volume of fraudulent transactions running through accounts in FBME’s credit card division, which in some cases climbed 14 times higher than Mastercard allowed. And he corresponded directly with the porn baron about the need to lower the fraud ratio across his businesses in order to alleviate pressure from the processing giant. Shortly afterwards, emails showed Michael had discussed setting up 27 new accounts for the porn baron’s businesses. His friend did not want to be listed as the ultimate beneficial owner (UBO) of the accounts on due diligence documents, so he wanted to open them in the name of a puppet owner in Britain.
“Team, Please see below on Harvard issue. Not good.”
Happy to help, Michael set the process of opening the accounts in motion. When a brief delay arose, he called Khachatryan asking what the problem was. Then he reported back that he had spoken to the bank’s anti-money laundering compliance chief and she had confirmed that “we opened 27 accounts under the British UBO you provided and I gave her the approval to open the rest of the companies on that list as well”. A Quinn Emanuel lawyer reading the emails became alarmed. They appeared to show that Michael had “directed” Khachatryan to open the accounts under the name of a British owner even though they “clearly” belonged to the porn baron, the lawyer noted in an internal memo. More disturbingly, the compliance chief appeared to have complied – raising questions about her independence. Khachatryan acknowledged that the ownership of some of the accounts did initially appear “suspicious” but said she had established that the British director was a business partner of the porn baron after performing all the proper checks. She also strongly denied that she had ever taken orders from any of the Saabs; she said she was fully independent and told BuzzFeed News of how she had rejected accounts in other situations. But Brown and Leighton identified reams of evidence that the porn baron’s network of accounts appeared to be being used to ping “phantom” transactions back and forth, adding enough innocuous transactions to dilute the fraud ratio – just as Kroll had warned. The child pornography email, plus Michael’s proximity to the credit card scam, put all hands on deck, Brown wrote in his affidavit. Burck, of Quinn Emanuel, flew in to explain to FBME’s young heir apparent the world of trouble he had got himself into. “Do you understand what has been going on is wrong and criminal?” the investigators recall the lawyer telling him. Michael decided the time had come to lawyer up, and he chose his own high-powered Washington attorney. The investigators needed to find out as much as they could about the porn baron in order for the lawyers to figure out a way to mount a defence. But they were having difficulty pulling up enough documentation on many of the accounts linked to his suspected credit card scam. And that was when Brown and Leighton showed up in Khachatryan’s office, and she promised to go and fetch them a due diligence file.
When Khachatryan returned with the suspect document claiming that the porn baron was an upstanding client, Brown recalled in his affidavit feeling “absolutely shocked”. He and Leighton had both been impressed by how “organised and efficient” the compliance chief appeared to be and, like FBME’s lawyers and accountants, they had considered her crucial to the bank’s hopes of recovering from the FinCEN allegations. Now they felt her credibility was in tatters.
The file, purportedly dated just a few days prior, was written in “awful English” and signed by Michael. It claimed the FBME heir had conducted due diligence checks on his visit to California and established that this was exactly the type of person the bank would want to do business with. “I was absolutely shocked,” Brown wrote in his statement, that Michael “and Lilit had deliberately conspired together to falsify a Due Diligence document regarding an important player in the card services money laundering problem.” He confronted Khachatryan with the allegation that she and Michael had forged the document, he said, and she walked out of the room.
“It was disgusting for me to interact with Nigel.”
A few weeks later, Brown received an email from a Hogan Lovells attorney attaching a new due diligence document on the porn baron. Like the one Khachatryan had initially produced, it was signed by Michael Saab. The spelling and grammar were better, Brown recalled. But it was still just one page declaring that the porn baron had “at all-time appeared to be a person of credibility with whom the Bank could conduct business”. When Brown looked at the date on the document, he was stunned. It had purportedly been signed on 11 November 2014. But Khachatryan had done her disappearing act to produce the previous document several days after the 11th. If this file was real, he wrote in his affidavit, why wouldn’t Khachatryan have shared it with him at the time that he asked for it? Farid Saab said in a statement that “FBME categorically denies any allegations that anything has been fabricated” in the porn baron’s due diligence file. Khachatryan also denied that she had falsified the document, insisting it had been sent to her by Michael a few days before and she had the email to prove it. Asked to produce that email, she replied that it was covered by attorney-client privilege. The source close to Michael said he had written the document after discovering the porn baron’s due diligence file was incomplete. Khachatryan also told BuzzFeed News that Brown and Leighton are “acting in bad faith” and that “most of the information that they put in their affidavits are awfully-distorted facts, or lies”. She said it did not take her as long as Brown and Leighton claimed to retrieve the file but that it did take a while to get from Farid’s office on the seventh floor to hers on the fourth because “we had only two small elevators for 200 people”. Brown had been helping Khachatryan prepare a sworn witness statement for FinCEN when he noticed she had deleted any reference to her Harvard degree. That struck him as odd. Inspecting Khachatryan’s CV, he spotted that she claimed to have received a second business degree from a different university, Hult International Business School, at exactly same time she received her Harvard diploma. When Brown brought it up with Khachatryan herself, in the presence of Farid Saab, “She became quite aggressive,” Brown wrote in an email to the bank’s lawyers, “and said in front of Farid, ‘and what is your point.… I really am too busy to talk to you.” Khachatryan had then stormed out of the room, he said. Khachatryan denied that this incident occurred.
Got a tip? You can email tips@buzzfeed.com. To learn how to reach us securely, go to tips.buzzfeed.com.

Around this time, Michael approached Leighton and told him Khachatryan had complained that Brown had been sending her inappropriate text messages, the investigators wrote in their affidavits. The pair had gone for a drink early in the investigation, and he had texted her to thank her for a “lovely evening”, telling her he felt it was “rare to find such intellect emotion and passion in one person” and that she was “very special”. FBME sent that and other text messages to BuzzFeed News in response to questions about the two detectives’ discoveries, arguing that Brown’s judgment was impaired because he was trying to cultivate an intimate relationship with Khachatryan. Khachatryan also sent BuzzFeed News the messages and said that at different moments Brown hugged her, touched her arms, and held her hand. He also joked that if she married him, she wouldn’t need a visa to go to the US, Khachatryan said – even though Brown is not a US citizen. And one of his texts referred to sehnsucht, a German word for longing or desire. Brown’s behavior was “outright harrassment”, she said. “It was disgusting for me to interact with Nigel.” Brown said he did try to get close to Khachatryan but only as an investigative tactic to get her to open up. Khachatryan’s degree had been a prized asset for FBME’s owners and for Hogan Lovells, which was handling the initial responses to FinCEN. Not yet knowing that Brown had started asking Khachatryan about her qualifications, the law firm submitted its formal response including the Ernst & Young audit, and both the auditors and the lawyers cited Khachatryan’s Harvard degree as a stone-cold fact. Hogan Lovells called Khachatryan “highly qualified” and said that she had “invigorated” FBME’s compliance department. She “received her M.B.A. from Harvard Business School and has over a decade of banking experience”, the lawyers stated. Ernst & Young cited her “MBA in a joint program with Hult International Business School and Harvard Business School”.
“We had hoped to move as quickly as possible and to approach DOJ in early November.”
But soon Harvard confirmed there was no trace of any Lilit Khachatryan on its MBA alumni list. That was enough to persuade the lawyers at Quinn Emanuel that they needed to see a copy of Khachatryan’s diploma. When they turned up in her office to ask for it, Brown wrote, they found her with her head in her hands, sobbing. Her father had been involved in an accident, she explained, and she had to get to Moscow as soon as possible. But the next day, before heading to the airport to fly home, Khachatryan handed over the diploma in a leather-bound case, Brown wrote in his affidavit. Quinn Emanuel sent the degree certificate to Harvard, which responded: “Unfortunately, the diploma you have been given is a forgery.” It displayed the wrong Harvard insignia and used incorrect fonts and inaccurate wording, and the names of the school’s president and dean were “demonstrably incorrect”. “Team, Please see below on Harvard issue,” the Quinn Emanuel lawyer wrote as she forwarded the email to Burck and other colleagues. “Not good.” Khachatryan acknowledged to BuzzFeed News that her degree was fake, but “categorically” denied that she had forged it. “Maximum what I can be accused of is claiming that a fake document is real,” she said. She insisted that a friend had created the fake degree and sent it to her as a prank, and she had later claimed it as real. The degree claim was a “regrettable mistake”, she said, but was “in no way descriptive of who I am and what I stand for as a professional” and did not pertain directly to her role at the bank. The incident was part of of a “larger plan” by Brown “to defame me by contorting all the other aspects of my professional life to be seen through a prism of this episode”, she claimed. That night, Khachatryan went to Fadi Saab’s house to apologise to him and to other executives at the bank for what she called her “stupid mistake”. She told BuzzFeed News she made a solemn promise that night: “I will go to Harvard and get an alumni status.” Brown wrote in his affidavit that when they emerged, the executives were hugging and kissing as if it were “a family dispute that had been discussed”. But Brown and Leighton told the Saabs on the spot that it was crucial to the bank’s “survival” that they fire Khachatryan. When these pleas were ignored, Brown tried again at a meeting with Fadi Saab the following day. “I reiterated the significance to FBME Bank of its head of compliance effectively being revealed as a fraudster” and pointed out that it would not be hard for others to uncover the forgery if they got hold of Khachatryan’s employment records, he said. At that moment, Brown recalled, Fadi summoned an employee and ordered him to fetch her human resources file. Fadi found a copy of the fake degree and handed it to an employee. “Get rid of it,” Fadi told the employee, according to Brown’s affidavit. “Shred the certificate.”
BuzzFeed News Fadi Saab
Now it fell to Hogan Lovells to admit to FinCEN that, contrary to its earlier submissions, Khachatryan hadn’t gone to Harvard after all. The firm was drawing up a new response to the agency, and its lawyers decided to relegate this unfortunate discovery to a mere footnote. They sent their planned wording to Burck and his team – but the Quinn Emanuel lawyers were not impressed. “As previously discussed, the footnote regarding Lilit is inadequate,” one Quinn Emanuel lawyer told colleagues in an email. “We should recommend that Hogan address the issue in the body of the document and confront the facts head on rather than dancing around the issue.” The lawyer said that perhaps Hogan Lovells did not have “the full Lilit story i.e. fake diplomas, lies to me, etc.” and that was perhaps “why Hogan is being soft on her”. The two firms got together on a conference call to hash the problem out. Minutes of that call show Rice kicked off with the news that, though the Saabs had initially accepted Lilit’s resignation over the forgery, they had since changed their minds. “They love Lilit, they think she’s done a great job and they want to keep her,” the minutes say he explained. The strategy of confining the damning discovery to a carefully worded footnote in the next submission to FinCEN was “tied to the bank’s ultimate plan which is to bring her back”.
"FBME clearly WAS a financial institution of primary money laundering concern but ISN’T any longer."
A Quinn Emanuel lawyer working under Burck broke the news that Khachatryan had done more than just lie about her degree; she had provided “a fraudulent and forged diploma”, the minutes show. Burck weighed in, telling the Hogan Lovells lawyers that presenting it as “any type of innocent error won’t fly”. Rice said he had not realised that Khachatryan was “using forged documents”, but he still did not see the need to tell FinCEN. “I’m not sure that has to come out,” he said, according to the minutes. Rice did not respond to a letter with detailed questions about this story but Hogan Lovells said in a statement that there was “no disagreement over what to report to FinCEN regarding Ms. Khachatryan’s education” and the footnote “was carefully considered, discussed and agreed with Quinn Emanuel as the correct way of handling the issue”. Hogan Lovells submitted its new response to FinCEN later that month. It spoke of Khachatryan’s crucial responsibilities and cited her “elevated status” in the bank’s hierarchy, as well as her department’s “active role” and “strong voice in Bank matters”. The false Harvard degree remained a mere footnote, which offered “to clarify and correct” the previous statement about Khachatryan and noted that she actually got her degree from Hult. But it made no mention of the fact she had lied about her degree and backed up the falsehood with a forged diploma.
By the autumn, Brown had put together a formal investigation plan for the Saabs called “Project Waxwing”. He outlined his team’s most alarming findings, set out further lines of inquiry, and proposed a possible “self-reporting route” that would involve “bearing [sic] our soul” to US authorities. The document didn’t mention the degree forgery and at times it sounded an optimistic note. The Saabs had an opportunity, it said, to demonstrate to FinCEN that the bank had taken steps to address all the problems and that “FBME clearly WAS a financial institution of primary money laundering concern but ISN’T any longer.”
But first, they wrote, a sweeping internal inquiry was needed in order “to mitigate the bank’s exposure from a more solid foundation”. The internal probe should cover the credit card division, they wrote, and the potential issues with the porn baron. The “entirely lacklustre” due diligence procedures that had been in place in the card services division before 2012 had allowed suspect clients to funnel transactions through shell companies with fake owners in a “flagrant and wholesale disregard of the fundamental principles of any form of compliance procedure”, they said. Worse, there was evidence that some employees in FBME’s card services division had been “heavily involved in a conspiracy” to conduct a “highly lucrative cybercrime related business”. Though some had been fired, certain current employees “could be considered to have been ‘acting in concert’ with the main perpetrators”. The investigators also pointed to a still more sinister discovery: An FBME client had just been sanctioned for his connections to the Syrian regime. And they had identified a second customer that appeared to be part of a nexus of accounts funneling money to financiers for the Syrian chemical weapons programme. “Only a thorough investigation of the circumstances will identify whether the bank has any exposure,” Brown wrote. Burck, concerned by what the investigators were finding, signed off on the plan to investigate. He emailed Fadi and Farid Saab that Quinn Emanuel needed to know more about several issues, including “Michael’s role, if any” in the problems in the credit card division, and expressed frustration over how long it was taking to get full access to the information he and his colleagues needed. “We had hoped to move as quickly as possible and to approach DOJ in early November,” Burck wrote, but internal delays were getting in the way. Farid Saab replied with some unwelcome news for Burck: He was taking Quinn Emanuel off overseeing Brown and Leighton’s investigation, and putting Hogan Lovells in charge instead. Burck’s firm was sidelined. He forwarded the exchange to Brown with a wistful note: “Over to you, my friend. I think we are out for whatever reason. Good luck.” “Ermmm,” came Brown’s reply. He predicted that “we’ll be removed too”.
“Do you understand what has been going on is wrong and criminal?”
Two weeks later, Brown and Leighton were summoned to London for a meeting with Farid Saab and the bank’s legal team in Hogan Lovells’ hulking office building at Holborn Viaduct. The investigators laid out all their evidence to Rice, the fresh-faced white-collar crime partner leading the case, and other top lawyers. And they made a plea: report the findings to FinCEN, show how the bank intended to root out its problems, and beg for leniency. This did not appeal to the high-priced lawyers in the room, according to Brown’s affidavit. Rice told Brown “that their strategy was to be open and answer any questions asked of them”, Brown wrote, but they would not volunteer anything FinCEN didn’t ask to see. “Why would we tell FinCEN something that they may not know about?” he said Rice told him. “It is the right thing to do,” Brown recalled replying. “And secondly if you don't tell them, but they already know, you, the bank and the shareholders are history. It's a dangerous game you are suggesting.” Farid Saab had heard enough. “Pencils down,” Brown and Leighton said they were told. Rice and Hogan Lovells declined to answer specific questions about this case, instead sending a short statement from the firm saying their defence of FBME was consistent with the very highest ethical standards. The Saabs said via their lawyers that any suggestion that they were “somehow choosing to ignore repeated advice to ‘self-report’ to FinCEN is not accurate”. Brown and Leighton’s investigation “did not identify issues that required reporting”, they said, “even less so any issues that involved criminality”. They also denied that they “fired” the investigators. Instead, they said, their lawyers at Hogan Lovells asked Brown and Leighton “not to embark on new projects”.
With the investigators out of the way, Hogan Lovells forged ahead. It turned to a second audit by Ernst & Young. Based on files the bank had made available, the auditors had failed to corroborate much of what FinCEN was alleging. Hogan Lovells brandished the audit in its next filing to FinCEN, claiming it showed why FinCEN should back down.
The claim that the Ernst & Young audit amounted to a clean bill of health left US officials flabbergasted, a US government source close to the matter told BuzzFeed News. Attached to the report were pages and pages of raw account information that, far from disproving the allegations against FBME, actually bolstered the US government’s case, this person said, and helped investigators make additional connections. In the years leading up to the poison gas attacks launched by Syrian President Bashar al-Assad on his own people in 2013, FBME had funnelled hundreds of millions of pounds through the accounts of Issa al-Zeydi, a Moscow-based financier for the regime’s chemical weapons programme. And the money kept flowing even as images of young children foaming at the mouth and fighting for breath sent shockwaves around the world. Zeydi was sanctioned weeks after the first public notice against FBME. The US government later issued sanctions against at least seven other FBME clients over their financial links to the Assad regime. To the US government, the presentation of this audit as an exonerating document was yet another sign that FBME was not serious about dealing with its failings. “We thought that they’d come out and say, ‘You got us, we’re cleaning it up, how can we work together?’” the official close to the matter said. But “they never wanted to acknowledge the problem”. The Saabs said in their statement through their lawyers that they had provided Ernst & Young “full and unexpurgated access to client files” and that “these are hardly the actions of party that has something to hide”. While they acknowledged that some of the individuals named in the report were sanctioned, they said there was no evidence that those clients had used their accounts at FBME to funnel money to the Syrian regime and their accounts were stopped as soon as sanctions were issued. In any case, FinCEN was unimpressed, and in summer 2015 the agency issued a final declaration that it was going to cut off FBME from the US dollar because, in the words of FinCEN’s director, “the United States will not allow a compromised foreign bank to send dirty funds through the U.S. financial system.” The Saabs had one last option: sue the US government to prevent the action from taking hold. They returned to Quinn Emanuel – and Burck jumped at the chance to come back and fight FinCEN. Most of FinCEN’s evidence against FBME was classified, and Burck said that offended him. He was “worried” about what FinCEN might have in its “black box” of secret evidence, he said, and if the agency “had produced definitive evidence that the bank was facilitating chemical warfare I would not have continued”. But he pressed ahead because “I do think it’s morally wrong to condemn someone on the basis of secret evidence”. Quinn Emanuel added another top partner to lead the charge alongside Burck: Derek Shaffer, a highly sought-after white-collar crime defender with a gift for rhetorical flourishes. If FinCEN could treat FBME so unfairly, he declared in early court filings, “then banks all around the world must tremble”. Hogan Lovells signed on to the suit as well, and the two firms submitted the Ernst & Young and KPMG audits as evidence in the bank’s favour. US District Court Judge Christopher Cooper handed FBME a couple of victories, ruling that FinCEN had failed to give an adequate public explanation of why it was targeting FBME. FinCEN responded with a more detailed case against the bank, and it added a new allegation to the mix: FBME’s employees had taken “various measures to obscure information” after the agency issued its first public notice against the bank. The claim that FBME staff had tried to hide information “is a uniquely damaging allegation”, Shaffer told the judge. Had FBME been given notice, it “would have launched an internal investigation”. By then, the findings of the bank’s previous internal investigation had resurfaced. A few months after Brown and Leighton’s investigation had been shut down, the Central Bank of Cyprus had ordered them to hand over their findings and materials. They had complied, preparing detailed affidavits running to almost 200 pages supported by a cache of internal documents. The central bank commissioned a review of their evidence, and it confirmed many of their findings. But then Brown sent the same package of evidence to FinCEN. In spring 2015, just as Brown and Leighton were making contact with government investigators, Hogan Lovells and Quinn Emanuel began pelting the investigators with letters, demanding that they return all their files and claiming that providing the Cypriot government with information about the bank was a “violation” of their engagement agreements. One of the letters had come from Burck personally. He said he was obligated to enforce client confidentiality because Brown and Leighton had been working under his auspices. Once they learned that the evidence had been sent to FinCEN, the lawyers claimed in court that Brown and Leighton’s affidavits were “saturated with gross, bad-faith distortions and outright falsehoods”, accusing FinCEN of using the investigators’ materials “in flagrant violation of attorney-client privilege” and urging the judge to toss out the dollar ban. The judge swatted away the accusation that FinCEN’s ruling had been tainted by Brown and Leighton’s evidence, noting that the agency had enough separate evidence to prove its case without the investigators’ materials. Having lost that battle, Quinn Emanuel sued Brown and Leighton on behalf of the Saabs in London for disclosing confidential information to the regulators. That case is ongoing. Meanwhile, Brown and Leighton had filed their own lawsuit against FBME in Cyprus, alleging the bank had failed to pay their invoices totalling £240,000 after sacking them. FinCEN ultimately won its case against the bank in the US, and FBME was cut out of the American financial system. But the Saabs and Quinn Emanuel are still fighting, most notably in their claim against the Republic of Cyprus in a highly secretive global court that settles disputes between corporations and nation states. The investor-state dispute settlement tribunal system was exposed by BuzzFeed News last year for frequently favoring corporate interests over small governments and allowing executives to escape punishment for their crimes. In that venue, the Saabs are demanding that Cyprus fork over $1.3 billion in damages for taking control of the bank’s accounts. That is equivalent to 15% of the Cypriot government’s entire annual budget and could prove ruinous for the tiny island nation. That case was heard earlier this year, and both sides are now awaiting the decision of a panel of three arbitrators. As the Saabs’ many fights have slogged through courts around the world, hundreds of millions of dollars in deposits have remained frozen. As a result, many of FBME’s legitimate depositors haven’t been able to access much of their money, said Floris Alexander, whose firm Legal Floris LLC represents 1,500 of the bank’s clients. “They keep waiting, they’re still in limbo,” Alexander said. “There are people losing their life savings.”
“I will go to Harvard and get an alumni status.”
Though FinCEN’s findings had severely hampered the Saabs’ ability to access the global financial system, they found a way to pay their lawyers. They used Saab Financial – the very company involved in the other case in which Quinn Emanuel, fighting against the Saabs, had hired an expert who found more money laundering red flags than he had ever seen in his career. They paid the firms in euros, and used accounts at Trade Finance Bank, a Russian bank part-owned by Fadi Saab. Quinn Emanuel said the payment was lawful and that it had “no information” about Trade Finance Bank’s connection to it. In the spring of this year, Saab Financial went into liquidation in Bermuda. The company now faces claims that it owes its private investors hundreds of millions of dollars. The Saabs did not respond to questions about this company. The Saabs never did fire Lilit Khachatryan. She told BuzzFeed News that she submitted her resignation and gave 90 days’ notice, but that the bank’s lawyers had no luck finding a replacement – FBME’s name had been too tarnished by FinCEN. But Khachatryan continued to help the Saabs with their legal wrangling, and over time they “came to appreciate me for what I was doing at the bank”. Her tenure with FBME officially ended in April 2016, when the Cypriot authorities made her and other bank employees redundant. But she kept working with the Saabs up until this year, she said, and did some contract work in Moscow for Fadi’s Trade Finance Bank, advising it on how to prevent money laundering. She also came through on her promise to Fadi Saab the night the forgery was exposed. In December 2014 she won acceptance to one of the most famous universities in the world – though not for an actual master’s degree in business, but rather for a four-month “executive education” program costing more than $50,000. Fadi personally paid for the course with what Khachatryan referred to as a “personal loan” that she said she had repaid by doing work on their legal cases. And when BuzzFeed News first made contact with FBME and Quinn Emanuel, a spokesperson sent back a raft of documents. Among them was a document proving that Lilit Khachatryan had finally gone to Harvard.

Story 2
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 3
Money Laundering Fines Help Bankers Avoid Prosecution
The recent seizure of a cargo ship owned by JP Morgan, a vessel loaded with 20 tons of cocaine according to latest accounts, highlighted the risks of banks’ involvement in illicit activities, inadvertent or otherwise. And although U.S. authorities released the MSC Gayane after the owner, JP Morgan’s asset management arm, and the operator, Mediterranean Shipping Company, paid a $50M in cash and surety bond, the stain remains and this is not the only stain. Money laundering for drug cartels and moving funds for terrorists, arms dealers and dictatorial regimes are among the sins banks have accumulated through the years. However, court settlements and billions of dollars in fines often help major financial institutions avoid prosecution, conviction, and labels like ‘Drugbanks.’
Also read: Money Laundering Scandals Bring Court Charges and Record Job Cuts to Euro Banks
Money Laundering Pandemic
According to a study conducted by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (Unodc) in 2017, up to $2.1T dollars is being laundered by criminals each year. Although it remains extremely difficult to estimate the exact amount, Unodc believes it’s between 2 and 5% of the global gross domestic product (GDP).
The advancement of financial technologies, including cryptocurrencies, has undoubtedly increased the speed and ease with which money moves around the world. However, the organization singles out developments related to the traditional financial system to explain why finding, freezing and forfeiting criminal assets have become harder. Unodc says the “dollarization” of black markets, financial deregulation, and the spread of financial havens are the main factors.
Many banks have invested in implementing expensive transaction monitoring systems that should by design detect suspicious behavior on the part of their clients. They are programmed to raise the alarm whenever predetermined patterns are observed, such as large cash deposits, multiple transfers through a bank account in a quick succession, and other complex financial transactions.
In reality, however, the great majority of the automated alerts, 95% in the U.S., are being evaluated as “false positives,” according to research by the Thomson Reuters Regulatory Intelligence published last year. Around 98% never make it into a report on suspicious activity. At the same time, the billions buried in these software systems fail to stop the big money launderers who employ sophisticated techniques and manage to avoid detection. That includes drug cartels, terrorists and rogue states.
Swedbank Accused of Moving Funds for WMD Program
Since 2018, a number of large banks, mostly European, have been dogged by money-laundering accusations. Swedbank, one of the financial institutions implicated in the scandal centered on the Danish Danske Bank’s operations in the Baltics, now has to deal with another chapter in the ordeal. A new report by the Dagens Industri newspaper reveals that Sweden’s leading bank has identified transactions from its customers to the FBME bank, shut down two years ago after being connected to the Syrian chemical weapons program.
The suspicious transfers were discovered during an internal investigation last year and, according to the publication, were brought to the attention of the bank’s top management. It’s unclear when exactly they were carried out, which makes it hard to determine whether they breached sanctions imposed by the United States and the European Union on the regime in Damask.
The transactions were made between account holders in Swedbank’s Lithuanian branch and one or more clients of FBME. The Dar es Salaam-headquartered bank had previously been linked to arms and drugs trafficking, terrorist financing and money laundering. It was denied access to the U.S. financial sector and its license was revoked by the central bank of Tanzania in 2017.
Dagens Industri’s article comes during a difficult period for Swedbank. A documentary aired in February by the Swedish national broadcaster SVT provided details about the bank’s involvement in money laundering transactions with Danske Bank in the Baltic states. Following the revelations, Swedbank’s Chief Executive Birgitte Bonnesen and Chairman Lars Idermark left their posts.
Banks Fined Billions for Money Laundering Violations
The crypto industry is often criticized by the establishment for not doing enough to prevent risks associated with money laundering and terrorist financing that come with the use of decentralized digital currencies. But it’s actually the traditional financial sector that has a much longer track record of such violations. Scandals with banks providing services to bad actors are not a new occurrence and failure to prevent money laundering and the movement of illicit funds are not a recent phenomenon.
Banks often pay huge fines for breaches of anti-money laundering (AML) and counter terrorist financing (CTF) regulations. Multiple cases involving major financial institutions were recorded in 2018 alone, indicating either the inability of their AML systems to cope with the challenges or simply the lack of will to prevent criminal activities.
The list of banks punished by regulators last year is pretty long. ING Bank paid $900 million in the Netherlands for its failure to prevent money laundering and other bad practices between 2010 and 2016. One of the cases involved $55 million in bribes paid to the daughter of Uzbekistan’s president by the Russian mobile operator Vimpelcom, as reported by the Global Financial Integrity portal.
Another Dutch institution, Rabobank, paid $369M to the U.S. government for allowing hundreds of millions in cash from Mexico to be deposited in its branches in California and then transferred elsewhere. That happened despite obvious signs that the funds were linked to drug trafficking and other organized crime-related money laundering.
Last year again, US Bancorp agreed to pay $613M in fines which went to settle two criminal charges after the bank was accused of failing to prevent money laundering by investigating only a limited number of suspicious transactions. According to the U.S. Department of Justice, as much as 80% of these transactions had to be examined. The bank, however, did not take steps to increase the funding and the size of its AML team.
The Swiss banking giant UBS was fined $15 million in the U.S. for failing to file suspicious activity reports. Between 2011 and 2013, its branch in San Diego transferred $9 billion for around 6,000 accounts of non-U.S. residents from Mexico, Venezuela and Panama. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) found that the bank’s analysts were allowing transactions despite multiple red flags.
Elsewhere, Australia’s largest bank was found responsible for no less than 50,000 breaches of AML and CFT laws between 2012 and 2015. They were related to a type of smart ATMs called intelligent deposit machines (IDMs) which allowed users to anonymously credit cash deposits to their accounts with an unlimited number of transactions. Regulators believe they were used by criminals who laundered $75M. The Commonwealth Bank of Australia agreed to pay $534M in penalties.
Other notable examples from the past couple of decades include JP Morgan Chase which paid over $2B in a 2014 court settlement for ignoring alerts about Bernard Madoff. The Wall Street financier had an account at the bank and used it to run his Ponzi scheme. Citigroup is another entry in a list compiled by Bloomberg, with $237M in fines for the operations of its subsidiary Banamex USA. It processed transactions worth some $8.8B with limited oversight in a five-year period until 2012.
Drug Cartels Use US Banks to Launder Illicit Proceeds
Wells Fargo-owned Wachovia was fined $160M for processing $373B in wire transfers from Mexican currency houses between 2004 and 2007. U.S. authorities believe drug cartels used accounts at the bank to launder illicit funds and finance their criminal operations. According to a federal investigation into the notorious Mexican crime syndicate Los Zetas, covered in media reports in 2012, accounts at Bank of America were allegedly used to launder proceeds from cocaine trafficking. HSBC, the largest European bank, was also used for money laundering by Latin American drug cartels. It had to pay $1.9B for failing to implement proper monitoring of over $670B in transfers from Mexico and $9.4B in USD purchases.
Standard Chartered, another London-headquartered bank which operates in more than 70 countries, was fined $967M in total for violating U.S. sanctions on Iran in 2012 and for weak AML controls in 2014. Deutsche Bank, which is the largest German bank, paid authorities in the U.S. and U.K. fines worth $670M for allowing Russian citizens to expatriate billions of dollars in mirror trades conducted through its Moscow office. Commerzbank, another German giant, was fined $1.45B in 2015 for failing to share with U.S. authorities information about the dealings of clients that were subject to sanctions. The institution was accused of processing over $250B in transactions ordered by Iranian and Sudanese entities between 2002 and 2008.
In so many of these cases, the fines have been paid as part of court settlements that helped the banks avoid further prosecution. The absence of prison sentences for bankers involved in facilitating money laundering schemes on behalf of drug traffickers and entities under sanctions also makes a strong impression. It turns out that crime syndicates and bad actors have less trouble accessing regular bank services than crypto companies with perfectly legitimate businesses, which continue to face difficulties when trying to open a bank account in many jurisdictions.
Are fines enough of a punishment for banks in cases of large-scale money laundering via traditional financial channels? What are your thoughts on the subject? Tell us in the comments section below.
Images courtesy of Shutterstock.
You can now easily buy Bitcoin with a credit card. Visit our Purchase Bitcoin page where you can buy BCH and BTC securely, and keep your coins secure by storing them in our free Bitcoin mobile wallet.

Story 4
The Tanzania-based FBME Bank, which has been described as one of the most notorious money-laundering operations in the world, has lost its final fight for access to the US electronic money transfer system, effectively putting its Cyprus unit out of business after an October 24 ruling by the US District Court in Washington, DC.
The ruling validates the US Treasury Department’s conclusion that FBME Ltd., a Cayman Islands corporation, “was of primary money laundering concern.” The bank, according to the prosecutors, allegedly “facilitated money laundering, terrorist financing, transnational organized crime, fraud schemes, sanctions evasion, weapons proliferation, corruption by politically exposed persons, and other financial crimes.”
That is hardly the end of the story, however. At the moment, Tanzania and Cyprus are in a contest for jurisdiction over dissolution of the bank, many of whose depositors are believed to be among some of the world’s major criminal organizations, including the Russian Mafia, pornographers, phishing scams, corrupt heads of state and a long list of other wrongdoers. One source told Asia Sentinel that millions of dollars may never be claimed once the bank is finally dissolved because to do so would expose the names of the depositors, which would then alert law enforcement authorities to their actions. It could take months or even years to decide who gets jurisdiction, one source said.
Reports for the Cyprus Central Bank and other organizations by Kroll Associates, the international corporate investigation and country risk company, the Ernst & Young and PwC accounting firms and others painted a dark picture of vast corruption inside the bank.
The Lebanese brothers Ayoub-Farid and Fadi Saab are the beneficial owners of the bank. Michael Norbert Saab is the head of the bank’s credit card services division. It was first labeled a money-laundering operation three years ago by the US Treasury Department’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN). The Bank of Tanzania, the country’s central bank, took over control of FBME Bank in the wake of the US ruling and appointed a manager to handle the bank’s affairs to oversee its liquidation even as the Saabs continued to fight to stay the US decision.
The end for the bank came on a stunning oversight. On Oct. 3, the bank’s lawyers, Quinn Emanuel Urquhart and Sullivan, wrote the US District Court that the Washington-based arm of the law firm had been instructed by the central bank of Tanzania to withdraw FBME Bank from the appeal, a move by Tanzania that was believed to be at the behest of the US government. The ultimate owners, a Cayman Islands entity, however, refused to give up and continued the court fight.
But apparently the bank’s 20-odd lawyers didn’t notice that the bank had neglected to re-register in the Cayman Islands. The Cayman Registry of Companies struck off the bank’s holding company on Oct. 31, 2016 “due to a lapse in its corporate administrator.” According to Cayman law, a company struck off is effectively dissolved and cannot sue or be sued.
“The upshot is that FBME was a legal nullity when it purported to file its notice of appeal in April 2017,” ruled the court, headed by Chief Judge Henderson Garland. “[A] corporation which has been dissolved is as if it did not exist, and the result of the dissolution can not be distinguished from the death of a natural person in its effect. It remains a legal nullity now. It is not and has never been a proper party to this appeal. And because the Bank has withdrawn, there is no viable appellant and no dispute fit for resolution on the merits.”
In April, after a three-year court battle, US District Court Judge Christopher Cooper granted a motion by FinCEN to bar FBME Bank from US operation, affirming a March 2016 final ruling barring FBME from use of the US SWIFT system (Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication) through which most of the world’s financial transactions travel, or from using US dollars. It also prohibited domestic financial institutions from opening or maintaining correspondent bank accounts on behalf of FBME.
FBME appealed, fighting the ruling tenaciously until the sudden withdrawal described in the Quinn Emanuel letter on Oct. 3.
The Saabs, who have publicly denied wrongdoing, have sought arbitration in the International Chamber of Commerce Arbitration Court in Paris, seeking €1.5 billion in damages from the Republic of Cyprus.
The bank has been the subject of a series of stories by Asia Sentinel that described the alleged laundering of millions of US dollars out of the Indonesia-based Bank Mutiara, formerly known as Bank Century, which was looted by its owner, Robert Tantular, during the global financial crisis of 2009. Bank Mutiara was taken over by the Tokyo-based J Trust financial conglomerate. J Trust and the Saabs have threatened multiple lawsuits against Asia Sentinel over the stories. Asia Sentinel stands by its reporting.
(This article has been updated)

Story 5
Completing the CAPTCHA proves you are a human and gives you temporary access to the web property.
What can I do to prevent this in the future?
If you are on a personal connection, like at home, you can run an anti-virus scan on your device to make sure it is not infected with malware.
If you are at an office or shared network, you can ask the network administrator to run a scan across the network looking for misconfigured or infected devices.

Story 6
Getty
Swedbank prides itself on its savings bank history and its traditional role as a co-operative agricultural bank. Perhaps it wishes it had stuck more closely to its roots after allegedly becoming embroiled in Danske Bank's Estonian money laundering scandal.
Yesterday, Thursday, was another dramatic day for the bank as CEO as President, Birgitte Bonnesen was forced to step down in the face of widespread criticism over Swedbank's response to the allegations ahead of its annual general meeting. Bonnenesen was previously head of the Baltic region for the bank.
”The developments during the past days have created enormous pressure for the bank,” said Lars Idermark, Chair of Swedbank. “Therefore, the Board has decided to dismiss Birgitte Bonnesen from her position."
The previous day, Wednesday, police raided the Stockholm offices of Swedbank and the Swedish Economic Crime Authority said that it was widening its investigation of Swedbank to include suspected fraud and a breach of insider trading rules. Paul Manafort, the former campaign manager to President Donald Trump is said to be among those who have received suspicious payments from the lender.
The Financial Times also revealed on Wednesday that the New York State Department of Financial Services was probing Swedbank over its links to Danske Bank and several failed banks including Latvia’s ABLV, Lithuania’s Ukio and Cyprus’s FBME. Swedbank is also facing questions about its alleged involvement in the Panama papers and Russian Laundromat money laundering schemes.
Swedish public broadcaster SVT, which claims to have had access to a large number of classified documents, revealed that Swedbank customers could have been systematically money laundering through the bank for almost a decade. SVT claimed that a total of $5.8bn was funneled between accounts where risk indicators suggest money laundering could have been taking place between 2005 and 2015.
The first signs that something was amiss emerged last December when Danske Bank published a report detailing how €200bn of non-resident money from Russia and other former Soviet states flowed through its tiny Estonian branch over a nine-year period.
Danske Bank has now been prohibited from carrying out banking activities in Estonia, prompting Denmark’s biggest lender to announce a complete withdrawal from the entire Baltic region and Russia.
Getty
Swedbank is the largest lender in the Baltics. It has 900,000 private and 130,000 corporate customers in Estonia, who, the bank says, made millions of transactions every day in 2018. The bank said, "On average, we received about 80 warning signs daily. We did an in-depth analysis of those transactions. This, in turn, led to about four notifications per day to the Estonian finance police."
Nordic countries pride themselves on corporate honestly and are frequently voted as having the most transparent organizations. This year U.S. News voted Norway the most transparent in the world, with Finland 3rd and Sweden 4th, and Denmark 6th. But investors must be beginning to wonder if the Nordic banks are quite so transparent after all - Danske's handling of the Estonian crisis has also been criticized and led to the resignation of Thomas Borgen as CEO in October. Big Nordic banks have long enjoyed very close, almost cozy relationships, working together rather than competing on fintech payment apps such as Swish, Vipps, and Mobile Pay.
Shares in Swedbank have plunged on news of its involvement in the Danske money laundering scandal and this week investors marked down shares in SEB on fears that it might have to withdraw its operations from the Baltics as well.
Watch SVT's full report on the investigation here.

Story 7
Access Denied - Sucuri Website Firewall
If you are the site owner (or you manage this site), please whitelist your IP or if you think this block is an error please open a support ticket and make sure to include the block details (displayed in the box below), so we can assist you in troubleshooting the issue.
Block details:

Story 8
Notifications by email
You will receive email notifications every time an article on your topic of interest is published on our websites. This service is completely free of charge.
Three ways to create your email notifications:
Key word in an article: select the key words in an article and click on «Create notification»
select the key words in an article and click on «Create notification» Search results: on the search results page, click on «Create notifications for this search»
on the search results page, click on «Create notifications for this search» Personal input: specify their title, the key words, the country and the publication of your email notification.
Do not hesitate to create your own notifications according to your interests : better criteria narrows down the results.
You can modify or delete your notifications or summaries in your account.

Story 9
Access Denied - Sucuri Website Firewall
If you are the site owner (or you manage this site), please whitelist your IP or if you think this block is an error please open a support ticket and make sure to include the block details (displayed in the box below), so we can assist you in troubleshooting the issue.
Block details:

Story 10
Billions of US dollars belonging to Indonesian taxpayers have allegedly been spirited out of Indonesia and into bank accounts in Singapore, Lebanon, Russia, Cyprus, the UK and Bermuda by some of the most powerful financial figures in Jakarta with the help of an international cabal of money launderers, according to a lawsuit filed in the Supreme Court of Mauritius on Sept. 29.
Six plaintiffs led by the Mauritius-based closed-end investment company, Weston International Capital Ltd are seeking US$410 million from the Indonesian Deposit Insurance Corporation (LPS) and 12 other J Trust and LPS associated defendants that Weston claims it was defrauded out of three years ago through the sham sale of Indonesia’s Bank Mutiara to a then-unknown Japanese financial concern, J Trust, along with various money laundering, bribery and theft charges.
Weston has chased the money in court cases from Mauritius to Singapore to Switzerland and now to Cyprus and Thailand and claims through a spokesman that it is either nearing collection on monies owed or in the alternative moving for the bankruptcy, liquidation and collapse of J Trust Co. Ltd, J Trust Asia Pte, PT J Trust Investments Indonesia, Group Lease PCL and the Indonesian Deposit Insurance Corporation (LPS) and their shareholders.
Indonesia’s notoriously corrupt courts have traditionally ignored a long list of international creditors attempting to collect in any manner on international legal judgments against Indonesian corporate deadbeats. However a Weston spokesman contends that “it is time for either the LPS to settle these debts and self-report these charges to global regulators or for the Indonesian banking system to face further intense global anti-money laundering scrutiny and embargos.”
Saga of Bank Century
The Weston lawsuit revolves around the long-running takeover of the remains of a failing Indonesian financial institution previously named Bank Century, which nearly capsized in 2008 during the global financial crisis.
According to a series of Asia Sentinel stories, Indonesian Deposit Insurance Corporation (LPS) officials reportedly were ordered to pour US$830 million at then-prevailing exchange rates into the bank from 2008 to 2013. These capital injections were intended to conceal the fact that the bank’s former owner, Robert Tantular, was allowed by the Indonesian government to steal more than US$500 million of the bailout funds and launder them back out of Indonesia to Singapore, Cyprus, Switzerland, Russia, the USA and Lebanon through the likes of Standard Chartered Bank Singapore, Wells Fargo Bank N.A., Federal Bank of Lebanon and FBME Bank.
The attempt to prop up the bank in 2008 and 2009 nearly brought down the entire Indonesian financial system and led to the ouster on what are widely regarded as trumped-up charges of Sri Mulyani Indrawati, the internationally-respected finance minister in 2016, who quit and joined the World Bank as its managing director. Sri Mulyani’s return as finance minister has led to little progress in correcting the Indonesian banking system’s anti-money laundering concealment program.
LPS Takes Over Bank Century
In 2008, the sinking Bank Century was expropriated by the Indonesian Deposit Insurance Corporation, a quasi-government agency. The bank was renamed Bank Mutiara and sold to J Trust, a Tokyo-based consumer finance company partly owned by and advised by the US activist hedge fund Taiyo Pacific LLP, the California Public Employee Retirement System (CalPERS), Invesco Capital and WL Ross & Co, headed by Wilbur Ross, the current Secretary of Commerce. As Asia Sentinel has reported, J Trust appears to have illicitly paid just US$28.5 million instead of the publicly claimed US$368 million to acquire 99.996 percent of Bank Mutiara, which was later renamed Bank JTrust.
There is little about the Japanese parent, J Trust Co. Ltd, that inspires confidence. Its CEO, Nobuyoshi Fujisawa, was president of several units of Livedoor, a Japanese internet service provider that went belly-up in a 2006 Ponzi scheme amid charges of market manipulation and securities fraud. J Trust is also connected closely to Takefuji Co. Ltd., another notorious Japanese US$5.2 billion pyramid fraud and bankruptcy that ended in its demise in 2010.
It is now affiliated with and announced it intends to take over Group Lease PLC, a Bangkok-based hire purchase lender whose share price has collapsed and whose shares were recently suspended from trading by the Thailand Securities and Exchange Commission and the Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET) because of fraud, corruption and money laundering charges.
Group Lease’s now-departed Chairman and CEO, Mitsuji Konoshita, has been charged by Thai authorities with fraud, theft, statutory audit fraud and money laundering. He has left Thailand ahead of the charges.
J Trust Co.’s stock ownership appears to be intertwined in a maze of cross shareholdings with APF Financial, Showa Holdings Ltd, Wedge Holdings Co., Ltd, Group Lease PCL, PT Bank JTrust Indonesia TBK in addition to Group Lease Holdings Pte Ltd (Singapore), Taiyo Pacific LLP, CalPERS and Invesco.
Prominent Banker Accused
A leading defendant in the Weston lawsuit is Kartika Wirjoatmodjo, currently president director of PT Bank Mandiri TBK, Indonesia’s biggest bank, which is owned by the Indonesian government. Wirjoatmodjo is one of the country’s most prominent banking officials and is also the sitting chairman of the Indonesian Association of Banks. In the lawsuit, he is referred to as “the primary architect, orchestrator and director of all of the fraudulent acts of concealment, money laundering and theft committed at Bank JTrust from 2014 until late 2015.”
Other Indonesian government officials named in the lawsuit include Sukoriyanto Saputro, Bank Mandiri’s former corporate secretary, Fauzi Ichsan, the current CEO and Commissioner of the Indonesian Deposit Insurance Corporation, Ahmad Fajar, an LPS appointed, international director and President Director of Bank JTrust Indonesia, now a Bank JTrust Commissioner, and Felix Istyono Hartadi Tiono, Bank JTrust’s chief Money Laundering Compliance Officer (MLCO) since 2014.
Wirjoatmodjo headed the Indonesian Deposit Insurance Corporation, known under its Indonesian name Lembaga Penjamin Simpanan (LPS), from 2014 to 2015 before taking over as chief executive of Bank Mandiri. He was in charge of the LPS sale of Bank Mutiara to J Trust in 2014 under the explicit directions of the presidential office of Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono according to the suit. He is alleged to have ordered the Indonesian Financial Services Authority’s approval of J Trust Co. and Fujisawa as qualified buyers under “fit and proper test” requirements even though J Trust’s credentials to acquire a bank were considered dubious at best, much less Fujisawa’s.
Finally, several board members of PT Bank JTrust Indonesia TBK and four J Trust Co. and J Trust Asia executives are named in the Weston lawsuit as enjoined individuals, namely Nobuyoshi Fujisawa, Shigeyoshi Asano, Nobiru Adachi and Felix Istyono Hartadi Tiono, a globally registered MLCO.
Enter the Saabs
Among the most tarnished defendants named in the lawsuit are Fadi Michel Saab, Ayoub Farid Michel Saab and Michel Norbert Saab, all officers and owners of the notorious Tanzania-based FBME Bank, FBME Bank’s Cyprus branch, FBME Card Services Ltd. and the Federal Bank of Lebanon, purportedly long a bank of interest to global regulators. FBME Bank was in effect closed down by the US Treasury Department’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) earlier this year.
All of the Saabs are alleged to be the transferors and past recipients of hundreds of millions of dollars of laundered money including over US$400 million missing from the Saab Financial (Jersey/Bermuda) Ltd. offshore vehicles which have acted as the Saabs’ personal piggy bank.
It is alleged that over US$40 million has been paid by the Saabs to their legal advisers since 2014 to conceal their money laundering activities and primarily to US law firms that may face money laundering charges themselves.
The Saabs and Bank JTrust under the ownership of both Tantular and the LPS continued to launder money from 2006 to 2015, according to an explosive report authored by Peter Barrie-Brown, a UK money laundering and compliance expert. It was written for and secretly distributed only to the LPS, J Trust and Bank JTrust in mid-2014 and was concealed until 2016.
Authorities of the US Treasury Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) in effect shut down FBME Bank in April of this year after a three-year battle, citing massive acts of money laundering and aiding and abetting terrorist financing to the likes of Hezbollah and Syrian manufacturers of sarin gas. The Saabs recently lost their final fight before the US Appeals Court in Washington, DC to prevent FBME Banks final closure and liquidation after the government of Tanzania unexpectedly withdrew its support for the appeal on Oct. 3.

Story 11
Access Denied - Sucuri Website Firewall
If you are the site owner (or you manage this site), please whitelist your IP or if you think this block is an error please open a support ticket and make sure to include the block details (displayed in the box below), so we can assist you in troubleshooting the issue.
Block details:

Story 12
Gone
The requested resource is no longer available on this server and there is no forwarding address. Please remove all references to this resource.

Story 13
Access Denied - Sucuri Website Firewall
If you are the site owner (or you manage this site), please whitelist your IP or if you think this block is an error please open a support ticket and make sure to include the block details (displayed in the box below), so we can assist you in troubleshooting the issue.
Block details:

Story 14
Access Denied - Sucuri Website Firewall
If you are the site owner (or you manage this site), please whitelist your IP or if you think this block is an error please open a support ticket and make sure to include the block details (displayed in the box below), so we can assist you in troubleshooting the issue.
Block details:

Story 15
The FBI has asked officials in Cyprus for financial information about a defunct bank that was used by wealthy Russians with political connections and has been accused by the US government of money laundering, two sources have told the Guardian.
The request for information about FBME Bank comes as Cyprus has emerged as a key area of interest for Robert Mueller, the US special counsel who is investigating a possible conspiracy between Donald Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign and the Kremlin.
People familiar with the FBI request told the Guardian that federal investigators and the US Treasury approached the Central Bank of Cyprus in November seeking detailed information about FBME, which was shut down earlier this year.
One person familiar with the FBI request said it appeared to be connected to Mueller’s ongoing examination of Paul Manafort, the former Trump campaign manager who was indicted in October, and money that flowed between former Soviet states and the US through Cypriot banks.
The Central Bank of Cyprus, which in 2014 placed FBME under administration in a direct response to the US action and obtained full access to the bank’s data, declined to comment. The US special counsel’s office also declined to comment.
FBME has vigorously denied accusations that it has been a conduit for money laundering and other criminal activity.
The owners, the Lebanese brothers Ayoub-Farid Saab and Fadi Michel Saab, issued a statement following a series of recent critical articles about the bank and denied all wrongdoing.
Bloomberg reported last week that FBME was the subject of two US investigations: one into the bank’s credit card unit, and another into alleged laundering of money from Russia. Bloomberg said the Russia-related investigation, which is being led by the US attorney’s office in New York, was connected to a flow of illegal Russian funds into the New York real estate market.
FBME, previously known as the Federal Bank of the Middle East, was based in Tanzania but about 90 per cent of its banking was conducted in Cyprus. A report by the US Treasury’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) in 2014 said the bank was an institution of “primary money laundering concern”.
The report found that the bank was evading efforts by the Central Bank of Cyprus to supervise its activities, and that FBME was facilitating money laundering, terrorist financing, transnational organised crime, fraud, sanctions evasion, weapons trading, and political corruption.
A 2014 internal report by the Central Bank of Cyprus about FBME that was obtained by the Guardian found that FBME had banking relationships with several Russians who were considered to be politically sensitive clients and that about half of the bank’s clients were Russian nationals, including Vladimir Smirnov, who is close to Putin, and Aleksandr Shishkin, a member of Putin’s political party.
FBME was subjected in 2016 to what is known as a “fifth special measure”, a hard-hitting US regulatory tool that was established after the 9/11 attacks to address law enforcement concerns in the banking sector. The move prohibited the bank from doing business in the US or using US dollars, and barred US banks from opening or using any bank accounts on FBME’s behalf. In effect, it shut the bank down. FBME has challenged the decision but US courts have so far upheld the move.
It is not clear why Mueller and his team of investigators appear to be interested in FBME’s financial data. But it indicates that the special counsel is continuing to examine money flows from Cyprus.
Manafort has pleaded not guilty to charges that he laundered millions of dollars through foreign banks as part of a scheme to hide his work for political parties in Ukraine. He is accused of funnelling the funds through foreign shell companies, including many that were based in Cyprus.
Manafort’s attorney, Kevin Downing, has called the charges, including those related to his use of offshore accounts, “ridiculous”.
A spokesman for FBME bank told the Guaridan that Manafort was never a client of FBME.
Mueller’s team has separately issued a subpoena for information from Deutsche Bank. According to a person close to the bank, the subpoena was issued in the autumn. The German bank is Trump’s biggest lender.
Deutsche also worked as a correspondent bank for FBME. Internal emails seen by the Guardian show that executives from both banks were in contact in 2014 discussing accounts that were “on the radar” of US law enforcement.
Deutsche Bank said in a statement: “We severed our relationship with FBME in 2014 and have added more than a thousand anti-financial crime staff in recent years to make our business safer and increase our controls.” – Guardian

Story 16
GFG Group appoints Chief Executive
Auckland, New Zealand. 20 February 2013. Electronic payments solutions and services company GFG Group has appointed Andreas Kazamias to the position of Chief Executive Officer, based in Auckland.

In this global role, Kazamias takes responsibility for the strategic leadership of GFG Group, guiding implementation of the company plan and operational performance of all the GFG Group companies.

GFG Group Chairman Ralph Green says the new appointment is highly strategic as the company looks to accelerate growth for its electronic payments products and services, particularly in developing countries across Africa, Asia and South America.
Originally from Australia, Andreas Kazamias is currently Chief Information Officer for online foreign exchange trading group Easy Forex, based at the company’s headquarters in Cyprus. Easy Forex has clients in over 160 countries, with offices in the UK and Poland, and a separately licensed company in Australia. The CIO role is a global position. Kazamias takes up the CEO role at GFG Group on 11 March 2013.
Andreas Kazamias has spent nearly thirty years in senior or leadership roles in the financial services industry at companies in Australia, across Europe and in the UK, including First Data, FBME, ACI, Commonwealth Bank of Australia, Pulse International, St George Bank, National Bank of Greece, Hellenic Bank, JCC Payment Systems, and Cashcard.
Kazamias has a long association with GFG Group, beginning when he selected GFG Group’s card system while CEO of FBME in Cyprus.
“Andreas took over a basic card centre at FBME and established a successful new card and e-Commerce acquiring company – from concept, to project management of every dimension, through to full operation,” Ralph Green says. “As a customer, Andreas demanded the best from everyone but particularly himself. He’s not afraid to push payments product boundaries, while remaining pragmatic about business and customer needs and compliance requirements. We’re delighted he’s accepted the CEO role at GFG Group.”
Kazamias says GFG Group’s electronic payments solutions, spanning cards and mobile alongside its leading edge software testing tools, have great potential for further development and provide a strong platform for growth – particularly in developing countries where GFG Group’s speed of implementation combined with bank-grade security give the company a strong competitive edge.
“In regions such as Latin America, that are just starting to make the switch to chip card technology, GFG Group’s PCI compliant systems have an advantage,” Kazamias says. “I also see major opportunities in expanding GFG Group’s footprint through third-party sales and support channels.”
“My key responsibility is to provide high-level strategic leadership to GFG Group but also, critically, what I’d like to achieve cannot be done by me alone – I see this very much as a team effort at all levels,” Kazamias says.
________________________________________
About GFG Group
GFG Group is a leading global provider of innovative consumer electronic payments solutions and services to banks, mobile network operators (MNOs) and third party processors. More than 90 organisations in over 30 countries, including three of the world’s top 20 MNOs, use GFG Group solutions for cards management, mobile payments and banking, and testing. GFG Group’s proven card payment solution CadencieTM , mobile payment solution SimfonieTM, and testing tools and applications – FINsim, Gateway and PINselect – use bank-grade security and enable customers to launch products on open platforms – faster and with less operational cost. The combination of greater speed to market and lower operational costs delivered by GFG Group solutions gives customers a measurably faster return on investment. GFG Group’s core research and development team is based in Auckland, New Zealand, with sales, consulting and support staff operating from offices in Melbourne, Australia; Manila in the Philippines; and Dubai, UAE. For more information, visit www.gfg-group.com

-ENDS-




© Scoop Media


Story 17
Explore our updated, comprehensive Trump-Russia Timeline — or select one of the central players in the Trump-Russia saga to see what we know about them.
When it comes to Donald Trump, his campaign and their dealings with Russia past and present, sometimes it’s hard to keep track of all the players without a scorecard. We have one of sorts — a deeply comprehensive timeline detailing what actually happened and what’s still happening in the ever-changing story of the president, his inner circle and a web of Russian oligarchs, hackers and government officials.
Since first launched in February 2017, the Trump-Russia Timeline has grown to more than 1,000 entries — and we will continue to add updates regularly.
What have reporters and investigators already uncovered and made public? What are the connections and patterns? Review the timeline to see.

Story 18
The Trump-Russia scandal—with all its bizarre and troubling twists and turns—has become a controversy that is defining the Trump presidency. The FBI recently disclosed that since July it has been conducting a counterintelligence investigation into possible coordination between Trump associates and Russia, as part of its probe of Moscow’s meddling in the 2016 election. Citing “US officials,” CNN reported that the bureau has gathered information suggesting coordination between Trump campaign officials and suspected Russian operatives. Each day seems to bring a new revelation—and a new Trump administration denial or deflection. It’s tough to keep track of all the relevant events, pertinent ties, key statements, and unraveling claims. So we’ve compiled what we know so far into the timeline below, which covers Trump’s 30-year history with Russia. We will continue to update the timeline regularly as events unfold. (Click here to go directly to the most recent entry.) If you have a tip or we’ve left anything out, please email us at trumprussia@motherjones.com.
1986: Donald Trump is seated next to Russian Ambassador Yuri Dubinin at a lunch organized by Leonard Lauder, the son of cosmetics scion Estée Lauder, who at the time is running her cosmetics business. “One thing led to another, and now I’m talking about building a large luxury hotel across the street from the Kremlin” in partnership with the Soviet government, Trump later writes in his 1987 book, The Art of the Deal. Also present at the event is Russian diplomat Vitaly Churkin, later the Russian ambassador to the United Nations. (Churkin died in February 2017 at age 64.)
January 1987: Intourist, the Soviet agency for international tourism, expresses interest in meeting with Trump.
“Almost all of the oligarchs were in the room,” Trump said of his 2013 visit to Moscow for his Miss Universe contest.
July 1987: Trump and his then-wife, Ivana, fly to Moscow to tour potential hotel sites. Trump spokesman Dan Klores later tells the Washington Post that during the trip, Trump “met with a lot of the economic and financial advisers in the Politburo” but did not see Mikhail Gorbachev, then the USSR’s leader.
December 1, 1988: The Soviet mission to the United Nations announces that Gorbachev is tentatively scheduled to tour Trump Tower while the Soviet leader is visiting New York, and that Trump plans to show him a swimming pool inside a $19 million apartment.
December 7, 1988: Trump welcomes the wrong Gorbachev to New York—shaking hands with a renowned Gorbachev impersonator outside his hotel.
December 8, 1988: President Ronald Reagan invites Donald and Ivana Trump to a state dinner, where Trump meets the real Gorbachev. According to Trump’s spokesman, the real estate mogul had a lengthy discussion with the Soviet president about economics and hotels.
January 1989: For $200,000, Trump signs a group of Soviet cyclists for a road race from Albany, New York, to Atlantic City, New Jersey, dubbed the Tour de Trump, that will take place that May.
November 5, 1996: Media reports note that Trump is trying to partner with US tobacco company Brooke Group to build a hotel in Moscow.
January 23, 1997: Trump meets with Alexander Lebed, a retired Soviet general then running to be president of Russia, at Trump Tower. Trump says they discussed his plans to build “something major” in Moscow. Lebed reportedly expressed his support, joking that his only objection would be that “the highest skyscraper in the world cannot be built next to the Kremlin. We cannot allow anyone spitting from the roof of the skyscraper on the Kremlin.”
2000: Michael Caputo, who later runs Trump’s primary campaign in New York during the 2016 race, secures a PR contract with the Russian conglomerate Gazprom Media to burnish Russian President Vladimir Putin’s image in the United States.
2005
Date unknown: Trump reportedly signs a development deal with Bayrock Group, a real estate firm founded by a former Soviet official from Kazakhstan, to develop a hotel in Moscow and agrees to partner on a hotel tower in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. Trump works on the projects with Bayrock managing partner Felix Sater, a Russian American businessman. The New York Times will later publish a story revealing Sater’s criminal record, which includes charges of racketeering and assault.
June: Paul Manafort, later Trump’s campaign chairman, pens a strategy memo to Russia oligarch and Putin confidant Oleg Deripaska, with whom he would sign a $10 million lobbying contract the following year. “We are now of the belief that this model can greatly benefit the Putin Government if employed at the correct levels with the appropriate commitment to success,” Manafort writes, noting that the effort “will be offering a great service that can re-focus, both internally and externally, the policies of the Putin government.” (Manafort later denies working to advance Russian interests as part of this contract, first reported by the Associated Press. Deripaska later calls the AP story a “malicious…lie” and says, “I have never made any commitments or contacts with the obligation or purpose to covertly promote or advance ‘Putin’s Government’ interests anywhere in the world.”
2007
September 19: Sater and the former Soviet official who founded Bayrock, Tevfik Arif, stand next to Trump at the launch party for Trump SoHo, a hotel-condominium project co-financed by Bayrock.
November 22: Trump Vodka debuts in Russia, at the Moscow Millionaire’s Fair. As part of its new marketing campaign, Trump Vodka also unveils an ad featuring Trump, tigers, the Kremlin, and Vladimir Lenin.
At the Millionaires’ Fair, Trump meets Sergey Millian, an American citizen from Belarus who is the president of the Russian-American Chamber of Commerce in the USA (RACC). Subsequently, Millian later recounted, “We met at his office in New York, where he introduced me to his right-hand man—Michael Cohen. He is Trump’s main lawyer, all contracts go through him. Subsequently, a contract was signed with me to promote one of their real estate projects in Russia and the CIS. You can say I was their exclusive broker.” According to Millian, he helped Trump “study the Moscow market” for potential real estate investments.
December 17: The New York Times publishes a story about Felix Sater’s controversial past, which includes prison time for stabbing a man with a margarita glass stem during a bar fight and a guilty plea in a Mafia-linked racketeering case. The article characterizes Sater as a Trump business associate who is promoting several potential projects in partnership with Trump.
December 19: In a deposition, Trump is asked about his plans to build a hotel in Moscow. He says, “It was a Trump International Hotel and Tower. It would be a nonexclusive deal, so it would not have precluded me from doing other deals in Moscow, which was very important to me.”
2008
April: Trump announces he is partnering with Russian oligarch Pavel Fuks to license his name for luxury high-rises in Moscow, St. Petersburg, and Sochi, the site of the 2014 Winter Olympics. But Fuks ultimately balks at Trump’s price, which the Russian business newspaper Kommersant estimated could have been $200 million or more.
July: Billionaire Dmitri Rybolovlev, a Russian oligarch, buys a Palm Beach mansion owned by Trump for $95 million, despite Florida’s crashing real estate market and an appraisal on the house for much less. Trump bought the property for $41.35 million four years earlier. Rybolovlev goes on to give conflicting explanations for why he bought the property.
September 15: Donald Trump Jr. speaks at a real estate conference in Manhattan, where he says, “Russians make up a pretty disproportionate cross-section of a lot of our assets…We see a lot of money pouring in from Russia.”
Date unknown: Trump’s team reportedly invites Sergei Millian to meet Trump at a horse race in Florida, where, according to Millian, they sit in Trump’s private suite at the Gulfstream race track in Miami. “Trump team, they realized that we have a lot of connection with Russian investors. And they noticed that we bring a lot of investors from Russia,” Millian told ABC News in a 2016 interview. “And they needed my assistance, yes, to sell properties and sell some of the assets to Russian investors.” Millian says that following this meeting with Trump, he worked as a broker for the Trump Hollywood condominium project in Miami, selling a “nice percentage” of the building’s 200 units to Russian investors.
2010
May 10: Jody Kriss, a former finance director at Bayrock, files a lawsuit against the company. The suit alleges that Bayrock financed Trump SoHo with mysterious cash from Kazhakstan and Russia and calls the building “a Russian mob project.” (The complaint notes that “there is no evidence that Trump took any part in” Bayrock’s interactions with questionable Russian financing sources.)
Date unknown: Bayrock’s Sater becomes a senior adviser to Trump, according to his LinkedIn profile. Though Trump later claims he would not recognize Sater, Sater has a Trump Organization email address, phone number, and business cards.
2013
January (date unknown): At an energy conference in New York, energy consultant Carter Page meets Victor Podobnyy, a Russian intelligence operative who in 2015 will be charged with being an unregistered agent of a foreign government, along with two other Russians. Until June 2013, Page will continue to meet, email, and provide documents to Podobnyy about the energy business, thinking that he is an attaché at the Russian mission to the United Nations who can help broker deals in Russia. Meanwhile, Podobnyy and one of his colleagues discuss efforts to recruit Page as an asset.
May 29: Emin Agalarov, a Russian pop star and the son of billionaire real estate developer Aras Agalarov, releases a music video for his song “Amor.” In the video, he pursues Miss Universe 2012, Olivia Culpo, through dark, empty alleys with a flashlight. Following the video’s release, representatives of Miss Universe, which Trump at the time owns, discuss with the Agalarovs the option of holding the next pageant in Moscow. The Agalarovs persuade them to host Miss Universe at a concert hall they own on the outskirts of Moscow.
June 18: Following the Miss USA contest in Las Vegas, Trump announces he will bring the Miss Universe pageant to Moscow.
The Miss Universe Pageant will be broadcast live from MOSCOW, RUSSIA on November 9th. A big deal that will bring our countries together! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 19, 2013
He also wonders if Putin will attend the pageant, and if Putin might “become my new best friend?”
Do you think Putin will be going to The Miss Universe Pageant in November in Moscow – if so, will he become my new best friend? — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 19, 2013
June (date unknown): Defense Intelligence Agency head Michael Flynn visits Moscow at the invitation of Igor Sergun, the chief of the GRU, Russia’s military intelligence agency. During his visit, Flynn gives an hourlong lecture on leadership and intelligence to a group of GRU officers at the agency’s headquarters. He is reportedly the first US intelligence officer ever allowed inside the headquarters.
June 21: Vladimir Putin awards Rex Tillerson, now Trump’s secretary of state, with Russia’s Order of Friendship. As the CEO of Exxon Mobil, Tillerson had developed a long-standing relationship with the head of Russia’s state-owned oil company, Rosneft, dating back to 1998.
October 17: In an interview with David Letterman, Trump says, “I’ve done a lot of business with the Russians,” noting that he once met Putin.
November 5: In a deposition, Trump is asked about a 2007 New York Times story outlining the controversial past of Felix Sater. Trump replies that he barely knows Sater and would have trouble recognizing him if they were in the same room.
“Putin even sent me a present, a beautiful present,” Trump boasted.
November 8: Trump, in Russia for the Miss Universe pageant, meets with more than a dozen of Russia’s top businessmen at Nobu, a restaurant 15 minutes from the Kremlin. The group includes Herman Gref, the CEO of the state-controlled Sberbank PJSC, Russia’s biggest bank. The meeting at Nobu is organized by Gref—who regularly meets with Putin—and Aras Agalarov, who owns the Nobu franchise in Moscow.
– According to a source connected to the Agalarovs, Putin asks his spokesman, Dmitry Peskov, to call Trump in advance of the Miss Universe show to set up an in-person meeting for the Russian president and Trump. Peskov reportedly passes on the message and expresses Putin’s admiration for Trump. Their plans to meet never come to fruition because of scheduling changes for both Trump and Putin.
November 9: Trump spends the morning shooting a music video with Emin Agalarov.
– The Miss Universe pageant takes place near Moscow. A notorious Russian mobster, Alimzhan Tokhtakhounov, attends the event as a VIP, strolling down the event’s red carpet within minutes of Trump. At the time, Tokhtakhounov was under federal indictment in the United States for his alleged participation in an illegal gambling ring once run out of Trump Tower. Emin Agalarov performs two songs at the pageant.
– MSNBC’s Thomas Roberts asks Trump if he has a relationship with Putin. Trump replies, “I do have a relationship and I can tell you that he’s very interested in what we’re doing here today.”
November 11: Trump tweets his appreciation to Aras Agalarov, the Russian billionaire with whom he partnered to host Miss Universe, also complimenting Emin’s performance at the pageant and declaring plans for a Trump tower in Moscow.
@AgalarovAras I had a great weekend with you and your family. You have done a FANTASTIC job. TRUMP TOWER-MOSCOW is next. EMIN was WOW! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 11, 2013
November 12: Trump tells Real Estate Weekly that Miss Universe Russia provided a networking opportunity: “Almost all of the oligarchs were in the room,” he says. The same day, two developers who helped build the luxury Trump SoHo hotel meet with the Agalarovs to discuss replicating the hotel in Moscow. Aras Agalarov, whose real estate company secured multiple contracts from the Kremlin and who once received a medal of honor from Putin, later claims he and Trump signed a deal to build a Trump Tower in Moscow following the pageant. (The deal never moved past preliminary discussions.)
November 20: Emin Agalarov releases a new music video featuring Trump and the 2013 Miss Universe contestants.
2014
March 6: Trump gives a speech at the Conservative Political Action Conference and boasts of getting a gift from Putin when he was in Russia for the 2013 Miss Universe pageant. “You know, I was in Moscow a couple months ago, I own the Miss Universe pageant, and they treated me so great,” Trump said. “Putin even sent me a present, beautiful present, with a beautiful note.”
May 27: At a National Press Club luncheon, Trump says, “I was in Moscow recently and I spoke, indirectly and directly, with President Putin, who could not have been nicer.”
October 8: The counsel’s office of the Defense Intelligence Agency responds to an inquiry from Michael Flynn about ethics restrictions that will apply to him after his Army retirement. The office explains in a letter that he can not receive foreign government payments without prior approval, due to the Constitution’s emoluments clause. “If you are ever in a position where you would receive an emolument from a foreign government or from an entity that might be controlled by a foreign government, be sure to obtain advance approval from the Army prior to acceptance,” the letter states.
2015
September: FBI special agent Adrian Hawkins contacts the Democratic National Committee, saying that one of its computer systems has been compromised by a cyberespionage group linked to the Russian government. He speaks to a help desk technician who does a quick check of the DNC systems for evidence of a cyber intrusion. In the next several weeks, Hawkins calls the DNC back repeatedly, but his calls are not returned, in part because the tech support contractor who took Hawkins’ call does not know whether he is a real agent. The FBI does not dispatch an agent to visit the DNC in person and does not make efforts to contact more senior DNC officials.
September 21: On a conservative radio show, Trump says, “I was in Moscow not so long ago for an event that we had, a big event, and many of [Putin’s] people were there…I was with the top-level people, both oligarchs and generals, and top-of-the-government people. I can’t go further than that, but I will tell you that I met the top people, and the relationship was extraordinary.”
September 29: Trump praises Putin during an interview with Fox News’ Bill O’Reilly: “I will tell you, in terms of leadership he is getting an ‘A,’ and our president is not doing so well.”
November: WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange writes to a private Twitter group stating his organization’s preference for a Republican victory in the 2016 election: “We believe it would be much better for GOP to win. Dems+Media+liberals woudl then form a block to reign in their worst qualities. With Hillary in charge, GOP will be pushing for her worst qualities., dems+media+neoliberals will be mute.” He adds, “She’s a bright, well connected, sadistic sociopath.”
November 10: At a Republican presidential primary debate, Trump says he “got to know [Putin] very well because we were both on 60 Minutes, we were stablemates.”
November 11: The Associated Press, Time, and other media outlets report that Trump and Putin were never in the same studio. Trump was interviewed in New York, and Putin was interviewed in Moscow.
December 10: Retired General Michael Flynn, the former director of the Defense Intelligence Agency who was reportedly forced out in 2014, attends and is paid more than $30,000 to speak at Russia Today’s 10th-anniversary dinner in Moscow, where he is seated next to Putin.
December 16: Then-CIA Director John Brennan writes in an internal memo that some members of Congress don’t “understand and appreciate the importance and gravity” of Russian interference in the presidential election. The criticism is reportedly directed at Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) and Majority Whip John Cornyn (R-Texas), according to a BuzzFeed article published in August 2017. Brennan’s memo also says then-FBI Director James Comey and then-National Intelligence Director James Clapper agree on the scope of Russian involvement.
December 17: Putin praises Trump in his year-end press conference, saying that he is “very talented” and that “he is an absolute leader of the presidential race, as we see it today. He says that he wants to move to another-level relations, a deeper level of relations with Russia…How can we not welcome that? Of course, we welcome it.” Trump calls the praise “a great honor” from “a man so highly respected within his own country and beyond.” He adds, “I have always felt that Russia and the United States should be able to work well with each other toward defeating terrorism and restoring world peace, not to mention trade and all of the other benefits derived from mutual respect.”
2016
February 17: At a rally in South Carolina, Trump says of Putin, “I have no relationship with him, other than that he called me a genius.”
March 14: While traveling in Italy, George Papadopoulos, a member of the Trump campaign’s foreign policy team, meets London-based professor Joseph Mifsud. The professor claims to have connections to Russian government officials, which piques Papadopoulos’ interest.
March 21: In an interview with the Washington Post, Trump identifies Carter Page as one of his foreign policy advisers. He also names George Papadopoulos, whom he describes as “an energy and oil consultant, excellent guy.”
March 24: George Papadopoulos sends an email to Trump campaign officials saying he “just finished a very productive lunch with a good friend of mine”—Joseph Mifsud. This professor, he says, introduced Papadopoulos to a female Russian national that Papadopoulos describes as “Putin’s niece” and Russia’s ambassador to the United Kingdom, who also functions as the country’s deputy foreign minister. Papadopoulous writes that the main discussion at lunch was the possibility of setting up a meeting between the Trump campaign and members of Russian leadership “to discuss US-Russia ties under Trump.”
March 30: Bloomberg Businessweek reports on Page’s past advising of Gazprom, Russia’s state-owned gas company. Page tells Bloomberg Businessweek that after Trump named him as an adviser, positive notes from his Russian contacts filled his inbox. “There’s a lot of excitement in terms of the possibilities for creating a better situation” in terms of easing US sanctions on Russia, Page explained.
March 31: George Papadopoulos attends a national security meeting with Trump and his foreign policy advisers, including Jeff Sessions. There he says he has connections who can help arrange a meeting between Trump and Putin.
April 18: Joseph Mifsud emails George Papadopolous to introduce him to Ivan Timofeev, the director of programs at the Russian International Affairs Council, a think tank with ties to the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, based in Moscow. Over the next few weeks, Papadopolous and Timofeev speak several times over Skype. In subsequent email exchanges, Timofeev will tell Papadopolous that he has access to Russian government officials.
April 22: Timofeev emails Papadopolous to thank him for “an extensive talk” and proposes that they meet in London or Moscow. Papadopolous replies to suggest that they set up the meeting in London.
April 25: Papadopolous emails a senior policy adviser for the Trump campaign to say that the Russian government has an “open invitation” from Putin to meet with Trump.
April 26: The Washington Post reports that Paul Manafort, then Trump’s convention manager (who would later be promoted to campaign chairman), has long-standing ties to pro-Putin Ukrainian officials. Between 2007 and 2012, Manafort worked as a political consultant to Putin ally Viktor Yanukovych and his pro-Russia party. He helped Yanukovych remake his image following the Orange Revolution and mount a successful bid for the Ukrainian presidency.
– Papadopolous meets Mifsud for breakfast at a London hotel. Mifsud tells Papadopolous that he’s just returned from Moscow, where he met with Russian government officials. The professor says he learned that the Russian government has “dirt” on Hillary Clinton, in the form of “thousands” of emails.
April 27: Trump gives his first foreign policy speech at the Mayflower Hotel in Washington, DC. During the speech, he calls for an “easing of tensions” and “improved relations” with Russia. Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak is in attendance, as is Sen. Jeff Sessions. According to the Wall Street Journal, before Trump’s remarks, he “met at a VIP reception with Russia’s ambassador to the U.S., Sergey Ivanovich Kislyak. Mr. Trump warmly greeted Mr. Kislyak and three other foreign ambassadors who came to the reception.”
– Papadopolous emails a senior policy adviser for the Trump campaign. He writes, “Have some interesting messages coming in from Moscow about a trip when the time is right.”
– Papadopolous emails a high-ranking member of the Trump campaign “to discuss Russia’s interest in hosting Mr. Trump. Have been receiving a lot of calls over the last month about Putin wanting to host him and the team when the time is right.”
April 30: Papadopoulos thanks Mifsud, the professor, for his “critical help” in arranging a possible meeting between the Trump campaign and the Russian government.
April and May: The DNC’s IT department contacts the FBI about unusual computer activity and hires cybersecurity firm CrowdStrike to investigate. In May, Crowdstrike determines that hackers affiliated with Russian intelligence infiltrated the DNC’s network.
May 4: Timofeev emails Papadopoulos to say that he’s spoken to his colleagues at the “MFA”—Russia’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs—and they are “open for cooperation.” Timofeev offers to set up a meeting with them in Moscow. Papadopoulos replies that he is “[g]lad the MFA is interested” and forwards Timofeev’s email to Corey Lewandowski, then the campaign manager for the Trump campaign, asking, “Is this something we want to move forward with?”
May 5: Papadopoulos has a phone call with Trump campaign policy adviser Sam Clovis and then forwards Timofeev’s email to him.
May 13: Mifsud emails Papadopolous, writing, “We will continue to liaise through you with the Russian counterparts in terms of what is needed for a high level meeting of Mr. Trump with the Russian Federation.”
May 14: Papadopolous tells the campaign’s Lewandowski that the “Russian government” has relayed to him that “they are interested in hosting Mr. Trump.”
May 21: Papadopolous emails Paul Manafort, then a high-ranking staffer for the Trump campaign, with the subject line: “Request from Russia to meet Mr. Trump.” The email includes the May 4 email from Timofeev, and Papadopolous adds, “Russia has been eager to meet Mr. Trump for quite sometime and have been reaching out to me to discuss.”
June: The Moscow-based Russian Institute for Strategic Studies (RISS), a government think tank run by retired foreign intelligence officials appointed by Vladimir Putin, drafts and circulates a strategy paper among top Russian government officials. According to Reuters, it recommends that the Kremlin help spur a propaganda campaign—via social media and state-controlled news outlets—that would help elect a more pro-Russia US president. This is based on information provided to Reuters by seven current or former US officials in April 2017.
June 1: George Papadopolous emails Corey Lewandowski, a high-ranking Trump campaign official, to ask about Russia. The official refers Papadopolous to the campaign supervisor. Papadopolous then emails the campaign’s Sam Clovis, writing, “I have the Russian MFA asking me if Mr. Trump is interested in visiting Russia at some point. Wanted to pass this info along to you for you to decide what’s best to do with it and what message I should send (or to ignore).”
June 3: Rob Goldstone, the publicist for Emin Agalarov, emails Donald Trump Jr. to say that Russia’s crown prosecutor met with Aras Agalarov—Emin’s dad and a Russian oligarch—and told him that he possessed “official documents and information that would incriminate Hillary” and that could be shared with the Trump campaign. Goldstone adds that the information, “is obviously very high level and sensitive information but is part of Russia and its government’s support for Mr. Trump.” Trump Jr. responds by asking to speak to Emin about the material described in Goldstone’s email, and he adds, “If it’s what you say I love it.”
June 6: Goldstone tries to coordinate a phone call between Trump Jr. and Emin over email.
June 7: Goldstone emails Trump Jr. to say that Emin asked that Trump Jr. meet with a “Russian government attorney” in New York. They set a time over email for June 9, and Trump Jr. responds that Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort and Trump’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner, will also likely sit in on the meeting.
June 8: Trump Jr. forwards the email with the updated meeting time to Kushner and Manafort.
June 9: Promised damaging information on Clinton, Trump Jr., Manafort, and Kushner meet with a Kremlin-tied Russian lawyer, Natalia Veselnitskaya. She says she has evidence that individuals linked to Russia are funding the DNC. Trump Jr. will later characterize her statements on this topic as “vague” and “ambiguous” and will claim that the discussion turned to the Magnitsky Act and Russia’s policy on US adoptions of Russian children.
June 14: The Washington Post reports that Russian hackers penetrated the Democratic National Committee and stole opposition research on Donald Trump.
June 15: Guccifer 2.0, an online persona that US intelligence officials link to Russia’s military intelligence service, takes credit for the DNC hack and posts hacked DNC documents. Guccifer will go on to post additional hacked documents—from the DNC and the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee (DCCC), and purportedly from the Clinton Foundation—at least nine more times in the months leading up to the election. (Some reports contest that the documents came from the Clinton Foundation itself.)
– During a private meeting, Republican leaders discuss the DNC hack. House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy remarks, “There’s two people I think Putin pays: Rohrabacher and Trump.” (Rorhbacher is California Republican Dana Rohrbacher, a steadfast defender of Putin and Russia.) When his colleagues laugh, McCarthy adds, “Swear to God.” (McCarthy later says he was joking.)
June 19: George Papadopolous emails a Trump campaign supervisor with the subject line “New message from Russia.” In his email, Papadopolous says the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs had asked if a representative of the Trump campaign might be willing to make the trip to Russia if Trump couldn’t. Papadopolous volunteers to make an “off the record” trip himself.
July 7: Trump campaign foreign policy adviser Carter Page criticizes US sanctions against Russia during a speech at the New Economic School in Moscow. Politico later reports that Page asked for and received permission from Trump’s then-campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski, to speak at the Moscow event. Page’s trip spurs the FBI—which has had an interest in the investor since discovering in 2013 that a Russian operative had tried to recruit him—to begin investigating the Trump campaign’s ties to Russia.
July 18: The Washington Post reports that the Trump campaign worked with members of the Republican Party platform committee in advance of the Republican National Convention to soften the platform’s position related to Russia’s annexation of Crimea from Ukraine. The platform reportedly included a provision that promised to provide arms to Ukraine in its fight against Russia, but Trump campaign staffers encouraged the committee to jettison this language.
– Trump surrogate Sen. Jeff Sessions meets with Sergey Kislyak, the Russian ambassador, on the sidelines of a Republican National Convention event put on by the conservative Heritage Foundation.
July 20: New Yorker reporter Ryan Lizza asks Sam Clovis, Trump’s top policy adviser, about allegations that the Trump team worked with the Republican Party to soften the party platform’s position on Russia in advance of the RNC. Clovis responds, “I can’t talk about,” and walks away.
I just asked Sam Clovis, top policy adviser to Trump, about platform language on Russia. “I can’t talk about,” he said and walked away. — Ryan Lizza (@RyanLizza) July 20, 2016
July 18-21: Trump campaign staffers Carter Page and J.D. Gordon, the campaign’s director of national security, also meet with the Russian ambassador during the convention.
July 22: WikiLeaks publishes nearly 20,000 hacked DNC emails in advance of the Democratic National Convention. Some of the emails indicate that DNC officials favored Clinton over Sen. Bernie Sanders.
July 24: Paul Manafort, Trump’s campaign chairman, appears on ABC’s This Week, where he is asked whether there are connections between the Trump campaign and the Putin regime. Manafort says, “No, there are not. And you know, there’s no basis to it.”
July 25: Trump tweets about the hacked DNC emails:
The new joke in town is that Russia leaked the disastrous DNC e-mails, which should never have been written (stupid), because Putin likes me — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 25, 2016
July 26: US intelligence agencies tell the White House they now have “high confidence” that the Russian government was behind the DNC hack. This is reported by media outlets but not publicly confirmed by intelligence agencies.
– In an interview with NBC News, President Barack Obama says hacks are being investigated by the FBI, but that “experts have attributed this to the Russians.” He notes, “What we do know is that the Russians hack our systems. Not just government systems, but private systems. But you know, what the motives were in terms of the leaks, all that—I can’t say directly. What I do know is that Donald Trump has repeatedly expressed admiration for Vladimir Putin.”
– Trump tweets, calling the Russia allegations “crazy”:
In order to try and deflect the horror and stupidity of the Wikileakes disaster, the Dems said maybe it is Russia dealing with Trump. Crazy! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 26, 2016
July 27: Trump encourages Russia to hack Clinton’s emails, saying during a news conference, “Russia, if you’re listening, I hope you’re able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing. I think you’ll probably be rewarded mightily by our press.” At the same event, he declares, “I never met Putin. I don’t know who Putin is.”
July 31: On ABC’s This Week, Trump again denies knowing Putin, saying, “I have no relationship with him.” Trump also denies that his campaign played any role in getting the Republican Party to soften its platform on arming Ukraine.
– On Meet the Press, Manafort denies that he or anyone within the Trump campaign worked to change the platform.
– Sen. Jeff Sessions defends Trump’s efforts to cultivate a friendship with Russia during an appearance on CNN: “Donald Trump is right. We need to figure out a way to end this cycle of hostility that’s putting this country at risk, costing us billions of dollars in defense, and creating hostilities.”
Late July: The FBI launches a counterintelligence investigation into contacts between Trump associates and Russia. There is no public confirmation of this investigation at the time, but FBI Director James Comey later confirms the investigation in a March 2017 hearing before the House Intelligence Committee.
August 4: In a phone call with Alexander Bornikov, the head of Russia’s FSB, an intelligence agency, CIA Director John Brennan puts his counterpart on notice about further interference in the US election. Bornikov denies efforts targeting the election.
August 5: Trump spokeswoman Hope Hicks, asked by the Washington Post about Carter Page’s July speech in Moscow, downplays his role as a foreign policy adviser to the Trump campaign, saying he “does not speak for Mr. Trump or the campaign.”
– Longtime Trump adviser Roger Stone writes an article for Breitbart in which he denies that Russia was behind the DNC hack. He argues that Guccifer 2.0 has no ties to Russia.
August 6: NPR confirms the Trump campaign’s involvement in encouraging the Republican Party to soften its platform’s pro-Ukraine position on Russia’s annexation of Crimea.
August 14: The New York Times reports that Ukraine’s anti-corruption bureau has discovered Manafort’s name on a list of “black accounts” compiled by ousted Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych, a Putin ally. The tallies show undisclosed payments designated for Manafort totaling $12.7 million between 2007 and 2012, the years that Manafort worked for Yanukovych as a political consultant. (Manafort denies receiving any illicit payments.)
August 15: After communicating about a possible “off the record” trip to Moscow for weeks, a campaign supervisor encourages George Papadopolous and another foreign policy adviser to “make the trip” to Russia, “if feasible.” (The trip never happens.)
August 17: Trump receives his first classified intelligence briefing as the GOP nominee for president. He brings Michael Flynn with him to the meeting, which includes discussion of the intelligence community’s assessment that Russia was interfering in the US election.
August 19: Manafort resigns from the Trump campaign.
August 21: Roger Stone tweets:
Trust me, it will soon the Podesta’s time in the barrel. #CrookedHillary — Roger Stone (@RogerJStoneJr) August 21, 2016
August 29: Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) pens a letter to the FBI, asking the bureau to investigate the possibility of election-tampering by Russia in the upcoming presidential election. “I have recently become concerned that the threat of the Russian government tampering in our presidential election is more extensive than widely known,” Reid writes. “The prospect of a hostile government actively seeking to undermine our free and fair elections represents one of the gravest threats to our democracy since the Cold War and it is critical for the Federal Bureau of Investigation to use every resource available to investigate this matter thoroughly.”
August 29: Yahoo News reports that the FBI has found evidence that the state voter systems in Arizona and Illinois were breached by hackers possibly linked to the Russian government.
August 30: House Democrats send a letter to FBI Director James Comey calling on the bureau to investigate ties between the Trump campaign and Russian officials and any impact these ties may have had on the hacking of the DNC and the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee.
September 5: The Washington Post reports that US intelligence agencies, including the FBI, are investigating possible plans by Russia to disrupt the presidential election.
– Putin and Obama have a tense meeting at the G-20 summit in China, where they discuss Syria, Ukraine, and cybersecurity. In December, Obama will tell reporters that he confronted Putin about Russia’s alleged interference in the election and told him to “cut it out.”
September 7: Director of National Intelligence James Clapper suggests publicly for the first time that Russia may have been responsible for the DNC hack, pointing to Obama’s July statement that “experts have attributed this to the Russians.” Clapper adds that “the Russians hack our systems all the time.”
September 8: Trump responds to Clapper’s comments in an interview with RT, the English-language arm of a Russian state-controlled media conglomerate, casting doubt on whether Russian hackers were responsible for the DNC hack. “I think maybe the Democrats are putting that out,” Trump says. “Who knows, but I think it’s pretty unlikely.”
– Jeff Sessions meets with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak in his Senate office. He is the only one of the Senate Armed Services Committee’s 26 members to meet with the ambassador in 2016. The meeting occurs days after Putin and Obama’s tense G-20 meeting.
September 20: WikiLeaks’ Twitter account sends a private direct message to Donald Trump Jr., the Republican nominee’s oldest son and campaign surrogate. “A PAC run anti-Trump site putintrump.org is about to launch,” the message reads. “The PAC is a recycled pro-Iraq war PAC. We have guessed the password. It is ‘putintrump.’ See ‘About’ for who is behind it. Any comments?”
September 21: Donald Trump Jr. responds to the message from WikiLeaks: “Off the record I don’t know who that is, but I’ll ask around, Thanks.” Trump Jr. then proceeds to act on his promise: he emails senior Trump campaign officials, including Steve Bannon, Kellyanne Conway, Brad Parscale, and Trump son-in-law Jared Kushner, to tell them about the note from WikiLeaks. Kushner then forwards the email to campaign communications staffer Hope Hicks.
September 22: Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), vice chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, and Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Calif.), the ranking member of the House Intelligence Committee, release a statement about Russia’s interference in the US election. “Based on briefings we have received, we have concluded that the Russian intelligence agencies are making a serious and concerted effort to influence the U.S. election,” they wrote. “We believe that orders for the Russian intelligence agencies to conduct such actions could come only from the very senior levels of the Russian government.”
September 23: Yahoo News reports that US intelligence officials are investigating whether Trump foreign policy adviser Carter Page discussed the possible lifting of US sanctions on Russia and other topics during private communications with top Russian officials, including a Putin aide and the current executive chairman of Rosneft, who is on the Treasury Department’s US sanctions list. Trump campaign spokesman Jason Miller claims Page “has no role” in the Trump campaign and says that “we are not aware of any of his activities, past or present.”
September 25: In a CNN interview, Trump campaign manager Kellyanne Conway denies that Page is affiliated with the Trump campaign. “He’s certainly not part of the campaign that I’m running,” she said.
In response to a question about Page’s possible connections to Russian officials, Conway says, “If he’s doing that, he’s certainly not doing it with the permission or knowledge of the campaign,” She adds, “He is certainly not authorized to do that.”
September 26: Page takes a leave from the campaign.
– During the first presidential debate, Clinton brings up the allegations that Russia orchestrated the DNC hack. Trump responds, “I don’t think anybody knows it was Russia that broke into the DNC. She’s saying Russia, Russia, Russia. I mean, it could be Russia, but it could also be China. It could also be lots of other people. It also could be somebody sitting on their bed that weighs 400 pounds, okay?”
October 1: Roger Stone tweets:
October 3: Roger Stone tweets:
I have total confidence that @wikileaks and my hero Julian Assange will educate the American people soon #LockHerUp — Roger Stone (@RogerJStoneJr) October 3, 2016
October 7: US intelligence agencies issue a joint release saying they are “confident” the Russian government interfered in the US election, in part by directing the leaking of hacked emails belonging to political institutions like the DNC. This is the first official government confirmation that Russia orchestrated the hacking and leaks during the election.
– Late on Friday afternoon, a leaked video of Trump boasting of groping and kissing women without their consent is published by the Washington Post. Half an hour later, WikiLeaks begins to release several thousand hacked emails from Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta.
October 9: During the second presidential debate, Clinton accuses Trump of benefiting from Russian hacking and other interference in the election. Trump responds, “I don’t know Putin. I think it would be great if we got along with Russia because we could fight ISIS together, as an example. But I don’t know Putin.”
Referring to Trump campaign staffers, Russia’s deputy foreign minister said the day after the election, “A number of them maintained contacts with Russian representatives. There were contacts. We continue to do this and have been doing this work during the election campaign.”
October 11: The Obama White House promises a “proportional” response following the US intelligence community’s conclusion that Russia was responsible for hacking the DNC and other groups.
October 12: Sources briefed on the FBI examination of Russian hacking say the agency suspects that Russian intelligence agencies are behind the hacking of the emails of Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta and a Florida election systems vendor.
– Roger Stone says he has “back-channel communications” with WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange through a mutual friend.
October 19: During the final presidential debate, Trump casts doubt on the US intelligence community’s conclusion that the Russian government interfered in the election. He also denies having ever met or spoken to Putin, despite his previous statements to the contrary. “I never met Putin,” Trump says. ” I have nothing to do with Putin. I’ve never spoken to him.”
October 30: The plane belonging to Dmitri Rybolovlev, the Russian oligarch who purchased Trump’s Florida mansion in 2008, is in Las Vegas the same day Trump holds a rally there.
– Outgoing Senate Minority Leader Sen. Harry Reid (D-Nev.) sends a letter to FBI Director James Comey calling on him to release what Reid calls “explosive” information about Trump’s Russia ties. “In my communications with you and other top officials in the national security community, it has become clear that you possess explosive information about close ties and coordination between Donald Trump, his top advisors, and the Russian government,” Reid writes. “The public has a right to know this information.”
October 31: Mother Jones reports that a veteran of a Western intelligence service has given the FBI memos saying that Russia had mounted a yearslong operation to co-opt or cultivate Trump and that the Kremlin had gathered compromising information on Trump during his visits to Moscow that could be used for blackmail. The article notes that the FBI has requested more information from this source.
October: Russian government think tank RISS drafts and circulates a document among top Russian officials warning that Hillary Clinton is likely to win the US presidential election. According to Reuters, the memo advises the Kremlin to revise its strategy for influencing the election: Instead of focusing on pro-Trump propaganda, it should instead seek to undermine Clinton’s reputation and the legitimacy of the US electoral system by stoking fears about voter fraud.
Date unknown: Prior to Election Day, Flynn contacts Kislyak. It’s unknown how often the pair communicated or what they talked about.
November 1: NBC News reports that the FBI is conducting a preliminary inquiry into Paul Manafort’s business ties to Russia and Ukraine. Manafort tells NBC, “None of it is true.” He denies having dealings with Putin or the Russian government and says any allegations to the contrary are “Democratic propaganda.”
November 3: Dmitri Rybolovlev’s plane lands in Charlotte, North Carolina, about 90 minutes before Trump’s plane lands at the same airport in advance of a Trump rally to be held that day in nearby Concord.
November 9: Trump wins the presidential election.
November 10: Interfax news agency reports that the Russian government had contact with the Trump campaign during the campaign. Referring to Trump campaign staffers, Sergei Ryabkov, Russia’s deputy foreign minister, says, “A number of them maintained contacts with Russian representatives” in the Russian Foreign Ministry. And he adds, “There were contacts. We continue to do this and have been doing this work during the election campaign.”
– Putin spokesman Dmitry Peskov tells the Associated Press that Russian foreign policy experts have been in contact with the Trump campaign. “And our experts, our specialists on the U.S., on international affairs…Of course they are constantly speaking to their counterparts here, including those from Mr. Trump’s group,” Peskov said.
November 11: Trump campaign spokeswoman Hope Hicks tells the Associated Press that the allegations of contact between the Trump campaign and Russian officials are false. “It never happened,” she says. “There was no communication between the campaign and any foreign entity during the campaign.”
November 16: The director of the National Security Agency, Admiral Michael Rogers, implies that he believes Russia interfered in the US election. In response to a question about WikiLeaks hacks during the election, Rogers says, “This was a conscious effort by a nation-state to attempt to achieve a specific effect.”
November 17: Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-Md.), the top Democrat on the House Oversight Committee, sends a letter to Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), the committee’s top Republican, calling for an investigation into Russia’s interference in the election.
November 23: The Wall Street Journal reports that in October 2016, Donald Trump Jr. spoke at a meeting of a French think tank run by a couple, Fabien Baussart and Randa Kassis, who have “worked closely with Russia to try to end the conflict” in Syria. Kassis is the leader of a Syrian group endorsed by the Kremlin that seeks to cooperate with Moscow ally President Bashar Assad.
November 29: Seven members of the Senate Intelligence Committee write a letter to Obama asking him to declassify relevant intelligence on Russia’s role in the election.
Early December: Two Russian intelligence officers who worked on cyber operations and a Russian computer security expert are arrested in Moscow and charged with treason for providing information to the United States. (There is no indication of whether the arrests are related to the Russian hacking of the 2016 campaign.)
December 8: Carter Page, no longer a foreign policy adviser to Trump, visits Moscow, where he tells a state-run news agency that he plans to meet with “business leaders and thought leaders.”
December 9: The Washington Post reports that a secret CIA assessment concluded that Russia intervened in the 2016 election to help Trump win the presidency. In response, the Trump transition team issues a statement attempting to discredit the CIA’s conclusion: “These are the same people that said Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction. The election ended a long time ago…It’s now time to move on and ‘Make America Great Again.'”
December 11: In an appearance on Fox News Sunday, Trump again casts doubt on the US intelligence community’s findings on Russia’s interference in the election. “They have no idea if it’s Russia or China or somebody,” Trump says of the CIA’s findings. “It could be somebody sitting in a bed someplace. I mean, they have no idea.”
December 13: Trump names Rex Tillerson, the former CEO of Exxon Mobil, as his secretary of state nominee. Tillerson has long-standing ties to Russia and Putin. Tillerson helped Exxon cut several oil-drilling deals with Rosneft, Russia’s state-owned oil company, and in 2013 Putin awarded Tillerson the Russian Order of Friendship.
December (date unknown): Michael Flynn and Jared Kushner meet with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak at Trump Tower. Kislyak was not caught on tape entering the building, suggesting that he may have been brought in through a back entrance.
December (date unknown): Kislyak requests another meeting with Kushner. Kushner sends a deputy, Avrahm Berkowitz, to meet with the Russian ambassador in his stead. At that meeting, Kislyak requests that Kushner meet with Sergey N. Gorkov, the chief of Vnesheconombank, Russia’s state-owned development bank. Kushner meets with Gorkov later that month.
December 29: Obama announces sanctions against Russia for the country’s alleged interference in the presidential election. The measure includes the ejection of 35 Russian diplomats from the United States; the closure of Cold War-era Russian compounds in Long Island, New York, and in Maryland; and sanctions against the GRU and the FSB (Russian intelligence agencies), four employees of those agencies, and three companies that worked with the GRU.
– Michael Flynn holds five phone calls with Kislyak, during which they at some point discuss US sanctions on Russia. (White House press secretary Sean Spicer later claims falsely that they held just one call, in which they merely discussed “logistical information.”)
2017
January 4: According to the New York Times, Flynn tells Don McGahn, who at the time was the transition team’s top lawyer, that he is under investigation for failing to disclose his work as a lobbyist for Turkey during the campaign.
January 5: President Obama meets with FBI Director James Comey and other national security officials, and they discuss how much information concerning Russia they should share with Trump’s transition team. According to notes of the meeting taken by national security adviser Susan Rice, Obama stated that he wanted the Trump-Russia probe handled “by the book.”
January 6: Flynn’s attorney and transition team lawyers hold another discussion about the investigation involving Flynn.
–Top intelligence officials, including Director of National Intelligence James Clapper, CIA Director John Brennan, FBI Director James Comey, and National Security Agency head Mike Rogers, brief Donald Trump at Trump Tower on the highly classified intelligence supporting the case that Russia interfered in the 2016 election. After the meeting, Comey privately briefs Trump on the Steele dossier.
– The Office of the Director of National Intelligence releases a report saying that the CIA, the FBI, and the NSA believe there is evidence that Russia actively tried to help Trump win the election. They also conclude with “high confidence” that Russian military intelligence used the Guccifer 2.0 persona and a website called DCLeaks.com to release the hacked documents and that Russia’s military intelligence branch channeled hacked material to WikiLeaks.
Early January: Concerned that classified material relating to Russia’s meddling in the 2016 election might disappear once the Trump administration takes office, Obama administration officials create a list containing the serial numbers of key documents. An administration official hand-delivers this list to senior members of the Senate Intelligence Committee.
January 10: CNN reports that Obama and Trump received classified briefings that covered allegations contained in the Russia-Trump memos authored by the Western intelligence official that Russian intelligence possessed compromising material on Trump.
– BuzzFeed publishes the Trump-Russia memos in full.
– Trump calls the Russia memos story “#fakenews” on Twitter.
– During his Senate confirmation hearing, Jeff Sessions responds to questions about alleged contacts between the Trump campaign and Russia by saying, “I have been called a surrogate at a time or two in that campaign and I did not have communications with the Russians.”
– FBI Director James Comey testifies at a Senate Intelligence Committee hearing. He is asked whether the FBI is investigating Trump campaign staffers’ ties to Russia. Comey declines to answer the question.
– According to McClatchy‘s reporting in May 2017, Obama’s national security adviser, Susan Rice, informs Michael Flynn of the Pentagon’s plan to use Syrian Kurdish forces to retake the Islamic State’s de facto capital, Raqqa. Flynn asks Rice to delay the operation, a position that “conformed to the wishes of Turkey.”
January 11: Trump again denies the allegations in the Russia memos in a series of tweets. Also in reference to the Russia allegations, he asks, “Are we living in Nazi Germany?”
Russia just said the unverified report paid for by political opponents is “A COMPLETE AND TOTAL FABRICATION, UTTER NONSENSE.” Very unfair! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 11, 2017
Russia has never tried to use leverage over me. I HAVE NOTHING TO DO WITH RUSSIA – NO DEALS, NO LOANS, NO NOTHING! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 11, 2017
I win an election easily, a great “movement” is verified, and crooked opponents try to belittle our victory with FAKE NEWS. A sorry state! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 11, 2017
Intelligence agencies should never have allowed this fake news to “leak” into the public. One last shot at me.Are we living in Nazi Germany? — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 11, 2017
– At his first news conference since being elected, Trump acknowledges that Russia was behind the hacks, saying, “As far as hacking, I think it was Russia. But I think we also get hacked by other countries and other people.”
Around January 11: A secret meeting takes place in the Seychelles between Blackwater founder Erik Prince, a major Trump campaign donor and brother of Education Secretary Betsy DeVos, and a Russian close to Putin in an effort to establish an unofficial back channel between Moscow and Trump. According to sources who would later speak to the Washington Post, the meeting was allegedly coordinated by the crown prince of Abu Dhabi, Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed al-Nahyan, and his brother. It occurred shortly after a December visit to the United States by Zayed, which the United Arab Emirates did not disclose to the Obama administration.
January 13: Trump again calls claims about his Russian connections “fake news.” His tweet refers to a comment by a Kremlin spokesman earlier in the month that called the US intelligence community’s conclusion that Russia interfered in the US election “absolutely unfounded.”
Totally made up facts by sleazebag political operatives, both Democrats and Republicans – FAKE NEWS! Russia says nothing exists. Probably… — Donld J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 13, 2017
January 15: In an appearance on Face the Nation, Vice President-elect Mike Pence says Michael Flynn told him that he did not discuss US sanctions during his conversations with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak.
January 19: The New York Times reports that the FBI, the NSA, the CIA, and the Treasury Department’s financial crimes unit are investigating Paul Manafort, Carter Page, and Roger Stone for their possible contacts with Russia during the campaign. As part of their investigation, the Times reports, these agencies are examining intercepted communications and financial transactions.
January 20: Trump is inaugurated as the 45th president of the United States.
January 23: White House press secretary Sean Spicer holds his first White House press briefing. He insists that national security adviser Michael Flynn’s conversations with the Russian ambassador included no discussion of US sanctions.
January 24: The FBI interviews Flynn about his phone conversations with the Russian ambassador. Flynn reportedly denies having discussed US sanctions on Russia.
January 26: Sally Yates, the acting attorney general, informs White House counsel Don McGahn that Flynn had discussed US sanctions on Russia with the Russian ambassador, despite Flynn’s claims to the contrary in his FBI interview.
– McGahn informs Trump of Yates’ report that Flynn had a conversation with the Russian ambassador in December that included a discussion about US sanctions. This reveals that Flynn misled Pence when he said he had not had substantive conversations with the Russian ambassador.
January 27: In a one-on-one dinner at the White House, Trump reportedly asks FBI Director James Comey whether he is personally under investigation by the FBI for possible Russia ties, according to a May 2017 NBC interview with Trump. Trump claims that Comey reassured him that he was not under investigation. Two of Comey’s associates who speak to the New York Times in May 2017 have a different account of the dinner: They say that Trump asked Comey for loyalty. Comey reportedly declined but offered “honesty.”
– Former Trump campaign foreign policy adviser George Papadopolous is interviewed by FBI agents. He makes a number of materially false statements: He lies about the timeline of his communications with professor Josef Mifsud and the female Russian national, saying that both relationships began before he joined the Trump campaign.
January (date unknown): Michael Cohen, Trump’s personal attorney, meets at a Manhattan hotel with Felix Sater and a pro-Putin Ukrainian lawmaker to discuss a potential peace plan for Ukraine and Russia. The New York Times reports that Cohen delivered this plan to Flynn. Cohen confirms he met with Sater and the Ukrainian lawmaker but denies that they discussed a Ukraine-Russia peace plan or that he delivered such a plan to Flynn or the White House.
February 7: Trump tweets:
I don’t know Putin, have no deals in Russia, and the haters are going crazy – yet Obama can make a deal with Iran, #1 in terror, no problem! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 7, 2017
February 8: In an interview with the Washington Post, Flynn denies discussing US sanctions with the Russian ambassador.
February 9: A spokesman for Flynn softens the national security adviser’s denial, telling the Washington Post that “while he had no recollection of discussing sanctions, he couldn’t be certain that the topic never came up.”
February 10: Speaking to reporters aboard Air Force One, Trump says he is not aware of reports that Flynn has discussed US sanctions with the Russian ambassador. He has in fact been aware of Flynn’s contacts with Kislyak since late January.
– Dmitri Rybolovlev’s plane lands in Miami, the day before Trump is set to arrive at Mar-a-Lago for the weekend.
February 13: Flynn resigns following reports that the Justice Department warned the White House that Flynn had misled senior members of the administration, including Pence, about whether he discussed US sanctions with the Russian ambassador.
February 14: The New York Times reports that American intelligence and law enforcement agencies have intercepted repeated communications between Trump campaign officials and other Trump associates and senior Russian intelligence and government officials.
– Spicer denies that Trump or his campaign had any contacts with Russia during the election.
February 15: During a joint press conference with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, Trump does not answer a question about potential connections between his campaign and Russia during the election. He blames Flynn’s ouster on leaks. This is a different position than the one taken by the White House previously: that Flynn was asked to resign because he misled Pence about his communication with the Russian ambassador.
– Reince Priebus, Trump’s chief of staff, asks the FBI to publicly knock down media reports that the US intelligence community was investigating the Trump campaign’s alleged contacts with Russia intelligence operatives during the election. The FBI refuses to do so. The administration then enlists the help of the intelligence community and several members of Congress, including Sen. Richard Burr (R-N.C.) and Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.)—the chairmen of the Senate and House intelligence committees, both of which are conducting investigations into Trump’s Russia connections—to call media outlets to counter stories about contacts between Trump staffers and Russians.
– In an appearance on PBS Newshour, Carter Page denies that he had any meetings with Russian officials in 2016.
February 16: At a news conference, Trump is asked whether anyone in his campaign had been in contact with Russia. He replies, “Nobody that I know of.” He also denies having any contact with Russia, saying, “Russia is a ruse. I have nothing to do with Russia.”
February 17: FBI Director James Comey meets with members of the Senate Intelligence Committee. That same day, the committee sends letters to more than a dozen agencies, groups, and individuals, asking them to preserve all communications related to the committee’s investigation of Russian interference in the 2016 election.
February 19: During an interview on Fox News, Priebus denies that the Trump camp had any contact with Russia.
February 28: Republicans on the House Judiciary Committee vote down a Democrat-sponsored resolution that would have required the Trump administration to disclose information about Trump’s ties to Russia (and his possible financial conflicts of interest).
– White House lawyers ask Trump staffers to preserve any materials related to possible Russian interference in the 2016 election.
March 1: The Washington Post reports that Jeff Sessions, Trump’s attorney general, did not disclose in his January confirmation hearings that he twice met with Sergey Kislyak, the Russian ambassador. Sessions had said during a confirmation hearing that “I did not have communications with the Russians.” Sessions’ Justice Department spokeswoman says Sessions met with Kislyak in his capacity as a senator on the Armed Services Committee, and that the question during the confirmation hearing was about the Trump campaign’s Russian connections.
March 2: Facing criticism over the revelations that he withheld information regarding his meetings with the Russian ambassador during his confirmation hearings, Sessions announces that he will recuse himself from any investigations of Russian interference in the 2016 election.
– On NBC, Sessions denies that he ever discussed the Trump campaign with Russians. “I have not met with any Russians at any time to discuss any political campaign, and those remarks are unbelievable to me and are false,” he said. “And I don’t have anything else to say about that.”
– Alex Oronov, a Ukrainian billionaire businessman who was connected by marriage to Michael Cohen, Trump’s longtime lawyer and associate, dies unexpectedly. Oronov’s daughter was married to Cohen’s brother. Oronov reportedly set up a January 2017 meeting between Cohen and Russian officials to discuss a possible “peace plan” between Russia and Ukraine that would have formalized Putin’s control over Crimea. The New York Times reported that this peace proposal was hand-delivered to Michael Flynn prior to his forced resignation.
– The White House acknowledges that Jared Kushner and Flynn met with Sergey Kislyak at Trump Tower in December. The meeting was first reported by The New Yorker.
– The Wall Street Journal reports that Donald Trump Jr. was paid at least $50,000 for his October 2016 appearance before a French think tank run by a couple allied with Russia on ending Syrian conflict.
– USA Today reports that two other Trump advisers, Carter Page and J.D. Gordon, met with Sergey Kislyak during the Republican National Convention.
– In an MSNBC appearance, Page says he doesn’t deny that this meeting took place.
– J.D. Gordon tells CNN that during the Republican National Convention, he did in fact push to alter the Republican platform’s draft policy on Ukraine to align it with Trump’s views on Russia.
March 3: Trump dresses down senior staffers in a meeting in the Oval Office over Jeff Sessions’ recusal and over news reports connecting the Trump administration to Russia.
March 4: Without providing any proof, Trump alleges that President Obama wiretapped his phones during the election.
Terrible! Just found out that Obama had my “wires tapped” in Trump Tower just before the victory. Nothing found. This is McCarthyism! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 4, 2017
March 5: Press secretary Sean Spicer says the White House is requesting that the congressional intelligence committees examine Trump’s allegations that Obama wiretapped Trump during the campaign as part of their investigation into Russia’s election activity. Spicer also says the White House will not comment further on the wiretapping allegation until the completion of this investigation.
March 10: Trump adviser Roger Stone acknowledges that during the 2016 campaign he exchanged direct messages on Twitter with Guccifer 2.0, the online persona that US intelligence agencies believe was a front for Russian intelligence. Stone claims the conversations were so “perfunctory” and “banal” that he had forgotten about them.
– The yacht belonging to Russian billionaire Dmitri Rybolovlev anchors in a cove in the British Virgin Islands. Another yacht anchors next to Rybolovlev’s—the Sea Owl, owned by Robert Mercer, one of Trump’s biggest donors during the 2016 election and an investor in the conservative Breitbart News.
March 15: Asked about his decision to accuse Obama of wiretapping him without evidence, Trump hints that information will soon emerge to back up his claims. “I think you’re going to find some very interesting items coming to the forefront over the next two weeks.”
March 20: Shortly before the House Intelligence Committee holds its first public hearing on its investigation into Russia’s interference in the US election, a senior White House official tells The New Yorker’s Ryan Lizza, “You’ll see the setting of the predicate. That’s the thing to watch today.” Lizza later reports:
He suggested that I read a piece in The Hill about incidental collection. The article posited that if “Trump or his advisors were speaking directly to foreign individuals who were the target of U.S. spying during the election campaign, and the intelligence agencies recorded Trump by accident, it’s plausible that those communications would have been collected and shared amongst intelligence agencies.” The White House clearly indicated to me that it knew Nunes would highlight this issue. “It’s backdoor surveillance where it’s not just incidental, it’s systematic,” the White House official said. “Watch Nunes today.”
– In his opening statement at the hearing, Nunes asks, “Were the communications of officials or associates of any campaign subject to any kind of improper surveillance?” The day’s biggest news, however, comes from FBI Director James Comey, who testifies at the hearing that the bureau has since July been “investigating the nature of any links between individuals associated with the Trump campaign and the Russian government, and whether there was any coordination between the campaign and Russia’s efforts.” Both Comey and NSA Director Admiral Michael Rogers dismiss Trump’s claim that Obama wiretapped him during the election.
– In response to questions from Mother Jones‘ David Corn, Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.), chair of the House Intelligence Committee, tells reporters he has never heard of key figures connected to the Trump-Russia scandal, including Carter Page and Roger Stone.
– Spicer tells reporters that Paul Manafort, who ran Trump’s campaign from April 2016 to August 2016, “played a limited role” on the campaign “for a very limited amount of time.”
March 22: The Associated Press reports that, starting in the mid-2000s, Manafort worked on behalf of Russian oligarch Oleg Deripaska to “influence politics, business dealings and news coverage inside the United States, Europe and the former Soviet republics to benefit the Putin government.” The news service quotes a 2005 strategy memo authored by Manafort, who writes, “We are now of the belief that this model can greatly benefit the Putin government if employed at the correct levels with the appropriate commitment to success.” Manafort denies working on behalf of Russian interests.
– Mother Jones reports that Manafort tried to help Deripaska secure a visa to the United States. The aluminum magnate had been denied entry to the United States at various points because of suspected ties to the Russian mafia.
– Rep. Devin Nunes, without briefing Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Calif.), his Democratic counterpart on the Intelligence Committee, or other members of the panel, calls a surprise press conference, announcing that he has seen evidence that the intelligence community “incidentally” picked up communications by Trump transition officials in the course of lawful surveillance on foreign parties. He claims that the names of Trump officials were “unmasked” and that “none of this surveillance was related to Russia.”
– In a remarkable departure from intelligence committee norms, Nunes visits the White House to brief Trump on his findings. The president later says he feels “somewhat” vindicated by the information Nunes shared.
– Schiff releases a statement expressing “grave concerns” about Nunes’ actions and casting doubt about whether a “credible investigation” can be conducted under these circumstances.
Today, Chairman Nunes shared information with WH still withheld from our committee. He cannot conduct a credible investigation this way. pic.twitter.com/wwrp7H7JWC — Adam Schiff (@RepAdamSchiff) March 22, 2017
– Schiff tells MSNBC’s Chuck Todd that there is “more than circumstantial evidence now” of potential collusion between Trump officials and Russian operatives.
– CNN, citing “US officials,” reports that the “FBI has information that indicates associates of President Donald Trump communicated with suspected Russian operatives to possibly coordinate the release of information damaging to Hillary Clinton’s campaign.”
March 23: The Associated Press reports that US Treasury Department agents have obtained records of “offshore financial transactions” by Paul Manafort, in conjunction into an ongoing anti-corruption investigation into his work in Eastern Europe. According to the new service, “As part of their investigation, U.S. officials were expected to look into millions of dollars’ worth of wire transfers to Manafort. In one case, the AP found that a Manafort-linked company received a $1 million payment in October 2009 from a mysterious firm through the Bank of Cyprus. The $1 million payment left the account the same day—split in two, roughly $500,000 disbursements to accounts with no obvious owner.”
– Trump tweets:
Just watched the totally biased and fake news reports of the so-called Russia story on NBC and ABC. Such dishonesty! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 23, 2017
– Rep. Nunes apologizes to Democratic members of the Intelligence Committee for failing to brief them on the new information he obtained and instead taking it straight to the White House, but he won’t explain why he took this unusual action.
March 24: Rep. Devin Nunes holds a press conference, where he announces that Paul Manafort has volunteered to testify before the House Intelligence Committee. He also announces that the committee will be delaying its next open hearing, which had been planned for March 28.
March 27: The New York Times reports that in early December 2016, Jared Kushner met with Sergey Gorkov, the chief of Russia’s state-owned development bank at the request of Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak. The paper also reports that the Senate Intelligence Committee has informed the White House that it will seek to question Kushner about this meeting and his interactions with Kislyak.
– The New York Times reports that on the evening of March 21, Rep. Nunes met with a source on White House grounds. The source reportedly showed Nunes “dozens” of classified intelligence reports. The next day, Nunes announced he had viewed evidence that showed that US intelligence agencies had “incidentally” collected communications among Trump transition team members while surveilling other parties.
– House Democrats, including Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi and Adam Schiff, call on Nunes to recuse himself from the House Intelligence Committee investigation into Russia’s election interference.
After much consideration I believe Chairman should recuse himself from involvement in investigation/oversight of Trump campaign & transition pic.twitter.com/jpfA1x80Si — Adam Schiff (@RepAdamSchiff) March 27, 2017
The time is long overdue for @SpeakerRyan to call on @DevinNunes to recuse himself at the very least. https://t.co/KtEO8mslts pic.twitter.com/4nh0P8DMLj — Nancy Pelosi (@NancyPelosi) March 27, 2017
– Trump tweets:
Why isn’t the House Intelligence Committee looking into the Bill & Hillary deal that allowed big Uranium to go to Russia, Russian speech…. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 28, 2017
…money to Bill, the Hillary Russian “reset,” praise of Russia by Hillary, or Podesta Russian Company. Trump Russia story is a hoax. #MAGA! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 28, 2017
March 28: The Washington Post reports that the Trump administration has tried to prevent former acting Attorney General Sally Yates from testifying before the House Intelligence Committee. Yates—who was fired by Trump in January after she instructed Justice Department lawyers not to defend the administration’s executive order temporarily blocking immigration from seven Muslim-majority countries—was scheduled to testify before the committee in a public hearing that was canceled by Nunes. The White House denied it had tried to block Yates from testifying, calling the Post‘s story “entirely false.”
Was today’s open hearing cancelled because WH did not want Sally Yates to testify re Gen Flynn’s deception? Didn’t want to assert privilege? pic.twitter.com/qO63IfPtAP — Adam Schiff (@RepAdamSchiff) March 28, 2017
– NBC reports:
A bank in Cyprus investigated accounts associated with Trump’s former campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, for possible money-laundering, two banking sources with direct knowledge of his businesses here told NBC News. Manafort—whose ties to a Russian oligarch close to President Vladimir Putin are under scrutiny—was associated with at least 15 bank accounts and 10 companies on Cyprus, dating back to 2007, the sources said. At least one of those companies was used to receive millions of dollars from a billionaire Putin ally, according to court documents. Banking sources said some transactions on Manafort-associated accounts raised sufficient concern to trigger an internal investigation at a Cypriot bank into potential money laundering activities. After questions were raised, Manafort closed the accounts, the banking sources said.
According to a Manafort spokesman, “All were legitimate entities and established for lawful ends.”
March 29: Sens. Richard Burr (R-N.C.) and Mark Warner (D-Va.), respectively the chairman and vice chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, hold a press conference. They vow a tough, bipartisan investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 election. “This investigation’s scope will go wherever the intelligence leads,” Burr says. According to Burr, seven committee staffers have been assigned to the probe and the committee has begun to schedule the first of 20 interviews.
March 30: The Senate Intelligence Committee convenes its first hearing into Russian interference in the presidential election.
– The New York Times reports that two White House officials, Ezra Cohen-Watnick and Michael Ellis, “played a role in providing” Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) access to intelligence reports showing that “President Trump and his associates were incidentally swept up in foreign surveillance by American spy agencies.” Cohen-Watnick was brought on to the National Security Council by Michael Flynn, for whom he had worked at the National Security Council. After Flynn’s ouster, his replacement, national security adviser Lt. General H.R. McMaster, attempted to “sideline” Cohen-Watkins, according to Politico. Jared Kushner and White House strategist Stephen Bannon intervened on the NSC staffer’s behalf, taking the matter all the way to Trump. Ellis worked for Nunes before taking a job in the White House as a lawyer working on national security matters.
– The Wall Street Journal reports that Flynn has told the FBI and the congressional committees investigating ties between the Trump campaign and Russia that he will agree to be interviewed in exchange for immunity from prosecution. Flynn’s attorney says in a subsequent statement that the retired general “certainly has a story to tell, and he very much wants to tell it, should the circumstances permit.”
March 31: NBC reports that the Senate Intelligence Committee has denied Flynn’s request for immunity, telling Flynn’s lawyer the request was “wildly preliminary” and currently “not on the table.”
March (date unknown): Weeks after its former CEO, Rex Tillerson, becomes secretary of state, Exxon Mobil files an application with the Treasury Department for a waiver from US sanctions on Russia. Exxon seeks the waiver in order to resume an exploration and drilling project with Russian-state oil giant Rosneft. Tillerson has said he will recuse himself from State Department decisions that could benefit Exxon for one year.
April 4: The Pentagon launches an investigation into Michael Flynn for accepting payments from a foreign government without prior approval, in potential violation of the Constitution’s emoluments clause.
April 6: The House Ethics Committee announces that it is investigating Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.), the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee investigating Russian interference in the 2016 election, due to allegations that he made “unauthorized disclosures of classified information.” In a statement, Nunes says he will temporarily remove himself from the House Intelligence Committee’s investigation while the House Ethics Committee investigates, “despite the baselessness of the charges” against him.
April 11: In an interview with the Daily Telegraph, Eric Trump says the Trump administration’s decision to launch missiles at a Syrian military target shows there is no connection between President Trump and the Russian government, which backs the Assad regime.
– The Washington Post reports that in the summer of 2016, the FBI and the Justice Department obtained a Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court warrant to monitor the communications of Trump campaign foreign policy adviser Carter Page. “This is the clearest evidence so far that the FBI had reason to believe during the 2016 presidential campaign that a Trump campaign adviser was in touch with Russian agents,” notes the Post.
April 12: The Associated Press confirms that at least $1.2 million in payments listed next to Paul Manafort’s name on a “black accounts” ledger in Ukraine that was uncovered in August 2016 were in fact received by Manafort’s consulting firm. Manafort had initially denied receiving illicit payments and told the AP that “any wire transactions received by my company are legitimate payments for political consulting work that was provided. I invoiced my clients and they paid via wire transfer, which I received through a U.S. bank.”
– CNN reports that both Republican and Democratic lawmakers have reviewed documents related to allegations that Obama administration national security adviser Susan Rice had improperly requested the “unmasking” of Trump transition team members in intelligence reports. The lawmakers who reviewed these reports “have so far found no evidence that Obama administration officials did anything unusual or illegal,” CNN reported, though Trump had previously called the allegations a “massive story.”
– In an interview on the Fox Business Network, Trump says it is “not too late” to fire FBI Director James Comey, but also that he still has confidence in him.
April 13: House Democrats send a letter to FBI Director James Comey and the head of the National Background Investigations Bureau, calling for the suspension of Jared Kushner’s security clearance. Kushner, they write “failed to disclose key meetings with foreign government officials during his application process,” including Russian Ambassador Sergei Kislyak and Sergei Gorkov, the head of Vnesheconombank, a Russian state-owned development bank. “Knowingly falsifying or concealing information on a SF-86 questionnaire is a felony, punishable by up to five years in prison,” the lawmakers write.
April 14: Legistorm reports that Andrii Artemenko, the pro-Putin Ukrainian lawmaker that in January met with two Trump associates to discuss a possible peace plan for Ukraine and Russia, is paying $30,000 a month to a pro-Trump preacher in Pennsylvania who has ties to Russia and Ukraine. According to Legistorm, the funds were for “strategic counseling and representation to advance US-Ukraine relations, including engagement with public officials, legislators and government agencies,” and a filing from Armstrong’s LLC notes the payments were not financed by a foreign government. The preacher, Dale Armstrong, helps run two groups focused on bringing biblical values to Ukraine and other former Soviet republics.
April 19: Reuters reports that Russian government think tank RISS, described by officials as the Kremlin’s in-house foreign policy think tank and staffed by Putin-appointees, had developed plans to interfere with the US election. Seven current or former US officials describe documents produced and circulated by RISS in June and October 2016, first calling on the Kremlin to mount a propaganda campaign to help elect a pro-Russia president and later to stoke concerns about Hillary Clinton and voter fraud.
– The Justice Department confirms that Mary McCord, the acting assistant attorney general in the department’s national security division, will leave the department in May 2017. McCord heads the department’s investigation into Russia interference in the presidential election.
April 21: CNN reports that in the summer of 2016, at the height of the presidential campaign, US and European intelligence found that Russian intelligence operatives were attempting to infiltrate the Trump campaign through Trump advisers, including Carter Page. Citing US officials, the network reports that Page and several other Trump advisers were repeatedly in contact with Russian officials and other Russians on the radar of intelligence agencies.
April 23: The Daily Beast reports that the committee’s investigation into ties between the Trump campaign and Russia is floundering. More than three months after the probe was launched, none of the seven staffers assigned to the investigation are working on it full time, none have investigative or legal experience, and most have no Russia expertise.
April 25: Leaders of the House Oversight Committee tell reporters that Michael Flynn may have broken the law by failing to disclose a $34,000 payment from RT, a Russian state-owned media outlet, on his 2016 application to renew his security clearance. Flynn received the fee for speaking at a 2015 gala hosted by RT, where he was seated beside Vladimir Putin.
“As a former military officer, you simply cannot take money from Russia, Turkey or anybody else,” Oversight Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah) said. “And it appears as if he did take that money. It was inappropriate. And there are repercussions for the violation of law.”
The revelation comes after Chaffetz, the committee’s chairman, and Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-Md.), its ranking member, asked the White House and other federal agencies to provide documents related to Flynn’s foreign communications and payments, including his security clearance application. The Defense Intelligence Agency provided documents to the committee, according to Chaffetz and Cummings, but the White House has declined to comply with the document request.
– Flynn’s attorney issues a statement implying that Flynn obtained all necessary permissions related to his appearance at the RT event: “General Flynn briefed the Defense Intelligence Agency, a component agency of the Department of Defense, extensively regarding the RT speaking event trip both before and after the trip, and he answered any questions that were posed by DIA concerning the trip during those briefings.”
April 27: The Department of Defense confirms that Michael Flynn has been under investigation by the Pentagon since April 4 for accepting payments from a foreign government, allegedly without informing the appropriate Defense officials.
– Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-Md.), the ranking Democrat on the House Oversight Committee, releases documents showing that in October 2014, Flynn was warned by the Defense Intelligence Agency about accepting payments from foreign governments. The documents released by Cummings show that the DIA counsel’s office responded to an inquiry from Flynn with a letter explaining that he could not receive foreign government payments without prior approval because of the Constitution’s emoluments clause.
– The DIA documents released by the House Oversight Committee also state that, contrary to the implication of Flynn’s attorney on April 25, the DIA has no record of Flynn seeking permission to receive payments from a foreign source.
May 1: During an Oval Office interview with CBS’s John Dickerson, Trump says, “I don’t stand by anything,” when asked about his claims that President Barack Obama tapped his phones during the 2016 election. Trump then proceeds to double down on the wiretapping accusation: “I think our side’s been proven very strongly and everybody’s talking about it and frankly, it should be discussed.” Trump cuts the interview short when Dickerson presses him on his claims.
This exchange between Trump and Dickerson on Trump’s false wiretapping claims is stunning. Must-watch. pic.twitter.com/SJRSwN1rcE — Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) May 1, 2017
May 2: During a Q&A, Hillary Clinton blames her election defeat on Russian hacking and FBI Director James Comey’s October 28 letter to Congress stating that the bureau was examining newly discovered emails possibly related to its investigation of Clinton’s use of a private email server. “I was on the way to winning until the combination of Jim Comey’s letter on October 28 and Russian WikiLeaks raised doubts in the minds of people who were inclined to vote for me but got scared off—and the evidence for that intervening event is, I think, compelling [and] persuasive,” she said.
– Donald Trump tweets:
FBI Director Comey was the best thing that ever happened to Hillary Clinton in that he gave her a free pass for many bad deeds! The phony… — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 3, 2017
…Trump/Russia story was an excuse used by the Democrats as justification for losing the election. Perhaps Trump just ran a great campaign? — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 3, 2017
May 3: FBI Director James Comey testifies before the Senate Judiciary Committee, saying, “It makes me mildly nauseous to think that we might have had some impact on the election. But honestly, it wouldn’t change the decision.”
FBI Director Comey: “It makes me mildly nauseous to think that we might have had some impact” on election; says he wouldn’t change decision. pic.twitter.com/966VZoydLI — ABC News (@ABC) May 3, 2017
May 5:
In an interview with Boston radio station WBUR, golf journalist James Dodson says Eric Trump told him that funding for Trump golf courses came from Russia.
“So when I got in the cart with Eric,” Dodson says, “as we were setting off, I said, ‘Eric, who’s funding? I know no banks—because of the recession, the Great Recession—have touched a golf course. You know, no one’s funding any kind of golf construction. It’s dead in the water the last four or five years.’ And this is what he said. He said, ‘Well, we don’t rely on American banks. We have all the funding we need out of Russia.’ I said, ‘Really?’ And he said, ‘Oh, yeah. We’ve got some guys that really, really love golf, and they’re really invested in our programs. We just go there all the time.’ Now that was three years ago, so it was pretty interesting.”
Eric Trump later denies saying this.
May 8: Donald Trump issues a pair of tweets ahead of a hearing where former acting Attorney General Sally Yates is expected to testify that she warned the Trump administration that Michael Flynn had lied about his interactions with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak weeks before Trump ultimately fired his national security adviser.
General Flynn was given the highest security clearance by the Obama Administration – but the Fake News seldom likes talking about that. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 8, 2017
Ask Sally Yates, under oath, if she knows how classified information got into the newspapers soon after she explained it to W.H. Council. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 8, 2017
– Hours after Trump took to Twitter to imply that his hiring of Flynn was Obama’s fault, NBC News reported that Obama had warned Trump against hiring Flynn during their meeting in the Oval Office on November 10—two days after Trump was elected and months before Trump appointed Flynn as his national security adviser.
May 9: Donald Trump fires FBI Director James Comey, following recommendations to do so from Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein. Rosenstein’s memo recommending Comey’s firing explains that his recommendation is the result of Comey’s mishandling of the Clinton email investigation during the 2016 presidential campaign. Read Trump’s letter firing Comey, along with Sessions’ and Rosenstein’s memos recommending Comey’s termination, below:
– Following Comey’s firing, CNN reports that the US attorney’s office in Alexandria, Virginia, has issued grand jury subpoenas to associates of Michael Flynn, marking an escalation of the FBI’s investigation into Russia.
– Within hours of Comey’s firing, more than 100 lawmakers, including several Republicans, have called for an independent investigator or special prosecutor to be assigned to the FBI’s investigation into Trump’s ties to Russia, particularly now that the new FBI head will be chosen by Trump himself. “It is critical that the FBI can continue all of its pending work with independence and integrity—especially the investigation into the Russian government’s efforts to influence our last election and undermine American democracy,” said Rep. Curbelo, a Republican congressman from Florida.
May 10: Early in the morning, Trump takes to Twitter to defend his firing of James Comey. “Comey lost the confidence of almost everyone in Washington, Republican and Democrat alike. When things calm down, they will be thanking me!” he writes.
The Democrats have said some of the worst things about James Comey, including the fact that he should be fired, but now they play so sad! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 10, 2017
James Comey will be replaced by someone who will do a far better job, bringing back the spirit and prestige of the FBI. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 10, 2017
Comey lost the confidence of almost everyone in Washington, Republican and Democrat alike. When things calm down, they will be thanking me! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 10, 2017
Watching Senator Richard Blumenthal speak of Comey is a joke. “Richie” devised one of the greatest military frauds in U.S. history. For…. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 10, 2017

– CNN reports that a source claims Roger Stone urged Trump to fire Comey. Within minutes, Trump responds to the report on Twitter, calling out CNN and saying the report is “fake news.”
The Roger Stone report on @CNN is false – Fake News. Have not spoken to Roger in a long time – had nothing to do with my decision. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 10, 2017
Stone says on Twitter that he “never made such a claim” but supports Trump’s decision “100%.”
– As controversy swirls surrounding Trump’s firing of Comey, the White House announces that press secretary Sean Spicer will be gone for the rest of the week fulfilling his US Navy Reserve duty and Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the principal deputy press secretary, will cover for him, including running the first press briefing since Trump’s firing of the FBI director.
– Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov arrives in Washington for meetings with top officials, including Trump. At a press conference with Secretary of State Rex Tillerson welcoming the Russian foreign minister, a reporter asks a question about the Comey firing. Lavrov responds, ironically, “Was he fired? You are kidding, you are kidding!” before walking away. On May 15, the Washington Post will report that while meeting with Lavrov at the White House, Trump shares highly classified information with him and the Russian ambassador.
Here’s video of Lavrov-Tillerson—> Q: “Does Comey cast a shadow over your talks?” Lavrov: “Was he fired? You are kidding, you are kidding” pic.twitter.com/8yJb2DkZnd — Tom Namako (@TomNamako) May 10, 2017

– In remarks on the Senate floor, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell rejects calls for a special prosecutor to take over the Russia probe. “Today we’ll no doubt hear calls for a new investigation, which could only serve to impede the current work being done,” he said.
May 11: Acting FBI Director Andrew McCabe testifies in a Senate hearing that the White House has misled the public about the FBI’s Russia investigation and regard for Comey at the agency. He says the Russia probe is “highly significant” and that “Comey enjoyed broad support within the FBI and still does to this day.”
– The New York Times and CNN each report via sources close to Comey that part of Trump’s motivation for firing him was the FBI director’s refusal to swear political loyalty to the president. The Times details a conversation between Trump and Comey during a one-on-one dinner that took place at the White House on January 27—just one day after former acting Attorney General Sally Yates warned the Trump White House that then-national security adviser Michael Flynn was vulnerable to blackmail by the Kremlin. Three days before the dinner, on January 24, Flynn had been interviewed by the FBI about his contacts with the Russian ambassador. In the conversation with Yates the day before the Comey dinner, White House Counsel Don McGahn asked Yates how Flynn did in the FBI interview, and Yates declined to answer.
– Trump says in an NBC interview that he asked Comey three times whether he is personally under investigation by the FBI for possible Russia ties—twice on the phone and once at the January 27 dinner. Trump claims Comey reassured him that he was not under investigation. (Sources close to Comey say this never happened.)
May 15: The Washington Post reports that Trump revealed highly classified information to Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and Ambassador Sergey Kislyak in their White House meeting on May 10. A US official tells the Post that the information had one of the highest available classification levels. “This is code-word information,” the official tells the Post, adding that Trump “revealed more information to the Russian ambassador than we have shared with our own allies.”
– White House national security adviser H.R. McMaster reads a statement to the press denying the Washington Post’s report while mischaracterizing the substance of it. He says, “The story that came out tonight, as reported, is false. The president and the foreign minister reviewed a range of common threats to our two countries, including threats to civil aviation. At no time—at no time—were intelligence sources or methods discussed.” The Post didn’t report that sources and methods were disclosed; the paper reported that the information discussed could be used to discern intelligence sources or methods. After reading his statement, McMaster refuses to take questions.
May 16: Trump defends himself on Twitter without denying that he shared highly classified material with Russia’s foreign minister and ambassador.
As President I wanted to share with Russia (at an openly scheduled W.H. meeting) which I have the absolute right to do, facts pertaining…. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 16, 2017
…to terrorism and airline flight safety. Humanitarian reasons, plus I want Russia to greatly step up their fight against ISIS & terrorism. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 16, 2017
– A senior European intelligence official tells the Associated Press that his country may stop sharing intelligence with the United States if it is confirmed that Trump shared classified information with Russian officials.
– In a press briefing, H.R. McMaster clarifies that in calling the Washington Post‘s reporting “false,” he was disputing the “premise” of the article: that Trump had done “anything inappropriate” or that he had compromised national security by revealing information to Russian officials. In response to multiple questions, McMaster refuses to confirm whether or not the information the president revealed was classified. McMaster also refuses to clarify why White House officials called the NSA and the CIA after Trump’s conversation with Lavrov and Kislyak. McMaster says it was “wholly appropriate” for Trump to discuss the material.
– The New York Times reports that during an Oval Office meeting in February, Trump asked then-FBI Director James Comey to drop the agency’s investigation into Michael Flynn, who had resigned the day before amid controversy over his discussions of US sanctions with the Russian ambassador. “I hope you can see your way clear to letting this go, to letting Flynn go,” Trump said to Comey, according to a two-page memo Comey drafted after the meeting. “He is a good guy. I hope you can let this go.” The Washington Post and Politico subsequently confirmed the Times’ account. According to the paper, Comey kept detailed records of all his conversations with the president.
– The Washington Post reports that Comey shared his memos with a small number of people at the Justice Department. (It’s unclear whether those officials include Rod Rosenstein or Jeff Sessions, who were involved in Comey’s firing.)
– At the International Republican Institute’s Freedom Awards, Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) likens Trump’s mounting Russia scandal to Watergate: “I think we’ve seen this movie before. I think it’s reaching a point where it’s of Watergate size and scale, and a couple of other scandals that you and I have seen. It’s a centipede that the shoe continues to drop.”
There’s video—John McCain: “I think it’s reaching a point where it’s of Watergate size and scale.” (via CBS) pic.twitter.com/kpfhUCUat8 — Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) May 17, 2017
– ABC reports that “federal investigators have subpoenaed records related to a $3.5 million mortgage that former Trump campaign manager Paul Manafort took out on his Hamptons home just after leaving the campaign, according to a source familiar with the matter.”
May 17: House Democratic leaders hold a press conference in which they announce that they are circulating a discharge petition among their congressional colleagues to try to force a vote on legislation that would create a 12-person independent commission to investigate Russia’s interference in the US election.
– Eleven Democratic senators send a letter to the Justice Department inspector general asking him to investigate whether Attorney General Jeff Sessions violated his pledge to recuse himself from any investigations connected to the 2016 election when he took part in the firing of FBI Director James Comey.
– During a press conference in Sochi, Russia, Putin calls the allegations that Trump had revealed classified information to Lavrov and Kislyak “political schizophrenia.” He also offers to provide the US with a transcript of Lavrov’s Oval Office meeting with Trump.
– Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein appoints former FBI Director Robert Mueller to serve as a special counsel to investigate Russian interference in the 2016 election.
– The Washington Post reports that during a private June 2016 meeting with Republican leaders, House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy said he believed Trump was on Putin’s payroll. “There’s two people I think Putin pays: Rohrabacher and Trump,’ McCarthy said, referring to Rep. Dana Rohrbacher (R-Calif.), a steadfast defender of Putin and Russia. When his colleagues laughed, McCarthy added, “Swear to God.” (McCarthy says he was joking.)
– The New York Times reports that Michael Flynn told the Trump transition team’s chief lawyer in early January—before the inauguration—that Flynn was under investigation for failing to disclose more than $500,000 of work as a paid lobbyist for Turkey.
– McClatchy reports that 10 days before Trump’s inauguration, Flynn asked to delay an Obama administration plan to fight ISIS that Turkey opposed.
May 18: Reuters reports that Michael Flynn and other members of Trump’s campaign had at least 18 previously undisclosed calls and emails with Russian officials in the last seven months of the 2016 presidential campaign.
– Trump tweets:
This is the single greatest witch hunt of a politician in American history! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 18, 2017
– During a White House news conference with the Colombian president, Trump denies any collusion with Russia and again calls the investigation a “witch hunt.” “I respect the move,” Trump said of the DOJ’s appointment of special prosecutor Robert Mueller III to oversee the Russia investigation. “But the entire thing has been a witch hunt. And there is no collusion between, certainly, myself and my campaign—but I can always speak for myself—and the Russians. Zero.”
– Two sources close to Michael Flynn tell Yahoo News that at a dinner on April 25, more than two months after leaving his post as national security adviser, Flynn told a group of close friends that he was still in regular communication with the president. “I just got a message from the president to stay strong,” he reportedly told the group, on the heels of a day when two congressmen announced that Flynn may have broken the law by failing to disclose a $34,000 payment from RT, a Russian state-owned media outlet, on his 2016 application to renew his security clearance.
May 19: The Washington Post reports that people familiar with the investigation into Trump’s Russia ties have identified a senior White House adviser as a “significant person of interest.”
– The New York Times reports that in Trump’s May 10 Oval Office meeting with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov and Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak, Trump called former FBI Director Comey a “nut job” and expressed relief at his ouster. “I just fired the head of the FBI. He was crazy, a real nut job,” Trump said, according to a document summarizing the meeting, which an American official read to the New York Times. “I faced great pressure because of Russia. That’s taken off.”
– McClatchy reports that the investigation into Russia’s interference into the 2016 election has been expanded to include the possibility of a cover-up by the White House, according to members of Congress who were briefed by Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein.
– CNN reports that White House lawyers have begun researching impeachment procedures, despite public assurances by many Republicans and Democrats that impeachment is still a distant option.
– Citing “multiple government officials,” CNN reports that during the presidential campaign Russian officials bragged about their strong ties to Michael Flynn and believed they could use him to influence Trump.
May 22: The Associated Press reports that Michael Flynn will refuse to comply with a subpoena from the Senate Intelligence Committee that is investigating Russia’s interference in the 2016 election, invoking the Fifth Amendment protection against self-incrimination. Below is the letter sent to the committee by Flynn’s lawyer and obtained by AP:
– Speaking to reporters in Jerusalem, Trump denies mentioning “Israel” in his May 10 conversation with the Russian foreign minister and ambassador in the Oval Office. In making this statement, Trump tacitly implies that he did in fact discuss classified information with these Russian officials and also appears to confirm that the classified information originated with Israel—a statement that no US official has made publicly.
– NBC reports that Paul Manafort and Roger Stone have turned over documents to the Senate Intelligence Committee.
JUST IN: Former Trump associates Paul Manafort and Roger Stone have turned over documents to Senate Intel Committee, source tells NBC News — NBC News (@NBCNews) May 22, 2017
May 23: Testifying before the House Intelligence Committee, former CIA Director John Brennan says he grew alarmed during the election that the Russian government was trying to influence members of the Trump campaign to act on its behalf: “I encountered and am aware of information and intelligence that revealed contacts and interactions between Russian officials and US persons involved in the Trump campaign that I was concerned about because of known Russian efforts to suborn such individuals.” He notes, “I saw interaction that in my mind raised questions of whether it was collusion,” but says that at the time he left his post in January it was unclear “whether such collusion existed.”
Did evidence exist of collusion between Trump campaign and Russia? Here’s ex-CIA director John Brennan’s response. https://t.co/GaAtDDMSNT pic.twitter.com/ERxft1Szj9 — Los Angeles Times (@latimes) May 23, 2017
– During his House Intelligence Committee testimony, Brennan also describes calling Alexander Bortnikov, the head of the FSB, Russia’s intelligence agency, on August 4, 2016, to caution him against further interference in the election. According to Brennan, Bortnikov denied any meddling by Russia.
May 24: The Justice Department tells CNN that Jeff Sessions did not disclose his meetings with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak and other foreign dignitaries when applying for security clearance.
– House Democrats send a letter to Deutsche Bank’s CEO requesting information on “whether loans Deutsche Bank made to President Trump were guaranteed by the Russian Government, or were in any way connected to Russia.”
May 25: The New York Times reports that conversations intercepted by American intelligence in the summer of 2016 showed that senior Russian officials discussed how to influence Trump’s presidential campaign, zeroing in on Michael Flynn and then-Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort.
– The Washington Post reports that Jared Kushner has been identified as a focus of the FBI’s investigation into Russian interference in the election and possible ties between Trump’s team and Russian officials, according to people familiar with the investigation. This makes him the first White House official revealed to be central in the FBI’s probe.
May 26: The Washington Post reports that Jared Kushner and the Russian ambassador discussed setting up a secure and secret back channel between the Trump team and Russian officials during the transition. According to intercepted communications reviewed by US officials, Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak told his superiors in Moscow that during a December meeting at Trump Tower, Kushner proposed the back-channel idea and suggested using Russian diplomatic facilities in the United States to avoid detection. Trump’s incoming national security adviser, Michael Flynn, was also at the meeting. (Sources close to Kushner tell the New York Times that the purpose of the secret channel was to facilitate discussions on Syria strategy and other security issues between Russian military officials and Flynn.)
– The New York Times reports that Oleg Deripaska, the Russian aluminum magnate with ties to Trump’s former campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, offered to cooperate with congressional committees investigating Russian meddling in the election in exchange for full immunity. The committees reportedly turned down Deripaska’s offer.
May 27: Reuters reports that according to seven US officials, Jared Kushner had at least three previously undisclosed discussions with the Russian ambassador during and after the 2016 campaign, including two phone calls in April and November 2016.
May 28: The top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, Rep. Adam Schiff, says in an appearance on ABC News that Jared Kushner’s security clearance should be reviewed in light of revelations that he discussed setting up a secret back channel of communication with Russian officials. “There’s another question about his security clearance and whether he was forthcoming about his contacts on that,” Schiff says. “If these allegations are true and he had discussions with the Russians about establishing a back channel and didn’t reveal that, that would be a real problem in terms of whether he should maintain that kind of security clearance.”
May 29: The New York Times reports that the federal and congressional investigations into possible ties between the Trump campaign and Russia are looking into Jared Kushner’s December 2016 meeting with Sergei Gorkov, the chief of Vnesheconombank, Russia’s state-owned development bank currently under US sanctions due to Russia’s annexation of Crimea. Former and current US officials tell the Times that the meeting has piqued investigative interest because it may have been part of Kushner’s efforts to create a secret communication back channel with Russian officials.
May 30: CNN reports that conversations intercepted by the United States during the 2016 election picked up Russian officials saying they have “derogatory” information about Trump and some of his top aides. One source told CNN that these discussions suggested the Russian officials believed “they had the ability to influence the administration through the derogatory information.”
– ABC News reports that the congressional investigation into possible ties between the Trump campaign and Russia has been expanded to include Michael Cohen, Trump’s long-time personal attorney. The committees asked Cohen for his voluntary cooperation in providing testimony about contacts he had with Russian officials, but Cohen declined.
May 31: CNN reports that congressional investigators are looking into whether Jeff Sessions may have had another private meeting with the Russian ambassador on April 27, 2016—when both attended Trump’s first foreign policy speech at the Mayflower Hotel in Washington, DC.
– As part of its probe into Russian interference in the US election, the House Intelligence Committee issues its first seven subpoenas, asking for testimony and documents from Michael Flynn and Trump’s personal attorney, Michael Cohen. Three of the subpoenas were sent to the NSA, the FBI, and the CIA requesting information about requests made by Obama administration officials to “unmask” the names of Trump staffers in intelligence reports that were later leaked to the press. Committee aides claimed that Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) issued the subpoenas unilaterally, without consulting Democrats on the committee, despite the fact that he recused himself in April from leading the Russia investigation following outrage at a secret visit to the White House and the start of an ethics investigation into whether he mishandled classified documents.
June 1: The Washington Post reports that the Trump administration is considering returning two diplomatic compounds—one in New York and one in Maryland—to Russia. In December 2016, the Obama administration—which said the compounds were being used by Russia for intelligence activities—required Russian officials to vacate the premises as part of sanctions for their interference in the election.
– The Guardian reports that British politician and Brexit movement leader Nigel Farage is a “person of interest” in the FBI’s investigation of possible ties between the Kremlin and the Trump campaign.
– Speaking to reporters in St. Petersburg, Russia, Putin shifts away from the Kremlin’s many blanket denials of Russian meddling in the US election, saying instead that it’s possible that “patriotically minded” individuals may have instigated hacking related to the US election. “Hackers are free people, just like artists, who wake up in the morning in a good mood and start painting,” Putin said.
Putin: “Hackers are free people, just like artists who wake up in the morning in a good mood and start painting.” https://t.co/2ttsEWNdxf pic.twitter.com/kX3nwEKtMt — RFE/RL (@RFERL) June 1, 2017
Putin also calls Trump a “direct and genuine person” with “a fresh view of things.”
June 2: Stories from the Associated Press and Reuters report that special counsel Robert Mueller has expanded the investigation into the Trump campaign and Russia to include additional allegations about Michael Flynn and former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort; Mueller will assume control of a federal grand jury investigation in Virginia looking into Flynn’s work as a paid lobbyist for Turkish businessman Ekim Alptekin. Mueller is also reportedly taking over a separate criminal probe, initiated by the Justice Department in July 2016, into Manafort and his possible ties to corrupt dealings by the pro-Putin president of Ukraine. Separately, Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein tells the AP that Mueller may also expand his investigation to include the roles of Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Rosenstein in the firing of FBI Director James Comey.
– At the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum in Russia, NBC News reporter Keir Simmons repeatedly asks Sergey Gorkov, the chief of US-sanctioned Vnesheconombank, about his December meeting with Jared Kushner. Gorkov refuses to answer the question.
NBC’s @KeirSimmons asks Sergey Gorkov, the Russian banker who met w/ Kushner, over and over about their meeting. Gorkov refuses to answer. pic.twitter.com/eX8GlIMMm9 — Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) June 2, 2017
June 5: The Intercept publishes a classified National Security Agency document reporting that Russia’s military intelligence service “executed a cyberattack on at least one U.S. voting software supplier and sent spear-phishing emails to more than 100 local election officials just days before last November’s presidential election.” (Russia’s attempts to hack into voter registration systems have previously been reported, but the NSA intelligence report provides details of how one such operation occurred.) Shortly after the story goes live, an NSA contractor named Reality Winner is charged with leaking classified information.
– The White House says Trump will not assert executive privilege to block former FBI Director James Comey from testifying before the Senate Intelligence Committee later that week.
June 6: Mother Jones reports that Roger Stone says he brokered a meeting between British politician Nigel Farage—who the Guardian reported is a “person of interest” in the FBI’s Russia investigation—and Trump sometime after the 2016 Republican National Convention.
– Yahoo News reports that lawyers with at least four top law firms declined to represent Trump in connection with the various ongoing Russia investigations.
– The Washington Post reports that on March 22, Trump asked Director of National Intelligence Daniel Coats and CIA Director Mike Pompeo whether he could ask then-FBI Director James Comey for the bureau “to back off its focus” on Michael Flynn. Coats reportedly discussed the meeting with some of his associates, deciding that this sort of intervention would not be appropriate. “The events involving Coats show the president went further than just asking intelligence officials to deny publicly the existence of any evidence showing collusion during the 2016 election,” the Post reports. “The interaction with Coats indicates that Trump aimed to enlist top officials to have Comey curtail the bureau’s probe.”
– The New York Times reports that the day after a February Oval Office meeting in which Trump asked James Comey to drop the bureau’s investigation of Michael Flynn, Comey asked Attorney General Jeff Sessions to ensure that Comey was never left alone with the president. According to several law enforcement officials, Comey did not reveal what was said during his meeting with Trump but told Sessions it was inappropriate for the FBI director to speak privately with the president.
– ABC reports that the relationship between Jeff Sessions and Trump has grown so tense that the attorney general recently suggested to Trump that he could resign. The conflict between them stems, the network notes, from Sessions’ decision in March to recuse himself from the Russia investigation, after it came to light that he had undisclosed conversations with the Russian ambassador. According to ABC, “Two sources close to the president say he has lashed out repeatedly at the attorney general in private meetings, blaming the recusal for the expansion of the Russia investigation.”
June 7: Four military officials tell the Daily Beast that before his firing as national security adviser, Michael Flynn pushed to expand the “deconfliction channel” between Russia and the United States in Syria—a move that, had it happened, would have likely run afoul of the law. The channel, established in 2015, has the narrow purpose of helping the United States and Russia—which are backing different sides in Syria’s civil war—coordinate their planes in Syria’s crowded airspace, avoiding collisions. Flynn repeatedly suggested that the Pentagon expand the channel, using it to discuss the possibility of teaming up with Russia to fight ISIS. “If put into effect, such a proposal would clearly violate the NDAA [National Defense Authorization Act] prohibition on cooperation with Russia,” the Daily Beast reported. Ultimately, the proposal never took effect due to Pentagon opposition and Flynn’s ouster.
– During an event at Australia’s National Press Club, former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper says the Trump-Russia scandal “pales” in comparison to Watergate. “I lived through Watergate. I was on active duty then in the Air Force, I was a young officer. It was a scary time,” Clapper said. “I have to say, though, I think if you compare the two, Watergate pales really in my view compared to what we’re confronting now.”
– Testifying before the Senate Intelligence Committee, Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats and National Security Agency Director Mike Rogers refuse to answer questions about whether Trump had asked them to intervene in the FBI’s Russia investigation.
– The Senate Intelligence Committee releases the opening statement James Comey will deliver on June 8 at a hearing before the committee. The statement confirms that Trump asked then FBI-Director Comey to drop the investigation of Michael Flynn that has become a focus of the FBI’s Russia probe.
June 8: James Comey testifies before the Senate Intelligence Committee. He notes that he started keeping detailed memos of all his interactions with Trump because during their first conversation “I was honestly concerned he might lie about the nature of our meeting.” Comey also said the president lied about his reasons for firing him. “The administration then chose to defame me—and, more importantly, the FBI—by saying the organization was in disarray and that it was poorly led, that the workforce had lost confidence in its leader,” Comey said. “Those were lies, plain and simple.”
The Most Powerful Comey Moment So Far His voice broke a little, but the message was clear: "Those were lies, plain and simple." Posted by Mother Jones on Thursday, June 8, 2017
June 9: During a Rose Garden press conference, Trump is asked whether he would be willing to testify under oath about conversations he had with former FBI Director James Comey in advance of his firing. Trump answers, “100 percent.”
June 10: In an interview with Fox News, Donald Trump Jr., the president’s eldest son, appears to confirm James Comey’s version of his conversation with President Trump in which Trump said. “I hope you can let this go,” in reference to the FBI’s investigation into Michael Flynn. In his June 8 testimony before the Senate Intelligence Committee, Comey said he perceived this statement to be a directive to drop the Flynn investigation. Trump’s lawyer released a statement saying that Trump “never, in form or substance, directed or suggested that Mr. Comey stop investigating anyone.” In his Fox News interview, Donald Trump Jr. appeared to confirm Comey’s account: “When he tells you to do something, guess what? There’s no ambiguity in it. There’s no, ‘Hey, I’m hoping. You and I are friends: Hey, I hope this happens, but you’ve got to do your job.’ That’s what he told Comey. And for this guy, as a politician, to then go back and write a memo: ‘Oh, I felt threatened.’ He felt so threatened—but he didn’t do anything.”
Earlier I sat down with @DonaldJTrumpJR. Take a look! pic.twitter.com/Ltb27QP2L9 — Jeanine Pirro (@JudgeJeanine) June 11, 2017
June 11: Preet Bharara, the former US attorney for the Southern District of New York, tells ABC News that before being fired by Trump in March, he received a series of phone calls from the president that made him uncomfortable because it appeared that Trump was trying to “cultivate some kind of relationship.” Bharara reported one of these calls to the Department of Justice. Bharara says that listening to Comey’s June 8 testimony about his own conversations with Trump, in which he perceived efforts by Trump to influence the Russia investigation, “felt a little bit like déjà vu.”
– Trump attorney Jay Sekulow says on ABC that he would not rule out the possibility that Trump will fire Robert Mueller, the special counsel who took over the Russia investigations following James Comey’s firing.
June 12: The New York Times reports details of the intelligence that Trump allegedly revealed to Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and Russian Ambassador Sergei Kislyak during their May Oval Office meeting. Trump allegedly told the Russians that Israel had penetrated ISIS’s computer network, uncovering an elaborate plot to detonate bombs on planes, using explosives in laptops made to fool airport security. “His disclosure infuriated Israeli officials,” the Times reported.
– During a White House press briefing, press secretary Sean Spicer appears to deny that Trump offered to testify under oath about his conversations with James Comey before the FBI director’s firing. Spicer says that in his Rose Garden comments, Trump was actually expressing his willingness to speak to special counsel Robert Mueller. When asked whether Trump would be willing to give sworn testimony before Congress, Spicer responds, “I don’t know. I have not had a further discussion with that.”
– A close friend of Trump’s, Chris Ruddy, the CEO of Newsmax, tells PBS that he believes Trump is considering firing Mueller. The White House releases a statement saying that Ruddy “never spoke to the President regarding this issue. With respect to this subject, only the President or his attorneys are authorized to comment.”
June 13: Three people familiar with the investigation into Russia’s cyber intrusions into US voting systems tell Bloomberg News that these incursions were much broader than had previously been reported. According to one of these sources, Russia gained access to voter databases and software systems in 39 states. The activity concerned the Obama administration so much, sources tell Bloomberg, that the White House contacted the Kremlin “to offer detailed documents of what it said was Russia’s role in election meddling and to warn that the attacks risked setting off a broader conflict.”
– Jeff Sessions testifies before the Senate Intelligence Committee, where he repeatedly refuses to discuss his conversations with Trump and calls the notion that he colluded with the Russians as they interfered in the 2016 election “an appalling and detestable lie.” Throughout his testimony, the attorney general frequently answers with “I don’t remember” or “I don’t recall.”
June 14: Special counsel Robert Mueller meets with members of the Senate Intelligence Committee.
– The Washington Post reports that special counsel Robert Mueller is investigating Trump for obstruction of justice.
June 15: In a tweetstorm, Trump decries the Russia investigation as a “witch hunt”:
– The Washington Post and other outlets report that Vice President Mike Pence has retained a personal attorney to represent him in connection with the various Russia probes.
June 16: Trump appears to confirm that he is under investigation for obstruction of justice and seems to lash out at Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein.
I am being investigated for firing the FBI Director by the man who told me to fire the FBI Director! Witch Hunt — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 16, 2017
– NBC reports that Trump’s private attorney, Michael Cohen, has retained his own legal counsel.
Exclusive: Trump personal lawyer, Michael Cohen, has hired his own counsel: Stephen Ryan, of McDermott, Will & Emery.- source w knowledge — Katy Tur (@KatyTurNBC) June 16, 2017
June 18: ABC News reports that Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein privately told his colleague, Associate Attorney General Rachel Brand, the Justice Department’s new third-in-command, that he may have to recuse himself from the Trump-Russia investigation, since it is possible he will have to serve as a witness, given his role in Trump’s firing of former FBI Director James Comey. Such a recusal would prompt Brand to take over the investigation. (While Rosenstein appointed special counsel Robert Mueller to oversee the investigation, he is still in charge of allocating resources to it and ultimately deciding if prosecutions will be necessary.)
June 21: During testimony before the Senate Intelligence Committee, the Department of Homeland Security’s acting director of the Office of Intelligence and Analysis Cyber Division, Samuel Liles, says hackers connected to the Russian government attempted to penetrate election-related computer systems in 21 states before the November 2016 election. Liles says they successfully got into a “small number” of networks.
June 22: Trump tweets that he doesn’t know if there are recordings of his conversations with former FBI Director James Comey, contradicting earlier tweets in which he implied such “tapes” existed.
…whether there are "tapes" or recordings of my conversations with James Comey, but I did not make, and do not have, any such recordings. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 22, 2017
– CNN reports that Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats and Director of National Security Agency Admiral Mike Rogers each separately told Senate investigators and special counsel Robert Mueller’s team that Trump suggested they publicly deny there was any collusion between his campaign and Russian officials. Both intelligence officials said they were surprised by the suggestion and found it uncomfortable but did not perceive these statements as orders from the president.
June 23: The New York Times reports that the FBI is investigating a series of real estate deals and other financial transactions involving former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort and his son-in-law Jeffery Yohai. The Times says it is not clear if the FBI’s interest is tied to Manafort’s role in the Trump-Russia investigation.
June 25: The Washington Post reports that Jared Kushner’s real estate company received a $285 million loan from Deutsche Bank one month before the November 2016 election. That October, Kushner was advising his father-in-law’s presidential campaign, and Deutsche Bank was facing several legal actions in New York, including charges from state regulators that the bank had aided an alleged Russian money-laundering scheme.
June 27: Paul Manafort’s consulting firm retroactively files foreign lobbying disclosures showing that the firm received $17.1 million from a pro-Russia political party in Ukraine between 2012 and 2014. The payments were for work aimed at influencing US policy on Ukraine. Manafort’s spokesman, Jason Maloni, tells the Washington Post that Manafort began preparing his filing in September “before the outcome of the election and well before any formal investigation of election interference began.”
July 8: The New York Times reports that Donald Trump Jr. met with a Kremlin-tied Russian lawyer, Natalia Veselnitskaya, in June 2016, shortly after his father clinched the Republican presidential nomination. Also attending the meeting were Paul Manafort and Jared Kushner. Trump Jr. tells the Times, “It was a short introductory meeting. I asked Jared and Paul to stop by. We primarily discussed a program about the adoption of Russian children that was active and popular with American families years ago and was since ended by the Russian government, but it was not a campaign issue at the time and there was no follow up.” And he noted, “I was asked to attend the meeting by an acquaintance, but was not told the name of the person I would be meeting with beforehand.”
July 9: The New York Times reports that, prior to meeting with Russian lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya, Donald Trump Jr. had been promised damaging information on Hillary Clinton. Trump Jr. offers the paper a different account of the meeting from his statement the previous day: “After pleasantries were exchanged, the woman stated that she had information that individuals connected to Russia were funding the Democratic National Committee and supporting Mrs. Clinton. Her statements were vague, ambiguous and made no sense. No details or supporting information was provided or even offered. It quickly became clear that she had no meaningful information.”
July 10: Donald Trump tweets:
James Comey leaked CLASSIFIED INFORMATION to the media. That is so illegal! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 10, 2017
– Donald Trump Jr. responds to the New York Times‘ reporting:
Obviously I'm the first person on a campaign to ever take a meeting to hear info about an opponent… went nowhere but had to listen. https://t.co/ccUjL1KDEa — Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) July 10, 2017
No inconsistency in statements, meeting ended up being primarily about adoptions. In response to further Q's I simply provided more details. https://t.co/FdT1D4hfhz — Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) July 10, 2017
– The New York Times reports that prior to meeting with Russian lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya, Donald Trump Jr. was informed in an email that the damaging information about Hillary Clinton was part of a Russian government effort to aid his father’s candidacy. That email came from Rob Goldstone, the publicist for Russian pop star Emin Agalarov, who asked Goldstone to set up this meeting between Veselnitskaya and Trump Jr.
July 11: Donald Trump Jr. corroborates the New York Times‘ story in a statement posted on Twitter. In tweets, he also publishes his email exchange with Goldstone in full. The emails show that Goldstone wrote to Trump Jr. in June 2016, stating that Russia’s crown prosecutor had told Aras Agalarov—the father of Goldstone’s client Emin—that he possessed “official documents and information that would incriminate Hillary” that could be shared with the Trump campaign. Goldstone also added that the information “is obviously very high level and sensitive information but is part of Russia and its government’s support for Mr. Trump.” Trump Jr. responded by asking to speak to Emin about the material described in Goldstone’s email, and added, “If it’s what you say I love it.”
Here's my statement and the full email chain pic.twitter.com/x050r5n5LQ — Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) July 11, 2017
Here is page 4 (which did not post due to space constraints). pic.twitter.com/z1Xi4nr2gq — Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) July 11, 2017
– Donald Trump Jr. appears on Sean Hannity’s Fox show, where he says of his meeting with a Kremlin-tied lawyer, “In retrospect, I probably would have done things a little differently.” He also says, “I wanted to hear them out and play it out.”
– ProPublica reports that Mark Kasowitz, the lawyer representing Donald Trump in the Russia inquiries, does not possess a security clearance and does not plan to seek one, a curious decision in a case involving some of the government’s most closely guarded secrets. The news outlet notes his decision might stem from the lawyer’s alleged struggles with alcohol, which could make it difficult to obtain a clearance. (A spokesman for Kasowitz subsequently released a statement saying, “Marc Kasowitz has not struggled with alcoholism.”)
– In an interview with NBC, Russian attorney Natalia Veselnitskaya describes her June 9, 2016, meeting with Trump Jr., Kushner, and Manafort at Trump Tower. She says she never had any damaging information on Hillary Clinton and, contrary to emails sent by Goldstone to Trump Jr., never promised such information in order to procure the meeting.
July 12: McClatchy reports that “investigators at the House and Senate Intelligence committees and the Justice Department are examining whether the Trump campaign’s digital operation—overseen by Jared Kushner—helped guide Russia’s sophisticated voter targeting and fake news attacks on Hillary Clinton in 2016.”
– Donald Trump defends his eldest son in a tweet, saying he’s “innocent”
My son Donald did a good job last night. He was open, transparent and innocent. This is the greatest Witch Hunt in political history. Sad! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 12, 2017
– The Senate Judiciary Committee holds a confirmation hearing for Christopher Wray, Trump’s pick for FBI director. During the hearing, Sen. Lindsey Graham asks Wray about whether he’s heard about “the email problems we’ve had with Donald Trump Jr. the last few days.” When Wray says he isn’t caught up on the controversy because he’s been in meetings with senators, Graham reads part of the email chain aloud and then asks Wray if Trump Jr. should have taken the meeting or alerted the FBI. Wray first avoids directly answering the question but after a heated exchange with Graham concludes that “any threat or effort to interfere with our elections, from any nation-state, or any nonstate actor, is the kind of thing the FBI would want to know.” Here’s the full exchange:
– The Democratic members of the House Judiciary Committee write to Attorney General Jeff Sessions requesting information about the Justice Department’s decision to settle United States v. Prevezon Holdings, a money laundering case targeting a Cyprus-based entity owned by a Russian businessman. Natalia Veselnitskaya, the Kremlin-linked lawyer who met with Donald Trump Jr. and other members of the elder Trump’s inner circle, represented Prevezon, remarking after the settlement that the penalty was so small it seemed like “almost an apology from the government.”
July 18: The Washington Post reports that the eighth person at the June 2016 Trump Tower meeting was Irakly “Ike” Kaveladze, a Georgia-born businessman who is a vice president of Crocus Group International, a division of Crocus Group, the construction and development company owned by Aras Agalarov. Kaveladze, who says he has worked for Crocus Group since the late 1980s, was once at the center of a US government investigation into Russian money laundering.
– Mother Jones reports that Sen. Chuck Grassley, who heads the Senate Judiciary Committee’s probe of Trump’s firing of Comey and possible collusion between the Trump camp and Russia, is “conducting a series of alternative investigations into tangential subjects” in a way that seems to be designed “to minimize the culpability of Trump and his aides and to deflect attention from the core issues of the controversy.”
July 19: The White House confirms that Trump and Russian Putin had a second, previously undisclosed, meeting at the G-20 Summit on July 7, and it lasted “nearly an hour.”
– The New York Times reports that Paul Manafort was in debt to pro-Russia interests by as much as $17 million before joining Trump’s campaign as chairman in March 2016. This is reflected in financial records filed in Cyprus, which show that Manafort may owe up to $9.9 million to a Cyprus shell company connected to Ukraine’s pro-Russia Party of Regions and $7.8 million to a company in the British Virgin Islands connected to Russian aluminum magnate and Putin ally Oleg Deripaska. A spokesman for Manafort told the Times that the Cyprus records are “stale and do not purport to reflect any current financial arrangements,” and did not address whether the debts shown in the records may have existed previously.
– The New York Times reports that Trump quietly ended a secret American program to provide arms to Syrian rebels fighting Bashar al Assad’s government in Syria’s civil war. The move aligns with Russian interests; Russia has backed Assad’s government and attacked the rebel forces.
– The New York Times reports that banking regulators are reviewing Trump’s massive loan portfolio with Deutsche Bank to see if Trump’s debt “might expose the bank to heightened risks.” The paper notes that Deutsche Bank has already been in contact with federal investigators about Trump’s accounts. The Guardian separately reports that executives at the bank are expecting to soon receive subpoenas or other requests for information from special counsel Robert Mueller.
– Trump sits down for an Oval Office interview with three New York Times reporters. In their conversation, Trump says that if he had known Jeff Sessions would recuse himself from the Russia investigation, he would not have nominated him to be attorney general. “Sessions should have never recused himself, and if he was going to recuse himself, he should have told me before he took the job, and I would have picked somebody else,” Trump says. Trump also says that if special counsel Robert Mueller were to start delving into his finances or his family’s, that would be a “violation,” but refuses to answer whether or not he would fire Mueller over it.
– Twenty-two Democratic members of Congress send a letter to the FBI expressing concerns over possible discrepancies in Ivanka Trump’s application for a security clearance. As part of the application, Ivanka Trump had to disclose foreign contacts. Her husband, Jared Kushner, has updated his own clearance multiple times with more than 100 meetings and phone calls—a number of them with Russian officials—that he failed to disclose initially. “We are concerned that Ivanka Trump may have engaged in similar deception,” reads the letter.
July 20: Bloomberg reports that special counsel Robert Mueller has expanded the Trump-Russia probe to include a range of transactions with Trump businesses; these include apartment purchases by Russians in Trump buildings, the 2013 Miss Universe pageant in Moscow, and Trump’s 2008 sale of a Florida mansion to Russian oligarch Dmitry Rybolovlev.
– The Treasury Department fines Exxon Mobil $2 million for violating Russian sanctions by signing contracts with Igor Sechin, the head of Russia’s state-owned oil company Rosneft, while Rex Tillerson, now the secretary of state, was Exxon’s CEO.
– CNN reports that Mueller has sent a notice to the White House requiring them to preserve all documents related to Donald Trump Jr.’s June 9, 2016, meeting with Russian lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya.
– Mark Corallo, a spokesman for Trump’s legal team, abruptly resigns.
July 24: Trump’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner, spends two hours behind closed doors with the Senate Intelligence Committee answering questions related to the Trump-Russia investigation. In a statement to the committee and at a press conference following the closed-door session, he denies any collusion with Russia. “Let me be very clear: I did not collude with Russia, nor do I know of anyone else in the campaign who did so,” he says.
July 25: Mother Jones reports that Carl Levin, a onetime chairman of the Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations who left Congress in 2015, sent a letter the previous day to special counsel Robert Mueller and the chairman and vice chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee highlighting a 2000 investigation of possible money laundering by the company run by Ike Kaveladze—the eighth person in the June 2016 meeting with Donald Trump Jr. and Russian lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya.
During that probe, an official at Citibank, where Kaveladze established dozens of bank accounts on behalf of Delaware-based shell companies, noted that Kaveladze’s main client at the time was Crocus International, a company headed by Aras Agalarov, who in 2013 partnered with Donald Trump to bring the Miss Universe contest to Moscow.
– The Senate Judiciary Committee issues a subpoena compelling former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort to appear at a open hearing of the committee the following day. Hours later, the committee withdraws its subpoena, reportedly because Manafort has begun to produce documents and voluntarily agreed to negotiate an interview time.
– By a margin of 419-3, the House passes a bill levying new sanctions against Russia and inhibiting the president’s ability to weaken them.
– Paul Manafort, Trump’s former campaign chairman, provides Senate investigators with notes he took during the June 2016 meeting that Donald Trump Jr. arranged with Russian lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya. The notes, which could confirm or refute Trump Jr.’s claim that he did not receive damaging information about Hillary Clinton, have not been released to the public.
July 26: FBI agents raid Paul Manafort’s Virginia home and seize documents related to special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation after obtaining a search warrant from a federal judge. The raid signals a new, aggressive approach by Mueller.
July 27: Bill Browder, founder of the hedge fund Hermitage Capital Management, testifies before the Senate Judiciary Committee. Browder is a longtime investor in Russia who spearheaded the passage of the Magnitsky Act, the package of Russia sanctions allegedly discussed by Natalia Veselnitskaya, the Kremlin-linked Russian lawyer, during her June 2016 meeting with Donald Trump Jr., Jared Kushner, and Paul Manafort. During the hearing, Browder discusses how Veselnitskaya and several other political operatives lobbied to repeal the Magnitsky Act without registering as foreign agents, a possible violation of the Foreign Agents Registration Act. Browder says “there’s no doubt” Veselnitskaya was acting on behalf of the Russian government when she met with members of Trump’s inner circle.
– By a vote of 98-2, the Senate approves the House’s sanctions bill, sending it to the president’s desk.
– George Papadopoulos is arrested at Washington’s Dulles airport.
July 28: The White House says Trump will sign the sanctions legislation.
– Russia retaliates against the new sanctions by seizing two properties used by American diplomats and ordering the reduction of US Embassy staff by September.
July 30: Putin says Russia will expel 755 US diplomats and support staff in retaliation for the new sanctions.
July 31: BuzzFeed reports that the Republican National Committee has instructed its employees to preserve all documents covering the 2016 presidential campaign. Citing RNC lawyers, BuzzFeed reports this is a “precautionary” measure “as investigations continue into Russia’s meddling in the election.”
– The Washington Post reports that while flying back from the G-20 summit in Germany in early July, Trump dictated his son Donald Trump Jr.’s response to revelations that he’d met with a Kremlin-linked Russian lawyer. The statement, given to the New York Times as they prepared a story about the meeting for publication, said Trump Jr. and the Russian lawyer “primarily discussed a program about the adoption of Russian children,” and that the meeting was not about “a campaign issue.” Over the next few days, it became clear this statement was misleading, as Trump Jr. acknowledged he met with the lawyer after being promised dirt on Hillary Clinton. The revelation that Trump crafted the misleading statement, the Post notes, could lead to additional scrutiny from investigators and eventually place Trump and his inner circle in “legal jeopardy.”
August 1: A lawsuit (first reported by NPR) is filed alleging that Fox News and a Texas Republican donor who backs Trump worked with the White House to gin up a conspiratorial story concerning the murder of Democratic National Committee staffer Seth Rich in an effort to deflect attention from the Russia scandal. The lawsuit is brought by former Washington, DC, detective (and longtime Fox contributor) Rod Wheeler, who has been investigating Rich’s murder on behalf of Ed Butowsky, a wealthy Dallas investor and frequent Fox commentator. Wheeler claims a Fox reporter fabricated quotations appearing in a retracted May 2017 article reporting that Rich had been in contact with WikiLeaks prior to his death, implying that he—not Russian hackers—had provided the site with DNC documents and emails. The complaint includes a text message from Butowsky in which the investor says Trump had read the story prior to its publication and wanted it to come out “immediately.”
August 2: Trump signs into law new sanctions against Russia but issues a statement calling the measure “seriously flawed.” He notes, “By limiting the Executive’s flexibility, this bill makes it harder for the United States to strike good deals for the American people, and will drive China, Russia, and North Korea much closer together. The Framers of our Constitution put foreign affairs in the hands of the President.”
August 3: Two bipartisan Senate bills are introduced by members of the Judiciary Committee that would restrict Trump’s ability to fire special counsel Robert Mueller. One, by Sen. Thom Tillis (R-N.C.) and Chris Coons (D-Md.), would allow Mueller to challenge his dismissal before a panel of three federal judges. The others, by Sens. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) and Cory Booker (D-N.J.), would require this judicial panel to review the Justice Department’s reasoning for his dismissal before Mueller could be fired.
– The Wall Street Journal reports that Mueller has convened a grand jury to probe Russian interference in the 2016 election.
– Michael Flynn files an amended version of his federal disclosure form that includes new details about his contracts and income. The updated disclosure shows that that Flynn was hired as an adviser to SCL Group, which at the time was the parent company of the data firm Cambridge Analytica, which worked on behalf of Trump’s campaign. One of Cambridge Analytica’s biggest financial backers is hedge fund mogul and Trump backer Robert Mercer, and White House strategist Stephen Bannon was a Cambridge Analytica vice president before joining the Trump campaign. The disclosure of Flynn’s ties to the SCL Group are significant because Trump’s campaign data operation has come under scrutiny as one source of possible collusion with Russians seeking to influence the 2016 election.
August 4: NBC reports that special counsel Robert Mueller has tapped multiple grand juries in Washington, DC, and Virginia as part of the Trump-Russia investigation, a sign that the investigation is gearing up.
– The New York Times reports that Robert Mueller’s investigative team has asked the White House for records related to former national security adviser Michael Flynn. This is the first known instance of Mueller’s team asking the White House for documents as part of their investigation into possible collusion between Russia and the Trump campaign.
– Politico reports that two Republican staffers on the House Intelligence Committee traveled to London earlier this summer to track down Christopher Steele, the former British intelligence operative who compiled the Trump-Russia memo published by BuzzFeed in January. The previously unreported trip increases tensions with the House Intelligence Committee’s Democratic staff, the Senate Intelligence Committee, and Mueller’s office. The staffers didn’t end up talking with Steele during the trip.
August 6: In an appearance on Fox News Sunday, Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein says special counsel Robert Mueller can investigate any crimes uncovered as part of the Trump-Russia probe.
August 10: Bloomberg reports that special counsel Robert Mueller’s team has sent subpoenas to global banks requesting transaction records and account information tied to Paul Manafort and several of his companies. A source tells Bloomberg that Mueller has reached out to Manafort’s son-in-law and a Ukrainian oligarch, hoping to convince Manafort to be more cooperative.
– Taking a break from a vacation at his New Jersey golf club, Trump holds a brief press conference. The president tells reporters that he is grateful that Putin has expelled hundreds of US diplomats from Russia in response to US sanctions. “I want to thank him because we’re trying to cut down our payroll and as far as I’m concerned I’m very thankful that he let go of a large number of people because now we have a smaller payroll,” Trump says. Following outrage over Trump’s comments, press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders tells the New York Times that the president’s remarks were meant to be funny and “sarcastic.”
August 11: Rinat Akhmetshin, the Russian lobbyist who attended the Trump tower meeting with Donald Trump Jr. in June 2016, testifies before a grand jury impaneled by special counsel Robert Mueller, according to a report from the Financial Times.
August 14: The Washington Post reports on a set of Trump campaign emails showing persistent efforts by campaign foreign policy adviser George Papadopoulos to coordinate a meeting about US-Russia ties between Trump and Russian leaders “including Putin” according to one email subject line. The exchanges—which were read to or confirmed to the Post by three sources with access to the emails—were sent between March and September 2016, as the presidential race heated up. The emails were included in more than 20,000 pages of documents the Trump campaign turned over to congressional committees investigating Russian interference in the 2016 election.
August 16: The New York Times reports that a Ukrainian hacker known as Profexer—whom American intelligence agencies have identified as the creator of a program used in Russian hacks targeting the US election—has turned himself over to the Ukrainian police and has become a witness for the FBI. “It is the first known instance of a living witness emerging from the arid mass of technical detail that has so far shaped the investigation into the election hacking and the heated debate it has stirred,” notes the Times.
– The Daily Caller reports that Rep. Dana Rohrabacher (R-Calif.) met with WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange at the Ecuadorian Embassy in London. According to Rohrabacher, who openly admires Putin, Assange can prove that hacked Democratic Party emails did not come from Russia.
August 18: BuzzFeed reports that special counsel Robert Mueller’s office is investigating Donald Trump Jr. A source tells BuzzFeed that prosecutors are particularly interested in discovering what information Trump Jr. received at the June 2016 meeting with a Russian lawyer.
– Bloomberg reports on the friendship between Ivanka Trump and Dasha Zhukova, the wife of Russian billionaire and Putin ally Roman Abramovich. Bloomberg notes that Ivanka Trump’s husband, Jared Kushner, has met three or four times with Abramovich, and that Trump and Kushner disclosed their ongoing social relationship with the couple—which included a four-day trip to Russia in 2014 at Zhukova’s initiation—on their security clearance forms.
August 21: The New York Times reports that Rinat Akhmetshin, a Russian immigrant who attended the July 2016 Trump Tower meeting, has much deeper ties to the Russian government and Kremlin-supported oligarchs than previously known. The Times also reports that Akhmetshin, who is being investigated by special counsel Robert Mueller, has worked for Russian oligarchs whose opponents faced sophisticated hacks. Akhmetshin’s sister, father, and godfather joined Russian intelligence services, but Akhmetshin has denied allegations that he is a Russian spy.
August 22: Glenn Simpson, the founder of opposition research firm Fusion GPS, which hired Christopher Steele to compile the Trump-Russia dossier, meets with the Senate Judiciary Committee in a nearly 10-hour closed-door session to answer questions about the financing and sourcing for the dossier. ABC News reports that Steele has already met with FBI investigators and provided them with the names of his sources for the dossier’s allegations.
August 27: Citing emails that will soon be turned over to congressional investigators, the Washington Post reports that Trump’s company was pursuing a plan in late 2015 and early 2016 to build a “massive” Trump Tower in Moscow, well after he announced his presidential run in June 2015. Felix Sater, a Russian-born real estate developer, told Trump he could get Putin to say “great things” about Trump, according to the emails, which the Post reports suggest additional connections between Trump’s associates and Russia-connected individuals.
August 28: The Washington Post reports that Michael Cohen, a top Trump organization executive and lawyer for the president, emailed Putin’s personal spokesman during the presidential campaign to push for the Trump Tower deal in Moscow. According to the Post, Trump cut a letter of intent with I.C. Expert Investment Co., a Moscow-based developer, in October 2015 and began to solicit designs and discuss funding.
– NBC News reports that special counsel Robert Mueller’s team is “keenly focused” on what Trump may have known about the infamous June 2016 meeting in Trump Tower between Russian operatives and Donald Trump Jr., Jared Kushner, and Paul Manafort—and whether the president may have tried to help conceal that meeting’s purpose once it was uncovered by the media.
August 29: CNN reports that special counsel Robert Mueller has subpoenaed Paul Manafort’s former lawyer and current spokesman.
August 30: Politico reports that special counsel Robert Mueller is working with New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman as part of his investigation into former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort’s financial transactions. Unlike possible federal crimes resulting from Mueller’s investigation, the president does not have the power to pardon state crimes.
August 31: NBC News reports on notes that Paul Manafort, Trump’s former campaign chairman, took during a June 2016 meeting at Trump Tower that Donald Trump Jr. arranged with a Russian lawyer promising dirt on Hillary Clinton’s campaign. Manafort’s contemporaneous notes included the word “donations” in possible relation to the Republican National Committee. According to NBC News, congressional investigators are trying to determine if participants discussed the possibility of Russian sources making illegal campaign contributions.
September 1: CNN reports that House Intelligence Chairman Devin Nunes is threatening to hold Attorney General Jeff Sessions and FBI Director Christopher Wray in contempt of court, a jailable offense, if they don’t provide documents related to Christopher Steele’s Russia dossier. According to CNN, Nunes has continued to look into Trump-Russia matters, despite recusing himself from the committee’s investigation in April 2017.
September 6: Facebook discloses that $100,000 worth of ads were purchased on the platform by suspected Russian agents. Facebook said the roughly 3,000 ads, which ran from June 2015 to May 2017, were linked to 470 fake accounts and pages that were “likely operated out of Russia.”
September 8: The Washington Post reports that special counsel Robert Mueller has told the White House that he will seek to interview six high-ranking current and former advisers to Trump, including communications aide Hope Hicks, former press secretary Sean Spicer, and former chief of staff Reince Priebus.
Sept 11: The Daily Beast reports that Russian operatives used Facebook ads to organize and promote domestic political events, including protests such as an August 2016 anti-refugee rally in Twin Falls, Idaho.
– CNN reports on additional details from the letter of intent that Trump signed to build a Trump Tower in Moscow during the presidential campaign. According to CNN, the deal would have provided his company a $4 million upfront fee, a percentage of sales, and a spa named after his daughter Ivanka.
September 13: NBC News reports that Michael Flynn Jr., the son of Trump’s former national security adviser, is being investigated by special counsel Robert Mueller. According to three former and current government officials interviewed by NBC News, federal investigators are focused in part on the work he did for Flynn Intel Group, his father’s lobbying firm.
– The Wall Street Journal reports that Michael Flynn, while he was working as Trump’s national security adviser, promoted an idea to build nuclear power plants across the Middle East—a deal that would have benefited both Flynn’s former private sector employer and Russian companies. The project, valued at hundreds of billions of dollars, had previously proposed that Russian companies could provide fuel and manage the plants’ waste. According to former National Security Council staffers who spoke with the Journal, Flynn continued to meet with a group of military officers tasked with promoting the power plan on behalf of US firms even after NSC ethics advisers asked him to cease communications—actions that the former staffers called “highly abnormal.”
The House Oversight Committee also released documents confirming that Flynn had traveled to the Middle East in June 2015 to promote this nuclear power plan to foreign officials. Flynn omitted this trip from the list of foreign contacts he submitted when applying for his Trump administration security clearance.
September 15: The Wall Street Journal reports that Rep. Dana Rohrabacher (R-Calif.) proposed a deal to White House chief of staff John Kelly that would involve pardoning WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange in exchange for evidence that Rohrabacher said would show Russia was not the source of hacked Democratic Party emails.
September 17: The New York Times reports that White House counsel Don McGahn is clashing sharply with Ty Cobb, a lawyer brought in to help coordinate the White House’s response to the Russia investigation, over how much the White House should cooperate with Robert Mueller’s team. The Times was tipped off to the conflict after overhearing Cobb badmouthing McGahn at a Washington, DC, steakhouse, claiming that the attorney is withholding certain documents.
September 18: The New York Times reports that when federal agents searched Paul Manafort’s home in July 2017 as part of the Trump-Russia probe, they told him that he should expect to be indicted.
– CNN reports that, according to multiple sources, investigators wiretapped Manafort, Trump’s former campaign chairman, both before and after the election. The wiretap reportedly continued early this year, after Trump took office and during a period when he was known to have had communications with Manafort.
September 19: Reuters reports that Trump is using donations to his reelection campaign and the Republican National Committee to pay for his legal defense against special counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia investigation.
– CNN reports that the Republican National Committee spent more than $230,000 in August to cover some of Trump’s legal fees in the Russia investigation.
– During his confirmation hearing for the post of ambassador to Russia before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, former Utah Gov. Jon Huntsman says that, unlike Trump, he believes Russia interfered in the US election. “There is no question, underline no question, that the Russian government interfered in the US election last year.”
September 20: The Daily Beast reports that the Facebook and Twitter accounts of the group “Being Patriotic,” a suspected Russian propaganda front, helped organize more than a dozen pro-Trump rallies in Florida in August 2016. The rallies “brought dozens of supporters together in real life,” notes the Daily Beast. “They appear to be the first case of Russian provocateurs successfully mobilizing Americans over Facebook in direct support of Donald Trump.”
– The Washington Post reports that, less than two weeks before Trump accepted the Republican nomination, Paul Manafort offered to provide campaign briefings to a Russian billionaire closely aligned with the Kremlin. The email making the offer is among tens of thousands of documents turned over to special counsel Robert Mueller and congressional investigators.
September 21: Facebook says it will hand over the more than 3,000 Russia-connected political ads to congressional investigators.
September 25: Roger Stone is grilled by the House Intelligence Committee for three hours behind closed doors. He refuses to disclose the identity of the claimed go-between that facilitated his communication with WikiLeaks. Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Calif.), the top Democrat on the panel, threatened to subpoena Stone over the omission, saying that Stone refused to address a “seminal area of importance to the committee.”
September 26: Sen. Richard Blumenthal says he is “99 percent sure” there will be criminal charges against former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort and former national security adviser Michael Flynn.
– CNN reports that the criminal division of the Internal Revenue Service has begun sharing information with Robert Mueller’s investigative team.
September 27: Multiple news outlets report that the Senate Intelligence Committee has asked Facebook, Twitter, and Google to testify as part of the investigation into Russian interference in the election.
– The Daily Beast reports Russian agents impersonated a real nonprofit, United Muslims of America, to spread racist memes and fake news on Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter.
September 28: CNN reports that, according to two sources familiar with the matter, a social-media campaign calling itself “Blacktivist” that is linked to the Russian government used Facebook and Twitter to stoke racial tensions in the United States during the 2016 election.
– Twitter discloses that it found and removed 201 accounts that may have been used by Russian agents after meeting with congressional investigators.
October 2: The Washington Post reports that associates of Trump and his company turned over documents to federal prosecutors revealing two previously undisclosed interactions with Russia during the presidential campaign. One email exchange involved Michael Cohen, Trump’s personal attorney, possibly traveling to a conference in Russia that Putin was planning to attend.
– Facebook estimates that ads bought by Russian agents reached about 10 million people in the United States.
October 3: Bloomberg reports that special counsel Robert Mueller’s top legal adviser, Michael Dreeben, is researching if there are limits on Trump’s pardon power.
October 4: CNN reports that highly sophisticated Russia-linked Facebook ads targeted key demographic groups in pivotal parts of Michigan and Wisconsin.
October 5: CNN reports that special counsel Robert Mueller’s team met over the summer with Christopher Steele, the former British spy who produced the memos on Trump’s alleged Russia connections. CNN also reports that the intelligence community last year took the dossier more seriously than they acknowledged publicly.
October 6: NBC reports that Christopher Steele, author of the Trump-Russia memos, is in talks with the Senate Intelligence Committee about meeting with the leaders of the panel.
October 9: The Washington Post reports that an internal Google inquiry has found evidence of Russian agents exploiting its platform in an attempt to meddle with the election.
October 10: CNN reports that House Intelligence Committee Chair Devin Nunes signed subpoenas for the heads of Fusion GPS, the research firm that paid Christopher Steele to investigate Trump’s Russia ties.
– Former Trump foreign policy adviser Carter Page says he is planning to plead the Fifth Amendment if called to testify in the Senate Intelligence Committee probe of potential collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia.
October 11: Trump blows by an October 1 deadline for starting to implement new sanctions on Russia. Sens. Ben Cardin (D-Md.) and John McCain (R-Ariz.) say the delay calls into question Trump’s commitment to stepping up sanctions imposed by the bill Congress passed in July with overwhelming support.
– The Daily Beast reports that the House Intelligence Committee is looking into data firm Cambridge Analytica’s work for the Trump campaign as part of its investigation into Russian election meddling. Former White House chief strategist Steve Bannon invested between $1 million and $5 million in Cambridge Analytica, where he was a one-time VP, and the company was founded by Robert Mercer, a hedge fund billionaire and major Trump campaign donor.
October 13: Members of Robert Mueller’s investigative team spend all day interviewing former Trump’s ex-chief of staff Reince Priebus.
October 15: NBC reports that Paul Manafort, Trump’s former campaign manager, engaged in $60 million worth of business dealings with Oleg Deripaska, a Russian oligarch closely tied to the Kremlin. According to NBC, a company wholly owned by Deripaska loaned $26 million to a company linked to Manafort.
October 16: Foreign Policy publishes the memo Russian lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya took to the June 2016 Trump Tower meeting. It focuses on Bill Browder, an American businessman whom Veselnitskaya accused of defrauding the Russian government, and only makes a passing mention of Hillary Clinton.
– Former Trump press secretary Sean Spicer meets with Mueller’s investigators for almost a full day. He is asked about Trump’s firing of FBI Director James Comey and about Trump’s Oval Office meeting with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov and then-Russian Ambassador Sergei Kislyak.
October 17: A federal judge dismisses a libel suit brought by Oleg Deripaska against the Associated Press for reporting that he paid Manafort to advance the goals of the Russian government and Putin.
– The Russian newspaper RBC publishes an investigation into 2016 election meddling by the Internet Research Agency (IRA), a notorious Russian “troll factory” based in St. Petersburg and linked to the Kremlin. Among the story’s many revelations: The IRA spent about $2.3 million during the 2016 election cycle to meddle in US politics, paying the salaries of 90 “US desk” employees who helped wage disinformation campaigns via social media, while also funneling thousands of dollars to unwitting US activists to organize protests on divisive issues, including race relations.
– ABC News reports that the Senate Intelligence Committee will likely subpoena Mike Flynn Jr., the son of Trump’s ousted national security adviser. The younger Flynn was his father’s chief of staff during the presidential transition period but was pushed off the Trump team after it was revealed that he had spread alt-right conspiracy theories online.
October 18: CNN reports that a group tied to Russian trolls who ran thousands of fake Facebook ads paid personal trainers to run self-defense classes for African Americans as part of an apparent attempt to generate fear and gather contact information.
– The Daily Beast reports that several key Trump campaign staffers, including Kellyanne Conway and Donald Trump Jr., promoted tweets during the election from @Ten_GOP, an account linked to the Internet Research Agency, the notorious Russian “troll factory.”
– Former Trump campaign manager Corey Lewandowski meets with Senate Intelligence Committee investigators for more than three hours.
– Attorney General Jeff Sessions testifies before the Senate Judiciary Committee and changes his story on his contacts with Sergey Kislyak in the spring and summer of 2016, saying that it was possible he discussed campaign matters with the ambassador. (When news of his meetings with Kislyak first broke in March, Sessions said he met with the Russian ambassador solely in his capacity as a US senator and that they never discussed campaign matters.)
Sessions also refused to elaborate on his communications with Trump about the firing of FBI Director James Comey by asserting an odd, preemptive form of executive privilege—saying he can’t disclose his communications lest the president one day decide to invoke executive privilege to keep them private.
October 19: Politico reports that Trump has personally interviewed at least three candidates for US attorney jobs in the Eastern and Southern districts of New York and in the District of Columbia. The Southern District of New York has jurisdiction over Trump Tower, which means it would have the power to bring indictments against the Trump Organization and associates in various cases, including the ongoing Russia investigation. “To be very blunt, these three jurisdictions will have authority to bring indictments over the ongoing special counsel investigation into Trump campaign collusion with the Russians and potential obstruction of justice by the president of the United States,” Sen. Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) tells Politico.
– While speaking at a national security forum, CIA Director Mike Pompeo mistakenly says that when US intelligence agencies released their January 2017 assessment about Russian interference in the 2016 election, they also found the interference did not affect the outcome. In fact, the report did not come to a conclusion on that. The CIA issues a statement correcting Pompeo.
October 24: The Wall Street Journal reports that the Manhattan US attorney’s office has launched an investigation into possible money laundering by Paul Manafort.
– NBC News reports that special counsel Robert Mueller is investigating whether Democratic lobbyist Tony Podesta’s work to promote Ukraine’s image in the West violated the Foreign Agents Registration Act.
October 25: The Wall Street Journal reports that the head of Cambridge Analytica, a data analytics firm that worked for the Trump campaign, offered to help WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange organize the emails his site was releasing about the Clinton campaign. The firm is partly owned by Republican megadonor Robert Mercer, and former Trump campaign chief executive Steve Bannon sat on its board before joining the administration.
– McClatchy reports that Michael Cohen, Trump’s personal lawyer, made as much as $20 million by selling four properties to mysterious buyers.
October 26: Twitter bans RT and Sputnik Media from using its advertising network, citing US intelligence reports that the organizations attempted to interfere with the election.
– BuzzFeed reports that Senate Judiciary Committee chair Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) requested confidential banking information on close to 40 people from the Treasury Department’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. The request is seen as a sign that Grassley has stepped up his committee’s Russia investigation.
October 30: Facebook says content created by Russian operatives may have reached as many as 126 million people in the United States, a far higher number than the 10 million people the company said saw paid Russian ads.
– Federal investigators led by special counsel Robert Mueller charge former Trump campaign manager Paul Manafort and his onetime business associate Rick Gates, who also worked on the campaign, with money laundering. Both plead not guilty to the 12-count indictment, which ranges from conspiring to launder money to working as unregistered agents of Ukraine’s former pro-Russian government.
– The Department of Justice reveals that George Papadopoulos, the Trump campaign foreign policy adviser, pleaded guilty in early October to lying to federal investigators. The plea reveals that Papadopoulos met during the campaign with a London-based professor (later revealed to be Joseph Mifsud) who claimed Russia had damaging information on Hillary Clinton.
– Jay Sekulow, one of Trump’s attorneys, tells CNN’s Wolf Blitzer that the indictments are not related to the Trump campaign and says there is no connection between George Papadopoulos’ plea and Trump.
October 31: Trump claims on Twitter that there was no collusion between Russia and his campaign. Trump also calls George Papadopoulos a “young, low level volunteer” and a liar who few people knew.
November 1: CNN reports that Joseph Mifsud, a London-based professor who was in contact with George Papadopolous, told a business contact in April 2016 that Moscow had a large collection of information about Hillary Clinton.
– The House Intelligence Committee releases a selection of 3,000 ads that Russian operatives bought on Facebook, which further reveal the sophistication of Russia’s campaign to promote Trump and attack Clinton during the 2016 campaign.
November 2: The Wall Street Journal reports that the Justice Department has identified more than six Russian government officials involved in the hacking operation that targeted the Democratic National Committee during the 2016 campaign. Prosecutors are considering bringing charges in 2018, according to the paper.
November 3: CNN reports that former Trump foreign policy adviser Carter Page told the House Intelligence Committee that he informed then-Sen. Jeff Sessions that he was traveling to Russia during the 2016 presidential campaign. In June, Sessions told the Senate Intelligence Committee that he didn’t know if Page met with Russian officials during the campaign.
– The Washington Post reports that Keith Schiller, Trump’s longtime confidant and body guard and former White House aide, will be questioned by the House Intelligence Committee about Trump’s 2013 Moscow trip. Investigators plan to ask Schiller about allegations made in the Steele memos that Russians obtained compromising information on Trump during the trip.
– Three conservative Republicans introduce a resolution calling on special counsel Robert Mueller to recuse himself because he was the FBI director in 2010 when government officials approved the sale of Uranium One, a Canadian energy firm, to a Russian nuclear energy company.
– CNN reports that Jared Kushner has turned over documents to special counsel Robert Mueller related to his role in the firing of FBI Director James Comey.
November 5: NBC News reports that special counsel Robert Mueller has enough evidence to bring charges against former White House national security adviser Michael Flynn and his son, Michael Flynn Jr. Mueller’s team is investigating whether Flynn lied to investigators and laundered money, as well as whether he tried to remove a chief rival of Turkish President Recep Erdogan from the United States.
November 6: Natalia Veselnitskaya, the Russian lawyer who attended the 2016 Trump Tower meeting, says Donald Trump Jr. told a her that a law that places sanctions on some Russian officials would be reexamined if his father won the election. She also says Trump Jr. asked for written evidence that Hillary Clinton’s campaign received money that evaded US taxes.
November 8: The Daily Beast reports that Democrats on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee have been privately investigating Russian interference in Eastern Europe without their Republican colleagues. The Senate Democrats are trying to chart how the Kremlin used propaganda and voter suppression to advance its interests.
November 9: CNN reports that special counsel Robert Mueller’s team has interviewed White House senior policy adviser Stephen Miller—bringing his investigation into Trump’s inner White House circle. Miller was asked about his role in the firing of FBI Director James Comey as part of Mueller’s effort to determine whether the firing constitutes obstruction of justice, according to CNN.
November 10: CNN reports that Keith Schiller, Trump’s former White House aide and longtime confidant, told the House Intelligence Committee that he rejected a Russian offer to send five women to Trump’s room during a 2013 trip to Moscow. Schiller said he and Trump thought the offer was a joke.
November 13: The Atlantic publishes Twitter direct messages exchanged in September 2016 between WikiLeaks and Donald Trump Jr. In the messages, WikiLeaks gave Trump Jr. the password to PutingTrump.org, a site that would document then-candidate Trump’s Russia ties.
November 14: The New York Times reports that the State Department’s Office of Acquisitions has awarded a $2.8 million no-bid contract to Elite Security Holdings to provide security guards at the American Embassy in Moscow and at consulates in St. Petersburg, Yekaterinburg, and Vladivostok. The company, reports the Times, is “closely linked to the former top K.G.B. figure, Viktor G. Budanov, a retired general who rose through the ranks to become head of Soviet counterintelligence.”
November 17: ABC News reports that Trump will be presented with a recommendation from the National Security Council to sell Ukraine $47 millions of arms including powerful anti-tank missiles. If Trump decides to take these recommendations, it would signal support of Ukraine in its ongoing hostility with Russian and would also mark a shift from the GOP party platform’s softer stance on arming Ukraine.
November 23: CBS News reports that the White House will not cover any legal fees incurred by former national security adviser Michael Flynn and former campaign chairman Paul Manafort related to special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation.
November 28: The top Democrats on the House Oversight Committee and Foreign Affairs Committee call on Trump’s longtime friend Tom Barrack to speak with them about conversations he had with Michael Flynn regarding a plan to build nuclear reactors in the Middle East.
December 1: Michael Flynn, Trump’s former national security adviser, is charged with and pleads guilty to lying to the FBI about conversations he had with the Russian ambassador. Court documents suggest Flynn is likely to face between zero and six months in prison.
Read the charging document below:
December 2: Trump tweets that he “had to fire General Flynn because he lied to the Vice President and the FBI.” Legal experts say Trump’s tweet suggests he could have been obstructing justice when he told former FBI Director James Comey to stop investigating Flynn.
December 4: Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s office drops its support for Paul Manafort’s bail deal after Manafort secretly writes an editorial with a colleague who has ties to Russian intelligence.
December 5: Reuters reports that special counsel Robert Mueller subpoenaed Deutsche Bank for data on accounts held by Trump and his family. Jay Sekulow, one of Trump’s lawyers, denies the bank was subpoenaed.
December 8: The New York Times reports that the FBI warned Hope Hicks, one of Trump’s top aides, that Russian operatives were attempting to contact her during the presidential transition. There is no evidence Hicks did anything wrong, according to the Times.
December 12: Axios reports that Jay Sekulow, a member of Trump’s legal team, is calling for a special counsel to investigate Robert Mueller’s office after a Fox News article shows the wife of a demoted Department of Justice official worked for Fusion GPS, the firm responsible for the Steele dossier.
– BuzzFeed reports that Justice Department filings show Russia Today’s original distribution company has been “winding down” since earlier in 2017.
December 13: Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein says there is no cause for firing special counsel Robert Mueller during testimony before the House Judiciary Committee.
– Radio Free Europe reports that US prosecutors are defending a widely criticized decision by the Justice Department to settle United States v. Prevezon Holdings, a money laundering case connected to a Russian tax fraud scheme. Assistant Attorney General Stephen Boyd says prosecutors had no contact with Trump, his family, and his staff in the Prevezon case. (The case received renewed attention after it was reported that Kremlin-linked lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya met with Donald Trump Jr. and other members of the elder Trump’s inner circle in June 2016. Veselnitskaya represented Prevezon in the lawsuit.)
December 14: Russian President Vladimir Putin praises Trump and claims the United States is gripped by unfounded “spymania” related to the Russia investigation.
– The top Democrats on the House Judiciary and Oversight committees call for subpoenaing Cambridge Analytica and Giles-Parscale, two data consulting firms that worked for the Trump campaign. Democrats want to find out if the firms helped Russia target political messages to boost Trump during the 2016 campaign.
December 15: The Washington Post reports that Jared Kushner and his legal team are looking to hire a crisis public relations firm.
– Trump says he is not ruling out a pardon for his former national security adviser Michael Flynn.
December 17: Trump says he has no intention of firing special counsel Robert Mueller and insists there was “no collusion whatsoever” between Russia and his campaign.
December 18: Trump gives a national security speech that makes no mention of Russian election interference. In the speech, Trump says Putin thanked him for sharing intelligence about a possible terrorist attack in St. Petersburg.
December 19: FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe testifies before the House Intelligence Committee for hours behind closed doors. During the testimony, McCabe corroborates that when James Comey was serving as FBI director, he informed McCabe that Trump requested Comey’s “loyalty” and asked the then-FBI director to go easy on Michael Flynn in the Russia investigation. Trump has disputed these conversations took place.
– The Senate Intelligence Committee announces that as part of its probe into Russian election interference, it is looking into possible links between Russia and the presidential campaign of Jill Stein, the Green Party candidate in 2016.
December 20: Politico reports that Rep. Devin Nunes has been leading a group of Republican congressman who are working outside the House Intelligence Committee’s own Russia probe to pull together materials discrediting the DOJ and the FBI’s handling of the Russia investigation.
– Members of the House Intelligence Committee interview longtime Russian American Trump associate Felix Sater in New York City as part of the committee’s Russia probe.
– Trump signs an executive order expanding the Magnitsky list, a key package of US sanctions on Russia. Artem Chaika, the son of Yuri Chaika, is on the list. Yuri Chaika is the prosecutor general of Russia and also the person who Rob Goldstone, Emin Agalarov’s publicist, credited with possessing dirt on Hillary Clinton when emailing with Trump Jr. in advance of the June 2016 meeting in Trump Tower.
December 21: In an interview with Fox News, White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders says the administration does not intend to fire special counsel Robert Mueller and that she hopes his “hoax” investigation wraps up soon.
– NBC reports that, under orders from Attorney General Jeff Sessions, the FBI and the DOJ have begun to look into a 2010 Obama administration deal that approved the sale of Canadian energy firm Uranium One to a Russian nuclear energy company. The State Department was one of nine federal agencies that approved the deal, and Hillary Clinton was the secretary of state at the time.
– Bloomberg reports that special counsel Robert Mueller is looking into the Human Rights Accountability Global Initiative (HRAGI) as part of the probe into Russian election interference. The American foundation received more than $500,000 from powerful Russia financiers, and one of the foundation’s representatives, Rinat Akhmetshin, also attended the June 2016 meeting at Trump Tower with Donald Trump Jr. and other members of the Trump campaign.
December 22: Politico reports anonymous Republican congressional aides are investigating contacts between FBI General Counsel James Baker and Mother Jones DC Bureau Chief David Corn near the time Corn broke the news of the Steele dossier—a move suggesting Baker was a source for Corn’s story. Corn denies that Baker was a source for the article.
– Members of the House Intelligence Committee interview Trump’s longtime assistant at the Trump Organization, Rhona Graff, in New York City.
– The New York Times reports that prosecutors in Brooklyn have subpoenaed Deutsche Bank records related to Trump son-in-law Jared Kushner’s real estate company, which has borrowed hundreds of millions of dollars from the German bank. There is no clear indication that this subpoena is related to Mueller’s Trump-Russia investigation.
December 24: The Guardian reports that the FBI is investigating the now defunct FBME Bank in Tanzania, likely as part of Mueller’s investigation into Russian election interference—and specifically the finances of Paul Manafort, Trump’s former campaign chairman.
December 27: The Washington Post reports that Trump’s legal team is preparing to attack Michael Flynn’s credibility following the news of his cooperation agreement with special counsel Robert Mueller’s team.
December 28: Former Trump aide Rick Gates, who is on house arrest following his indictment in the Mueller investigation on charges of conspiracy and money laundering, asks the DC district court to modify his house arrest to go to a New Year’s party. (The judge denies his request two days later.)
December 30: The New York Times reports that in May 2016—two months before leaked Democratic National Committee emails started to become public—Trump’s foreign policy adviser George Papadopoulos told Australia’s top diplomat in Britain, Alexander Downer, that he knew Russia had thousands of emails that had been stolen in an effort to hurt Hillary Clinton’s campaign. The revelation that a member of the Trump campaign had prior knowledge of the DNC hacking is what led the FBI to begin its inquiry into Russian election interference and possible collusion by the Trump campaign.
2018
January 3: Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) sends two letters to former Trump campaign staffers Dan Scavino and Brad Parscale, asking for information related to the Russia investigation. In one of the letters, Feinstein alleges that Scavino, who served as the campaign’s social-media manager, “may have corresponded with Russian nationals regarding Trump campaign social media efforts.”
– Paul Manafort files a lawsuit in federal court against the Department of Justice. He claims the DOJ violated the law in appointing Robert Mueller as the special counsel on the Russia probe, and also challenged the “overly broad” scope of the investigation, claiming the special counsel exceeded his authority in indicting Manafort on conspiracy and money laundering charges.
– In a leaked excerpt of a new book about the Trump administration, Fire and Fury by Michael Wolff, Wolff reports that former Trump adviser Steve Bannon called the June 2016 Trump Tower meeting between Donald Trump Jr. and a Kremlin-linked Russian lawyer “treasonous,” and later said of the government probe into possible collusion between Russia and the Trump campaign, “They’re going to crack Don Junior like an egg on national TV.”
– The Justice Department and the House Intelligence Committee reach a deal to grant the committee access to documents and sources from the DOJ’s Russia probe. On the House side, the deal’s primary advocate was Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.), who wrote letters lashing out at the DOJ and the FBI for withholding documents.
January 4: The New York Times reports that in March 2017, Trump directed his general counsel, Don McGahn, to stop Attorney General Jeff Sessions from recusing himself from the Russia investigation. McGahn followed through on the orders, two sources familiar with the episode told the Times. Sessions still recused himself in March 2017.
January 8: NBC reports that the Mueller probe is preparing for a possible interview with Trump. Trump’s legal team met with representatives from the special counsel’s office in late December to discuss the format of the interview, a source familiar with the meeting tells NBC.
January 9: Sen. Dianne Feinstein, the top Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee, breaks with Republican colleagues by releasing the committee’s interview of Glenn Simpson of Fusion GPS, the firm that produced the Steele dossier.
January 11: Trump accuses Peter Strzok, the FBI agent who criticized Trump and other politicians in text messages, of “treason” in an interview with the Wall Street Journal.
– Reuters reports that Trump’s former campaign chairman Steve Bannon, will appear before the House Intelligence Committee as part of its Russia probe.
January 16: While testifying before the House Intelligence Committee, Steve Bannon is subpoenaed by the panel on the spot after refusing to discuss his work in the White House and on Trump’s transition team. Bannon’s lawyer responds by contacting the White House, which insists that Bannon not cooperate.
– The New York Times reports that Bannon was subpoenaed by special counsel Robert Mueller. It is the first time Mueller is known to have used a subpoena to get information from a member of Trump’s inner circle.
January 17: Steve Bannon agrees to be interviewed by Robert Mueller’s team instead of testifying before a grand jury, suggesting that he is cooperating with Mueller’s investigation.
– Former Trump campaign manager Corey Lewandowski refuses to answer the House Intelligence Committee’s questions about the Trump campaign and his relationship with the president. Lewandowski does not cite Trump’s potential assertion of executive privilege, saying instead that he was unprepared to answer the committee’s questions.
January 18: McClatchy reports that the FBI is investigating whether Alexander Torshin, a top Russian banker who is close to Putin, illegally funneled money to the National Rifle Association to support Trump’s campaign.
January 19: Conservatives demand the release of a classified memo drafted by aides to House Intelligence Committee Chair Devin Nunes (R-Calif.). The memo, which Democrats see as part of an effort to undermine the Russia investigation, accuses the FBI of improperly obtaining a warrant under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act to surveil Carter Page, the former Trump campaign foreign policy adviser.
January 20: CNN reports that House Republicans may use an obscure committee rule to circumvent the executive branch’s declassification process to release the Nunes memo.
January 23: Axios reports that Attorney General Jeff Sessions pushed FBI Director Christopher Wray to fire his deputy Andrew McCabe, whom Trump has repeatedly criticized. Wray reportedly threatened to resign because of pressure from Sessions.
January 24: The Justice Department confirms that Attorney General Jeff Sessions was questioned the week before as part of Robert Mueller’s investigation. Sessions is the first Cabinet member to be interviewed by Mueller’s team.
– Two Democrats on the Senate Judiciary Committee say they want to provide Robert Mueller with transcripts of the panel’s interviews with Donald Trump Jr. and other key Russia witnesses. The move suggests that Sens. Sheldon Whitehouse (R.I.) and Richard Blumenthal (Conn.) believe witnesses may have made false statements to their committee.
– Trump says he is “looking forward” to speaking with special counsel Robert Mueller and that he would do so under oath.
– Trump grows angry while flying to Davos, Switzerland, after learning that Associate Attorney General Stephen Boyd said in a letter to the House Intelligence Committee that it would be “extraordinarily reckless” to release Rep. Devin Nunes’ classified memo, according to a Bloomberg report. Trump reportedly views Boyd’s warning as part of the Justice Department’s efforts to undermine him.
January 25: The New York Times reports that the previous June Trump commanded White House counsel Donald McGahn to fire Robert Mueller but McGahn refused to carry out Trump’s order, threatening to resign.
January 28: Sens. Susan Collins (R-Maine) and Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) say Congress should pass legislation to protect special counsel Robert Mueller from being ousted.
– Rep. Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), a top Republican on the House Intelligence Committee, says he has “100 percent” support for special counsel Robert Mueller and says he told Republican colleagues to “leave him the hell alone.”
January 29: Deputy FBI Director Andrew McCabe steps down after facing public attacks from Trump. Attorney General Jeff Sessions had also pressured FBI Director Christopher Wray to fire McCabe.
– Former FBI Director James Comey tweets that “McCabe stood tall over the last 8 months, when small people were trying to tear down an institution we all depend on…America needs you.
Special Agent Andrew McCabe stood tall over the last 8 months, when small people were trying to tear down an institution we all depend on. He served with distinction for two decades. I wish Andy well. I also wish continued strength for the rest of the FBI. America needs you. — James Comey (@Comey) January 30, 2018
– Republicans on the House Intelligence Committee vote to release the controversial Nunes memo, giving the White House five days to approve or block its release.
– Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein warns White House chief of staff John Kelly that the memo could threaten classified information and urges Trump to reconsider his support for releasing it, according to a Washington Post report. FBI Director Christopher Wray also tells Kelly that he opposes making the memo public.
– The Trump administration announces it will not impose sanctions on countries that buy Russian arms.
– The Daily Beast reports that a Sean Hannity impersonator received a direct message on Twitter from WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, who claimed to have “some news” on Sen. Mark Warner (D-Va.)
January 30: Following his State of the Union address, Trump says on a hot mic that he is “100 percent” in favor of releasing the Nunes memo. The White House had said earlier in the day that it would conduct a national security and legal review before making a decision.
– Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) dismisses concerns about Trump firing special counsel Robert Mueller, saying that Mueller “”seems to need no protection.”
January 31: The FBI says in a statement that it has “grave concerns about material omissions of fact that fundamentally impact” the accuracy of the Nunes memo. It also says it was “provided a limited opportunity to review this memo the day before the committee voted to release it.”
– The New York Times reports that special counsel Robert Mueller is investigating the statement that Trump and his staff crafted on Air Force One about the June 2016 Trump Tower meeting between Russians and Trump campaign officials, including Donald Trump Jr. Hope Hicks, a top aide to Trump, reportedly said at the time that emails discussing obtaining dirt on Hillary Clinton “will never get out.” According to the Times, Mark Corallo, the former spokesman for Trump’s legal team, has received an interview request from Mueller. Corallo resigned from his post in July, reportedly over concerns that the president and his staff may have obstructed justice in connection to their handling of the response to the Trump Tower story.
February 1: CNN reports that top White House officials are worried FBI Director Christopher Wray will resign if House Republicans release the Nunes memo.
– The New York Times reports the White House plans to release the Nunes memo without requesting any redactions.
– House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) call on Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wisc.) to remove Devin Nunes as the head of the House Intelligence Committee.
February 2: House Republicans release the Nunes memo, which accuses the FBI of withholding the political nature of the Steele dossier from the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court when the bureau applied for a warrant to surveil Carter Page. The Washington Post reports later that day that the bureau did in fact disclose that the dossier had been funded by political entities.
– Former FBI Director James Comey tweets, “Dishonest and misleading memo wrecked the House intel committee, destroyed trust with Intelligence Community, damaged relationship with FISA court, and inexcusably exposed classified investigation of an American citizen.”
That’s it? Dishonest and misleading memo wrecked the House intel committee, destroyed trust with Intelligence Community, damaged relationship with FISA court, and inexcusably exposed classified investigation of an American citizen. For what? DOJ & FBI must keep doing their jobs. — James Comey (@Comey) February 2, 2018
– Trump sidesteps questions about whether he still has confidence in Deputy FBI Director Rod Rosenstein, telling reporters to “figure that one out.”
– Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) says in a statement, “The latest attacks on the FBI and Department of Justice serve no American interests—no party’s, no president’s, only Putin’s.”
– Sen. Ron Wyden sends letters to the Treasury Department and the National Rifle Association to ask for more information about possible election-related donations to the gun rights group from Russian officials, including ex-politician and Putin ally Alexander Torshin.
February 4: Time reports that in an August 2013 letter, Carter Page bragged that he was an adviser to the Kremlin. “Over the past half year, I have had the privilege to serve as an informal advisor to the staff of the Kremlin in preparation for their Presidency of the G-20 Summit next month, where energy issues will be a prominent point on the agenda,” Page wrote in the letter, which he sent to an academic press that was reviewing a manuscript of his for publication. Page sent the letter two months after the FBI interviewed him about his contacts with Russia and warned that the bureau believed Russian intelligence was trying to recruit him as an asset.
– Donald Trump Jr. describes the release of the Nunes memo as “sweet revenge” for his family during a Fox News interview.
February 5: President Trump accuses Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Calif.), the House Intelligence Committee’s top Democrat, of leaking information. Trump provides no evidence to support his claim.
Little Adam Schiff, who is desperate to run for higher office, is one of the biggest liars and leakers in Washington, right up there with Comey, Warner, Brennan and Clapper! Adam leaves closed committee hearings to illegally leak confidential information. Must be stopped! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 5, 2018
– During an appearance on Fox & Friends, Rep. Devin Nunes acknowledges that the FBI disclosed the political origins of the Steele dossier when it applied for a FISA warrant targeting Carter Page. This contradicted a key claim of the memo compiled by his staff, which contended the bureau failed to reveal the political nature of Steel’s research. In the same interview, Nunes claimed that Trump had never met with George Papadopoulos, the Trump campaign foreign policy adviser who in early 2016 claimed the Russians possessed damaging information on Hillary Clinton. In fact, Trump himself had once tweeted out a photo that pictured him meeting with Papadopoulus and other campaign officials.
– Sen. Charles Grassley (R-Iowa), releases a heavily redacted version of the criminal referral of Christopher Steele that he and Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) sent to the FBI.
– The House Intelligence Committee votes unanimously to release a classified Democratic memo that rebuts the claims of the Nunes memo. The vote gives Trump five days to review the memo and decide whether he will approve or oppose its release.
– The New York Times reports that Trump’s lawyers have counseled him to decline a “wide-ranging” interview with special counsel Robert Mueller over concerns that the president, “who has a history of making false statements and contradicting himself, could be charged with lying to investigators.”
February 6: Democratic lawmakers reveal that in December Justice Department officials told the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee that a whistleblower who Republicans claimed had information linking Hillary Clinton to the Uranium One deal was unreliable and had never mentioned Clinton to the FBI.
February 8: CBS News reports that “Republicans on the House Intelligence Committee plan to construct a wall—a physical partition—separating Republican and Democratic staff members in the committee’s secure spaces. The move highlights the escalating partisan tensions between committee Democrats and Republicans over the panel’s Russia probe.
– Politico reports that a January 2017 phone conversation about Russia between former Trump foreign policy adviser Carter Page and former White House adviser Steve Bannon may have been intercepted by the FBI.
– Fox News reports that it has exclusively obtained text messages between Sen. Mark Warner (D-Va.) and lobbyist Adam Waldman. The messages, leaked a little over a week after WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange promised a Sean Hannity impersonator “some news” on Warner, show Waldman offered to connect Warner with Christopher Steele.
– Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) tweets that Warner disclosed the texts to the Senate Intelligence Committee four months before, adding that it has “had zero impact on our work.”
– In a 25-minute video published on YouTube, Russian opposition activist Alexei Navalny accuses Deputy Prime Minister Sergey Prikhodko—a top Russian foreign policy official—of having been a conduit between the Kremlin and Oleg Deripaska, an oligarch linked to the Trump campaign. Navalny builds his case using the instagram posts, videos, and the memoir of Nastya Rybka, an escort who claims to be Deripaska’s mistress.
February 9: Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) releases an analysis that refutes the criminal referral of Christopher Steele sent in January by Sens. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) and Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.).
– The New York Times and the Intercept report that, in an effort to recover stolen National Security Agency hacking tools, American intelligence officials had been negotiating with a Russian who claimed to also have compromising material on Trump. “Instead of providing the hacking tools, the Russian produced unverified and possibly fabricated information involving Mr. Trump and others, including bank records, emails and purported Russian intelligence data,” according to the Times.
February 10: Sen. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.), the ranking member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, asks the Treasury Department to hand over records concerning the 2004 sale of Trump’s Palm Beach estate to Russian billionaire Dmitry Rybolovlev.
February 12: NBC reports that the Justice Department’s No. 3 official, Associate Attorney General Rachel Brand, resigned from the agency in part over concerns that she would be tapped to oversee the Russia probe if Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein were fired.
– Foreign Policy reports that Anthony Ferrante, a former FBI and White House official, has been secretly trying to verify the Steele dossier on behalf of BuzzFeed, which is fighting a lawsuit by a Russian technology executive who was named in the reports compiled by ex-British spy Christopher Steele.
February 13: At a Senate Intelligence Committee hearing, the heads of the nation’s top intelligence agencies concur that Russia is likely planning to interfere in the 2018 midterm elections. “There should be no doubt that Russia perceives its past efforts as successful and views the 2018 US midterm elections as a potential target for Russian influence operations,” Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats testifies. Coats and the directors of the CIA, the FBI, and the National Security Agency also say Trump has never directed them to do anything to stop Russian election interference.
– The Russian government mandates that the Navalny video, and Rybka’s Instagram posts that contributed to it, be scrubbed from the internet. But as of this writing, much of the prohibited content is still available.
February 14: CNN reports that Trump “remains unconvinced that Russia interfered in the presidential election.”
– At an event sponsored by Axios, Vice President Mike Pence falsely claims the nation’s intelligence agencies determined that Russian interference had no impact on the 2016 election. The intelligence community’s assessment, in fact, did not take up that question.

– Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Calif.) tells reporters, ”There is already, in my view, ample evidence in the public domain on the issue of collusion if you’re willing to see it. If you want to blind yourself, then you can look the other way.” He also says, “There is certainly an abundance of non-public information that we’ve gathered in the investigation. And I think some of that non-public evidence is evidence on the issue of collusion and some…on the issue of obstruction.”
February 15: Steve Bannon, under a congressional subpoena, appears before a closed-door session of the House Intelligence Committee, where he once again refuses to answer key questions concerning his time in the White House and on Trump’s transition team. The panel considers holding him in contempt of Congress.
– NBC reports that Bannon was interviewed over multiple days earlier in the week by special counsel Robert Mueller.
– CNN reports that Paul Manafort’s former business associate Rick Gates is finalizing a plea deal with the special counsel’s office.
– Mark Corallo, the former spokesman for Trump’s legal team, meets with Robert Mueller for more than two hours.
– The National Rifle Association responds to Sen. Ron Wyden’s February 2 letter requesting information on its ties to Putin ally Alexander Torshin. The NRA says it doesn’t accept donations related to US elections from foreign nationals, in compliance with election law.
February 16: Special counsel Robert Mueller indicts 13 Russians for their role in a wide-ranging plot to sow discord in the US political process and interfere in the 2016 election. FBI Director Christopher Wray and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein brief Trump on the indictments before they are made public.
– Yevgeniy Prigozhin, one of the indicted Russians, responds. – Trump tweets:
Russia started their anti-US campaign in 2014, long before I announced that I would run for President. The results of the election were not impacted. The Trump campaign did nothing wrong – no collusion! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 16, 2018
February 17: Speaking at the Munich Security Conference, White House national security adviser H.R. McMaster Speaking at the Munich Security Conference, White House national security adviser H.R. McMaster says evidence of Russian inference in the 2016 election “is now really incontrovertible.”
– Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, also attending the Muchich Security Conference, calls the indictment of 13 Russian nationals “ just blabber .”
– CNN reports that Rick Gates, a former Trump campaign adviser and business associate of Paul Manafort, is nearing a plea deal with special counsel Robert Mueller’s office.
February 19: CNN reports that “special counsel Robert Mueller’s interest in Jared Kushner has expanded beyond his contacts with Russia and now includes his efforts to secure financing for his company from foreign investors during the presidential transition.”
February 20: Robert Mueller’s office charges lawyer Alex van Der Zwaan—son-in-law of Russian oligarch German Khan—with making false statements to investigators in connection with a September 2016 conversation he had with Rick Gates. According to Zwaan’s indictment, he also deleted or failed to turn over records sought by the special counsel’s office.
February 22: Special counsel Robert Mueller files a new indictment against Paul Manafort and his longtime business partner Rick Gates, charging the pair with a combined 32 counts of various financial fraud. Both Manafort and Gates plead not guilty to the charges.
– Following the indictment, Gates’ team of three lawyers applies to withdraw from the case. They explain their reasons to the court in a sealed filing.
– ABC News reports that Rick Gates has hired a new lawyer, Thomas Green. A former federal prosecutor, Green is known for representing and negotiating plea deals for high-profile clients, including former House Speaker Dennis Hastert.
February 23: Rick Gates strikes a deal to cooperate with special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation. As part of the deal, he pleads guilty to charges of conspiracy and lying to federal agents.
– The special counsel targets Paul Manafort with another indictment. It alleges that Manafort secretly paid former European politicians more than 2 million euros to lobby on behalf of Ukraine’s pro-Russia government.
February 24: The House Intelligence Committee releases a redacted 10-page memo written by the panel’s Democrats that rebuts Republican allegations that omitted important information—including political origins of the Steele dossier—when it sought a Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court warrant targeting Carter Page, the Trump campaign’s foreign policy adviser.
Februaryy 26: Six Republican leaders of various congressional committees, including those currently investigating possible collusion between Russia and the Trump campaign, tell CNN that they do not believe it is necessary to dig into Trump’s finances as part of the congressional Russia probes.
February 27: White House communications director Hope Hicks is interviewed for nine hours behind closed doors by the House Intelligence Committee. She admits to having told “white lies” on Trump’s behalf but says she has not lied about anything related to the Russia investigation.
February 28: NBC reports that before the 2016 election, American intelligence agencies had evidence that state websites and voter registration systems in seven states were accessed by Russia-linked hackers but did not pass this information to the relevant states.
– The New York Times reports that Hope Hicks plans to resign from her post as White House communications director.
– Bloomberg reports that New York’s banking regulator has requested information from Deutsche Bank and two other lenders concerning “their relationships with Jared Kushner, his family and the Kushner Cos.”
March 1: The New York Times reports that the Senate Intelligence Committee has determined that the leak of Sen. Mark Warner’s text messages to Fox News came from Republicans on the House Intelligence Committee, chaired by Rep. Devin Nunes. According to the Times, Sens. Richard Burr (R-N.C.) and Warner (D-Va.), respectively the chair and vice chair of the Senate Intelligence Committee, sought a rare meeting with House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) to inform him of their findings and express concerns over Nunes’ handling of the Russia probe in the House Intelligence Committee.
March 4: In an interview on NBC, Putin says Russia will never extradite the Russian nationals that have been indicted by special counsel Robert Mueller, and he denies that the Kremlin interfered in the US election.
March 5: Sen. Ron Wyden sends a second letter to the National Rifle Association to ask for more information about donations to the gun rights group from powerful Russian actors, including Alexander Torshin. “I remain concerned about the inability to get clear answers to several questions about the possibility that Russian actors funneled foreign funds into NRA electioneering activity,” Wyden writes.
– Nastya Rybka, who claims to be Oleg Deripaska’s mistress and who has been jailed in Thailand on charges of working in the country without a visa, announces that she has more than 16 hours of recordings that can shed light on Russian meddling in the US election. She offers to turn these over to US authorities in exchange for asylum.
– Former Trump adviser Sam Nunberg goes on a number of TV news shows, threatening to defy the subpoena he has received from special counsel Robert Mueller. Ultimately, he changes his mind and says he will comply with the subpoena.
March 6: Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats says the Trump administration has not put together “a coherent strategy” to combat Russian interference in the 2018 midterm elections.
– The Washington Post reports that a January 2017 meeting in the Seychelles between Blackwater founder and Trump supporter Erik Prince and Kirill Dimitriev, a Russian official close to Putin—a meeting characterized by Prince as a chance encounter—was in fact arranged in advance by the Trump transition team. This information was provided to Mueller by cooperating witness George Nader, who also attended the Seychelles meeting. Nader alleges the meeting was arranged with the aim of creating a back channel with a Kremlin emissary to discuss US-Russia relations.
March 7: The New York Times reports that in at least two instances, Trump has asked key witnesses—White House counsel Don McGahn and former chief of staff Reince Priebus—for information on what they discussed during their interviews with the special counsel.
March 8: A federal district court sets Paul Manafort’s trial for July 10, 2018, after he pleads not guilty to tax and fraud charges leveled against him by special counsel Robert Mueller.
March 12: The House Intelligence Committee says it has completed interviews in its Russia investigation and will soon issue a final report, over the objections of Democrats on the committee. In a summary of their report, the GOP lawmakers write that the committee has found “no evidence of collusion, coordination, or conspiracy between the Trump campaign and the Russians.”
March 13: Democrat Rep. Adam Schiff, the ranking member of the House Intelligence Committee, says Democrats on the panel are not done with the Russia investigation. He says they plan to complete more interviews and will issue their own report.
– CNN reports that the FBI has tried to meet with Nastya Rybka, the self-described mistress of Oleg Deripaska imprisoned in Thailand. The meeting attempt came after Rybka issued a plea for asylum in the United States in exchange for hours of audio recordings she says she has of her time with Deripaska that will shed light on Russian election interference. FBI agents contacted Thai immigration officials to set up a meeting with Rybka but were denied access, reportedly because only family or lawyers can visit detainees.
March 15: The New York Times reports that special counsel Robert Mueller has subpoenaed Trump Organization records, including some related to Russia. This is the first known instance of Mueller demanding documents tied directly to the president’s businesses.
March 16: Politico reports that the Federal Election Commission has launched an inquiry into potentially illegal donations made to the National Rifle Association by Russian individuals and businesses in support of Trump’s 2016 campaign.
– McClatchy reports that according to two anonymous sources, Cleta Mitchell, who served as a lawyer and board member for the NRA, had concerns about the group’s ties to Russia. Mitchell denies this claim, but Democrats on the House Intelligence Committee plan to interview her, McClatchy reports.
– Andrew McCabe, former deputy director of the FBI, is fired by Attorney General Jeff Sessions 26 hours before his scheduled retirement, putting McCabe’s pension in jeopardy. Sessions justifies the firing by saying that McCabe was dishonest about a conversation he authorized between FBI officials and a journalist. McCabe responds to the firing with a written statement denying any dishonesty and says the firing was a politically motivated attempt to discredit the Russia investigation. McCabe previously testified that he could corroborate former FBI Director James Comey’s accounts of Comey’s conversations with the president.
March 17: Trump tweets about McCabe’s firing, calling it a “great day.”
Andrew McCabe FIRED, a great day for the hard working men and women of the FBI – A great day for Democracy. Sanctimonious James Comey was his boss and made McCabe look like a choirboy. He knew all about the lies and corruption going on at the highest levels of the FBI! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 17, 2018
March 19: Britain’s Channel 4 News airs an undercover investigation on Cambridge Analytica, the data analytics firm that worked on Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign. The broadcast includes video of Cambridge Analytica CEO Alexander Nix talking about the company’s methods for influencing foreign elections—including, according to Nix, spreading propaganda online and entrapping candidates by sending Ukrainian “girls” to their homes. (Cambridge Analytica denies using entrapment and says Nix was just playing along with someone who he thought was a potential client.)
March 20: Channel 4 airs a second undercover segment on Cambridge Analytica, in which CEO Alexander Nix describes what he claims was the company’s expansive role in the digital campaign to help Trump during the election. “We did all the research, all the data, all the analytics, all the targeting,” Nix says. “We ran all the digital campaign, the television campaign, and our data informed all the strategy.” The chief data officer for Cambridge Analytica says in the video that the firm’s work was responsible for Trump’s Electoral College performance. “When you think about the fact that Donald Trump lost the popular vote by 3 million votes but won the Electoral College, that’s down to the data and the research,” he says. “That’s how he won the election.” Cambridge Analytica announces it has suspended Nix, pending an investigation into the Channel 4 videos.
March 21: ABC News reports that Mueller’s team is looking into ties between the Trump campaign, Cambridge Analytica, and the Republican National Committee.
– Having concluded their Russia investigation, House Intelligence Committee Republicans vote to release their full report. The committee insists it found no evidence of collusion and recommends instead a crackdown on leaks to the press and a repeal of the Logan Act, a statute that criminalizes efforts by private citizens to interfere in US foreign policy. Some legal experts had suggested that Michael Flynn’s contacts with the Russian ambassador during the presidential transition period may have run afoul of that law, though special counsel Robert Mueller did not charge him with violating it
March 22: John Dowd, the head of a team of White House lawyers representing Trump in the Russia probe, resigns. According to two sources who spoke to the New York Times, Dowd tendered his resignation because the president “was increasingly ignoring his advice” on how to respond to the special counsel’s investigation.
Additional updates by Daniel Schulman, Noah Lanard, and Kanyakrit Vongkiatkajorn
Image credit: Carlo Allegri; Klimentyev Mikhail; Carlos Barria; Kevin Lamarque; Monterey Herald; Sergei Karpukhin; Jim Loscalzo (via ZUMA)

Story 19
Just when you thought the web couldn’t possibly fit any more, a new URL shortener is on the loose, this time however, it actually makes some sense.
Inside Facebook have spotted Facebook automatically shortening URLs down to FB.me for Facebook’s mobile interface.
Unlike the hundreds of other URL shortening services out there, this one is should be welcomed. With over 350 million users and the obvious twitterification of the service, a URL shortener built into Facebook (potentially with analytics for businesses) is a useful new feature.
Facebook automatically shortens its URLs into random letters and numbers, you yourself can manually do so for pages by simply replacing “facebook.com” with FB.me. eg. Facebook.com/thenextweb, to fb.me/thenextweb.
Although somewhat popular, they’ve yet to take off on twitter but surely that’s just a matter of time, potentially the more pages begin to connect to Twitter.
Despite bit.ly being the most popular URL shortener by some margin, it shouldn’t be surprising to see FB.me surpass it one day, assuming of course Facebook does decide to full integrate it into the network.
Read next: Now Google gets its own URL Shortener. Goo.gl

