Story 0
Ziv will develop and execute on acquirer acceptance strategies, as well as oversee the combined organization’s global acquiring solutions.
Ziv will develop and execute on acquirer acceptance strategies, as well as oversee the combined organization’s global acquiring solutions.
MONTREAL and SOFIA, Bulgaria, Oct. 29, 2019 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Nuvei, a leading provider of global payment solutions and the first-ever community of payment experts, today announces the appointment of Yuval Ziv to Managing Director of SafeCharge and Head of Global Acquiring. Ziv will develop and execute on acquirer acceptance strategies, as well as oversee the combined organization’s global acquiring solutions.

Transitioning from SafeCharge’s Chief Commercial Officer, Ziv will now focus on the expansion of the company’s global acquiring relationships, building key licensing agreements, and facilitating entry into new markets and geographies. As a key member of SafeCharge’s leadership since 2008, Ziv will continue to manage its commercial activities that include client and revenue growth, sales and account management for its teams across Europe, North America, Latin America, China and Southeast Asia.
Nuvei acquired SafeCharge in August 2019 to create a large-scale global payments provider, able to deliver fully-supported solutions to merchant clients and partner distribution networks regardless of size, vertical or geography. With direct connectivity into all major card brands, the combined organization currently processes over US $34 billion in annual transaction volume from clients around the world.
“Yuval’s dual role reflects Nuvei’s primary commitment to accelerating its position as a global payments leader,” said Philip Fayer, Nuvei’s chairman and CEO. “As a seasoned fintech executive with over fifteen years of financial and IT industry experience, his vast knowledge of global payments, processing technologies, industry regulations, and payment culture make him an ideal fit for taking us forward.”
“I am very excited to be taking on this new challenge," said Ziv. “Our performance over the years has been driven by the ability to mobilize the efforts of our top performing teams. My most important mission is to continue harnessing this magic to create lasting success.”
A high-tech industry veteran and conference speaker, Ziv’s achievements in international online payments have been instrumental to SafeCharge’s success. Under Ziv’s commercial leadership, SafeCharge achieved year-over-year growth exceeding 85% in acquiring volume, 45% in overall volume and 24% in revenues.
Ziv holds a B.A. in Economics (Business Administration) and M.A. in Law from Bar Ilan University, Israel. He will remain based in SafeCharge’s office in Sofia, Bulgaria.
About Nuvei
We are Nuvei, the first-ever community of payment experts. We provide fully-supported omnichannel payments to large-scale merchants, SMBs and distribution partners, powered by our broad suite of proprietary technologies. We also equip ISOs, ISVs, payment facilitators, developers, and eCommerce platforms with the technology, expertise and customer service they need to stand out. Backed by our full-service, globally connected platform, our vision is to build a network in which our merchants and partners can truly thrive. Our goal is to create bigger and better payment opportunities for all, paving the way to great partnerships. Learn more at www.nuvei.com .
About SafeCharge
SafeCharge, a Nuvei company, is the payment service partner for the world’s most demanding businesses. It provides global omni-channel payment services, from card acquiring to payment processing and checkout, all underpinned by advanced risk management solutions. This fully featured proprietary payment platform connects directly to all major payment card schemes including Visa, Mastercard, American Express and UnionPay, as well as over 180 local payment methods. With offices around the world, SafeCharge serves a diversified, blue chip client base and is a trusted payment partner for customers across a range of vertical markets. For more information see: www.safecharge.com .

Story 1
Questor share tip: the fund manager who prompted us to tip SafeCharge has equally high hopes for this niche insurance firm
Today we present a new “tip of the year” to replace the original one, SafeCharge, which was taken over in late May at a profit of about 90pc.
We have gone back to the fund manager who put us on to the stock, Gervais Williams of Miton, who today explains why he has similarly high hopes for Randall & Quilter (R&Q), the Bermuda-based but Aim-quoted insurer.
Insurance is not always the easiest business to understand and R&Q operates in two of the sector’s less familiar areas, but investors should not be put off by this complexity. “We believe R&Q offers an attractive risk/reward...

Story 2
(Reuters) - U.S. payments technology firm Nuvei Corp said it would buy SafeCharge International Group Ltd in an all-cash deal valued at $889 million to expand in the fast-growing electronic payments industry.
The companies said SafeCharge shareholders would receive $5.55 in cash for each share held, representing a 25% premium to the stock’s Tuesday closing price.
The deal comes as the industry is going through an aggressive consolidation and follows a $35 billion deal by U.S. firm FIS to buy Worldpay earlier this year.
Shares of SafeCharge rose as much as 24% to 435 pence, closer to the 436 pence offered by Nuvei, before paring some of the gains.
SafeCharge said its shareholders would still receive the previously announced final dividend of 7.22 pence per share.
Previously known as Pivotal Payments, the Plano, Texas-based company renamed itself to Nuvei late last year.
The deal also comes on the heels of market debut of payments peers Britain’s Network International, Italy’s Nexi and UAE’s Finablr.
Credit Suisse and Shore Capital are acting as financial advisers for Nuvei and SafeCharge, respectively.

Story 3
David Avgi, Chief Executive Officer of SafeCharge
SafeCharge International Group Limited, which fully owns Cyprus-based SafeCharge Limited, is set to merge with Canadian payments services provider Nuvei in a cash deal worth $889 million.
Nuvei and SafeCharge announced last week they had reached an agreement on the terms of a recommended all-cash acquisition of SafeCharge by Nuvei. SafeCharge has about 400 employees worldwide, of whom over 50 are based in Cyprus.
SafeCharge provides global omnichannel payment services from card acquisition and issuing to payment processing and checkout, all underpinned by advanced risk management solutions.
Following consolidation in the rapidly growing electronic payments industry, the deal will create a company with an estimated revenue of $300 million and a transaction volume of $30 billion. The EBITDA of the combined firm is estimated at about $100 million.
The merger is good news for Cyprus as the company aims to maintain its presence on the island while enabling SafeCharge to gain exposure in Nuvei’s geographical area, which is primarily Canada and the US. Furthermore, Nuvei will benefit from SafeCharge’s operations in European markets.

Story 4
Capmings.com has selected insurtech Setoo to provide weather insurance to its customers.
The campsite bookings company will utilise Setoo’s platform to offer campers rainy day protection. Customers are able to cancel and be compensated for their holiday 72 hours in advance in the event of forecasted rain.
Based on data from Meteomatics, Setoo issues an immediate and automatic notification to relevant campers.

In addition, if a customer decides not to continue with the holiday plans, compensation is automatically delivered. This removes the claims process and all associated hassle.
The pricing model is based on machine learning and determined in real-time. Therefore, a specific premium is calculated per policy according to the weather characteristics for each campsite and dates. Campers receive the optimal price for the insurance product.
Jerome Mercier, CEO at Campings.com, said, “The weather is an especially important consideration for campers, who are more exposed to the elements than other holidaymakers. Because of this, we have been searching for a weather protection product for some years before finding exactly what we needed in Setoo’s rainy day protection. Setoo’s innovative platform will ensure we continue to create a great experience for our customers while driving additional business for Campings.com.”
Noam Shapira, co-founder and co-CEO at Setoo, said, “Campers aren’t looking for complicated, one-size-fits-all insurance products. They want simple products that protect them from risks relevant specifically to them – such as rain. I’m delighted Setoo can help meet their needs. By integrating Setoo’s rainy day protection into its online purchase journey, Campings.com can expect higher conversion rates, increased revenues and happier campers.”
Setoo delivers technological capabilities using AI, machine learning, parametric capabilities and APIs. As a result, it delivers personalisation, real-time pricing, and claims-free products while remaining compliant with IDD and GDPR.
SafeCharge and Visa Direct recently partnered to power faster insurance payouts for insurtech Setoo.
SafeCharge focuses on making meaningful payment innovation available as fast as possible. In addition, Visa Direct can be used for more efficient payments across a number of use cases, including cross-border payments and insurance disbursements.
Setoo is one of the first insurtechs to implement this technology. The merchant sends the payment instructions to SafeCharge, SafeCharge sends a single authorisation and a clearing message to Visa, and the issuer posts funds to the cardholder account on receipt of authorisation.

Story 5
Aug. 1, 2019
David Avgi, CEO of Safcharge and Philip Fayer, chairman and CEO of Nuvei
Nuvei, a Montreal-based payments company, said it completed the acquisition of SafeCharge International Group Ltd. for $889 million.
Nuvei said the acquisiton complements its focus on the U.S. and Canadian SMB market, while Safecharge has a solid foothold in Europe, Asia and Latin America.
"This marks the dawn of an exciting new journey for Nuvei," Philip Fayer, chairman and CEO of Nuvei, said in a company release. "Thanks to SafeCharge's technology platform, we've enhanced our ability to deliver powerful payment solutions to our technology partners, merchants and resellers."
Cover photo: Courtesy of Nuvei

Story 6
OK
For optimum operation, this website makes use of cookies. For more information click here

Story 7
Access Denied - Sucuri Website Firewall
If you are the site owner (or you manage this site), please whitelist your IP or if you think this block is an error please open a support ticket and make sure to include the block details (displayed in the box below), so we can assist you in troubleshooting the issue.
Block details:

Story 8
After the satisfaction of this condition, SafeCharge confirms that the Court Hearing for the sanction of the scheme of the deal will take place on July 31, 2019.
The recommended cash acquisition by Nuvei Bidco of the share capital of SafeCharge International Group Ltd (LON:SCH) has received the approval of the Central Bank of Cyprus. The relevant condition to the acquisition has now been satisfied.
The acquisition, which was initially announced in May this year, is to be effected by means of a scheme of arrangement under Part VIII of The Companies (Guernsey) Law, 2008. Under the terms of the acquisition, SafeCharge shareholders will be entitled to receive $5.55 in cash for each SafeCharge share. The price of $5.55 for each SafeCharge Share, being equivalent to £4.36 per SafeCharge Share based on the Announcement Exchange Rate, represents a premium of approximately 25% to the Closing Price of £3.50 per SafeCharge Share on May 21, 2019.
SafeCharge today confirms that the Court Hearing for the consideration and sanction of the Scheme by the Court will take place at The Royal Court of Guernsey, St James St, Guernsey GY1 2PF at 2.30 p.m. on July 31, 2019.
The completion of the deal remains conditional on the sanction of the Court and the satisfaction or, where applicable, the waiver of the other Conditions. Should the Court sanction the scheme, the scheme of the deal is expected to become effective on August 1, 2019.
The last day of dealings in, and registration of transfers of, SafeCharge Shares on AIM is expected to be on July 31, 2019 and no transfers will be registered after the Scheme Record Time, which is expected to be 6.00 p.m. on July 31, 2019. It is also intended that dealings in SafeCharge Shares will be suspended on August 1, 2019.
SafeCharge has made an application to AIM for the cancellation of the admission to trading of SafeCharge Shares on AIM, which is expected to take effect at 8.00 a.m. on August 2, 2019.

Story 9
The update concerns the Interim Facilities Agreement entered by certain members of the Nuvei Group in connection with the planned acquisition.
Further to its announcement from May about its intention to make an offer to acquire SafeCharge International Group Ltd (LON:SCH), Nuvei today provides an update on the offer.
The update concerns the Interim Facilities Agreement entered into by certain members of the Nuvei Group in connection with the planned acquisition.
Back in May, the company said the cash consideration payable to SafeCharge Shareholders pursuant to the acquisition will be financed by a combination of equity and debt securities to be subscribed by Nuvei’s major shareholders, CDP Investissements Inc., the Novacap Funds and Whiskey Papa Fox Inc., pursuant to the Subscription Agreement and third party debt to be provided under the Interim Facilities Agreement. In May, Nuvei said it was intended that Nuvei Bidco will, before the ccheme becomes effective, enter into alternative debt financing arrangements with BMO Capital Markets Corp. as the Lead Arranger to replace the Interim Facilities Agreement.
Today, Nuvei announces that Nuvei Technologies Corp., a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of Nuvei, has entered into an amendment and transfer agreement with respect to the Interim Facilities Agreement, under which: (i) each of Antares Capital LP and Capital One, National Association (“Capital One”) have agreed to be a First Lien Arranger and a Second Lien Arranger for the purposes of the Interim Facilities Agreement, (ii) each of Antares Holdings LP (“AHLP”) and Capital One have agreed to be an Original Interim Lender for all purposes under the Interim Facilities Agreement, and (iii) each of BMO Capital Markets Corp. (“BMO”), AHLP and Capital One have agreed to BMO transferring by novation and in accordance with the terms of the Interim Facilities Agreement certain of BMO’s rights and obligations under the Interim Facilities Agreement and the other interim documents to AHLP and Capital One.
Credit Suisse, financial adviser to Nuvei and Nuvei Bidco, are satisfied that sufficient resources are available to satisfy in full the cash consideration payable to SafeCharge Shareholders under the terms of the acquisition.
Under the terms of the acquisition, the fully diluted share capital of SafeCharge is valued at approximately $889 million (£699 million at the Announcement Exchange Rate).
SafeCharge shareholders will be entitled to receive $5.55 in cash for each SafeCharge share. The price of $5.55 for each SafeCharge Share, being equivalent to £4.36 per SafeCharge Share based on the Announcement Exchange Rate, represents a premium of approximately 25% to the Closing Price of £3.50 per SafeCharge Share on May 21, 2019.

Story 10
Canadian payment solutions company Nuvei has completed the $889 million cash acquisition of Israeli online payment solutions company SafeCharge, controlled by Teddy Sagi. Following completion of the deal, SafeCharge's shares will be delisted today from trading on the London Stock Exchange's AIM secondary market.
The Israeli development center will continue to operate and is even expected to grow.
SafeCharge was founded in 2007 by CEO David Avgi and businessman Teddy Sagi, and held its IPO on AIM in April 2014. The share price at which the company was sold reflects a premium of about 200% including dividends, on the price at which its IPO was held. Since the IPO, SafeCharge has distributed dividends to investors of more than $100 million, so that the value which has been created is about $1 billion - a figure that makes it one of the most successful fintech companies that has been grown in Israel.
Nuvei is a private company specializing in providing payment solutions mainly to customers in the US and Canada. The company, which is based in Montreal, has about 400 employees in the US and Canada. The acquisition will create a leading global payment solutions provider that can serve customers of all sizes around the world. Montreal, Quebec will be the headquarters of the merged company.
Nuvei has traditionally operated in the US and Canada while focusing on the small to medium-size businesses market. For its part, SafeCharge has developed a major presence in European markets, Asia and Latin America by specializing in clearing technologies , payments and risk management. And most of SafeCharge's customers are companies that operate online such as electronic commerce companies. SafeCharge holds licenses as a financial payments institution in the UK and the EU. The company has about 400 employees. SafeCharge also has an advanced development center in the Azrieli Sarona tower in Tel Aviv. The other employees are based in Bulgaria, the UK, Austria, the Netherlands, Singapore, Cyprus, Hong Kong, Mexico and the US. The Israeli company's customers include Gett, El Al, Kiwi, Just Eat, and World Duty Free.
Nuvei Chairman and CEO Philip Fayer said, "This marks the dawn of a new, exciting journey for Nuvei. Thanks to SafeCharge's technology platform, we've enhanced our ability to deliver powerful payment solutions to our technology partners, merchants and resellers. With offices across 14 countries and unparalleled fintech expertise, we've transformed our combined organization into a diversified, global payments leader with massive scale and reach."
SafeCharge CEO David Avgi added, "We are jointly creating an international payment giant with an unrivalled talent pool and technology stack. We are thrilled to be part of a bigger entity to further the adoption of the most innovative payments technology globally. The move will also provide our employees with more long-term career opportunities and be part of a global company, which we can all be very proud of."
Published by Globes, Israel business news - en.globes.co.il - on August 2, 2019
© Copyright of Globes Publisher Itonut (1983) Ltd. 2019

Story 11
It is intended that dealings in SafeCharge shares will be suspended from August 1, 2019.
The recommended cash acquisition by Nuvei Bidco of the share capital of SafeCharge International Group Ltd (LON:SCH) has secured the Court’s approval. Today, the Court determined it would grant an order sanctioning the Scheme pursuant to section 110(1) of the Companies Law of Guernsey.
The acquisition, which was initially announced in May this year, is to be effected by means of a scheme of arrangement under Part VIII of The Companies (Guernsey) Law, 2008. Under the terms of the acquisition, SafeCharge shareholders will be entitled to receive $5.55 in cash for each SafeCharge share. The price of $5.55 for each SafeCharge Share, being equivalent to £4.36 per SafeCharge Share based on the Announcement Exchange Rate, represents a premium of approximately 25% to the Closing Price of £3.50 per SafeCharge Share on May 21, 2019.
The Scheme will become effective on the Effective Date, which is stated in the Court Order as 12.00 p.m. tomorrow, August 1, 2019.
Today is the last day of dealings in, and registration of transfers of, SafeCharge Shares (other than the registration of the transfer of the Scheme Shares to Nuvei Bidco pursuant to the Scheme) on AIM and no transfers will be registered after the Scheme Record Time. It is also intended that dealings in SafeCharge Shares will be suspended from 7.30 a.m. tomorrow, August 1, 2019. SafeCharge has made an application to AIM for the cancellation of the admission to trading of SafeCharge Shares on AIM, which is expected to take effect at 8.00 a.m. on August 2, 2019.

Story 12
Access Denied - Sucuri Website Firewall
If you are the site owner (or you manage this site), please whitelist your IP or if you think this block is an error please open a support ticket and make sure to include the block details (displayed in the box below), so we can assist you in troubleshooting the issue.
Block details:

Story 13
Global Charging Lockers Market 2019 – Mobile Charging Lockers , LocknCharge , Smarte Carte , SafeCharge , KwikBoost , Ergotron
Market Research always aims at offering their clients an in-depth analysis and the best research material of the various market. This new report on the worldwide Global Charging Lockers Market 2019 Analysis, Size, Share, Growth, Trends, and Forecasts is committed fulfilling the requirements of the clients by giving them thorough insights into the market.
The worldwide Charging Lockers Market 2019 report is expansive research reliant on Charging Lockers, which inspects the raised structure of the present Charging Lockers all around the globe. Arranged by the adequate methodical framework, for instance, SWOT examination, the Charging Lockers report exhibits a total evaluation of the significant players of the worldwide Charging Lockers Market 2019 . The estimates for CAGR (Compound Annual Growth Rate) is calculated by the Global Charging Lockers Market 2019 report in terms of extent for the specific time length. This will similarly help the customer with comprehension and settle on a correct choice depends on a normal chart.
Request Free Sample Report of Global Charging Lockers Market 2019 Report @ www.mrsresearchgroup.com/report/123956#request-sample
Some of the Major worldwide Charging Lockers Market 2019 Players Are: Mobile Charging Lockers
, LocknCharge
, Smarte Carte
, SafeCharge
, KwikBoost
, Ergotron
, Brightbox
, American Locker
, YS Locker
, Barcoding Inc.
, Datamation Systems
, goCharge
,
A significant investigation of the market depends on overall patterns, which have been lately coordinated to the exploration of worldwide Charging Lockers Market 2019 , is additionally included in the report. The report presents a demand for individual segment in each region. It demonstrates various segments Market Cell Phone Charging Lockers
, Laptop Charging Lockers
, Multipurpose Charging Lockers
, Other
,​ – and sub-segments Market Enterprise
, Shopping Mall
, School
, Other
,
, – of the Charging Lockers. besides, the statistical surveying report does estimations on the following force of the market dependent on this investigation.
The worldwide Charging Lockers Market 2019 is the cornerstone of the development angles and prospects, as the improvement of a specific arrangement needs numerous mechanically upheld hypothesis, thoughts, and systems. The Charging Lockers report contains in general successful system, confinements, and top to bottom illumination of the past information alongside the present and future needs that might concern the development.
Browse Full Global Charging Lockers Report: www.mrsresearchgroup.com/market-analysis/global-charging-lockers-market-2017-production-sales-supply.html
Promising Regions & Countries Mentioned In The Global Charging Lockers Market 2019 Report:
North America ( United States)
Europe ( Germany, France, UK)
Asia-Pacific ( China, Japan, India)
Latin America ( Brazil)
The Middle East & Africa
Worldwide Global Charging Lockers Market 2019 Report Provides Comprehensive Analysis of:
Global Charging Lockers Market 2019 outline
Up and Downstream industry examination
Economy impact highlights finding
Channels and hypothesis believable
Global Charging Lockers Market 2019 challenge by Players
Enhancement suggestions examination
Inquire more about this report @ www.mrsresearchgroup.com/report/123956#inquiry-for-buying
The overall Global Charging Lockers Industry 2019 is made with the fundamental and direct conclusion to exploit the Global Charging Lockers and participate in business progression for imperative business openings. The correct figures and the graphical depiction of the Charging Lockers Industry 2019 are shown in a represented strategy. The report shows an examination of conceivable contention, current market designs and other basic characteristics all around the world.
Research Objective :
Our panel of trade contributors moreover as trade analysts across the worth chain have taken vast efforts in doing this group action and heavy-lifting add order to produce the key players with useful primary & secondary data concerning the world Charging Lockers Industry 2019. additionally, the report additionally contains inputs from our trade consultants that may facilitate the key players in saving their time from the interior analysis half. firms WHO get and use this report are going to be completely profited with the inferences delivered in it. except this, the report additionally provides in-depth analysis on Global Charging Lockers Industry 2019 sale moreover because the factors that influence the shoppers moreover as enterprises towards this method.

Story 14
Anyone who attended the iFX Expo in Cyprus two months ago will know that there are a lot of payments companies out there in the world today. In fact, walking around the event in Limassol, it seemed that there were more companies processing payments than foreign exchange brokers – no mean feat considering that there are hundreds of trading firms operating in Europe alone.
Of the many payments companies attending the event, one of the bigger names was SafeCharge. Founded in 2006 by Israeli billionaire Tedi Sagi, the firm announced on the second day of the Cyprus event that it had been acquired by Nuvei, a Canadian firm, for $890 million.
The FX Industry Demands the Best – London Summit 2019
The deal is thought to have netted Sagi a whopping $600 million. It was the latest instance of the billionaire attempting to divest himself from his holdings in the technology and gambling industry. Along with the sale of SafeCharge, the Israeli businessman sold off his entire stake in online gaming firm PlayTech last year.
Complementary, not competitive
Given the amount of money he made from the deal, it’s not hard to understand why Sagi wanted to sell his stake Safecharge. Nuvei, on the other hand, is unlikely to have been motivated by a desire to fill the businessman’s coffers. But determining why they wanted to buy Safecharge hasn’t been particularly easy.
Finance Magnates reached out to the two companies to get a better understanding of the acquisition, but both refused to comment, saying that the deal still needs to be completed before any announcements can be made. Still, both parties have dropped some big hints as to why the sale took place.
Speaking to Israeli outlet Globes the day after the announcement, SafeCharge CEO David Avgi, who co-founded the company with Sagi, said that the acquisition offered growth opportunity for Nuvei, both in terms of geography and business verticals.
“It’s a case of two complementary companies, not competitors,” he said. “On a geographical level, they focus on North America, while we primarily focus on Europe and Asia, and recently entered the Mexican market as well.
“On the sector level, we have fairly large online customers, while they focus on [small-to-medium size businesses]. We don’t share the same customers or the same markets, and our products are also a little different.”
Going abroad
Though he implied otherwise, Avgi’s firm is actually turning its attention to the US market. A huge proportion of SafeCharge’s revenue is generated by gambling companies. That’s largely due to Sagi’s own success in, and understanding of, the industry.
The US market, however, has always been hard to enter because most online gambling has been illegal since 2006. In May of last year that changed when the US Supreme Court struck down a country-wide ban on sports betting. A few months after that, SafeCharge said it would be partnering with sports betting and e-gaming firm Mazooma to provide payment services to the US gambling industry.
How successful those efforts have been isn’t yet clear. But working with Nuvei, which has offices in both the US and Canada, as well as experience working in America, only seems likely to improve things. The newly formed entity will also have its headquarters just north of the US border in Montreal.
Tech interests
Alongside diversifying its set of clients and geographical operations, Nuvei appears to have been interested in SafeCharge’s technology offering.
Suggested articles How Trading Conditions Can Affect a Trader’s PerformanceGo to article >>
In its own press release announcing the deal, the Canadian payments firm said that acquiring SafeCharge “will allow it to further strengthen its technology platforms by leveraging the innovative, cutting edge technology developed by SafeCharge.”
“We are very excited about the combination of SafeCharge and Nuvei,” added Philip Fayer, Nuvei’s Chairman and CEO. “We think the technology platform SafeCharge has developed is exceptional and will serve as the go-forward foundation from which we will continue to grow the combined business and provide best-in-class products and services to our customers and partners.”
Exactly what technology the company is after is unclear. Both SafeCharge and Nuvei offer a comprehensive set of payments solutions to their clients. So even if they don’t operate in the same industries or jurisdictions, much of their technology does appear to be fairly similar.
Mutual support
Having said that, their focus on different sorts of customers may mean SafeCharge’s technology is in some ways superior to Nuvei’s. For example, the Canadian company pointedly mentioned SafeCharge’s risk management capabilities in its statement announcing the acquisition.
That doesn’t mean Nuvei can offer nothing to SafeCharge. Although they are active in the space, Avgi told Globes that the Canadian firm is much more focused on point-of-sale technology than his company has been.
Moreover, when addressing fears that the acquisition might lead to a wave of job losses, Avgi also specifically mentioned technology as a driving force behind the Nuvei deal.
“In deals like this the workers are sometimes a little anxious,” he said. “I wish to make it very clear: one of the reasons for the deal is the technology, and so the development workers in Israel and Bulgaria should be confident that we shall continue to grow and develop new products.”
Consolidation is coming
Aside from technology, another simpler reason for the deal is that the huge number of players operating in the payments space has in many ways made consolidation inevitable.
Just this week, antitrust regulators in the European Union gave their approval to FIS’ $35 billion takeover of WorldPay. Like with the SafeCharge – Nuvei deal, the two companies were not active in the same verticals or jurisdictions.
And herein lies a simple – but expensive – problem for companies operating in a saturated market. You can spend loads of money expanding into new markets and business areas or you can spend a lot of cash buying another firm that’s already been successful in those markets and business areas.
Nuvei could have tried to expand into the verticals that SafeCharge is strongest in. But that would have likely cost hundreds of millions of dollars and then they would have had to compete with SafeCharge, an already established player with far more experience than them in those specific business areas.
Taking that into account, and considering that Nuvei have plenty of money – they are paying cash for SafeCharge – the leadership at the Canadian firm likely decided it would be simpler to just buy Sagi’s firm, rather than attempt to compete with it.
With that in mind, don’t be surprised if you see more mergers in the near future. Consolidation is coming for the payments world.

Story 15
Following a record final quarter of 2018, SafeCharge has published its financial results for the full year of 2018 this Wednesday, with the firm achieving revenues towards the upper end of its revised expectations.
SafeCharge, a payments technology company, posted a revenue of $138.5 million, which represents a solid growth of 24 percent when measured against 2017, which had total revenue of $111.7 million.
The iFX EXPO is Back in Limassol!
As Finance Magnates previously reported, in November of last year, SafeCharge stated that it expected revenue would beat market expectations for the full year and fall within the range of $135-138 million.
Following its solid final quarter, the UK-based company revised its forecast in a trading update in January 2019, with the full year total revenue forecast to fall between $137.5 and $138.5 million, which, as today’s announcement shows, revenue came in towards the top end of this revised expectation.
According to the statement released this Wednesday, the strong revenue growth was largely driven by onboarding new customers, as well as expanding the relationships with its existing customers.
Transaction Volumes Soar in 2018
The number of transactions made in 2018 comes in at 255.1 million, which is an increase of 47 percent year-on-year, up from 2017’s figure of 173.8 million. In terms of transaction value, 2018 achieved a result of $13.93 billion. This is up by 45 percent on an annual comparison.
Suggested articles How Trading Conditions Can Affect a Trader’s PerformanceGo to article >>
As the company previously outlined, it expected to achieve a processed volume for its 2018 fiscal year of $14 billion. As can be seen, this estimate is very close to the actual result revealed today.
Commenting on the results, David Avgi, the CEO of SafeCharge, said: “The year 2018 was another period of strong financial performance and continued growth. We demonstrated excellent performance and successful entry into new markets and verticals. We have continued to innovate, develop and deliver our payment products and technologies, enabling us to deepen our relationships and win new business with large scale customers.”
Another highlight for the technology firm in 2018 was that it was granted a Payment Institution license by the UK Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), as Finance Magnates reported back in January of 2018.
SafeCharge Expects 2018 Momentum to carry into 2019
Alongside today’s results, the Board of SafeCharge has already issued its forecasts for 2019, with revenues expected to be in the range of $155 million to $165 million. Furthermore, the payments technology firm expects Adjusted EBITDA to fall between $40 million and $42 million.
These figures, according to the statement, will be driven by continued growth from its existing customers, as well as new customers acquired in 2019. Already, the company claims to be on its way to achieving this, with momentum from the final quarter of 2018 carrying into the start of 2019.
“During 2019 we will continue to invest in building our sales teams to accelerate our entry into new markets, as well as to invest further in innovative products to our customers. We are only at the beginning of our journey. Our highly scalable proprietary Payments Engine has been designed to deliver superior performance translating into a better user experience and increased revenues for our customers,” added Avgi.

Story 16
FORM 8.3
PUBLIC OPENING POSITION DISCLOSURE/DEALING DISCLOSURE BY
A PERSON WITH INTERESTS IN RELEVANT SECURITIES REPRESENTING 1% OR MORE
Rule 8.3 of the Takeover Code (the “Code”)
1. KEY INFORMATION
(a) Full name of discloser: HARGREAVE HALE LIMITED (b) Owner or controller of interests and short positions disclosed, if different from 1(a):
The naming of nominee or vehicle companies is insufficient. For a trust, the trustee(s), settlor and beneficiaries must be named. N/A (c) Name of offeror/offeree in relation to whose relevant securities this form relates:
Use a separate form for each offeror/offeree SAFECHARGE INTERNATIONAL GROUP LIMITED (d) If an exempt fund manager connected with an offeror/offeree, state this and specify identity of offeror/offeree: N/A (e) Date position held/dealing undertaken:
For an opening position disclosure, state the latest practicable date prior to the disclosure 22 MAY 2019 (f) In addition to the company in 1(c) above, is the discloser making disclosures in respect of any other party to the offer?
If it is a cash offer or possible cash offer, state “N/A” N/A


2. POSITIONS OF THE PERSON MAKING THE DISCLOSURE
If there are positions or rights to subscribe to disclose in more than one class of relevant securities of the offeror or offeree named in 1(c), copy table 2(a) or (b) (as appropriate) for each additional class of relevant security.
(a) Interests and short positions in the relevant securities of the offeror or offeree to which the disclosure relates following the dealing (if any)
Class of relevant security:

ORDINARY USD 0.0001

Interests Short positions Number % Number % (1) Relevant securities owned and/or controlled: 3,700,000 2.4284 (2) Cash-settled derivatives:

(3) Stock-settled derivatives (including options) and agreements to purchase/sell: TOTAL: 3,700,000 2.4284
All interests and all short positions should be disclosed.
Details of any open stock-settled derivative positions (including traded options), or agreements to purchase or sell relevant securities, should be given on a Supplemental Form 8 (Open Positions).
(b) Rights to subscribe for new securities (including directors’ and other employee options)
Class of relevant security in relation to which subscription right exists: Details, including nature of the rights concerned and relevant percentages:
3. DEALINGS (IF ANY) BY THE PERSON MAKING THE DISCLOSURE
Where there have been dealings in more than one class of relevant securities of the offeror or offeree named in 1(c), copy table 3(a), (b), (c) or (d) (as appropriate) for each additional class of relevant security dealt in.
The currency of all prices and other monetary amounts should be stated.
(a) Purchases and sales
Class of relevant security Purchase/sale

Number of securities Price per unit NONE
(b) Cash-settled derivative transactions
Class of relevant security Product description
e.g. CFD Nature of dealing
e.g. opening/closing a long/short position, increasing/reducing a long/short position Number of reference securities Price per unit NONE


(c) Stock-settled derivative transactions (including options)
(i) Writing, selling, purchasing or varying
Class of relevant security Product description e.g. call option Writing, purchasing, selling, varying etc. Number of securities to which option relates Exercise price per unit Type
e.g. American, European etc. Expiry date Option money paid/ received per unit NONE
(ii) Exercise
Class of relevant security Product description
e.g. call option Exercising/ exercised against Number of securities Exercise price per unit
(d) Other dealings (including subscribing for new securities)
Class of relevant security Nature of dealing
e.g. subscription, conversion Details Price per unit (if applicable) NONE
4. OTHER INFORMATION
(a) Indemnity and other dealing arrangements
Details of any indemnity or option arrangement, or any agreement or understanding, formal or informal, relating to relevant securities which may be an inducement to deal or refrain from dealing entered into by the person making the disclosure and any party to the offer or any person acting in concert with a party to the offer:
Irrevocable commitments and letters of intent should not be included. If there are no such agreements, arrangements or understandings, state “none”

NONE


(b) Agreements, arrangements or understandings relating to options or derivatives
Details of any agreement, arrangement or understanding, formal or informal, between the person making the disclosure and any other person relating to:
(i) the voting rights of any relevant securities under any option; or
(ii) the voting rights or future acquisition or disposal of any relevant securities to which any derivative is referenced:
If there are no such agreements, arrangements or understandings, state “none”

NONE


(c) Attachments
Is a Supplemental Form 8 (Open Positions) attached? NO


Date of disclosure: 23 MAY 2019 Contact name: VICTORIA LIDDLE Telephone number: 01624 690127
Public disclosures under Rule 8 of the Code must be made to a Regulatory Information Service.
The Panel’s Market Surveillance Unit is available for consultation in relation to the Code’s disclosure requirements on +44 (0)20 7638 0129.
The Code can be viewed on the Panel’s website at www.thetakeoverpanel.org.uk.

Story 17
Welcome to Morningstar.co.uk!
You have been redirected here from Hemscott.com as we are merging our websites to provide you with a one-stop shop for all your investment research needs.To search for a security, type the name or ticker in the search box at the top of the page and select from the dropdown results.Registered Hemscott users can log in to Morningstar using the same login details. Similarly, if you are a Hemscott Premium user, you now have a Morningstar Premium account which you can access using the same login details.

Story 18
It’s been a busy week in the foreign exchange (forex) and cryptocurrency industries – with developments and breaking news occurring across the globe. In case you missed any of the most interesting stories, here is a recap in our best of the week segment.
Put a name to a cryptocurrency
Facebook is a company renowned for selling personal information, manipulating its users, and destroying political discourse. But now the firm has other plans – launching its own cryptocurrency.
Discover the Barcelona Trading Conference – A Top Tier Crypto Trading Event
Rumors surrounding the tentative coin have been circulating for over a year now. On Friday, however, we got some real news.
The social media giant is going to be calling its cryptocurrency GlobalCoin, and it will be focused on money transfers and remittances. Western Union must be shaking in their boots.
SIX’s stablecoin
Unlike many other financial institutions, SIX Group has put a lot of effort into developing a cryptocurrency business.
Earlier this month, Thomas Zeeb, the executive charged with leading the firm’s crypto efforts, said that SIX has spent over $20 million on its digital assets exchange, SDX.
At the same time, Zeeb also hinted that SIX would be launching its own coin.
This week that was confirmed, with the Swiss exchange operator saying that it will be releasing a stablecoin tied to the Swiss franc. Said coin is as of yet unnamed. We just hope they come up with something better than GlobalCoin.
Don’t bring your clients down under
After leverage-capping, marketing-restricting, and warning sign-imposing regulations were implemented in the European Union last August, many retail brokers began to ramp up their Australian operations.
But, in the past month, the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC) has begun clamping down on brokers.
And this week Vantage FX’s Australian subsidiary, Vantage Global Prime, sent an email to clients saying that it would no longer be serving clients from outside Australia.
Fear not, however, for the broker still has a Cayman Islands regulatory license so if you want high leverage, head to the Caribbean.
Tron in trouble?
Since its launch, Tron – like many cryptocurrency projects – has been mired in controversy. The company’s founder, Justin Sun, has come under particular scrutiny, with many questioning his ability to produce serious products.
Suggested articles How Trading Conditions Can Affect a Trader’s PerformanceGo to article >>
Earlier this month, Lucien Chen, the company’s chief technology officer, left in acrimonious circumstances. In a post published on Medium, the ex-CTO claimed that Tron’s technology is dodgy and that it is not honest with its users.
Tron fired back, saying that Chen had been fired in January for unscrupulous behavior.
Don’t know who to believe? Read Rachel McIntosh’s analysis to see which side you should pick.
Binance slipping
Long the largest cryptocurrency exchange by trading volume, Binance has seen its standards dropping in the past couple of weeks.
On Wednesday, traders were unable to buy or sell after the exchange saw a massive lag in its systems.
Things were compounded by the exchange’s CEO, Changpeng Zhao, who said on Twitter that the lag was the result of high trading volumes and that this was “a good problem to have.”
Good if you are the owner of the exchange, not so much if you just lost a bunch of money because you couldn’t sell your bitcoin.
More pricing data, great transparency
Hoping to bring more openness to an often opaque retail trading industry, technology provider Integral announced the launch of a new data streaming service this week.
Called TrueFX, the firm will be providing clients with access to live prices in the institutional foreign exchange and cryptocurrency markets.
For the latter, the firm used data from 14 cryptocurrency exchanges and another eight market makers. Exciting times ahead!
A safe bet for Sagi
Teddy Sagi is a billionaire who has made a pile of cash dealing in several industries, including trading, ad-tech, and online gambling.
And this week Sagi is thought to have raked in a cool $600 million after SafeCharge, a payments company that he co-founded in 2007, was sold to Canadian technology firm Nuvei for $889 million.
David Avgi, the company’s current CEO, told Israeli outlet Globes that he is “very positive” about the deal and that it will enable SafeCharge to expand into new jurisdictions.

Story 19
Want to participate in a short research study? Help shape the future of investing tools and you could win a $250 gift card!
On 31 December 2018, SafeCharge International Group Limited (LON:SCH) released its earnings update. Generally, analyst consensus outlook appear cautiously optimistic, with earnings growth rate expected to be 21% in the upcoming year, relative to the past five-year average earnings growth of 22% per year. By 2020, we can expect SafeCharge International Group’s bottom line to reach US$30m, a jump from the current trailing-twelve-month of US$25m. Below is a brief commentary around SafeCharge International Group’s earnings outlook going forward, which may give you a sense of market sentiment for the company. For those interested in more of an analysis of the company, you can research its fundamentals here.
View our latest analysis for SafeCharge International Group
What can we expect from SafeCharge International Group in the longer term?
Longer term expectations from the 5 analysts covering SCH’s stock is one of positive sentiment. Generally, broker analysts tend to make predictions for up to three years given the lack of visibility beyond this point. To reduce the year-on-year volatility of analyst earnings forecast, I’ve inserted a line of best fit through the expected earnings figures to determine the annual growth rate from the slope of the line.
This results in an annual growth rate of 17% based on the most recent earnings level of US$25m to the final forecast of US$44m by 2022. EPS reaches $0.28 in the final year of forecast compared to the current $0.17 EPS today. In 2022, SCH’s profit margin will have expanded from 18% to 21%.
Next Steps:
Future outlook is only one aspect when you’re building an investment case for a stock. For SafeCharge International Group, I’ve put together three important aspects you should look at:
Financial Health: Does it have a healthy balance sheet? Take a look at our free balance sheet analysis with six simple checks on key factors like leverage and risk. Valuation: What is SafeCharge International Group worth today? Is the stock undervalued, even when its growth outlook is factored into its intrinsic value? The intrinsic value infographic in our free research report helps visualize whether SafeCharge International Group is currently mispriced by the market. Other High-Growth Alternatives : Are there other high-growth stocks you could be holding instead of SafeCharge International Group? Explore our interactive list of stocks with large growth potential to get an idea of what else is out there you may be missing!
We aim to bring you long-term focused research analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material.

If you spot an error that warrants correction, please contact the editor at editorial-team@simplywallst.com. This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. Simply Wall St has no position in the stocks mentioned. Thank you for reading.

Story 20
(Photo: 123RF)
Nuvei, une société de technologie de paiement basée à Montréal, a finalisé l'acquisition du groupe SafeCharge International pour un montant de 889 millions de dollars américains. Nuvei est une des compagnies en portefeuille de la société de placements privés Novacap.
Une acquisition stratégique qui permettra d'accélérer la croissance. «La transaction ouvre la porte à 13 pays européens, et donne accès à une plateforme technologique avancée complémentaire à celle de Nuvei pour les transactions où la présence physique de la carte de crédit n’est pas nécessaire.» affirme Pascal Tremblay, président et associé directeur de Novacap.
En plus de Visa, Mastercard, American Express et UnionPay International, Nuvei pourra maintenant gérer plus de 150 modes de paiement dans toute l’Amérique et dans 13 pays en Europe et au Moyen-Orient.
SafeCharge, listée à la bourse AIM à Londres, a dû être privatisée. L'acquisition est la plus importante en 38 années d’existence de Novacap. La Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec et Philip Fayer, président CEO de Nuvei, ont aussi investi dans la transaction.
Nuvei est un collectif d’experts-conseils en technologie de paiements basé à Montréal, qui gère plus de 34 milliards de dollars de transactions par année et compte maintenant plus de 800 employés dans le monde.
Novacap, fondée en 1981, est une entreprise spécialisée en fusions et en acquisitions, qui a investi dans plus de 90 sociétés et réalisé plus de 130 acquisitions subséquentes (add-on), qui gère 3,2 milliards de dollars de capital. La société a des bureaux à Toronto et à Montréal.

Story 21
Want to participate in a short research study? Help shape the future of investing tools and you could win a $250 gift card!
If you are interested in cashing in on SafeCharge International Group Limited’s (LON:SCH) upcoming dividend of US$0.072 per share, you only have 1 days left to buy the shares before its ex-dividend date, 02 May 2019, in time for dividends payable on the 24 May 2019. Is this future income a persuasive enough catalyst for investors to think about SafeCharge International Group as an investment today? Below, I’m going to look at the latest data and analyze the stock and its dividend property in further detail.
See our latest analysis for SafeCharge International Group
5 questions I ask before picking a dividend stock
When assessing a stock as a potential addition to my dividend Portfolio, I look at these five areas:
Is its annual yield among the top 25% of dividend-paying companies?
Has its dividend been stable over the past (i.e. no missed payments or significant payout cuts)?
Has the amount of dividend per share grown over the past?
Can it afford to pay the current rate of dividends from its earnings?
Will it be able to continue to payout at the current rate in the future?
How well does SafeCharge International Group fit our criteria?
The current trailing twelve-month payout ratio for SCH is 110%, meaning the dividend is not sufficiently covered by its earnings. Going forward, analysts expect SCH’s payout to remain around the same level at 105% of its earnings. Assuming a constant share price, this equates to a dividend yield of around 6.0%. Moreover, EPS should increase to $0.20.
When considering the sustainability of dividends, it is also worth checking the cash flow of a company. A company with strong cash flow, relative to earnings, can sometimes sustain a high pay out ratio.
If there is one thing that you want to be reliable in your life, it’s dividend stocks and their constant income stream. The reality is that it is too early to consider SafeCharge International Group as a dividend investment. It has only been consistently paying dividends for 5 years, however, standard practice for reliable payers is to look for a 10-year minimum track record.
Compared to its peers, SafeCharge International Group produces a yield of 4.3%, which is high for IT stocks but still below the market’s top dividend payers.
Next Steps:
After digging a little deeper into SafeCharge International Group’s yield, it’s easy to see why you should be cautious investing in the company just for the dividend. On the other hand, if you are not strictly just a dividend investor, the stock could still be offering some interesting investment opportunities. Given that this is purely a dividend analysis, you should always research extensively before deciding whether or not a stock is an appropriate investment for you. I always recommend analysing the company’s fundamentals and underlying business before making an investment decision. I’ve put together three key factors you should further research:
Future Outlook: What are well-informed industry analysts predicting for SCH’s future growth? Take a look at our free research report of analyst consensus for SCH’s outlook. Valuation: What is SCH worth today? Even if the stock is a cash cow, it’s not worth an infinite price. The intrinsic value infographic in our free research report helps visualize whether SCH is currently mispriced by the market. Dividend Rockstars: Are there better dividend payers with stronger fundamentals out there? Check out our free list of these great stocks here.
We aim to bring you long-term focused research analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material.

If you spot an error that warrants correction, please contact the editor at editorial-team@simplywallst.com. This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. Simply Wall St has no position in the stocks mentioned. Thank you for reading.

Story 22
An interview with Yuval Ziv, Chief Commercial Officer, SafeCharge. By Ross Falconer
Today’s consumers, particularly Millennials and the emerging Generation Z, are tech-savvy and take the ability to go cashless and make mobile payments for granted.
Progressive airports must respond to the rise of the cashless generation with appropriate infrastructure and technology. “Cashless payments are no longer an upcoming trend – they are happening right now, and the cashless society is already here,” says Yuval Ziv, Chief Commercial Officer, SafeCharge. “Airport retailers must adapt quickly and accept alternative payment methods, such as QR code payments. Through SafeCharge’s Native+ Payments Engine, for instance, merchants can quickly set up a new payments infrastructure and provide the flexibility for travel businesses looking to engage with an international customer base.”
SafeCharge works with businesses to offer robust payments infrastructure. The company is Bronze Sponsor at this year’s ACI EUROPE Airport Commercial & Retail Conference & Exhibition. “The travel industry is a key target for us, and we want to raise awareness at the event on how SafeCharge can help airport retailers,” Ziv explains. “With on-the-go, digital shopping becoming increasingly popular among globetrotting consumers, the omnichannel experience is vital for the new generation of travellers. Additionally, with payment preferences varying greatly among different cultures and markets, it is crucial for merchants to optimise their payment strategies for different customers around the world.”
Indeed, SafeCharge recently partnered with World Duty Free to offer WeChat Pay and Alipay in-store at London Heathrow Airport. With Chinese tourism rising by 20% every year, the ability to offer popular Chinese mobile payment methods is essential for retailers who want to deliver the best-possible shopping experience to this growing customer base.
Chinese travellers carry huge spending power. In 2017, over 130 million Chinese citizens travelled around the world, collectively spending around US$115 billion (€100bn) overseas. They are also among the most tech-savvy consumers globally.
“In today’s global economy, merchants must adapt and offer their growing customer base the seamless service and customised shopping experience they expect. For Chinese customers, this means accepting WeChat Pay and Alipay,” Ziv comments. “Recent research has shown that three quarters of Chinese consumers pay via QR codes for daily expenses. With an evident preference for mobile payments over cards or cash, businesses must update their approach to payment acceptance and engage with Chinese customers with the most popular payment methods among their demographic.”
The new SafeCharge Point of Sale App has been developed to help businesses serve an increasing number of customers who normally default to QR code-based payments methods.
So, with Chinese traveller numbers rising, the Alipay and WeChat Pay logos are certainly becoming more visible around terminals. However, the potential of these platforms is not limited solely to payments. “They are also powerful marketing tools that can drive retail growth, and merchants should learn how to integrate them into their promotional campaigns,” says Ziv.
He adds that airport retailers should improve their digital channels, allowing customers to purchase items from the comfort of their taxi on the way to the airport, for example, and have them seamlessly delivered to their departure gate, ready for pickup.
“We’re seeing a rise in this trend for food, with certain restaurants being allowed to deliver meals inside terminals. Payments play a key role in these new scenarios – without the right payment partner to process these transactions quickly for time-pressured travellers, retailers may lose out on sales and revenue.”

Story 23
Questor share tip: Aim-quoted SafeCharge has technology that enables retailers to trade securely online – and its shares are ‘superbly’ cheap
It’s time for Questor’s share tip of the year.
As we did last year, we have approached the fund manager responsible for this column’s best-performing tip and asked him which stock he feels most enthusiastic about today.
That fund manager is Gervais Williams of Miton, who in March 2017 put Questor on to IG Design, which gained 120pc before we sold it in September last year.
For 2019, Williams has high hopes for Aim-quoted SafeCharge, whose advanced technology helps retailers to process card payments.

Story 24
Every investor in SafeCharge International Group Limited (LON:SCH) should be aware of the most powerful shareholder groups. Institutions will often hold stock in bigger companies, and we expect to see insiders owning a noticeable percentage of the smaller ones. Warren Buffett said that he likes ‘a business with enduring competitive advantages that is run by able and owner-oriented people’. So it’s nice to see some insider ownership, because it may suggest that management is owner-oriented.
SafeCharge International Group is not a large company by global standards. It has a market capitalization of UK£478m, which means it wouldn’t have the attention of many institutional investors. Taking a look at our data on the ownership groups (below), it’s seems that institutions own shares in the company. Let’s delve deeper into each type of owner, to discover more about SCH.
See our latest analysis for SafeCharge International Group
What Does The Institutional Ownership Tell Us About SafeCharge International Group?
Institutions typically measure themselves against a benchmark when reporting to their own investors, so they often become more enthusiastic about a stock once it’s included in a major index. We would expect most companies to have some institutions on the register, especially if they are growing.
We can see that SafeCharge International Group does have institutional investors; and they hold 14% of the stock. This suggests some credibility amongst professional investors. But we can’t rely on that fact alone, since institutions make bad investments sometimes, just like everyone does. It is not uncommon to see a big share price drop if two large institutional investors try to sell out of a stock at the same time. So it is worth checking the past earnings trajectory of SafeCharge International Group, (below). Of course, keep in mind that there are other factors to consider, too.
SafeCharge International Group is not owned by hedge funds. There are plenty of analysts covering the stock, so it might be worth seeing what they are forecasting, too.
Insider Ownership Of SafeCharge International Group
The definition of company insiders can be subjective, and does vary between jurisdictions. Our data reflects individual insiders, capturing board members at the very least. Management ultimately answers to the board. However, it is not uncommon for managers to be executive board members, especially if they are a founder or the CEO.
Insider ownership is positive when it signals leadership are thinking like the true owners of the company. However, high insider ownership can also give immense power to a small group within the company. This can be negative in some circumstances.
Our most recent data indicates that insiders own the majority of SafeCharge International Group Limited. This means they can collectively make decisions for the company. Given it has a market cap of UK£478m, that means they have UK£337m worth of shares. Most would be pleased to see the board is investing alongside them. You may wish todiscover (for free) if they have been buying or selling.
General Public Ownership
The general public holds a 15% stake in SCH. While this size of ownership may not be enough to sway a policy decision in their favour, they can still make a collective impact on company policies.
Next Steps:
While it is well worth considering the different groups that own a company, there are other factors that are even more important.
I like to dive deeper into how a company has performed in the past. You can find historic revenue and earnings in this detailed graph.
If you are like me, you may want to think about whether this company will grow or shrink. Luckily, you can check this free report showing analyst forecasts for its future.
NB: Figures in this article are calculated using data from the last twelve months, which refer to the 12-month period ending on the last date of the month the financial statement is dated. This may not be consistent with full year annual report figures.
We aim to bring you long-term focused research analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material.

If you spot an error that warrants correction, please contact the editor at editorial-team@simplywallst.com. This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. Simply Wall St has no position in the stocks mentioned. Thank you for reading.

Story 25
Dividends play an important role in compounding returns in the long run and end up forming a sizeable part of investment returns. Historically, SafeCharge International Group Limited (LON:SCH) has been paying a dividend to shareholders. Today it yields 4.4%. Does SafeCharge International Group tick all the boxes of a great dividend stock? Below, I’ll take you through my analysis.
See our latest analysis for SafeCharge International Group
Here’s how I find good dividend stocks
If you are a dividend investor, you should always assess these five key metrics:
Is it paying an annual yield above 75% of dividend payers?
Does it consistently pay out dividends without missing a payment of significantly cutting payout?
Has dividend per share amount increased over the past?
Can it afford to pay the current rate of dividends from its earnings?
Will the company be able to keep paying dividend based on the future earnings growth?
How well does SafeCharge International Group fit our criteria?
The current trailing twelve-month payout ratio for SCH is 113%, which means that the dividend is not well-covered by its earnings. In the near future, analysts are predicting a payout ratio of 103%, which, assuming the share price stays the same, leads to a dividend yield of 6.2%. Furthermore, EPS should increase to $0.18.
When assessing the forecast sustainability of a dividend it is also worth considering the cash flow of the business. Companies with strong cash flow can sustain a higher payout ratio, while companies with weaker cash flow generally cannot.
If dividend is a key criteria in your investment consideration, then you need to make sure the dividend stock you’re eyeing out is reliable in its payments. Unfortunately, it is really too early to view SafeCharge International Group as a dividend investment. It has only been consistently paying dividends for 5 years, however, standard practice for reliable payers is to look for a 10-year minimum track record.
In terms of its peers, SafeCharge International Group produces a yield of 4.4%, which is high for IT stocks but still below the market’s top dividend payers.
Next Steps:
After digging a little deeper into SafeCharge International Group’s yield, it’s easy to see why you should be cautious investing in the company just for the dividend. But if you are not exclusively a dividend investor, the stock could still be an interesting investment opportunity. Given that this is purely a dividend analysis, you should always research extensively before deciding whether or not a stock is an appropriate investment for you. I always recommend analysing the company’s fundamentals and underlying business before making an investment decision. There are three important factors you should further research:
Future Outlook: What are well-informed industry analysts predicting for SCH’s future growth? Take a look at our free research report of analyst consensus for SCH’s outlook. Valuation: What is SCH worth today? Even if the stock is a cash cow, it’s not worth an infinite price. The intrinsic value infographic in our free research report helps visualize whether SCH is currently mispriced by the market. Dividend Rockstars: Are there better dividend payers with stronger fundamentals out there? Check out our free list of these great stocks here.
We aim to bring you long-term focused research analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material.

If you spot an error that warrants correction, please contact the editor at editorial-team@simplywallst.com. This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. Simply Wall St has no position in the stocks mentioned. Thank you for reading.

Story 26
Gone
The requested resource is no longer available on this server and there is no forwarding address. Please remove all references to this resource.

Story 27
LIMASSOL, Cyprus, October 17, 2018 /PRNewswire/ --
Praxis Cashier System Ltd. , a leading provider of smart cashier and payment software for the Fintech industry, today announced it has entered a technology-based working relationship with SafeCharge International Group Ltd.
(Logo: https://mma.prnewswire.com/media/729707/Praxis_Logo.jpg )

"This was a mutual decision with the primary goals of bringing a highly customizable software to merchants, along with an enhanced user experience for the customers," said Amit Klatchko, founder and director of Praxis Cashier.
"A seamless integration of the entire suite of alternative payment methods and e-wallets SafeCharge provides its clients is now a reality," Klatchko added.
SafeCharge clients using the Praxis Cashier software to manage payments can now instantly turn on any desired alternative payment method offered by SafeCharge at the click of a button. In addition, the merchant can dictate limits and geographic rules for each activated payment method.
"For businesses aiming to penetrate new markets that are in need of speedy and reliable activation of local payment alternatives, SafeCharge is a great option," Klatchko said, noting that it is also the address for merchants on the lookout for competitive pricing.
The technical collaboration between the two companies is a prime example of how the activities of two unaffiliated Fintech parties can complement each other.
"We at Praxis Cashier have every expectation that, with the example of the SafeCharge-Praxis Cashier collaboration in mind, other companies will come knocking on our door to see how they can benefit from our constant innovation," Klatchko said.
About Praxis Cashier
Praxis Cashier is a technology provider that has developed the ultimate smart cashier software designed with Fintech, Online Gaming, Travel and E-commerce businesses in mind. Praxis Cashier software made to overcome high-risk processing difficulties, bring industrial peace to companies and increase transaction approval rates at various websites by more than 15%. With staff based in San Jose, Barcelona, Limassol and Kharkov there is tech and support coverage non-stop.
SOURCE Praxis Cashier System LTD

Story 28
Want to participate in a short research study? Help shape the future of investing tools and you could win a $250 gift card!
SafeCharge International Group Limited (LON:SCH), which is in the it business, and is based in Guernsey, saw a double-digit share price rise of over 10% in the past couple of months on the AIM. As a stock with high coverage by analysts, you could assume any recent changes in the company’s outlook is already priced into the stock. But what if there is still an opportunity to buy? Let’s examine SafeCharge International Group’s valuation and outlook in more detail to determine if there’s still a bargain opportunity.
View our latest analysis for SafeCharge International Group
What’s the opportunity in SafeCharge International Group?
The stock seems fairly valued at the moment according to my valuation model. It’s trading around 8.4% below my intrinsic value, which means if you buy SafeCharge International Group today, you’d be paying a fair price for it. And if you believe that the stock is really worth £2.94, then there isn’t much room for the share price grow beyond what it’s currently trading. What’s more, SafeCharge International Group’s share price may be more stable over time (relative to the market), as indicated by its low beta.
What kind of growth will SafeCharge International Group generate?
What this means for you:
Investors looking for growth in their portfolio may want to consider the prospects of a company before buying its shares. Buying a great company with a robust outlook at a cheap price is always a good investment, so let’s also take a look at the company’s future expectations. SafeCharge International Group’s earnings over the next few years are expected to increase by 33%, indicating a highly optimistic future ahead. This should lead to more robust cash flows, feeding into a higher share value.
Are you a shareholder? It seems like the market has already priced in SCH’s positive outlook, with shares trading around its fair value. However, there are also other important factors which we haven’t considered today, such as the track record of its management team. Have these factors changed since the last time you looked at the stock? Will you have enough conviction to buy should the price fluctuates below the true value?
Are you a potential investor? If you’ve been keeping an eye on SCH, now may not be the most optimal time to buy, given it is trading around its fair value. However, the optimistic prospect is encouraging for the company, which means it’s worth diving deeper into other factors such as the strength of its balance sheet, in order to take advantage of the next price drop.
Price is just the tip of the iceberg. Dig deeper into what truly matters – the fundamentals – before you make a decision on SafeCharge International Group. You can find everything you need to know about SafeCharge International Group in the latest infographic research report. If you are no longer interested in SafeCharge International Group, you can use our free platform to see my list of over 50 other stocks with a high growth potential.
To help readers see past the short term volatility of the financial market, we aim to bring you a long-term focused research analysis purely driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis does not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements.

The author is an independent contributor and at the time of publication had no position in the stocks mentioned. For errors that warrant correction please contact the editor at editorial-team@simplywallst.com.

Story 29
Santa Clara, Calif., Oct. 23, 2019 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Couchbase today announced accelerated adoption of its enterprise-class, multicloud to edge NoSQL database as the company closed a record total of new logo bookings during the first half of fiscal 2020. Product innovation and strategic partnerships, together with a growing number of enterprises with specific requirements for their business-critical applications, were behind the strong customer interest and adoption.
As enterprises move to support Internet, mobile and IoT applications, they require a purpose-built database optimized for the most business-critical use cases. Couchbase, with its cache, key value store, and document database capabilities, is a multi-model database built for business-critical applications in the enterprise--from public cloud to hybrid cloud to edge deployments. Thanks to its unique cloud-native architecture, Couchbase is positioned to scale, perform at scale, and do so reliably, making it a popular choice among some of the biggest brands in the world.
Key Business Highlights
In the first half of FY2020, Couchbase delivered:
70%+ in new business growth
100%+ growth in total contract value
55%+ billings growth
50%+ growth in average deal size
Office expansion: Couchbase increased its footprint in Manchester, UK, and San Francisco with expanded new offices, more than doubling its office space in both locations to accommodate continued employee growth.


Other key business milestones for the period include:


Innovation
Combining the best of NoSQL with the power and familiarity of SQL, Couchbase’s strength in innovation continues to redefine the NoSQL space. Product momentum remained strong during the first half for Couchbase, on the heels of announcing two first-to-market technologies in FY2019: Couchbase Autonomous Operator, and the first commercial deployment of SQL++. Innovations in the first half of FY2020 include:
Couchbase Server 6.5: delivers multi-document ACID transaction support and query enhancements for feature parity with relational databases, which allows developers to use their existing database skills to support new application development and migration to NoSQL.
delivers multi-document ACID transaction support and query enhancements for feature parity with relational databases, which allows developers to use their existing database skills to support new application development and migration to NoSQL. Couchbase Mobile 2.5: introduces new functionality for enterprises capitalizing on business-critical information at the edge with Predictive Queries for applications, and Delta Synchronization for bandwidth constrained environments. These updates enable developers to create mobile applications and manage data with secure embedded local device storage, advanced sync capabilities, and Machine Learning (ML) queries.
introduces new functionality for enterprises capitalizing on business-critical information at the edge with Predictive Queries for applications, and Delta Synchronization for bandwidth constrained environments. These updates enable developers to create mobile applications and manage data with secure embedded local device storage, advanced sync capabilities, and Machine Learning (ML) queries. Couchbase Autonomous Operator 1.2: includes production certification for cloud-managed Kubernetes services – Amazon EKS, Azure AKS, and Google GKE--giving developers the freedom to deploy, manage and move applications in a cloud-agnostic manner, reducing lock-in, costs, and complexity.


Customers – New and Expanded Relationships
Couchbase marked the first half by closing its largest single new logo in company history and can now call 30% of the Fortune 100 customers. Also during this period, Couchbase added multiple new logos, including AppDynamics, Trendyol, SafeCharge, 2K Games, VuBiquity, and Age of Learning. At the same time, the company grew existing customer relationships, some of which include eBay, Royal Caribbean, UPS, Verizon, and Visa.


Couchbase powers engaging customer experiences for travel and hospitality, including 3 of the top 3 cruise lines in the world, the top 3 global distribution systems, and 4 of the largest 10 airlines in the world. Couchbase also enables 5 of the top 10 retailers in the world and 5 of the top 10 U.S.-based e-commerce companies to create extraordinary shopping experiences.
Partnership Momentum
Partner-sourced and influenced deals during the period grew to more than 25% of new business bookings while partner count grew to more than 280. Other highlights include:
Oracle Cloud Infrastructure: Couchbase was a launch partner with Oracle for its Paid Listing and Stack launch in the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) Marketplace.
Infosys: Couchbase collaborated with Infosys on OpenHack, a global hackathon sponsored by Infosys’s Modernization practice in which more than 190 teams of Infosys developers created 70+ solutions to address the next generation of enterprise data migration and app development challenges.
Red Hat: For the second year in a row, Couchbase was recognized as a strategic ISV by Red Hat during Summit 2019, earning the “Partner Technology Innovation Award” for Couchbase Autonomous Operator on Red Hat OpenShift and RHEL.
Additions to the Leadership Team
Denis Murphy was appointed as Senior Vice President and Chief Revenue Officer. As CRO, Murphy leads the company’s go-to-market optimization and expansion activities to capitalize on the $45B+ database market.
Chris Galy was appointed as Senior Vice President and Chief People Officer. As CPO, Galy is responsible for all aspects of Couchbase’s people strategy and company culture.


Industry Recognition


“We will become the next great enterprise software company by simultaneously delivering sustained differentiation, driving long-term profitable growth, and building a world-class team,” said Matt Cain, President and CEO of Couchbase. “The first half of our fiscal 2020 demonstrates our continued focus and commitment to all of these areas as we accelerate growth of our technical innovation, our customer base, and our talent. Couchbase has been uniquely architected to enable the most business-critical applications for the largest enterprises in the world. No other database in the market can match our capabilities. The momentum we’ve built so far this year underscores this reality.”


About Couchbase
Unlike other NoSQL databases, Couchbase provides an enterprise-class, multi-cloud to edge database that offers the robust capabilities required for business-critical applications on a highly scalable and available platform. Couchbase is built on open standards, combining the best of NoSQL with the power and familiarity of SQL, to simplify the transition from mainframe and relational databases.


Couchbase has become pervasive in our everyday lives; our customers include industry leaders Amadeus, American Express, Carrefour, Cisco, Comcast/Sky, Disney, eBay, LinkedIn, Marriott, Tesco, Tommy Hilfiger, United, Verizon, as well as hundreds of other household names. For more information, visit www.couchbase.com.
Christina Knittel Couchbase 6504177500 christina.knittel@couchbase.com

Story 30
LONDON, December 14, 2017 /PRNewswire/ --
The partnership provides businesses access to a fully featured payments platform, 150+ payment methods, optimised payment processing and fraud prevention
SafeCharge, a leader in advanced payment technologies, today announced the launch of SafeCharge's Plugin for Salesforce Commerce Cloud, the fastest path to unified commerce. Commerce Cloud enables brands to provide personalized experiences for shoppers that span web, mobile, social and in-store. And now, as part of the world's #1 CRM platform - Salesforce - brands can deliver unified experiences for customers that extend beyond commerce to include marketing, customer service and more.
(Logo: http://mma.prnewswire.com/media/528228/SafeCharge_Logo.jpg )
SafeCharge's integration empowers Commerce Cloud customers to accept payments safely and securely through SafeCharge's Hosted Check-out and Merchant Direct solutions.
SafeCharge's Hosted Check-out solution allows merchants to accept all relevant payment options via ready-to-use check-out pages which can be easily configured by merchants to fit their brand.
SafeCharge's Merchant Direct solution connects directly to the SafeCharge Payments Engine and offers full flexibility for merchants to accept credit card payments on their websites.
This integration offers the following benefits:
Ready-to-use hosted check-out pages or direct integration with website pages
Advanced risk and fraud management tools
The availability of more than 150 payment methods and 100 currencies
One-click payments for returning visitors (for both cards and alternative payments)
Dynamic 3D Secure (only routing higher risk transactions for 3D authentication)
Responsive design to support mobile and tablet as well
Descoping of PCI compliance
Comments on the News
"We are very excited to release our Plugin for businesses using Salesforce Commerce Cloud," said David Avgi , CEO, SafeCharge. "This partnership gives businesses working with Salesforce Commerce Cloud access to some of the latest payment and risk technology endorsed by the world's most demanding businesses. Merchants utilizing SafeCharge's solutions benefit from maximum uptime, the highest conversion rates and advanced fraud protection."
, CEO, SafeCharge. "This partnership gives businesses working with Salesforce Commerce Cloud access to some of the latest payment and risk technology endorsed by the world's most demanding businesses. Merchants utilizing SafeCharge's solutions benefit from maximum uptime, the highest conversion rates and advanced fraud protection." "Creating personalized, omnichannel experiences is now more important than ever for brands," said Kori O'Brien , SVP, ISV Sales, Salesforce. "By leveraging the power of Commerce Cloud and the new integration from SafeCharge, businesses will benefit from access to some of the most advanced payments and fraud prevention platform enabling them to boost growth.
For more information: https://www.demandware.com/link-marketplace/safecharge-international-group-ltd
About Salesforce Commerce Cloud
The Salesforce Commerce Cloud empowers retailers to unify customer experiences across all points of commerce, including web, social, mobile and store. From shopping to fulfillment to customer service, the Commerce Cloud delivers 1-to-1 shopping experiences that consistently delight customers, driving increased engagement, loyalty and conversion. With embedded predictive intelligence and a robust partner ecosystem, the Commerce Cloud helps retailers deliver superior customer experiences for retailers, from planning to launch and beyond.
Additional Resources
Like Salesforce Commerce Cloud on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/CommerceCloud/
Follow Salesforce Commerce Cloud on Twitter: https://twitter.com/commercecloud
Become a fan of SafeCharge on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/Safecharge/
Follow SafeCharge on Twitter: https://twitter.com/safecharge?lang=en
Salesforce, Commerce Cloud and others are trademarks of salesforce.com, inc.
About SafeCharge
SafeCharge International Group Limited is the payment service partner for the world's most demanding businesses. SafeCharge provides global omni-channel payments services from card acquiring and issuance to payment processing and checkout, all underpinned by advanced risk management solutions. This fully featured proprietary payment platform connects directly to all major payment card schemes including Visa, MasterCard, American Express and Union Pay as well as over 150 local payment methods. With offices around the world, SafeCharge serves a diversified, blue chip client base and is a trusted payment partner for customers across a range of vertical markets. The company has been listed on the London Stock Exchange AIM market since 2014. For more information see: http://www.safecharge.com/
Contacts
Daniel Beattie
AxiCom
Daniel.beattie@axicom.com
+44 (0)20 7559 5614
SOURCE SafeCharge

Story 31
Following the appointment of a new CFO in June, SafeCharge International Group Limited, a provider of technological payment solutions, announced today the appointment of Delphine Bos as VP Marketing and Jean Beaubois as Head of Investor Relations, with immediate effect.
Register now to the London Summit 2017, Europe’s largest gathering of top-tier retail brokers and institutional FX investors
Join the iFX EXPO Asia and discover your gateway to the Asian Markets
Delphine previously worked with Adyen, where she was the head of marketing for about 4 years, and Safecharge added that she has over 15 years of experience in the marketing of payment technology. Safecharge says that she will be driving its strategic and operational marketing.
Jean joins Safecharge from Berenberg Bank where he was Chief Technology Analyst for around 7 years. Previously, he worked with Morgan Stanley for about 10 years in the roles of Global Equity Fund Manager and Small Cap Analyst.
Suggested articles How Trading Conditions Can Affect a Trader’s PerformanceGo to article >>
Safecharge said that he would be working with the management, external investors and analysts to better understand the way the group works and build its investment case.
Commenting on the appointments, David Avgi, CEO of Sagecharge said: “I would like to welcome Jean and Delphine to SafeCharge’s management team. They bring a wealth of experience and knowledge that will be invaluable to the Company. SafeCharge is committed to actively communicating with the investment and analyst community, as well as with potential clients, and I look forward to working closely with Jean and Delphine to enhance this.”
Safecharge hopes that hiring experienced people will help drive it forward in what is becoming an increasingly competitive industry.

Story 32
Stockholm-listed iGaming operator and solutions provider Aspire Global has expanded its management team with the appointment of Ziv Shtaeinberg as chief technology officer (CTO).
The newly created CTO role will see Shtaeinberg take charge of Aspire Global’s technology site in Kiev, Ukraine.
Shtaeinberg joins Aspire Global from London-listed payment processor SafeCharge, where he has served as CTO for the past year, bringing extensive knowledge of technology development, on-premises software and cloud computing.
He also previously served as cloud solution architect (CSA) at Microsoft, and as director of software for ZS Technologies.
“We are pleased to welcome Ziv Shtaeinberg to Aspire Global,” said Aspire Global CEO Tsachi Maimon. “He will be leading the technology team in Kiev, Ukraine, ensuring that Aspire Global continues to grow and meet new challenges.
“Ziv Shtaeinberg will be adding valuable knowledge and experience to Aspire Global and we wish him the best of luck in his new role.”
In addition to the CTO appointment, Aspire Global also confirmed that it has begun the search for a chief product officer, another role which will form part of the company’s expanded management team.
This follows the departure of vice president of product Galit Shani, who has left Aspire Global for new challenges after more than ten years with the company.
Shares in Aspire Global plc (STO:ASPIRE) were trading down 1.43 per cent at SEK48.25 per share in Stockholm Thursday morning.

Story 33
SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Emergencies like car collisions or natural disasters come when people least expect them, leaving individuals unprepared to complete insurance forms, confirm claim estimates, and pay repair shop and medical expenses. During these times, quick access to funds is critical. Visa is committed to working with innovative companies in the insurance industry to help turn outdated and time-consuming processes associated with insurance claim payouts into near real-time1 access to payments when individuals, families and businesses need them the most.
“Visa believes that money shouldn’t be a stressor in moments of crisis and waiting on average six to 10 days to access the money from insurance checks, is outdated, frustrating and costly to those in need,” said Bill Sheley, SVP and Global Head of Visa Direct, Visa. “Being such a globally trusted brand, Visa knows trust is the underpinning of the insurance industry. Visa, through Visa Direct and its innovative partners and clients, is uniquely positioned to help bring efficiencies to the payout process and provide a smoother experience for people when they need it the most.”
Visa is working to help enable real-time funds disbursements for insurance companies in partnership with their financial institutions, and their customers. By deploying insurance payouts powered by Visa Direct, Visa’s real-time push payments platform, PNC Bank and Erie Insurance customers can now choose to have an electronic claims payment delivered to their bank account in real-time. Visa is also working with InsurPAY by Invenger Technologies to help enable real-time funds disbursements for American Family.
Globally, payment services partners like SafeCharge with innovators like Setoo, and Peoples Payment Solutions with TELUS Health, are working together to use Visa Direct to make insurance payouts quickly and easily.
In the event of an auto accident, people may not be able to wait to receive checks from their insurance company as it could take days, even weeks, before funds become available. With Visa Direct, Visa clients and partners can enable insurance firms to quickly push disbursements directly to an individual’s or business’ bank account using their debit card for real time access.
Partner Quotes:
“With consumers having a myriad of digital options to pay their friends, relatives or businesses, it only makes sense for PNC to work with our clients to deploy business-to-consumer payment solutions,” said Chris Ward, head of product management for PNC Treasury Management. “These can also replace a paper check and cash with secure and near real-time digital options like we offer within our ePayments platform in conjunction with Visa Direct.”
“Saving time, saving costs, saving efforts: today’s consumers are constantly looking for the best way to streamline operations and boost efficiency,” said Yuval Ziv, CCO at SafeCharge. “At SafeCharge we believe that innovation is a key foundation stone to growth and we are constantly evolving to offer our customers the latest solutions in digital payment services. We are excited to collaborate with Visa in this journey to improve the payment experience.”
“Delivering automated, instant compensation to today's consumers – especially at critical moments in their customer journey – is a must,” said Eyal Gluska, co-founder and co-CEO at Setoo. “This is why we constantly look for the best payment services available to integrate into our insurance-as-a-service platform. Leveraging Visa Direct, together with our valued partner SafeCharge, enables e-businesses offering ancillary insurance products, to deliver their consumers a hassle-free and worry-free experience.”
Visit Visa Direct to learn more about how Visa helps move money faster to those in need, when they need it the most.
About Visa Inc.
Visa Inc. (NYSE: V) is the world’s leader in digital payments. Our mission is to connect the world through the most innovative, reliable and secure payment network - enabling individuals, businesses and economies to thrive. Our advanced global processing network, VisaNet, provides secure and reliable payments around the world, and is capable of handling more than 65,000 transaction messages a second. The company’s relentless focus on innovation is a catalyst for the rapid growth of digital commerce on any device, for everyone, everywhere. As the world moves from analog to digital, Visa is applying our brand, products, people, network and scale to reshape the future of commerce. For more information, visit About Visa, visa.com/blog and @VisaNews.
1 Actual fund availability varies by financial institution and region. Visa requires fast-funds enabled issuers to make funds available to their recipient cardholders within a maximum of 30 minutes of approving the transaction. Please refer to your Visa representative and the Visa Direct Original Credit Transaction Global Implementation Guide for more information.

Story 34
Media stories about SCH stock have trended extremely negative on Thursday, InfoTrie Sentiment reports. The research group identifies positive and negative media coverage by analyzing more than six thousand news and blog sources in real-time. The firm ranks coverage of companies on a scale of negative five to positive five, with scores nearest to five being the most favorable. SafeCharge International Group earned a media sentiment score of -4.0 on InfoTrie's scale. They also assigned media headlines about the company a news buzz of 0.0 out of 10, indicating that recent media coverage is extremely unlikely to have an effect on the stock's share price in the next few days. View News Stories for SafeCharge International Group.

Story 35
Access Denied - Sucuri Website Firewall
If you are the site owner (or you manage this site), please whitelist your IP or if you think this block is an error please open a support ticket and make sure to include the block details (displayed in the box below), so we can assist you in troubleshooting the issue.
Block details:

Story 36
Source: SafeCharge
SafeCharge (AIM:SCH), a leading payments technology company, today announces that it has invested further in Nayax Ltd (‘Nayax’), a leading global cashless payment solutions provider for the unattended machine industry.
SafeCharge made its initial investment in Nayax in December 2016 and today’s follow-on investment takes the total investment by SafeCharge to approximately US$24.5 million in order to support Nayax’s strong growth and international expansion in cashless payment solutions.

The investment in Nayax is a cornerstone of SafeCharge’s omni-channel strategy. SafeCharge, which is one of the leaders in online payments, has a strategy to expand within the offline market by focusing on the high growth "cashless" sub-segment and cashless payments for the unattended machine industry in which Nayax specialises. SafeCharge’s investment will support Nayax’s growth and will strengthen the operational collaboration between the two companies, with expected processing of more than Euros 500 million of Nayax transactions through the SafeCharge Acquiring platform over the next 4 years.

Commenting on the transaction SafeCharge's chief executive, David Avgi, said:
"We are excited to play a key role in the enablement of contactless payments through our card acquiring platform. This investment follows a successful processing of Nayax through our platform in 2017. Nayax technology is helping unattended commerce to grow globally, helping consumers on-the-go to pay for low ticket items quickly and securely thanks to their unique cashless and telemetry technology.”

Commenting on the transaction Nayax's chief executive, Yair Nechmad, said:
"We selected SafeCharge as our preferred card acquirer and strategic investor. Safecharge’s unparalleled conversion rate, service quality, superior analytics and fully transparent financial reporting are key for the optimised operation of our business. Our unique partnership has enabled us to accelerate our growth and we look forward to continuing to collaborate closely with Safecharge."

Story 37
Questor share tip: we said the tech giant looked cheap when we tipped it last year and a belated purchase by Buffett’s firm suggests we were right
When we tipped Amazon in November last year we suggested that the stock, regarded as perennially overvalued by many investors, actually looked quite cheap. Support for this view has now arrived in the form of a purchase by Berkshire Hathaway, Warren Buffett’s company.
Berkshire, which itself was tipped by Questor two weeks ago, has bought 483,300 Amazon shares, according to a recent filing with American regulators. At current prices this stake is worth about $890m (£703m).
Buffett said the Amazon investment was made by one of his understudies and...

Story 38
London-listed payments provider SafeCharge International Group has appointed Jeremy Nicholds as deputy chairman, with a view to replacing Roger Withers as non-executive chairman before the end of the year.
An experienced commercial director, Nicholds joined the payment provider in 2016 as non-executive director.
Prior to that, he served in a number of commercial roles including executive director of mobile at Visa Europe, senior vice president of European sales and marketing at Mastercard Europe, and head of personal cards at NatWest Cards.
He will replace Withers, the former Sportech and Playtech chairman, who has served as SafeCharge chairman since 2014 and is retiring from the board before the end of 2018.
"Jeremy has made a significant contribution to the company's board through his extensive knowledge of the payments industry," Withers said. "On behalf of the board, I am delighted that Jeremy has agreed to become my deputy."
In related news Withers has been named as chairman of London-based corporate finance advisory firm Citicourt & Co.
“We are thrilled to have Roger join the board as our chairman, his wealth of knowledge gained from five decades of experience across multiple sectors in the City of London, in the gaming sector and the US markets will be a great asset to Citicourt’s rapidly expanding team’s ability to get transactions away for clients most efficiently,” said Citicourt & Co CEO Jodi Bartin.
Shares in SafeCharge International Group Limited (LSE:SCH) were trading down 1.62 per cent at 333.00 pence per share in London friday morning.

Story 39
In this analysis, my focus will be on developing a perspective on SafeCharge International Group Limited’s (LON:SCH) latest ownership structure, a less discussed, but important factor. Ownership structure has been found to have an impact on shareholder returns in both short- and long-term. The effect of an active institutional investor with a similar ownership as a passive pension-fund can be vastly different on a company’s corporate governance and accountability to shareholders. While this may be more interesting for long-term investors, short-term investors can also benefit by paying attention to when these institutions trade in order to take advantage of the heightened volatility. Therefore, I will take a look at SCH’s shareholders in more detail.
View our latest analysis for SafeCharge International Group
Institutional Ownership
Insider Ownership
General Public Ownership
Next Steps:
Institutions account for 17.10% of SCH’s outstanding shares, a significant enough holding to move stock prices if they start buying and selling in large quantities, especially when there are relatively small amounts of shares available on the market to trade. However, as not all institutions are alike, such high volatility events, especially in the short-term, have been more frequently linked to active market participants like hedge funds. In the case of SCH, investors need not worry about such volatility considering active hedge funds don’t have a significant stake. However, we should dig deeper into SCH’s ownership structure and find out how other key ownership classes can affect its investment profile.I find insiders are an important group of stakeholders, who are directly involved in making key decisions related to the use of capital. In essence, insider ownership is more about the alignment of shareholders’ interests with the management. 69.84% ownership of SCH insiders is large enough to make an impact on shareholder returns. In general, this level of insider ownership has negatively affected underperforming (consistently low PE ratio) companies and positively affected the companies that outperform (consistently high PE ratio). Another aspect of insider ownership is to learn about their recent transactions. Insiders buying company shares can be a positive indicator of future performance, but a selling decision can simply be driven by personal financial needs.The general public holds a substantial 13.06% stake in SCH, making it a highly popular stock among retail investors. With this size of ownership, retail investors can collectively play a role in major company policies that affect shareholders returns, including executive remuneration and the appointment of directors. They can also exercise the power to decline an acquisition or merger that may not improve profitability.
The company’s high institutional ownership makes margin of safety a very important consideration to existing investors since long bull and bear trends often emerge when these big-ticket investors see a change in long-term potential of the company. This will enable shareholders to comfortably invest in the company while avoid getting trapped in a sustained sell-off that is often observed in stocks with this level of institutional participation. However, if you are building an investment case for SCH, ownership structure alone should not dictate your decision to buy or sell the stock. Rather, you should be looking at fundamental drivers such as the intrinsic valuation, which is a key driver of SafeCharge International Group’s share price. I highly recommend you to complete your research by taking a look at the following:
Future Outlook: What are well-informed industry analysts predicting for SCH’s future growth? Take a look at our free research report of analyst consensus for SCH’s outlook. Past Track Record: Has SCH been consistently performing well irrespective of the ups and downs in the market? Go into more detail in the past performance analysis and take a look at the free visual representations of SCH’s historicals for more clarity. Other High-Performing Stocks: Are there other stocks that provide better prospects with proven track records? Explore our free list of these great stocks here.
NB: Figures in this article are calculated using data from the last twelve months, which refer to the 12-month period ending on the last date of the month the financial statement is dated. This may not be consistent with full year annual report figures.
To help readers see past the short term volatility of the financial market, we aim to bring you a long-term focused research analysis purely driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis does not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements.

The author is an independent contributor and at the time of publication had no position in the stocks mentioned. For errors that warrant correction please contact the editor at editorial-team@simplywallst.com.

Story 40
SafeCharge International Group Limited (AIM:SCH), a it company based in Guernsey, saw a double-digit share price rise of over 10% in the past couple of months on the AIM. As a stock with high coverage by analysts, you could assume any recent changes in the company’s outlook is already priced into the stock. However, what if the stock is still a bargain? Let’s examine SafeCharge International Group’s valuation and outlook in more detail to determine if there’s still a bargain opportunity. Check out our latest analysis for SafeCharge International Group
Is SafeCharge International Group still cheap?
The stock seems fairly valued at the moment according to my valuation model. It’s trading around 14% above my intrinsic value, which means if you buy SafeCharge International Group today, you’d be paying a relatively reasonable price for it. And if you believe that the stock is really worth £2.89 , then there isn’t really any room for the share price grow beyond what it’s currently trading. Furthermore, it seems like SafeCharge International Group’s share price is quite stable, which means there may be less chances to buy low in the future now that it’s fairly valued. This is because the stock is less volatile than the wider market given its low beta.
What kind of growth will SafeCharge International Group generate?
What this means for you:
Future outlook is an important aspect when you’re looking at buying a stock, especially if you are an investor looking for growth in your portfolio. Although value investors would argue that it’s the intrinsic value relative to the price that matter the most, a more compelling investment thesis would be high growth potential at a cheap price. With profit expected to grow by 63.70% over the next couple of years, the future seems bright for SafeCharge International Group. It looks like higher cash flows is on the cards for the stock, which should feed into a higher share valuation.
Are you a shareholder? SCH’s optimistic future growth appears to have been factored into the current share price, with shares trading around its fair value. However, there are also other important factors which we haven’t considered today, such as the track record of its management team. Have these factors changed since the last time you looked at the stock? Will you have enough conviction to buy should the price fluctuates below the true value?
Are you a potential investor? If you’ve been keeping an eye on SCH, now may not be the most optimal time to buy, given it is trading around its fair value. However, the optimistic prospect is encouraging for the company, which means it’s worth diving deeper into other factors such as the strength of its balance sheet, in order to take advantage of the next price drop.
Price is just the tip of the iceberg. Dig deeper into what truly matters – the fundamentals – before you make a decision on SafeCharge International Group. You can find everything you need to know about SafeCharge International Group in the latest infographic research report. If you are no longer interested in SafeCharge International Group, you can use our free platform to see my list of over 50 other stocks with a high growth potential.

Story 41
To ensure this doesn’t happen in the future, please enable Javascript and cookies in your browser.
Is this happening to you frequently? Please report it on our feedback forum.
If you have an ad-blocker enabled you may be blocked from proceeding. Please disable your ad-blocker and refresh.
Reference ID:

Story 42
London-listed gaming supplier and operator Playtech is entering a new era following the sale of the last remaining shares held by founder Teddy Sagi.
The Israeli entrepreneur sold his remaining 4.79 per cent stake in the business on November 22nd, ending his shareholding in the company he formed in 1999.
Sagi owned 49 per cent of Playtech shares five years ago but has reduced his shareholding over the past two years, including the sale of 4.9m shares earlier in November, in order to focus on other ecommerce and new technology ventures, as well as his real estate investments.
“Teddy Sagi and his family decided to diversify their wealth back in 2016 and agreed on a new strategy of investing in real estate, co-working, e-commerce and new technology ventures,” Sagi’s family office Globe Invest said. “This share sale is part of that continuum.”
The sale will also be welcomed by activist investor Jason Ader, whose fund has built a $100m stake in the business and called for changes to its operations and management. Ader called for the business to exit the financial trading sector and focus on gaming, and also questioned Sagi’s ongoing involvement in the business.
Sagi has used some of the proceeds from his Playtech shares to invest in online payment processor SafeCharge, in which he now owns a 68.34 per cent shareholding.
Shares in Playtech plc. (LSE:PTEC) were trading up 1.34 per cent at 467.40 pence per share in London Monday morning.

Story 43
Access Denied - Sucuri Website Firewall
If you are the site owner (or you manage this site), please whitelist your IP or if you think this block is an error please open a support ticket and make sure to include the block details (displayed in the box below), so we can assist you in troubleshooting the issue.
Block details:

Story 44
Share
tweet

StumbleUpon Submit

Updating the market, London-listed digital payments provider SafeCharge has announced that it has undertaken a number of changes to its senior executive team.
The company has confirmed that Tsach Einav will retake his former position as Group Chief Financial Officer (CFO). Einav who until recently served as General Manager for SafeCharge Israel operations, will further join the company’s board this September.
Updating corporate stakeholders, David Avgi, CEO of SafeCharge, commented on the update: “I am delighted that Tsach has been appointed as group chief financial officer; he is an ideal appointment as he comes to the role with an in-depth understanding of the enlarged SafeCharge business and its management.
“In what is set to be a transformational year for SafeCharge, Tsach’s breadth of experience and strong financial expertise will be invaluable to us, particularly in relation to financial oversight and corporate governance.”
Avgi would further detail the executive appointments of Delphine Bos as Vice-President marketing and Jean Beaubois as Head of Investor Relations.
Bos will takeover marketing leadership initative joining from global payment firm EMS Card. A seasoned analyst Beaubois joins the payment technology firm having served as Senior Technology lead for Berenberg Bank.
“I would like to welcome Jean and Delphine to SafeCharge’s management team; they bring a wealth of experience and knowledge that will be invaluable to the company,” Avgi commented on the appointments of Bos and Beaubois
“SafeCharge is committed to actively communicating with the investment and analyst community, as well as with potential clients, and I look forward to working closely with Jean and Delphine to enhance this.”

Story 45
SafeCharge provides online merchants with comprehensive “one stop shop” payment solutions built with their operational and experiential needs in mind. Merchants benefit from secured connectivity to financial institutions, an advanced risk management platform, personalized checkout options through Cashier’s user-friendly payment page interface and sophisticated payments management and analytics components for driving and tracking their performance - all with fewer clicks.
SafeCharge anticipated the growing mobile trend and identified new benefits being sought by merchants and their end-users on the go. SafeCharge’s Mobile Payment Solution – which complements its existing payment solutions - has been designed to empower and satisfy end-users with sophisticated multichannel payment solutions and experiences - which increase transaction volume and conversions for merchants.
Since the beginning of 2014, mobile traffic has grown by 80% thanks to the impact that SafeCharge’s Mobile Payment Solution has made by identifying and catering for end-users’ multichannel requirements.
Figure 1: Increase in Mobile Traffic
Figure 2: Boosting conversions
How SafeCharge has established a consistent, innovative, customer-friendly mobile payments strategy
SafeCharge’s client-centric approach in the design of its innovative Mobile Solution can be seen in the choice of technology and for its look and feel - powered by responsive HTML5 Mobile Web Payment Page and Mobile SDK In-App. This delivers an enhanced “always on” seamless multichannel payment experience for merchants and end-users on the move.
Designing a Mobile experience is not without its challenges. Research from customer feedback channels and analysis has revealed user frustration, negative advocacy and aborted transactions from interruptions in availability, device incompatibility, difficulty in keying in data due to keypad size, and/or slow response rates during redirection to third party sites for security processes. For example, even a small delay, experienced by end-users making deposits with their credit cards during redirection to a third party website for 3D Secure requests, is enough to cause some users to simply walk-away and abandon the transaction.
SafeCharge’s Mobile Solution has been designed to address these critical factors and optimised for implementing sustainable processes for improvements which will safely and securely respond to new risks and opportunities in the environment.
Benefits of HTML5 Mobile Web Payment Page:
Always on
Easy access via mobile, tablet, TV and/or web lets end-users on the move make deposits or withdrawals 24/7.
Enhanced digital experience
Merchants can define a selection of Themed Payment Page templates that will display intuitively on whatever device the end–user is using, regardless of screen size, thanks to Responsive Web Design technology.
Benefits of SDK In-App
Native user capability
The SDK In-App allows merchants to offer end-users a seamless, native user capability when making payments on the move.
Figures 3 & 4: Seamless native user capability
Choice of operating systems
The SDK In-App is compatible with iOS and Android devices
Super-fast speeds and response times
End-users enjoy an enhanced experience throughout the entire deposit process and time is saved due to the quick loading and response time of deposit screens and gateways to third party payment partners.
Benefits of Cashier as a Mobile Solution
Figure 5: Both Cashier and the Mobile Web Payment Page have been optimized for smartphones, tablet and smartTVs
There are a number of innovative user-friendly features that have been implemented to facilitate the mobile end-users’ needs when depositing or withdrawing funds on the move with SafeCharge’s award-winning Cashier such as;
One-Tap payments
Once a user has registered their details on a particular device, they are recorded for future use. Repeat users simply need to click “deposit” for easy and safe access to making deposits and payments (Figure 6). Users making credit card deposits are given the option of additional credit card security - 3D Secure, offered by credit card companies.
Should the amount exceed end users’ limits, alternative payment methods are offered (Figure 7). This boosts conversions and prevents walkaways.
Sliding currency bar
By simply using the “swiping” capability, users can easily select preferred amounts without typing. The keypad’s intuitive user interface has been upgraded to give end-users more flexibility when keying in numbers or letters.
Fully customizable
The built-in adjustable Theme Builder facilitates choice of design. A/B Testing is provided to compare the performance of checkout designs, so modifications can be made to further optimize payment conversion.
What our End-Users say
End-user feedback on uptime, mobile compatibility and how mobile technology improves the end-user experience safely and cost-effectively is testament to benefits that the Mobile Solution has brought:
“From the beginning we did not have a single minute downtime and a dedicated account manager took care of our needs perfectly. Mobile compatibility of the Payment Page leads to maximized mobile traffic conversion. Even the online reporting leaves no wish unfulfilled. All products in the IT world should be like this, thoughtful, functional and easy to integrate.” Kontaktlos Schutz
“SafeCharge is an ideal payment facilitation partner for EMS due to its risk management technologies for mobile and web payments, its strict regulation compliance, and lucrative customer service level.” Marc van Pigellen, Commercial Director, European Merchant Services
“…Leveraging the cumulative information capital and the latest technologies developed by SafeCharge, we were able to improve end-user experience, save on annual costs and reduce risks of card security breaches.” Jim Noakes, Head of Transactional Services Projects at Gala Coral

Story 46
Un recente accordo tra le due società ha introdotto sul mercato Italiano una nuova modalità di deposito e prelievo che consente transazioni più semplici, veloci e sempre più sicure.
Milano, 17 luglio 2018 - SNAITECH principale operatore Italiano nel settore giochi e scommesse, grazie alla collaborazione con SafeCharge, società leader nelle tecnologie di pagamento, ha completato la migrazione della piattaforma di pagamento verso la soluzione SafeCharge Payments Engine. L’azienda ha scelto SafeCharge per introdurre strumenti di pagamento innovativi e garantire performance migliori e più sicure.
SNAITECH, primo operatore italiano nel betting retail e fra i principali nel settore gaming machine e online, con il passaggio a SafeCharge Payments Engine, potrà usufruire dell'innovativo modulo SafeCharge Cashier, una soluzione di pagamento che consente agli utenti di depositare e prelevare fondi in modo sicuro e conforme alle normative nazionali. La nuova tecnologia consente ai giocatori di effettuare depositi ed incassare vincite direttamente attraverso i propri dispositivi mobile o web, indicando su singola transazione il metodo di pagamento più congeniale.
“Abbiamo individuato in SafeCharge il partner di pagamento ideale per soddisfare le aspettative dei giocatori che richiedono semplicità e immediatezza nelle operazioni di deposito e prelievo per le loro attività di gioco, sia online che sul mobile”, dichiara Fabio Schiavolin, CEO di SNAITECH. "Siamo in grado di offrire loro la possibilità di scegliere tra diversi metodi di pagamento preferiti. In più, Safecharge rappresenta l’eccellenza in termini di affidabilità e questo ci permette di garantire ai nostri clienti una gestione del proprio conto di gioco facile e al tempo stesso sicura”.
Tramite SafeCharge, SNAITECH ha una connessione diretta ai circuiti di pagamento Visa e Mastercard e a numerosi e-Wallet.
"Siamo entusiasti di lavorare con SNAITECH per migliorare l'esperienza di gaming degli utenti in Italia", aggiunge Yuval Ziv, COO, SafeCharge. "La scelta effettuata da SNAITECH dimostra ulteriormente come SafeCharge sia la soluzione più adatta per i merchant che operano in settori avanzati, caratterizzati da requisiti normativi complessi. Siamo fiduciosi che la nostra tecnologia intelligente di pagamento e la nostra esperienza potrà contribuire notevolmente al continuo successo di SNAITECH”.
Informazioni su SafeCharge
SafeCharge International Group Limited è il partner di servizi di pagamento per le aziende più esigenti ed in cerca di soluzioni innovative. SafeCharge fornisce servizi di pagamento globali omni-canale, dall'acquisizione e emissione delle carte all'elaborazione e al pagamento in cassa, il tutto supportato da soluzioni avanzate di gestione del rischio. Questa piattaforma di pagamento proprietaria e completa si collega direttamente a tutti i principali sistemi di carte di pagamento, tra cui Visa, Mastercard, American Express e Union Pay, oltre a 150 metodi di pagamento alternativi alle carte di credito. Con uffici in tutto il mondo, SafeCharge serve una clientela diversificata e con blue chip ed è un partner di pagamento affidabile per i clienti in una vasta gamma di mercati verticali. La Società è quotata sul mercato AIM della Borsa di Londra dal 2014. www.safecharge.com
Informazioni su SNAITECH
SNAITECH, quotata alla Borsa di Milano, è leader nel mercato italiano dei giochi e delle scommesse. Nata dall'integrazione tra Snai Spa e le società del gruppo Cogemat alla fine del 2015, ha sede a Milano, Porcari (Lu) e Roma. Grazie alla sua tecnologia multicanale offre un’ampia gamma di prodotti, dalle scommesse sportive e ippiche agli sport virtuali, slot e vlt online e mobile. La rete scommesse retail è costituita da oltre 1600 punti vendita dislocati su tutto il territorio nazionale. Il Gruppo gestisce inoltre oltre 54.000 New Slot e più di 10.000 Videolottery. Servizi di pagamento, trasmissioni via satellite e servizi integrati di statistiche e quote, aggiornamenti in tempo reale su diversi eventi sportivi, contribuiscono a ottimizzare la qualità e il valore di prodotti e servizi.
Il sito web, www.snai.it, offre scommesse sportive e ippiche, poker cash e a torneo, bingo, casino games, lotterie e giochi numerici, sport virtuali. Inoltre, il blog sportnews.snai.it fornisce informazioni e notizie aggiornate ai clienti e agli appassionati di sport.
SNAITECH è infine la società proprietaria degli ippodromi di Milano, SNAI San Siro e SNAI La Maura, e dell'ippodromo SNAI Sesana a Montecatini Terme.
Per ulteriori informazioni: www.snai.it
Contatti stampa
Sandro Buti
PR per SafeCharge
sandro.buti@axicom.com
Ufficio stampa SNAITECH
Ufficio.stampa@snaitech.it
3495359374

Story 47
Irish payment technology firm 3V has been acquired by SafeCharge for €14.5 million.
SafeCharge, which provides payment services, risk management and IT solutions for online businesses, said it has entered definitive agreements to acquire 3V for a consideration of €14.5 million, of which €11.6 million is payable on completion with the balance payable over three years.
The deal is expected to be completed by the end of January.
“We are pleased that SafeCharge has selected our technology and talented team in order to deliver solutions to its extensive network of merchants and channels. We are committed to the success of this acquisition and look forward to collaborating with the SafeCharge team,” said 3V chief executive Kieron Guilfoyle.
Established in 2004, 3V specialises in tools for the issuing, processing and management of pre-paid card programmes. The company has developed proprietary systems that support both physical card programmes and mobile based virtual cards, gift cards and virtual vouchers.
In addition to its issuing products, the company has developed proprietary acquiring systems and technologies to enable merchants to accept cash online. These acquiring technologies use well-established settlement systems via a network of 70,000 retail stores and partners.
The company has managed pre-paid programmes for customers such as Visa Europe, O2/Telefonica and Orange. These programmes include a virtual ticketing solution built for the 2012 Olympics for Visa Europe, O2 Money in Ireland, Orange Cash in Spain and gift cards which can be found in leading UK supermarkets.
In addition to its issuing products, the company has developed proprietary acquiring systems and technologies to enable merchants to accept cash.
The company is based in Blackrock. Co Dublin and employs approximately 56 staff.
For the financial year to the end of December 2013, 3V generated revenues of €2.9 million and a net loss of €3.2 million with net assets of €2.6 million.
SafeCharge said 3V will become the foundation of its card issuing activities through its new issuing division. The division is expected to be operationally profitable at an ebitda level in its first year of operation.
“The acquisition marks a further milestone in the execution of SafeCharge’s strategic plan to enter new product verticals and deliver innovative payment technologies. 3V enables us to gain fast-track entry into the rapidly expanding prepaid card issuance vertical and will provide the foundation of what will become a significant new division within SafeCharge,” said David Avgi, SafeCharge chief executive.

Story 48
Make informed decisions with the FT
Keep abreast of significant corporate, financial and political developments around the world. Stay informed and spot emerging risks and opportunities with independent global reporting, expert commentary and analysis you can trust.

Story 49
Access Denied - Sucuri Website Firewall
If you are the site owner (or you manage this site), please whitelist your IP or if you think this block is an error please open a support ticket and make sure to include the block details (displayed in the box below), so we can assist you in troubleshooting the issue.
Block details:

Story 50
La sicurezza del cliente, insieme alla sua fidelizzazione ed al mantenimento di elevati livelli di servizio, sono al centro della strategia di Sisal, la storica azienda italiana operativa in Italia dal 1946 nel settore dei giochi e nella gestione di lotterie nazionali che conta oggi oltre 1.800 dipendenti e 45.000 punti vendita sul territorio nazionale, con oltre 14 milioni di italiani che si affidano ai suoi servizi. Tra i giochi più popolari, Totocalcio, Totip, SuperEnalotto e Win for Life.
L’offerta digitale di Sisal e il business dei giochi da remoto in crescita necessitano di continua innovazione, anche nell’ambito del programma di “Gioco responsabile” che deve rispondere a severi standard internazionali.
Sisal offre inoltre diverse feature che puntano a migliorare depositi e prelievi per carta su un’interfaccia utente adattabile a tutti i dispositivi, inclusi smartphone e tablet.
Ecco perché, dovendo rinnovare la propria piattaforma di pagamenti, Sisal ha cercato di individuare un partner tecnologico specializzato nei pagamenti che potesse garantire un’esperienza utente all’avanguardia, che favorisse depositi e prelievi sicuri e tempestivi, assicurando processi fluidi, privi di attese e interruzioni, oltre che di supporto verso la compliance.
Transazioni personalizzate con la piattaforma Cashier
Per avviare il processo di digital transformation, Sisal ha scelto SafeCharge, azienda già attiva su numerosi clienti nel settore del gioco, che nell’arco di un mese ha implementato Cashier, un’avanzata soluzione di deposito e prelievo personalizzati, che è stata integrata nella piattaforma di gioco per fornire funzionalità di localizzazione, come per esempio la diversificazione dei metodi di pagamento.
La collaborazione con SafeCharge continuerà nei prossimi mesi per aggiungere nuovi metodi di pagamento all’offerta Sisal e rafforzarne la quota di mercato in Italia.
“SafeCharge è un partner flessibile e strategico – spiega Marco Tiso, Manager dell’Online Gaming Business Unit di Sisal -. Hanno preso in considerazione le nostre esigenze specifiche per creare soluzioni che hanno migliorato la nostra esperienza utente e i tassi di approvazione delle transazioni. L’approccio strategico ai pagamenti del team di SafeCharge ci ha permesso di rafforzare la nostra quota di mercato in Italia.”
Maggiore sicurezza con Dynamic 3D Secure
Il traffico dei depositi di Sisal prima dell’implementazione di SafeCharge era instradato tramite 3D Secure, il protocollo Visa e MasterCard progettato per aumentare il livello di sicurezza per le transazioni online con carta di credito e debito, ma che produceva un calo dei tassi di conversione.
SafeCharge ha abilitato Dynamic 3D Secure, che consente di indirizzare in modo selettivo il traffico dei depositi, facendo in modo che il controllo di 3D Secure avvenga solo per le transazioni considerate a rischio più elevato, mentre quelle a basso rischio saltano il processo di autenticazione.
Dall’introduzione di questa nuova strategia, i tassi di abbandono per Sisal sono scesi dal 20 al 6%. Inoltre, il suo rapporto di chargeback è diminuito quasi a zero e il tasso di approvazione di Sisal è salito all’81%, rispetto al 74% ottenuto con il precedente sistema.
Net Deposit Logic aiuta il tracciamento
Migliore esperienza d’uso per il cliente, incremento dei tassi di conversione, livelli minimi di frode e maggiore stabilità della piattaforma sono alcuni degli obiettivi raggiunti. SafeCharge fornisce inoltre a Sisal indicazioni di tipo consulenziale su come adattarsi all’evoluzione del quadro giuridico italiano, uno dei più complessi e particolari in Europa per quel che riguarda il gioco da remoto, per garantire la conformità dell’azienda a tutti i requisiti normativi e di compliance.
In particolare, dopo un’analisi completa dei limiti locali antiriciclaggio (AML), SafeCharge ha fornito a Sisal un Net Deposit Logic, pensato appositamente per soddisfare i requisiti locali e le esigenze di miglioramento della protezione antifrode.
Sfruttando la diffusione dei token, Sisal può ora anche offrire pagamenti con un clic, facendo in modo che le informazioni sensibili siano archiviate e utilizzate in modo sicuro per il tracciamento rapido e la restituzione dei depositi del giocatore.
“Questa collaborazione mette in evidenza la sinergia tra le due società per introdurre Cashier, una soluzione avanzata di deposito e prelievo, per il mercato italiano – commenta Umberto Corridori, VicePresidente Vendite Europee di SafeCharge -. Con Cashier, i giocatori italiani possono ora depositare e prelevare in modo più veloce e più sicuro su più dispositivi digitali. Inoltre, Sisal ha implementato Risk Management e NetDeposit di SafeCharge per elaborare complessi controlli antifrode. Integrando queste soluzioni di pagamento all’avanguardia, Sisal ha raggiunto i propri obiettivi aziendali chiave”.
© RIPRODUZIONE RISERVATA

Story 51
This analysis is intended to introduce important early concepts to people who are starting to invest and want to start learning about core concepts of fundamental analysis on practical examples from today’s market.
SafeCharge International Group Limited (LON:SCH) is currently trading at a trailing P/E of 26.6x, which is higher than the industry average of 23.7x. Although some investors may jump to the conclusion that you should avoid the stock or sell if you own it, understanding the assumptions behind the P/E ratio might change your mind. In this article, I will break down what the P/E ratio is, how to interpret it and what to watch out for.
Check out our latest analysis for SafeCharge International Group
Demystifying the P/E ratio
The P/E ratio is a popular ratio used in relative valuation since earnings power is a key driver of investment value. It compares a stock’s price per share to the stock’s earnings per share. A more intuitive way of understanding the P/E ratio is to think of it as how much investors are paying for each pound of the company’s earnings.
Formula Price-Earnings Ratio = Price per share ÷ Earnings per share P/E Calculation for SCH Price per share = $4.3 Earnings per share = $0.161 ∴ Price-Earnings Ratio = $4.3 ÷ $0.161 = 26.6x
The P/E ratio itself doesn’t tell you a lot; however, it becomes very insightful when you compare it with other similar companies. Ultimately, our goal is to compare the stock’s P/E ratio to the average of companies that have similar attributes to SCH, such as company lifetime and products sold. A common peer group is companies that exist in the same industry, which is what I use below. Since it is expected that similar companies have similar P/E ratios, we can come to some conclusions about the stock if the ratios are different.
SCH’s P/E of 26.6x is higher than its industry peers (23.7x), which implies that each dollar of SCH’s earnings is being overvalued by investors. This multiple is a median of profitable companies of 24 IT companies in GB including GRC International Group, iEnergizer and Triad Group. Therefore, according to this analysis, SCH is an over-priced stock.
Assumptions to watch out for
However, before you rush out to sell your SCH shares, it is important to note that this conclusion is based on two key assumptions. The first is that our “similar companies” are actually similar to SCH. If the companies aren’t similar, the difference in P/E might be a result of other factors. For example, if you inadvertently compared riskier firms with SCH, then investors would naturally value SCH at a higher price since it is a less risky investment. Similarly, if you accidentally compared lower growth firms with SCH, investors would also value SCH at a higher price since it is a higher growth investment. Both scenarios would explain why SCH has a higher P/E ratio than its peers. The second assumption that must hold true is that the stocks we are comparing SCH to are fairly valued by the market. If this assumption does not hold true, SCH’s higher P/E ratio may be because firms in our peer group are being undervalued by the market.
What this means for you:
If your personal research into the stock confirms what the P/E ratio is telling you, it might be a good time to rebalance your portfolio and reduce your holdings in SCH. But keep in mind that the usefulness of relative valuation depends on whether you are comfortable with making the assumptions I mentioned above. Remember that basing your investment decision off one metric alone is certainly not sufficient. There are many things I have not taken into account in this article and the PE ratio is very one-dimensional. If you have not done so already, I urge you to complete your research by taking a look at the following:
Future Outlook: What are well-informed industry analysts predicting for SCH’s future growth? Take a look at our free research report of analyst consensus for SCH’s outlook. Past Track Record: Has SCH been consistently performing well irrespective of the ups and downs in the market? Go into more detail in the past performance analysis and take a look at the free visual representations of SCH’s historicals for more clarity. Other High-Performing Stocks: Are there other stocks that provide better prospects with proven track records? Explore our free list of these great stocks here.
To help readers see past the short term volatility of the financial market, we aim to bring you a long-term focused research analysis purely driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis does not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements.

The author is an independent contributor and at the time of publication had no position in the stocks mentioned. For errors that warrant correction please contact the editor at editorial-team@simplywallst.com.

Story 52
LONDRES, February 1, 2017 /PRNewswire/ —
Uma solução personalizada para depósitos e levantamentos concebida para se adaptar aos requisitos específicos do novo mercado regulamentado de apostas desportivas em Portugal
A SafeCharge (LSE:SCH), líder em tecnologias de pagamento avançadas, foi selecionada pela Bet Entertainment Technologies para fornecer um conjunto de serviços de pagamento online avançados para a sua operação líder de mercado em Portugal (bet.pt). Incluindo tecnologia do fornecedor de software SBTech e supervisionada pelo SRIJ, a Bet Entertainment Technologies oferece apostas desportivas e jogos de casino no mercado português. Os processos de depósito e levantamento disponíveis para os jogadores portugueses foram enriquecidos com o acesso a opções de localização, como idioma, moeda e métodos de pagamento locais.
(Logo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20160526/372493LOGO )

O Personalised Cashier da SafeCharge, uma solução personalizada de depósitos e levantamentos, está integrada diretamente no Sportbook da SBTech e na plataforma iGaming. A solução Personalised Cashier permite fazer depósitos e levantamentos sem qualquer dificuldade, com opções de localização específicas, tais como a diversificação de métodos de pagamento alternativos, locais ou globais, em particular o Multibanco, o método de pagamento preferido, múltiplas moedas e idiomas. A utilização de tecnologias sofisticadas de prevenção de fraude reforça o controlo interno de risco da Bet Entertainment Technologies, tanto no caso de cartões como no de métodos de pagamento alternativos.
A integração da SafeCharge na plataforma da SBTech reduz os prazos de comercialização da Bet Entertainment Technologies e reforça a funcionalidade do serviço no que se refere a experiência de jogo melhorada.
“Precisamos de chegar ao mercado em prazos muito curtos e os pagamentos constituíam um enorme desafio. A eficiência dos levantamentos e depósitos, sem descurar o cumprimento de legislação muito rigorosa, é crítica para o nosso negócio, e a otimização do processo foi uma das tarefas mais importantes. Além disso, precisávamos de um parceiro tecnológico que estivesse integrado com a plataforma da SBTech para reduzir os prazos de comercialização e a sobrecarga operacional”, afirmou Gabino Oliveira, Chairman, Bet Entertainment Technologies. “Os serviços de pagamentos da SafeCharge não só satisfizeram as nossas expetativas, como as ultrapassaram no que se refere às competências de implementação, entrega e pagamentos em curso.”
“A Bet Entertainment é uma empresa empolgante e visionária, que está agora a iniciar a sua jornada online. Pela utilização dos nossos serviços de pagamento, os seus jogadores beneficiarão de flexibilidade máxima em depósitos e levantamentos, a par de uma convincente experiência de utilização, total transparência e segurança incomparável. Acreditamos que isto não se limitará a suportar o crescimento do negócio online da Bet Entertainment, mas ajudará a acelerá-lo” disse Yuval Ziv, COO, SafeCharge. “A integração com a SBTech permitirá também que todos os que utilizam esta plataforma líder possam beneficiar da nossa tecnologia premiada.”
Sobre a SafeCharge
A SafeCharge International Group Limited é uma fornecedora global de serviços de pagamentos, tecnologias e soluções de gestão de risco para negócios online e móveis. O grupo SafeCharge tem uma base diversificada de importantes clientes e é um parceiro de confiança na área de pagamentos para diversos mercados verticais de comércio eletrónico. A SafeCharge está certificada desde 2007 pela norma Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (“PCI-DSS”) Level 1 e está cotada no mercado AIM da London Stock Exchange (LSE: SCH). A SafeCharge Limited, uma subsidiária integralmente detida pela empresa, é uma Instituição de Moeda Eletrónica autorizada, regulada pelo Banco Central de Chipre, e é um dos membros principais da MasterCard Europe e da VISA Europe. O grupo SafeCharge tem operações no Reino Unido, Chipre, Bulgária, Israel, Alemanha, Áustria e Irlanda. http://www.safecharge.com/
Sobre a BET Entertainment Technologies Limited
A Bet Entertainment Technologies Limited é pioneira em Portugal em apostas online desportivas e de casino. A empresa oferece uma experiência única de apostas desportivas através da sua plataforma de apostas online, desenvolvida para proporcionar uma experiência divertida e empolgante aos seus utilizadores. Abrangendo uma vasta gama de desportos e jogos de casino, a BET pretende cimentar a sua posição de referência em mercados regulamentados, garantindo sempre a segurança e transparência dos seus serviços e produtos. http://www.bet.pt/
SafeCharge International Group Limited
David Avgi
Tim Mickley
+44-(0)-203-051-3031
Contactos para a imprensa:
CCgroup for SafeCharge
Alan Miller / Abbie Godward
Safecharge@ccgrouppr.com
+44-(0)-203-824-9200

Story 53
Access Denied - Sucuri Website Firewall
If you are the site owner (or you manage this site), please whitelist your IP or if you think this block is an error please open a support ticket and make sure to include the block details (displayed in the box below), so we can assist you in troubleshooting the issue.
Block details:

Story 54
Source: Visa
Today, Visa (NYSE: V), announced that 11 new European partners will implement the Visa Token Service (VTS), to create a more secure shopping environment for customers who store payment details on file with their favourite merchants.
The adoption of Visa Token Service by partners across Europe highlights how the industry is responding to consumer concerns around online security and how Visa continues to drive innovation in the payments ecosystem.

In addition to enhancing security, expired or compromised payment credentials can be seamlessly updated in the background by the financial institution, eliminating a significant point of friction for consumers and merchants.

Visa Token Service was launched in 2014 as part of its ongoing commitment to the growth and security of e- and m-commerce. Since that time we have seen significant uptake, with new companies including merchants, acquirer gateways and technology companies joining the programme.

Mark Austin, Executive Director, Product Solutions Europe, Visa explains: “Visa is committed to making the ecommerce experience as safe, secure and simple as possible for everyone in the ecosystem. By integrating Visa Token Service, merchants and payment gateways no longer have to store sensitive account data, greatly reducing fraud risk for consumers who save their card information to mobile devices, mobile apps or eCommerce merchants online. This will help make ecommerce payments safer while also creating a frictionless payment experience for consumers.”

New partners adopting the program include Adyen, Cardstream, Computop, Datatrans, HiPay, Ingenico/Bambora, Monext, Safecharge, Secure Trading, Wirecard and Worldline. Merchants who integrate with VTS through Visa’s new partners do not need to wait for individual certification approval and can launch their token-on-file initiative quickly and easily.

“As the first acquirer to integrate with the Visa Token Service for all our global markets, we are thrilled to also confirm our readiness for European based merchants,” said Edgar Verschuur, head of global acquiring, Adyen. “We have already seen strong performance with the processing of network tokens globally. Through our direct integration with the Visa Token Service, we now give our merchants a zero-effort and safe way to enhance the stored payment credentials of their shoppers. This does not only help improve authorization rates but also reduces involuntary churn.”

Jonathan O’Connor, Chief Commercial Officer of Secure Trading Group: “The security of the funds we process for merchants is our top priority, and the Visa Token Service will help us to greatly enhance the way that we achieve this. By removing the friction point of handling sensitive data on our gateway, we are able to further fortify our systems against fraud risks. Visa has long been a market-leader in terms of payments innovation, and we’re delighted to benefit from the latest in card-on-file tokenization.”

Didier Brouat, CCO of MONEXT, said: “Monext looks forward to offering Visa tokenisation as proof of our commitment to always offering more simplicity, efficiency and protection to both merchants and consumers.”

Visa Token Service replaces consumer account information such as the Primary Account Number (PAN) and expiry information with a unique digital identifier or “token” so that sensitive data is never shared. Plus, tokens can be restricted to work only with a specific merchant, adding yet another layer of security to digital payments. For consumers, this enables a more secure and convenient payment experience, while for merchants it reduces the numbers of declines as the transaction cannot be held up by expired payment credentials.

In addition to the reduction of fraud risk, consumers will see a number of additional benefits from card-on-file tokenization including:
• Dynamic Credential information: Consumers no longer have to log in and update their payment details when their card expires. Instead, payment credentials can be seamlessly updated by the issuer in the background, resulting in reduced declines and a frictionless payment experience. For merchants, this means they no longer have to worry about missing payment cycles or declined payments from outdated payment credentials.
• Full-colour card art: When a token is saved in the merchant payment experience, VTS can enable card art to be displayed. This provides a visual confirmation to consumers that the correct card has been loaded, creating a delightful and trust-building experience, reducing cart abandonment.
• Marketplace support: When an ecommerce marketplace joins Visa Token Service it can request and store tokens for customers that can then be used across any of the marketplace’s sub-merchants.
• Loyalty and value-added services: VTS tokens can now be connected to a common identifier relating to a payment account without compromising the underlying account information. This common identifier, called a Payment Account Reference (PAR), makes it easier and more secure for merchants to offer benefits such as loyalty, discounts and other services if the consumer opts in to the merchant plan.
• Simplified card loading: Network Hub Push Provisioning, a VTS capability, makes it easy for consumers to add payment credentials via a secure Visa token to merchant wallets from directly inside their mobile banking application. This removes the need for the cardholder to have their card at hand to manually add their card information to the merchant, creating an improved and more secure experience.
• IOT Commerce: Tokenisation will also provides enhanced security in the future when payment credentials are used in IOT commerce such as cars, smart glasses, connected home appliances, etc.

Story 55
Shares in London are in the red again. Click here for The Trader Nicole Elliott's latest thoughts on the markets.
To continue reading, register today to enjoy limited access to the following: Daily trading news
Funds coverage
Features on big investment themes
Comprehensive companies coverage
Economic analysis Register

Story 56
Full access for just £3.37 a week:
• Tips and recommendations - to beat the market
• Portfolio clinic & Mr Bearbull - build a well-planned portfolio
• Expert tools - track and manage investments effortlessly
• Plus free delivery to your home or office

Story 57
If the shareholders approve the delisting, it is anticipated that trading in Albert’s ordinary shares on AIM will cease at close of business on August 28, 2019.
AI marketing expert Albert Technologies Ltd (LON:ALB) has earlier today amended the timetable related to the proposed cancellation of admission to trading on AIM.
Let’s recall that, on July 16, 2019, Albert Technologies announced its plans to delist from LSE’s AIM. An Extraordinary General Meeting will be held at Bryan Cave Leighton Paisner LLP, Adelaide House, London Bridge, London, United Kingdom EC4R 9HA at 10 am on 20 August 2019, at which the approval of shareholders of the delisting will be sought.
In the announcement issued today, Albert Technologies advises that in the event that Shareholders approve the Delisting at the Extraordinary General Meeting on August 20, 2019, it is anticipated that trading in the Ordinary Shares on AIM will cease at close of business on August 28, 2019 and cancellation of admission to trading on AIM of the Ordinary Shares will become effective at 7.00 a.m. UK time on August 29, 2019.
Commenting on the proposal, Or Shani, CEO of Albert Technologies said:
“Albert is a very different company to the one that listed on AIM four years go. The Company is now an early-stage disruptive technology company, targeting the enterprise market, and operating in an emerging technology environment.
“It will be necessary to seek additional funds and the Directors believe that it is in the best interests of the Company to secure a strategic or financial investor with knowledge of the company’s core markets, who can assist the Company with accelerating the distribution of the company’s proprietary technology, expand its revenue growth and increase its market penetration in the enterprise market. These types of investors are unlikely to be forthcoming whilst the company remains admitted to trading on AIM.“
Lisa Gordon, Chair of Albert Technologies, said:
“The Directors believe the current market valuation does not reflect the Albert’s market opportunity, the value of its technology, its current and potential client list, and the overall progress we have made in the enterprise market in the last two years. On the contrary, the Board believes it negatively impacts the company’s business, its potential for growth and our ability to raise necessary further funding through the public markets is significantly constrained. As a result, we do not believe that remaining listed on AIM is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders”.

Story 58
Limassol, Zypern (ots/PRNewswire) -Praxis Cashier System Ltd. (http://www.praxiscashier.com/), ein führender Anbieter von intelligenter Kassen- und Zahlungssoftware für die Fintech-Branche, gab heute bekannt, dass das Unternehmen eine technologiebasierte Arbeitsbeziehung mit SafeCharge International Group Ltd. eingegangen ist.(Logo: https://mma.prnewswire.com/media/729707/Praxis_Logo.jpg )"Dies war eine beiderseitige Entscheidung mit den hauptsächlichen Zielen, eine hoch individualisierbare Software für Händler und ein verbessertes Erlebnis für Kunden zu liefern", sagte Amit Klatchko, Gründer und Director von Praxis Cashier."Eine nahtlose Integration der gesamten Suite von alternativen Zahlungsmethoden und E-Wallets, die SafeCharge seinen Kunden anbietet, ist jetzt Realität", fügte Klatchko hinzu.SafeCharge-Kunden, die die Praxis-Cashier-Software zur Verwaltung von Zahlungen verwenden, können jetzt auf Knopfdruck sofort jede gewünschte alternative Zahlungsmethode einschalten, die von SafeCharge angeboten wird. Darüber hinaus kann der Händler Limits und geografische Regeln für jede aktivierte Zahlungsmethode festlegen."Für Unternehmen, die auf die Durchdringung neuer Märkte abzielen und die eine schnelle und zuverlässige Aktivierung lokaler Zahlungsalternativen brauchen, ist SafeCharge eine hervorragende Option", sagte Klatchko und merkte an, dass es auch die Adresse für Händler sei, die Ausschau nach wettbewerbsfähigen Preisen hielten.Die technische Zusammenarbeit zwischen den beiden Unternehmen ist ein hervorragendes Beispiel dafür, wie die Aktivitäten zweier nicht verbundener Fintech-Parteien sich gegenseitig ergänzen können."Wir bei Praxis Cashier gehen davon aus, dass die Zusammenarbeit von SafeCharge und Praxis Cashier anderen Unternehmen als Beispiel dafür dienen wird, an uns heranzutreten, um zu erfahren, wie sie von unserer ständigen Innovation profitieren können", sagte Klatchko.Über Praxis CashierPraxis Cashier (https://www.praxiscashier.com/) ist ein Technologieanbieter, der die ultimative Kassensoftware entwickelt hat, insbesondere für Unternehmen im Bereich Fintech, Online-Gaming, Reisen und E-Commerce. Die Software von Praxis Cashier soll dazu dienen, hochriskante Verarbeitungsschwierigkeiten zu überwinden, in Unternehmen Arbeitsfrieden zu bringen und die Erfolgsquoten für Transaktionen bei verschiedenen Websites um mehr als 15 % zu erhöhen. Mit Mitarbeitern an den Standorten San Jose, Barcelona, Limassol und Kharkov ist rund um die Uhr für technische und sonstige Unterstützung gesorgt.OTS: Praxis Cashier System LTD newsroom: http://www.presseportal.de/nr/131703 newsroom via RSS: http://www.presseportal.de/rss/pm_131703.rss2Pressekontakt: Tal Kazula +357-25312086

Story 59
Questor share tips: Greene King, Sky and Cobham have already gone and a weak pound makes London stocks look cheap. Here are five more possible targets
Suddenly takeovers are all the rage. A string of London-listed businesses have attracted bids in recent weeks, as the weak pound and a sluggish stock market have combined to make British firms cheap, and Questor is wondering who will be next.
Already sold
The firms tipped here that have been bid for over the past year or so include Greene King (at a premium of 78.4pc to our tip price), Sky (89.1pc), Cobham (24.5pc), Manx Telecom (0pc), Merlin (18.2pc), Zoopla (42.5pc), Dairy Crest (2.5pc), Premier Technical Services Group (21.8pc) and SafeCharge...

Story 60
Cross-border payment platform Currencycloud announced on Tuesday it has formed a new partnership with credit card giant Visa (NYSE: V) to drive further innovation in cross-border and travel payments. The partnership will see Currencycloud aligned with Visa’s broader mission to help people make secure and seamless digital payments, both at home and while traveling.
“Visa’s clients, banking, and FinTech partners will now have the option to use Currencycloud’s cloud-based payments platform to offer customers in-demand services like multi-currency wallets and real time notifications on foreign exchange transactions. Visa’s account holders will be able to better manage their travel abroad through improved visibility and control of their money.”
While sharing details about the partnership, Charlotte Hogg, CEO of Europe at Visa, stated:
“Today, 1 in 5 payments is a cross-border transaction, whether that’s from a consumer traveling internationally or buying from an international seller online. Our goal is to continue to help our clients meet this increasing demand for slick, simple and more convenient cross-border payments and make it easier for Visa cardholders to manage their money when travelling. Our partnership with Currencycloud will empower our clients to do just that by offering an innovative, competitive, digital-first solution that ultimately gives consumers and cardholders more control over digital payments – at home and abroad.”
Mike Laven, CEO of Currencycloud, also commented:
“Currencycloud exists to take the complexity out of international payments. Banks are under pressure to provide better user experiences in an increasingly connected world, and our partnership with Visa will enable us to deliver that on a grand scale. Our leading APIs give control and visibility of international transactions; that power combined with the reach of Visa will enable a new generation of consumers to benefit from a better experience when spending abroad.”
Currencycloud went on to add that the initial focus of the partnership will involve making Currencycloud’s developer-friendly platform available to enable the pre-purchase of travel currency, or the real-time notification of FX rates when a cardholder uses their Visa card overseas.

Story 61
SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Visa Inc. (NYSE:V) today announced the commercial expansion of the Visa Token Service for credential-on-file (COF) token requestors, marking a major milestone towards further securing consumer payments in the digital channel.
With this expansion, acquirer gateway and technology partners Adyen, AsiaPay, Braintree, Checkout.com, Cherri Tech, CyberSource, Elavon, Ezidebit, eWAY, Fit-Pay, Giesecke & Devrient, PayPal, Payscout, Rambus, SafeCharge, SecureCo, Square, Stripe, Worldpay and YellowPepper are or will soon be able to tokenize credential-on-file digital payments on behalf of their merchant and payment clients.
Built on top of the EMVCo Payment Tokenization Standard, the Visa Token Service offers another layer of security by replacing sensitive cardholder information, such as personal account numbers and expiration dates, with a unique digital identifier (a “token”) that can be used for payment without exposing a cardholder’s more sensitive account information. In addition to enhancing security, expired or compromised payment credentials can be seamlessly updated in the background by the financial institution, eliminating a significant point of friction for consumers and merchants.
Merchants also get the added security protection of being shielded from data breaches that occur elsewhere in the ecosystem since the Visa card number is replaced with a token unique to the merchant or gateway acquirer partner.
“Today, we welcome 20 partners into the Visa Token Service who will help scale tokenization to their thousands of merchant clients and millions of customers around the world. This opens up a world of possibilities for our merchants and partners to further evolve and innovate in digital payments,” said Ansar Ansari, senior vice president, digital payment products, Visa. “Making digital transactions even more secure is one of Visa’s biggest priorities. Working with Visa, these partners will help secure cardholder data and make digital payments safer, resulting in frictionless digital commerce experiences for consumers.”
“Adyen is excited to be the first acquirer in the payments ecosystem with in-market solutions to support and offer Visa Token Service to our global merchants,” said Kamran Zaki, president, North America, Adyen. “In addition to improving security, Visa network tokens through Adyen will allow our merchants with cards on file to reduce involuntary churn and improve authorization rates without any additional work on their part.”
“Worldpay is committed to protecting the integrity of every transaction and this solution integrates well with our own security and tokenization products,” says Asif Ramji, chief product officer, Worldpay. “By forming strong relationships with companies like Visa to bring global scale to every merchant, we ensure their ability to deliver positive customer experiences. Importantly, Worldpay merchant partners who take advantage of our implementation of the Visa Token Service do not need to wait for individual certification and approval to begin protecting their customers’ data.”
“The integration of the Visa Token Service within the CyberSource Token Management Service is an important milestone in our quest to enable clients to create new digital commerce experiences and deepen consumer engagement across channels,” said Andre Machicao, senior vice president, CyberSource, a Visa solution. “The powerful integration of these services provides merchants additional value and simplifies access to future Visa Token Service enhancements, especially in the area of credential life cycle management. Dynamic updates of credentials when a card is lost, stolen or expired will help our clients improve the consumer experience and lift conversion.”
Since the launch of the Visa Token Service in 2014, Visa has added over 60 global token requestors—including mobile and wearable manufactures, issuer wallets, online merchants, payment service providers and acquirers—from 40 markets onto the token platform. The addition of 20 merchants, acquirer gateways and token requestors will bring scale globally and support Visa’s commitment to security and convenience of online and mobile payments from both traditional eCommerce as well as credential-on-file transactions.
About Visa Inc.
Visa Inc. (NYSE: V) is the world’s leader in digital payments. Our mission is to connect the world through the most innovative, reliable and secure payment network - enabling individuals, businesses and economies to thrive. Our advanced global processing network, VisaNet, provides secure and reliable payments around the world, and is capable of handling more than 65,000 transaction messages a second. The company’s relentless focus on innovation is a catalyst for the rapid growth of connected commerce on any device, and a driving force behind the dream of a cashless future for everyone, everywhere. As the world moves from analog to digital, Visa is applying our brand, products, people, network and scale to reshape the future of commerce. For more information, visit About Visa, visacorporate.tumblr.com and @VisaNews.

Story 62
BBVA announced on Monday it has teamed up with Dufry to launched the first WeChat Pay facilities in Spain in travel retail operator’s World Duty Free stores at the Adolfo Suarez Madrid-Barajas airport. According to BBVA, the move is a “hugely significant shift” within the Spanish payment space, and indicative of the power the WeChat service has within, and increasingly outside of, China.
“World Duty Free will begin offering the service to passengers passing through its Madrid Duty Free No-Schengen shops at Terminal 1 Madrid Barajas airport, and then roll out to its stores in Madrid and Barcelona where it was identified that Chinese passengers are seeking to use this platform. The payment scheme has been set up so that it can easily be deployed and adopted in the other 24 Spanish airports where World Duty Free operates if new flights to China are introduced.”
Speaking about the collaboration, Ángeles Montesdeoca, Directora General de España of Dufry, stated:
“At Dufry we have always created shopping spaces with our customers in mind and we are delighted with this new payment scheme that allows our Chinese passengers to pay for their purchases as they would at home. We firmly believe that we are one step closer to offering our passengers the seamless journey we strive for.”
Carlos Laita, director of Innovation & Market Development EMEA at BBVA, went on to add:

Story 63
Ältere Aktualisierungen des Artikels
Update 05.04.2019: Wieder taucht bei den Absendern der Mahnungen ein ganz neuer Name auf. Es geht um die Limango Ag. Scheinbar gezielt wird hier die Ähnlichkeit zu einem real existierenden Unternehmen ausgenutzt. Denn die Limango GmbH in München gibt es wirklich, hat aber mit dem Versand dieser Nachrichten absolut nichts zu tun. Die Betrüger versuchen Sie nur in die Irre zu führen und Vertrauen zu gewinnen. Dennoch handelt es sich nach wie vor um Spam.
Update 02.10.2018: Seit 22.12.2018 werden die dubiosen Mahnungen, Rechnungen und Zahlungsaufforderungen mit Link zum Download einer Schadsoftware wieder versendet. Klicken Sie den Link auf keinen Fall an. Es handelt sich um Spam.
Update 02.10.2018: Aktuell werden die Nachrichten wieder mit Links zum angeblichen Download versendet. Die ZIP-Datei fehlt im Anhang. Aber auch hier gilt nach wie vor der Rat: klicken Sie den Link nicht an. Sie wissen nicht, auf welche Webseite Sie geleitet werden und was Sie da erwartet. Der Trojaner soll weiterverbreitet werden und dies versuchen die Kriminellen mit allen möglichen Tricks.
Update 28.09.2018: Die Versender der Spam E-Mails haben sich schon wieder einen neuen Namen einfallen lassen. Die Commdoo Co. KG ist nun der „Zahlungsempfänger“, der keinen Geldeingang verbuchen konnte. Der Text in der E-Mail wird auch immer ein klein wenig umgeschrieben. So finden die betroffenen Verbraucher keine Warnungen.
Update 17.09.2018: Die bisher verwendeten Namen teils frei erfundener Unternehmen scheinen nicht mehr zu funktionieren. Deshalb haben sich die Kriminellen neue Firmierungen einfallen lassen. Diese sorgen selbstverständlich bei den Empfängern für neuen Unmut. Fallen Sie auf Fake-Firmen wie die Telecash GmbH nicht herein. Es gibt kein Unternehmen mit dieser Firmenbezeichnung. Auch die Umsatzsteuernummer USt-Id Nr.: DE 210092079 ist frei erfunden.
Update 04.09.2018: In einer neuen Variante der E-Mail wurde der Name der Firma geändert. Als Absender ist die „Paydirect GmbH & Co. KG“ <service@ckt24.ru> angegeben. Betreff der Nachricht ist: „Paydirect GmbH & Co. KG Max Mustermann – Ihr gespeichertes Girokonto ist nicht genügend gedeckt“. Auch diese E-Mail enthält eine ZIP-Datei im Anhang, die Sie nicht öffnen dürfen. Sie enthält mit hoher Wahrscheinlichkeit Schadsoftware.
Update 24.08.2018: Jetzt werden die vermeintlichen Mahnungen der Online Pay GmbH wieder mit der ZIP-Datei im Anhang versendet. Vermutlich sind demnach mehrere Varianten unterwegs. Mit Link und mit Datei-Anhang. Seien Sie in beiden Fällen vorsichtig und klicken Sie in der E-Mail nichts an.
Update 21.08.2018: Vorsicht. Es gibt neue Versionen der Mahnungen und Zahlungsaufforderungen. Diese werden beispielsweise im Namen der Sofortüberweisung GmbH & Co. KG oder Online Pay GmbH versendet. In den aktuellen E-Mails ist keine Datei im Anhang zu finden. Vielmehr sollen Sie die Rechnung über einen Link herunterladen. Doch wer den Link anklickt, lädt sich einen Virus auf den Computer. Deshalb unsere Warnung: Klicken Sie die Links in den E-Mails nicht an.
Update 14.08.2018: Die Betrüger geben keine Ruhe und versuchen weiterhin Schadsoftware über fingierte Rechnungen und Mahnungen auf die Computer der Opfer zu bringen. Aktuell werden die E-Mails wieder massiv versendet. Klicken Sie keine Anhänge an. Löschen Sie die E-Mail sofort.
Update 27.06.2018: Wieder haben sich die Kriminellen eine neue Firma ausgedacht. Jetzt werden die Mahnungen mit der angehängten ZIP-Datei im Namen einer Sofortüberweisung GbR <support@sofort.org>, Online Pay eG <billing@onlinepay.de>, Paydirect eG <rechnung@paydirect.de> und der Online Pay GbR <info@onlinepay.org> versendet. Im Anhang befindet sich nach wie vor Schadsoftware. Nicht öffnen!
Update 12.06.2018: Aktuell werden die gefälschten Mahnungen und Zahlungsaufforderungen mit Virus im Anhang wieder versendet. Derzeitiger Absender ist beispielsweise Sofortüberweisung GmbH <billing@sofort.com>. Öffnen Sie auf keinen Fall die ZIP-Datei im Anhang. Darin befindet sich die Schadsoftware.
Update 23.05.2018: Die nun schon seit Jahren versendeten Mahnungen und Zahlungsaufforderungen werden jetzt mit neuen Firmennamen versendet. Im Anhang befindet sich weiterhin eine ZIP-Datei mit einem gefährlichen Virus.
Update 05.09.2017: Die gefälschten Mahnungen mit der infizierten ZIP-Datei im Anhang werden Ende September wieder verstärkt versendet. Wir warnen davor, den Anhang zu öffnen.
Update 05.09.2017: Aktuell werden wieder verstärkt Mahnungen im Namen zahlreicher bekannter Unternehmen per E-Mail versendet. Der Virus im Anhang der E-Mail hat sich erneut verändert und wird noch nicht von allen Providern und Virenscannern erkannt. Deshalb ist besondere Vorsicht geboten. Nach wie vor wird als Absender häufig die E-Mail-Adresse news@newsletter.karstadt.de verwendet. Sehen Sie sich dazu diese Warnung an.
Update 21.08.2017: Seit Anfang August werden wieder Mahnungen mit korrekten persönlichen Daten versendet. Auch weiterhin befindet sich eine ZIP-Datei im Anhang, die von einigen Virenscannern noch nicht erkannt wird. Neu ist zudem ein Absender. Als E-Mail-Adresse des Versenders ist jetzt häufig Karstadt mit der E-Mail-Adresse news@newsletter.karstadt.de angegeben. Dabei handelt es sich natürlich wie bei den anderen Absenderadressen auch um eine Fälschung. Deshalb können Sie sich auch eine E-Mail an das Warenhaus sparen. Karstadt hat mit dem Versand der E-Mails nichts zu tun. Die E-Mail wurde vermutlich einfach aus einem Newsletter entnommen.
Update 28.06.2017: Die Kriminellen ändern jetzt ihre Strategie. Bisher wurden die Zahlungserinnerungen, Rechnungen und Mahnungen per E-Mail mit einer ZIP-Datei im Anhang versendet. Neuerdings versenden die Kriminellen die Mahnungen ohne Anhang. Dafür wurde ein Link zum Download der angeblichen Rechnung eingefügt. Doch Vorsicht: Das ist eine Falle. Wer den Link „Rechnung ansehen“ anklickt, der lädt sich eine ZIP-Datei mit einem Virus herunter. Wird diese samt der darin befindlichen Datei geöffnet, kann sich der Virus auf dem PC ausbreiten. So lautet beispielsweise der aktuelle Text der Spam-Mails:
Sehr geehrte/r Max Mustermann, leider haben wir festgestellt, dass unsere Erinnerung-Nr. 3918501 bislang ohne Reaktion Ihrerseits blieb. Heute gewähren wir Ihnen nun letztmalig die Möglichkeit, den nicht gedeckten Betrag der Firma Amazon GmbH zu begleichen. Aufgrund des bestehenden Zahlungsverzug sind Sie gezwungen zusätzlich, die durch unsere Inanspruchnahme entstandene Kosten von 198,52 Euro zu bezahlen. Bei Fragen oder Reklamationen erwarten wir eine Kontaktaufnahme innerhalb von 48 Stunden. Um zusätzliche Kosten zu vermeiden, bitten wir Sie den fälligen Betrag auf unser Konto zu überweisen. Berücksichtigt wurden alle Zahlungseingänge bis zum 29.06.2017. Eine vollständige Kostenaufstellung Nummer 9491817, der Sie alle Einzelpositionen entnehmen können, ist beigefügt. Rechnung ansehen Überweisen Sie den fälligen Betrag unter Angaben der Artikelnummer so rechtzeitig, dass dieser spätestens zum 30.06.2017 auf unserem Bankkonto verbucht wird. Können wird bis zum genannten Termin keine Zahlung bestätigen, sind wir gezwungen Ihre Forderung an ein Inkassounternehmen zu übergeben. Alle damit verbundenen zusätzliche Kosten gehen zu Ihrer Last. Mit besten Grüßen Rechtsanwalt Vincent Roberts
Wir warnen: Klicken Sie den Link auf keinen Fall an, sondern löschen Sie diese E-Mails.
Update 26.06.2017: Die E-Mails mit den Mahnungen im Namen von eBay, Amazon, Giropay, PayPal, der Pay Online24 GmbH, DirectPay AG, Online Pay GmbH und weiteren frei erfundenen Firmen werden immer unkonkreter. Wahrscheinlich geht den Kriminellen der Datenbestand aus. Mittlerweile werden nicht nur E-Mails ohne konkrete Anschrift versendet, sondern auch ohne personalisierte Anrede. Das ist insofern eine wichtige Information, dass die Spam-Mails daran erkennbar sind. Auch im Betreff fehlt die Information, sodass dort dann beispielsweise „Rechnung für vom 26.06.2017“ steht. Achten Sie auf diese Ungenauigkeiten!
Update: Seit 23.02.2017 werden die alt bekannten E-Mail-Mahnungen ohne die sonst übliche Angabe der korrekten Anschrift und der Telefonnummer versendet. Unklar ist, ob die Betrüger nunmehr auch Adressdaten ohne Anschrift nutzen, um den Kreis der Empfänger und damit die Verbreitung der Schadsoftware erheblich zu erhöhen. Bitte informieren Sie vorsichtshalber Freunde und Bekannte über die Gefahr. Sie können dafür die Teilen-Funktion oberhalb oder unterhalb der Warnung nutzen. Alternativ könnte es sich auch um ein technisches Problem handeln.

Story 64
The fall-out from US president Donald Trump's Chinese technology ban dominated the international ICT market last week.
At home it was extremely quiet.
Key local news
* Thesele Group made a 40% investment in Knowledge Integration Dynamics (KID), marking the investment holding company's first foray into the ICT space, and making KID South Africa's largest black-owned focused data management solutions company.
* A renewed JSE cautionary by EOH.
Key African news
* Good year-end figures from Ecobank Ghana, with revenue up 17% and PBT up 41%.
* Safaricom has extended the tenure of Bob Collymore, its current CEO, for 12 months.
* Xiaomi has dismissed the head of its Africa division for violating a Chinese law pertaining to indecent public behaviour.
* The appointments of Irene Charnley as deputy chairman of Smile Telecoms; and Ahmad Farroukh as group CEO of Smile Telecoms.
Key international news
* Alliance Data Systems acquired most of the assets of Blispay, a financial technology start-up.
* Champion Solutions Group bought DirecLogix, a fast-growing solution provider.
* DISH Network purchased EchoStar's Broadcast Satellite Service Business for $800 million.
* Freshworks, a global innovator in customer engagement software, acquired Natero, a leading customer success management software company.
* Marvell Technology Group bought the Avera Semiconductor chip-design unit, which was previously owned by IBM, from Globalfoundries, adding the ability to produce more specialised semiconductors needed for 5G phone networks and cloud data centres. The deal was worth $650 million.
* US payments technology firm Nuvei purchased SafeCharge International Group for $889 million, in a deal that is expected to allow the former to expand in the fast-growing electronic payments industry.
* Tetra Tech acquired UK-based WYG, a professional services firm.
* Toshiba Memory bought preferred shares held by Apple, Dell, Kingston Technology and Seagate Technology for $4.5 billion.
* Growth capital investors Lead Edge Capital, Lone Pine Capital and Vitruvian Partners led a $292 million investment in money transfer start-up TransferWise.
Nokia has been sued in the US for allegedly conspiring to inflate patent licence rates.
* Landmark European privacy law GDPR is making waves worldwide a year after it came into force, fundamentally changing the way data is handled, as Apple, Facebook and Google face increasingly frequent complaints.
* A US judge has ruled that Qualcomm illegally suppressed competition in the market for smartphone chips by threatening to cut off supplies and extracting excessive licensing fees, a decision that could force the company to overhaul its business practices.
* Nokia has been sued in the US for allegedly conspiring to inflate patent licence rates. The suit was filed by German auto parts supplier Continental Automotive Systems, which accused Nokia, a company known as Avanci, and two other patent-holders of co-ordinating to charge exorbitant rates for access to patents pertaining to 2G, 3G and 4G wireless technologies.
* Google has suspended business with Huawei that requires the transfer of hardware, software and technical services, except those publicly available via open source licensing.
* German chipmaker Infineon and several other companies have suspended shipments to Huawei Technologies.
* The Irish Data Protection Commission has started an inquiry into the way Google provides advertising services across the European Union.
* The US Commerce Department, in a concession, will allow Huawei Technologies to purchase American-made goods in order to maintain existing networks and provide software updates to existing Huawei handsets.
* Very good half-year figures from APC Technology Group, Endava and Viomi Technology.
* Good quarterly numbers from Intuit, Lenovo, ViaSat (back in the black), Weibo and Xiaomi.
* Good year-end numbers from Electrocomponents.
* Satisfactory quarterly results from Formula Systems, Mobile TeleSystems, Sina and Synopsys.
* Mediocre quarterly results from Analog Devices, DXC Technology and HPE.
* Mixed quarterly figures from HP, Opera and Photronics, with revenue up but net income down; and from ePlus, International Game Technology (but back in the black), and NetApp, with revenue down but net income up.
* Quarterly losses from Pinduoduo, Pure Storage, Qutoutiao, SEA and Splunk.
* A half-year loss from Cerillion.
* A full-year loss from TalkTalk.
* The appointments of Jane Annear as CEO of Concurrent Technologies; Allen Waugerman as CEO of Lexmark; and Andy Yang as CEO of Indiegogo.
* The departure of David Mandelbrot, CEO of Indiegogo.
* A planned IPO from Slack Technologies, owner of the workplace instant messaging app, in a direct listing on the NYSE.
Research results and predictions
Worldwide:
* Worldwide shipments of hardcopy peripherals decreased 3.9% year-over-year to 22.8 million units in 1Q19, with the brightest spot for the quarter the year-on-year expansion of colour inkjet MFPs in the 11ppm-20ppm range, which grew 4.7% to more than 6.2 million units shipped, according to IDC.
* Worldwide shipments of connected vehicles, which includes options for embedded and aftermarket cellular connectivity, will reach 51.1 million units in 2019, an increase of 45.4% over 2018, according to IDC. By 2023, it expects worldwide shipments to reach 76.3 million units, with a five-year CAGR of 16.8%.
* The number of devices connected to the Internet reached 22 billion worldwide at the end of 2018, according to Strategy Analytics.
Stock market changes
* JSE All share index: Down 3.1%
* FTSE100: Down 1%
* DAX: Down 1.9%
* NYSE (Dow): Down 0.7%
* S&P 500: Down 1.2%
* Nasdaq: Down 2.3%
* Nikkei225: Down 0.6%
* Hang Seng: Down 2.1%
* Shanghai: Down 1%
Look out for
International:
* Global Payments doing a deal with Total System Services.
South Africa:
* Further developments regarding EOH.
Final word
Fortune magazine recently published its 2019 Top 500 list. The following changes were noted from a technology perspective:
Newcomers:
* 150: Broadcom
* 327: Altice USA
* 460: AMD
* 472: Analog Devices
* 482: Intuit
Most progressive:
* 122: DXC Technology (was 374)
* 287: Lam Research (was 354)
* 197: Netflix (was 261)
* 339: Adobe (was 389)
* 240: Salesforce.com (was 285)
* 105: Micro Technology (was 150)
* 268: Nvidia (was 306)
Most regressive:
* 332: First Data (was 254)
* 474: Harris (was 407)
* 165: Avnet (was 128)
* 465: NCR (was 432)
* 355: Frontier Communications (was 325)
* 232: DISH Network (was 203)
* 248: Viacom (was 221)
* 318: Xerox (was 291)
No longer in the 500 list:
* Conduent (was 466)

Story 65
Despite a lot of fear about, and problems across the world, markets don't seem to care.
Would you believe it, half the year is over?
And it has been a surprisingly excellent year so far. I have had some spectacular gains and I am sure many investors have done the same.
It's been relatively easy. But there are been some nasty ones lurking around as well, it you have managed to avoid those then some shares have put on huge gains.
This has made me a bit wary for the rest of the year. I am more than happy and happy to hang onto the gains and not give some back.
So it makes me a bit wary for the rest of the year given potential political pitfalls looming. I might go back into more cash over the summer.
Surprise! Despite a lot of fear about, and problems across the world, markets don't seem to care.
What's interesting is they don't seem to care about brexit which makes me wonder whether they simply expect Theresa May's deal a bit fudged, or let's say with some sprinkles of sugar on top to go through.
From an investor's point of view, that's probably the best outcome, clear out uncertainty, get an election out of the way and see the end of Corbyn.
Worst scenario? No deal worked out and a Corbyn government by default which would see a massive market tumble.
It's going to be a very interesting autumn!
Two seminars in close succession, the one for beginners and then the one for those who've been before has left me with a whole bundle of great trade ideas!
Some of the ideas I have already acted on and bought and some are on the back burner waiting for the right price.
I simply don't have the energy or patience to list anywhere near all of the buys here, so I will go some instead.
I haven't bought a retailer in years - I have only shorted because the retail space is in such a terrible state.
So I kind of surprised myself by buying one!
( ) actually looks pretty decent! It sells shoes obviously but is changing its format from small stores on small high streets to mega stores and this switch seems to be working.
It looks mega cheap, it actually has net cash so it's not going bust, and directors seem very confident and are buying shares.
As well as the new big store format being rolled out its digital offering is being upped too which seems very sensible.
The margins it makes on its strongest products is on the up and now at 62% which is decent.
Dividend payout is nearly 7 per cent too. Plus I can buy near lows AND a massive support point on the chart.
So though not a shoe buyer as I knock about in trainers (I know disgusting for someone my age, it shouldn't be allowed) I find myself a fan
of !
I've bought some ( ), another we discussed at the seminars.
An interesting new issue liked by the market which marked it up from the issue price right away.
It provides foreign exchange services to institutions, corporates and the wealthy.
Digging around to find figures took ages with lengthy documents to bung though.
But overall it looks good. Profits and revenues have risen every year for many years and it looks a healthy business.
It also wasn't floated on too high a price. Whether the mark up so far is right or not is hard to tell but a toe in the water on this one.
The Mission Marketing ( ) kept showing up on share scans and it was chosen by two at the follow up - it looked good fundamentally so I bought some live.
Most investors are too fearful to buy shares that have already gone up a lot but always seems crazy to me, why not buy a winner?
This marketing outfit is strong and keeps on performing. Profits are up and they are paying off the debt and there is not much of that left.
The only thing that put me off was the chairman started off his statement thus: "Quaquaversatility: it's what it's all about."
(I always thought it was you put your left leg in, your right leg out - that surely is what it's all about?)

Some share holds dropped for a short time for no real reason so I took advantage for some top ups!
( ) announced a massive placing and a huge buy of another company.
It is enormous for the company and it's going to be transformed.
I would expect the shares to gradually rise and I'll definitely take part in the 1 for 4 share offer at 240.
In the meantime I have added some more, I would think another 100p will be added into the price by winter.
Solid State ( ) did that "fall on results day for no real reason other than profit taking" so I topped up with another buy. Looks extremely cheap and I'm after a target of 600p. Perhaps when it can get past 500p it could motor.
Iomart ( ) a long term hold fell, again for little reason and I topped up there, a similar story with (GBG) which again overfell and I was happy to average up yet again there, a big future still lies ahead for GBG.
I shorted Dominos ( ) as it looks to be toppy at 280 and it has a range of 240-280. If it happens I would take profits at 240 then maybe go long unless the downtrend continues.
I tried a small short in Pennon which failed for a tiny loss at a get out quick stop we did at one of the seminars. I have tried once again today with another short as it is close to the top of its range.
Massive profits banked in Future of £6,172.
Been a brilliant buy but not sure why, there seems to be a downtrend. I didn't get out anywhere near the recent top but a decent ride all the way from 387p !
Big profits on CCC have become too hard to resist so banked they are and a nice quick profit of £2,850 on those.
I took more profits on Safecharge which got bid for as another bid hasn't materialised - profits for the website are more than £18,000 and more than £100,000 personally. That doesn't include the massive dividend payouts over the last years.
I took profits on Spirent as it doesn't seem to want to go higher for now so that's profits banked of £1,180.
The M and S short has been a dream short but time to bank profits of £970 there.
That's site profits banked of £11,172.
Phew, that's about as much as I can cope with writing, for those of you who subscribe to the email there are a couple of extra higher risk trades there.
It's quite possible we might be in for a decent summer in the share market but autumn could be tricky so I think I will do some quiet profit taking over the summer and build up cash.

Story 66
Payment solutions provider SafeCharge has announced the launch of StarsCard, a PokerStars-branded prepaid MasterCard that allows poker players in the UK to withdraw and deposit direct to their bank account.
The partnership will operate only in the UK for the time being, although an Italian version of a Visa StarsCard also seems to be operational, where SafeCharge will manage the prepaid MasterCard payment solution for PokerStars customers. The card was made available to UK players on 16 April and will be rolled out in other international markets in the future.
The new payment product was welcomed by analysts at Numis Securities, who in a research note commented that the gaming transactions by PokerStars customers would be "cheaper for both PokerStars and the player than some alternative payment methods" although "it will take some time to see if the product will be a success".
"All merchants would like their customers to use lower-cost payment methods but have had only mixed success in encouraging them to do so. PokerStars is a major online gambling merchant and there is potential to roll out this white label payment method to other operators and countries. The UK, with a wide range of existing payment options, may be a relatively poor location to test the potential of the product and we may have to wait until it has been established in other countries before being able to make a proper assessment".
The deal was further welcomed by Numis because SafeCharge is majority controlled by Teddy Sagi, Playtech founder and shareholder, and has no shareholding relationship with PokerStars, thus "confirming SafeCharge’s ability to establish new merchant relationships". Numis added: "It is a significant success for the recently announced card issuing strategy based on 3V, the card-issuing business acquired in December 2014."
The StarsCard can be used anywhere MasterCard is accepted and provides a web and mobile account that can be funded by vouchers available at retail stores, bank transfer or a debit card, it is integrated into the world’s biggest poker site and can be used to deposit and cash out directly from player accounts.
SafeCharge added that StarsCard allows PokerStars customers to have a single point of deposit but with additional features for cashing out, spending and sending money to friends and family.
SafeCharge also announced that Tim Mickley will move from being chief financial offcier to group business development director. He will be replaced by Ali Khwaja, who joined SafeCharge in February 2015 and will continue to manage the Card Services division.

Story 67
Hans-Christian Dirscherl
Betrüger versuchen mit Mails, die sich als Rechnungen tarnen, Malware auf Windows-PCs einzuschmuggeln. Eine aktuelle Liste der angeblichen Absender.
Vergrößern Polizei: Mails mit gefälschten Rechnungen und Malware © istockphoto.com/foto-ruhrgebiet
Die Polizei von Niedersachsen warnt davor, dass Internet-Betrüger immer noch im großen Stil Fake-Rechnungen per Mail an potenzielle Opfer verschicken. Die Ganoven verwenden unterschiedliche Firmennamen als Absender für ihre angeblichen Rechnungen. Die Firmennamen sind teilweise frei erfunden, teilweise handelt es sich aber auch um tatsächlich existierende Unternehmen.
Die Betreffzeile der Betrügermails nimmt Bezug auf eine angeblich nicht durchführbare Kontoabbuchung. Die Mails sind in der Regel in nahezu einwandfreiem Deutsch geschrieben und wirken vergleichsweise authentisch. In den Mails wird den Adressaten mit unterschiedlichen Maßnahmen gedroht, beispielsweise mit Einleitung eines Gerichtsverfahrens oder der Hinzuziehung eines Inkassobüros. In der Mail stehen, wie die Polizei betont, „fast ausschließlich komplette Personendatensätze (Vorname, Nachname, Anschrift und Rufnummer) der Angeschriebenen“, die laut den Betroffenen, die sich bei der Polizei gemeldet haben, auch real seien beziehungsweise waren.
Die Betrüger wollen mit den gefakten Rechnungsmails Schadsoftware auf die PCs der Adressaten schmuggeln. Die Malware verbirgt sich entweder in einem Mailanhang oder soll per Link heruntergeladen werden.
Die Mailadressen, von denen diese Betrügermails verschickt werden, sind vorgetäuscht. Meist handelt es sich dabei um private Mailadressen, beispielsweise von t-online.de.
Wichtig: Seriöse Unternehmen verschicken Mahnung in der Regel per Postbrief.
Die Polizei hat diese Liste mit den missbräuchlich genutzten Unternehmensnamen zusammengestellt (die Liste erhebt keinen Anspruch auf Vollständigkeit; links die Namen aus den Spammails und rechts die echten Unternehmensnamen):
Commdoo GmbH/AG - CommDoo GmbH
Easycash AG - Ingenico Payment Services GmbH
Giropay eG - giropay GmbH
Concardis GmbH/GbR - Concardis GmbH
EOS GmbH & Co KG - EOS Deutscher Inkasso-Dienst GmbH
DirectPay AG - scheint es im deutschsprachigen Raum nicht zu geben, aber vermutlich in Anlehnung an den Dienst paydirekt der Sparkassen
VR-Pay Virtuell GmbH - VR Payment GmbH (Volks&Raiffeisenbank)
Wirecard GmbH - Wirecard AG
EasyPay GbR - scheint es im deutschsprachigen Raum nicht zu geben, aber vermutlich in Anlehnung an den Dienst von Swisscom
Paycom GmbH - scheint es im deutschsprachigen Raum nicht zu geben
SecuPay GmbH - secupay AG
Micropayment GmbH/AG/eG - micropayment GmbH
Heidelpay Co KG/Limited & Co KG/eG - heidelpay GmbH
Novalnet GmbH/Limited & Co KG - Novalnet AG
Sofortueberweisung/Sofortüberweisung AG/eG - Sofort GmbH/Klarna
Expercash Limited & Co KG/ GmbH & Co KG - scheint es im deutschsprachigen Raum nicht zu geben
SafeCharge GmbH - SafeCharge Limited
Girosolution - GiroSolution GmbH
Worlpay - Worldpay, LLC
Paymorrow - InterCard AG / Geschäftsbereich Paymorrow
Docdata Payments Co KG - CM Payments B.V. - Part of CM Payments
Payone GmbH - BS PAYONE GmbH (Tochterunternehmen der Deutscher Sparkassen Verlag GmbH)
Telecash eG - Telecash von First Data GmbH
Ecardon - ecardon payments GmbH

Wie immer gilt: Klicken Sie nicht auf Mailanhänge von Ihnen unbekannten Mails und auch nicht auf Links in Ihnen unbekannten Mails. Vergewissern Sie sich bei unerwarteten Mails oder Ihnen verdächtig erscheinenden Mails immer auf einem anderen Weg beim Absender, ob dieser die Mail tatsächlich verschickt hat.

Falls Sie Opfer einer derartigen Betrugsmail werden, dann erstatten Sie Anzeige bei der Polizei.

Halten Sie den Virenscanner Ihres Windows-Rechners immer auf dem aktuellen Stand und spielen Sie Sicherheitsupdates für Ihr Windows zeitnah auf. Heute hat Microsoft übrigens für Windows wieder neue Sicherheits-Updates bereitgestellt.


Story 68
This Visa press release identifies 20 new gateway and acquirer partners that have agreed to deploy Visa Token Service for credential-on-file (COF but also referred to as card on file by most) used by merchants. Unlike other token services that target issuers provisioning a mobile handset this token service is designed to help merchants remove card data from the merchant environment by replacing it with tokens:
“SAN FRANCISCO–(BUSINESS WIRE)–Visa Inc. (NYSE:V) today announced the commercial expansion of the Visa Token Service for credential-on-file (COF) token requestors, marking a major milestone towards further securing consumer payments in the digital channel.
“Adyen is excited to be the first acquirer in the payments ecosystem with in-market solutions to support and offer Visa Token Service to our global merchants”
Tweet this
With this expansion, acquirer gateway and technology partners Adyen, AsiaPay, Braintree, Checkout.com, Cherri Tech, CyberSource, Elavon, Ezidebit, eWAY, Fit-Pay, Giesecke & Devrient, PayPal, Payscout, Rambus,SafeCharge, SecureCo, Square, Stripe, Worldpay and YellowPepper are or will soon be able to tokenize credential-on-file digital payments on behalf of their merchant and payment clients.”
While this service can help small and medium size merchants that may still be wrestling with the PCI requirements for protecting card data, it is unlikely to attract most large merchants that have already addressed PCI using encryption and/or tokenization solutions such as those available from First Data (TransArmor), Worldpay (Incryptify), and others.
It is unclear what this service costs or if that cost is locked in for any specific period of time. The use of card on file by merchants is growing as merchants take the lead in implementing mobile apps that deliver real convenience and value to consumers. These apps drive purchases and payments providing meaningful consumer services such as mobile order ahead and loyalty solutions.
This advantage that merchants have in driving mobile usage and payments appears to be spilling over into voice initiated payments made via Google Assistant and Alexa. The payment networks are surely trying to identify a strategy that will promote their one-click solutions (Checkout and Masterpass) over card on file solutions but it is unclear if this initiative by Visa would play a part in any such strategy. This is of course speculative but what is clear is that the networks are watching merchants take the lead and that card on file could perhaps be too easily converted to a direct debit transaction or a faster payment transaction that is not controlled by the networks.
Overview by Tim Sloane, VP, Payments Innovation at Mercator Advisory Group

Story 69
Share
tweet

StumbleUpon Submit

Payment Expert Forum, the only event for payments technology in the online gambling industry, has attracted an impressive speaker line-up that includes senior staff from leading operators such as GVC Holdings, Stars Group, Pinnacle and Betsson Group, and payments solutions suppliers Trustly, SafeCharge, Hipay and Checkout.com.
Organised by SBC in partnership with PaymentExpert.com, the event at Olympia London on Wednesday 18 September is designed to allow suppliers to discuss their latest innovations and for payments professionals from operators to share insights into the sector’s rapidly-changing requirements.
Samuel Barrett, Director of Gaming for Trustly, is to chair the Payment Expert Forum, which he sees as a must-attend event for all stakeholders in the sector: “I’m excited to be chair of what is a key event for the payments industry, with an impressive line-up of speakers drawn from major betting companies and some of the most innovative suppliers. It’s the best opportunity for anyone involved in payments in the online gambling sector to learn about the latest developments and meet professionals from both operators and suppliers.”
Paul Bolton, Head of Payments for GVC Group, said: “The rapidly-changing nature of the payments sector presents operators with many opportunities, but also poses some very real operational challenges. Payment Expert Forum provides the chance for payments specialists to share insights into how to manage that change to ensure compliance with existing and planned regulations, while also helping to deliver a better experience for customers.”
Isabelle Delisle, Head of Payments for Pinnacle, added: “There are a lot of challenges on the horizon for digital payments in the gambling industry, so the timing of the Payment Expert Forum couldn’t be better. It’s the perfect opportunity for the payments sector to connect and share best practice for the future health of the industry.”
Rasmus Sojmark, CEO of SBC, said: “We’ve seen huge interest in the latest Payment Expert Forum from both the online gambling industry and payment technology suppliers, demonstrating that there is a genuine need for this event. The rising number of sponsors, exhibitors and delegates related to the Payment Expert Forum is another exciting development for SBC, as our portfolio of market-leading betting and igaming industry events continues its strong growth.”
The topics for the conference content were selected to focus on the major challenges and opportunities in the industry, with sessions on:
Betting’s future relationship with fintech
Payments in emerging markets
Player authentication automation
Age verification
Mobile payments
The future of cryptocurrencies in the betting industry
The future of payments and data
The speakers at the event are drawn from a range of key stakeholder groups, with operator representatives such as Paul Bolton (Head of Payments, GVC Group), Jamie Frendo (Head of AML & Risk Operations, Betsson Group), Isabelle Delisle (Head of Payments, Pinnacle), Richard Connolly (Associate Director of Payments Business Development, Stars Group), Paloma Gonzalez (Head of Payments, Vbet), António Veríssimo (VP of Payments, Addison Global / MoPlay) and Joaquim Duarte Silva (Financial Director, Bet Entertainment Technologies).
Payments solutions providers confirmed to speak include Beyza Orazova (Business Development Manager – iGaming, DIMOCO), Umberto Corridori (SVP Sales EU, SafeCharge), Chris Smart (SVP Global Gambling & FX Sectors, Emerchantpay), Simon Dorsen (Director of Gaming, OKTO), Bryan Blake (CEO, Hexopay), Justin Ferrabee (CEO, Mazooma), Andrea McGeachin (Chief Commercial Officer, Neosurf), Marc Wood (Head of Gaming, Pay360), Warren Russell (Chair, Age Verification Providers Association), Tony Allen (Founder & CEO, Age Check Certification Scheme), Stephen Quinn, Group Chief Strategy Officer, OpenPayd), Andrew Clover (CEO, Credis UK), James Baston-Pitt (Senior Business Development Manager, Onfido) and Laurent Reysbosch (VP of Sales, Checkout.com).
Payment Expert Forum takes place at Olympia London on Wednesday 18 September and is part of SBC’s international flagship event Betting on Sports 2019, which runs from 17 – 20 September.
Betting on Sports and the associated CasinoBeats Summit are attended by 3,500 delegates from 60 countries, and feature 300 expert speakers across 13 conference tracks and 120 exhibitors on two exhibition floors. Passes for Payment Expert Forum also give delegates access to Betting on Sports, CasinoBeats Summit and a range of high-quality evening networking events at some of London’s most stylish venues.

Story 70
In October 2015, Worldpay floated on the London Stock Exchange, with an opening market capitalisation of roughly £4.8bn. Less than two years later, the payments technology group received a £9.3bn takeover offer from US payments peer Vantiv. The deal completed in January 2018, resulting in an enlarged company with a primary listing in New York and a secondary listing in London. The reincarnated behemoth – still known as Worldpay – now processes 40bn transactions each year.
To continue reading, subscribe today and enjoy unlimited access to the following: Tips of the Week
Funds coverage
Weekly features on big investment themes
Trading ideas
Comprehensive companies coverage
Economic analysis Subscribe

Story 71
E-commerce felice e senza frodi per Mandarina Duck Per le attività di commercio online, l’azienda produttrice di borse e accessori ha adottato la piattaforma di pagamento e i sistemi antifrode di SafeCharge. Pubblicato il 15 maggio 2019 da Redazione
I colori pastello e il design, ma anche la comodità e la robustezza delle sue borse sono noti in Italia e nel resto del mondo. Nata nel 1977, Mandarina Duck è storicamente uno dei vanti del made in Italy nel campo degli accessori, sebbene nel 2011 sia stata acquisita dal gruppo coreano E-Land. L’internazionalizzazione delle attività è sostenuta da una rete di circa 500 punti vendita ma anche dal canale e-commerce, ed è a tal proposito che l’azienda recentemente ha avuto bisogno di dotarsi di una nuova piattaforma per i pagamenti online. Mandarina Duck puntava sostanzialmente a due obiettivi: il primo, garantire a sé stessa e ai clienti delle procedure sicure, al riparo dal rischio di frodi; il secondo, fornire una user experience soddisfacente, che potesse aiutare ad aumentare i tassi di conversione. In merito al primo obiettivo, la società era intenzionata ad aggiungere ai siti di e-commerce delle procedure di controllo 3D Secure (come i protocolli di sicurezza MasterCard SecureCode e Verified by Visa, per esempio).

Mandarina Duck si è dunque rivolta a SafeCharge, società britannico-israeliana che fornisce servizi di pagamento internazionali, supportati dai principali circuiti di carte di credito e debito (tra cui Visa, Mastercard, American Express e Union Pay) e da altri metodi alternativi. Propone, inoltre, servizi antifrode e soluzioni di gestione del rischio.

"Il nostro obiettivo è aiutare le aziende partner ad incrementare il volume delle vendite offrendo un ambiente di pagamento sicuro”, racconta Umberto Corridori, senior vice president sales Eu di SafeCharge. "La pagina di checkout di SafeCharge include funzionalità innovative, progettate per creare un'esperienza di pagamento immediata e senza problemi per i clienti”. Tra le funzionalità a cui Corridori fa riferimento ci sono le procedure one-click per i clienti abituali, il supporto nel caso di pagamenti non completati e i controlli di sicurezza Dynamic 3D Secure. “Un processo di pagamento online senza interruzioni, supportato da una tecnologia di ultima generazione, è fondamentale per un'esperienza d’acquisto che gratifichi il cliente”, sottolinea il senior vice president.

Dunque è stato possibile realizzare una pagina di checkout personalizzabile e capace di adattarsi allo strumento di consultazione, cioè sia esso un Pc o uno smartphone. Collegandosi al motore di pagamento SafeCharge, inoltre, la pagina di checkout dei siti di Mandarina Duck può elaborare in maniera efficace le transazioni ed eseguire i controlli antifrode senza creare rallentamenti nelle procedure o nei tempi di caricamento delle pagine. L’intero processo è snello perché le verifiche di sicurezza vengono eseguite in due fasi: una prima, più rapida, in cui viene fatta un’analisi di massima su tutte le transazioni, e una seconda in cui solo quelle “sospette” vengono sottoposte a ulteriori e specifici controlli di autenticazione.

Story 72
Become an FT subscriber to read:
Leverage our market expertise
Expert insights, analysis and smart data help you cut through the noise to spot trends, risks and opportunities.
Join over 300,000 Finance professionals who already subscribe to the FT.

Story 73
Our website uses cookies, as almost all websites do, to help provide you with the best experience we can.

Cookies are small text files that are placed on your computer or mobile phone when you browse websites.

Our cookies help us:

- Make our website work as you’d expect
- Remember your settings during and between visits
- Offer you free services/content (thanks to advertising)
- Improve the speed/security of the site
- Allow you to share pages with social networks like Facebook
- Continuously improve our website for you
- Make our marketing more efficient (ultimately helping us to offer the service we do at the price we do)

We do not use cookies to:

- Collect any personally identifiable information (without your express permission)
- Collect any sensitive information (without your express permission)
- Pass personally identifiable data to third parties
- Pay sales commissions
Terms of Service Required

Story 74
The EU Payment Services Directive II (PSD2) took effect in January, starting a trend towards increased competition by opening up the payments market to a new wave of payment service providers (PSPs) and fintechs. To help navigate this evolving landscape bobsguide has compiled a list of the best mobile payment apps and digital payment services platforms.
Adyen
Netherlands-based online payments processor Adyen was founded back in 2006. Since then, the company has processed more than €108 billion worth of payments in 2017 alone. Its founders viewed the old methods and infrastructure as outdated and set out to build a payments platform capable of helping businesses grow and meet the new digital demands of the 21st century consumer. The company name is rather fitting for such an ambitious undertaking, with Adyen being the Surinamese word for “start over again”. The digital payment services platform counts e-commerce powerhouse like eBay and peer-to-peer ridesharing and taxi network Uber among its clients.
Worldpay
It is impossible to talk about digital payment services platforms without mentioning Worldpay. It is easily one of the biggest players in the global payments market, partly due to its merger of equals deal with UK-based rival Vantiv which saw the newly formed London-headquartered company valued at more than $32 billion. In a sector where size matters, Worldpay has grown its product range to include everything from card machines and point-of-sale (POS) terminals to online and email payments solutions. The company works closely with small and medium-sized enterprises and multinational corporations. On a daily basis Worldpay processes over 31 million mobile, online and in-store transactions, serving merchants in 146 countries.
PayPal
The San Jose, California-based digital payment services platform PayPal recently acquired Swedish SME payments solutions specialist iZettle for a whopping $2.2bn this year. One of the market leaders in the payments space, PayPal’s rivals will need to watch the company’s movements carefully with its president and chief executive officer Daniel Schulman recently announcing that it is willing to deploy more than $3bn per annum on acquisitions in order to expand its global reach and enhance its payment capabilities. Its size is one of the reasons why PayPal’s mobile payment app is so widely used by consumers and businesses alike, allowing users to send money anywhere in the world in a matter of seconds. PayPal even offers retail customers and SMEs access to credit facilities.
SafeCharge International
Advances in digital payment methods have driven a trend away from old, antiquated payment processes in favour of more dynamic online platforms that offer a wide range of services and products. To stay ahead of the curve and the competition, SafeCharge International has invested heavily to create one of the markets most transparent, reliable and flexible digital payment services platforms. The Guernsey-registered company has a strong strong presence in Europe, but has expanded its geographical coverage to major financial hubs like Singapore and New York City in order to access Asian and North American markets. Unlike some of its rivals, the company offers end-to-end payment solutions, offering everything from payment gateways, to mobile payment marketplace applications.
Paysafe
Isle of Man-based digital payments services provider Paysafe offers online merchants and high street retailers the ability to easily plug into its platform solution, helping them to process transactions quickly and securely. Its platform allows clients to easily onboard customers accounts, make money transfers, collect payments and route payouts to multiple users through its suite of application programming interfaces (APIs). Paysafe recently expanded its geographical footprint of its money transfer business, Skrill Send Direct; adding access to nine new countries: Columbia, Ecuador, El Salvador, Honduras, India, Morocco, Venezuela and Vietnam.
Western Union
The company is one of the largest players in cross-border payments and offers some of the most innovative methods for multi-currency money transfers. Its newest product is a bill payment platform that allows customers to pay their rent, mortgage or other payment cross-border in over 135 currencies. Western Union’s WU EDGE platform is a major revenue generator for the business, allowing SMEs to make cross-border transactions, access cash and risk management tools. But what makes Western Union unique is its strong network of physical branches, essential in economies that lack a strong digital payments infrastructure. In 2017, the company processed more than 800 million transactions for retail and business customers.
Google Pay
To keep pace with its rivals Google created its own alternative payment method in the form of Google Pay. Its mobile payment app offers users a faster, simpler and more transparent method of payment online, in-store and for a myriad of other partner products and services such as taxi rides, cinema tickets and food delivery. Google Pay is available as a method of payment across a number of chains including Transport for London (TfL), Airbnb and Deliveroo, to name just a few. Its popularity as an alternative payment method is not only due to its ease of use, but because personal information is stored safely with Google Pay boasting strong security protections and encryption.
Worldline
Atos-owned Worldline is a european leader in the payments and transactional services industry, an accolade strengthened by its acquisition of Swiss exchange operator SIX Group’s payment services unit in May this year - a deal valued at over €2.3 billion. The acquisition has given Worldline the scale to better serve its new and existing customers and drive the trend towards a truly cashless society in Europe. Worldline was founded back in 1973, which is a testament to its ability to invest effectively in order to evolve the methods in which it delivers its products and services to meet the demands of a market that has seen unprecedented change in the digital age.
Stripe
US-based digital payments services platform Stripe specialises in servicing e-commerce to help companies operating in the space have access simple to use tools to create their online marketplaces and accept payments seamlessly. Stripe has invested heavily in its platform to add innovative features to its platform to assist online businesses in every part of the payments process. Everything from accepting and processing payments to settlement and reconciliation. It also has an excellent mobile payment app available on iOS and Android SDK, as well as on mobile web. Stripe also has partnerships with Alipay and iDEAL in order to ensure that its customers have access to payment networks around the world.
Square
US-based Square helps millions of businesses to accept card payments with its Square Reader at a fraction of the cost of larger point of sale (POS) providers. Its platform offers merchants big and small, in the high street and online, access to real-time analytics tools and inventory management solutions. Its latest product is its iPad POS which epitomises what the company has always stood for; offering businesses a payment solution that is easy to acquire, setup and use, while also providing a level of service capable of competing with any of its rivals in the market.
Alipay
Alibaba Group, the world’s largest e-commerce marketplace created online payment app and digital payment services platform Alipay in response to its US rivals creating their own alternative payment methods. As it stands, Alipay boasts more than 520m users globally, offering privacy protection to make sure that businesses and their customers' information stays personal and real-time monitoring on top of one of the best in-class payments platforms. Alipay has partnerships with the likes of Stripe to offer enhanced coverage in North America and other markets where it lacks its own payments infrastructure to ensure its customers can complete transactions anywhere and any time.
Trustly
Swedish e-payments provider Trustly specialises in working with online merchants. The online payment solution provider, which allows direct transactions between bank accounts - eliminating middlemen such as Visa or Paypal, is established in 29 European countries.
Apple Pay
The list would not be complete without mentioning Apple Pay which is arguably the most recognisable mobile payment app in the market, with the payments platform boasting more than 127 million users around the world, supported by around 2,700 banks. Apple Pay helps consumers and businesses process payments in app, in-store and online in a fast and secure manner. Apple was one of the first smartphone manufacturers to adopt biometric security features and has applied that application to its payments software, with users able to authorise transactions on their mobiles by simply resting their finger on its Touch ID application. Apple Pay also offers people the ability to easily add credit, debit or prepaid cards to its wallet, so in the event that a customer is leaves their purse at home they can still make necessary payments.

Story 75
U.S.-based fintech Broadridge Financial announced on Monday it has completed its acquisition of RPM Technologies, a Canadian wealth management technology provider. Broadridge revealed it was acquiring the company last month for approximately $300 million. Broadridge stated at the time:
“Building on Broadridge’s strong Canadian Wealth Management business, the acquisition will bring important new capabilities and next-generation technology to both RPM’s and Broadridge’s clients.”
Tom Carey, President of Global Technology and Operations at Broadridge, also explained:
“The addition of RPM Technologies broadens and deepens our wealth management product offering in Canada. We are very pleased to add RPM’s state-of-the-art platforms and blue-chip client roster. This investment underscores our commitment to bring value-added technology solutions to the industry, and it supports our longer-term strategy of building a strong North American Wealth business.”
Broadridge then noted that RPM’s technology platforms support over 15 million customer accounts and build on Broadridge’s Canadian wealth management business, providing a solution set for the retail banking sector and adding enhanced mutual fund and deposit manufacturing capabilities. The company added:

Story 76
12/04/2018 11:36
La compagnia aerea del Gruppo Uvet sigla una partnership con l'azienda specializzata in pagamenti cross-channel
Un nuovo partner per i pagamenti per Blue Panorama Airlines. La compagnia aerea italiana interamente controllata dal Gruppo Uvet ha siglato infatti un accordo con SafeCharge, azienda specializzata nelle tecnologie di pagamento la cui piattaforma end-to-end fornisce una connessione intelligente e diretta a Visa e MasterCard e, come si legge in una nota, “rappresenta un servizio all-in-one particolarmente interessante per le compagnie aeree, in quanto consente l'implementazione di una logica di instradamento automatico dei pagamenti, l'accesso a informazioni dettagliate e il buon esito delle transazioni”.
“Una delle sfide che Blue Panorama Airlines si è trovata ad affrontare – spiega il comunicato - è stata la capacità di accettare pagamenti tramite canali diversi, problematica risolta da SafeCharge grazie alla sua soluzione di elaborazione dei pagamenti cross-channel messa a disposizione dei clienti che acquistano i biglietti attraverso canali diversi tra cui le agenzie di viaggio, il sito web e i call center dedicati”.
"Blue Panorama è un'azienda tipicamente italiana, il cuo obiettivo principale è quello di portare i clienti nelle destinazioni più belle in totale comfort e sicurezza - ha dichiarato Giancarlo Zeni, ceo di Blue Panorama Airlines -. Vogliamo estendere la nostra reputazione al nostro sistema di pagamenti, e lavorare con SafeCharge significa offrire ai clienti l'esperienza, l'affidabilità, la sicurezza e la scelta del metodo di pagamento che desiderano, mantenendo la nostra attività al sicuro dal rischio di frodi".

Story 77
Questor share tip: newly floated Essensys sells the software that allows flexible workplaces to function smoothly
Flexible workspaces are cool – we have WeWork to thank for that – and enjoying spectacular growth. This week’s stock has carved out a clever niche in the supply of software that makes everything run smoothly for the operators and occupants of these offices.
Essensys, which floated only last week on Aim, has been growing pretty impressively itself. Founded in 2006, its “Connect” software, which provides the vast majority of its sales, is now installed in 303 sites. Its technology, which is based in the “cloud” and also includes a package called “Operate”, handles everything from...

Story 78
Bulls Take 21-11 Lead In First Half, But End Up Falling To CavsKevin Love had 17 points and 20 rebounds, Tristan Thompson scored 23 points and the Cleveland Cavaliers defeated the Chicago Bulls on Wednesday night.
Bears’ Matt Nagy Doesn’t Clear Up Communication Issues On Missed Game-Winning Field GoalAs much as Matt Nagy is trying to turn his attention to the Philadelphia Eagles, "#hashmark" is still trending at Halas Hall.
'Given Where Both Teams Are, Like The Eagles In This One' CBS Minnesota's Mike Max On Sunday's Bears-Eagles MatchupCBS Minnesota sports anchor Mike Max weighs in with his thoughts on Sunday's rematch between the Bears and Eagles.
'Through The Lens Of CBS Sports: College Football At 150' To Celebrate The Sport's Rich HistoryThe network celebrates the 150th anniversary of college football with a new documentary "Through The Lens Of CBS Sports: College Football At 150."
Malik Zaire: 'Florida's Run Defense Will Be Key Against Georgia'Former Gators and Notre Dame QB Malik Zaire looks at the key points in Saturday's matchup between bitter SEC East rivals Florida and Georgia.
NCAA Moves Closer To Letting College Athletes Profit From Use Of Name And Image; Bill Pending In Illinois

Story 79
Beauchamp Place in London is embracing WeChat Pay en masse in drive to modernise and attract new customers to old shops
Beauchamp Place, the once-famous street behind Harrods and home to the legendary San Lorenzo restaurant, is not the most likely scene for a retail revolution, but in a drive to attract more high-spending Chinese tourists, several shops are working together to roll out acceptance of WeChat Pay and AliPay.
Working with payment service company SafeCharge, four leading shops in the street – McKenna & Co, Lalage Beaumont, Grace Han and Gladwell Patterson – are all piloting simple technology that allows them to easily take payments from these leading Chinese payment tools.
In addition, the move to WeChatPay means that not only can they take China’s most popular mobile payment mechanism, but can also use the social site to show tourists in the local area that they are there and ready to do business.
Located at the heart of Knightsbridge, Beauchamp Place is one of London’s most prestigious and iconic shopping destinations. Risen to fame during the late 70’s with the establishment of luxury shops and Nouvelle Cuisine restaurants, it set itself apart for being able to provide an exclusive shopping experience to customers from all over the world.
Having recently witnessed an increase in the number of Chinese customers visiting the area, local merchants saw an opportunity to embrace technology as a strategic differentiator in order to become more attractive and provide the shopping experience these customers expect.
According to statistics from the UK China Visitor Alliance (UKCVA), the number of Chinese visitors to the UK soared by more than 150% in the past five years, injecting billions of pounds into the local economy.
Having recognised the business opportunity presented by the ever increasing number of Chinese tourists willing to pay with either WeChat or Alipay, Beauchamp Place began the rollout of the SafeCharge Point of Sale app across its well-known brands, enabling merchants to process QR code-based transactions for the most frictionless tap-and-go shopping experience.
For retailers the process is simple: they sign up with SafeCharge, download the point of sale app onto a smart device and they are ready to take payments from Alipay and WeChat. The shopper brings the item they want to buy to the cashier, who scan it, enters the price and selects WeChat or Alipay. This then produces a QR code on the merchant’s device, which the shopper scans with their smartphone running WeChat and the payment is made.
“Beauchamp Place is the latest milestone in our journey to provide local merchants with the most innovative payments technology to cater for savvy Chinese visitors expecting to pay with their preferred mobile payment method of choice,” explains Michael Lane, VP Channel Development, SafeCharge. “This collaboration follows a wider trend across the country, which we pioneered in 2017 by rolling out the first WeChat Pay solution at the point of Sale in the UK, at London’s Camden Market. With Chinese tourism expected to continue to grow, we look forward to working with new merchants willing to provide the best shopping experience and highest conversion rates.”
The unlikely tie-up between some of the most established and seemingly stuffy retailers in London and such cutting edge mobile tech is encouraging as it shows that everyone and anyone in retail can evolve and that tech isn’t always hard to embrace.

Story 80
Fans who exhaust their cell phone batteries at Ford Field while tweeting photos from concerts or Detroit Lions games can safely charge their devices during events for a fee.
Six steel wall-mounted and portable charging units, each of which can hold six phones inside small individual lockers, were installed at the stadium in August 2014. Users pay for charging time.
It turns out that the company behind the lockers, Chicago-based, was founded in 2012 by a pair of Michigan natives.
“No one wants to sit and watch their phone charge. It’s like watching paint dry,” said Doug Charron, co-founder and president of the company, as well as a Birmingham native and Michigan State University grad.
He co-founded the company in 2012 with David Adams, also a Birmingham native and MSU grad.
How the lockers work is simple: Users slide a credit card on the steel locker’s payment unit, which opens a locker. A digital screen provides payment and charging information. Inside the lockers are adapters for a variety of phones. Users plug in their device and retrieve it later using the same credit card to open the locker.
The cost is 20 cents a minute up to a max of $5.99, and the unit works with all cell phones.
Digital screens on the front of the charging units show instructions and can be programmed with marketing messages.
Safe First touts the data security measures of its charging stations: The only connection is via the electrical charge, and the unit has no way to access a device’s information. The user’s credit card information is transmitted via wireless signal to the company’s processing server and isn’t stored on the locker.
Safe Charge, whose lockers operate off a standard 120-volt outlet, estimates one minute of battery life for every one minute of charging time.
In case of emergency, the locker can be opened with a master key provided to Ford Field, or remotely by the company.
A key product differentiator, its owners say, is the ability for users to leave their phone knowing it’s safe, rather than tether it to an open charging station such as what’s found in airports and some ballparks.
People are using the machines: Daytime Lions games typically get 80 to 100 uses, Charron said. Night games get a bit more use, and nighttime concerts, such as the Kenny Chesney performance in August, saw 150 to 200 charges on the six stations.
At bars, the charging stations get 10 to 20 uses on Friday and Saturday nights.
“Our big rushes are around happy-hour time, when people just got out of work and they forgot to charge their phones,” Charron said.
The idea stemmed from an afternoon of watching football at a bar in Ohio. The Spartans were playing Ohio State.
“We were sitting at the bar watching a waitress take people’s phones and plug them in behind the bar. It was a real mess,” Charron said. “We said, ‘There’s got to be an easier way to do this.’”
They built five prototypes for Chicago-area bars, and the response from bar owners and staff within six months convinced them there was a market for their idea.
“They loved it because it took the hassle off their back of the liability of charging their customers' phones,” Charron said.
The charging stations added about 45 minutes to patron’s bar visits, which meant they drank one or two more beers, he said, boosting the establishment’s revenue.
SafeCharge began seeking other types of venues for its charging units, such as sports venues and major events.
The company had charging stations outside of University of Phoenix Stadium for Super Bowl XLIX in February, and it was at the South by Southwest multimedia festival in March.
Charron met with Detroit Lions executives during the 2014 Techweek Detroit conference. That led to the installation of the units in 2014.
“Ford Field in general is very progressive in thinking about new ideas to benefit their customers and enhance the experience of the game,” Charron said.
The Lions have made game-day fan experience a priority as part of their off-field business strategy, and adding SafeCharge was a response to customer interest.
“We were receiving more and more inquiries from guests and fans looking for a means to charge their smartphones after prolonged used before and during events. When we were approached by Safe Charge with the opportunity to provide a viable option for quickly and securely charging phones, we seized it,” said Ben Manges, the team’s director of corporate communications.
Now, SafeCharge is in talks with MGM Grand Detroit, and is seeking meetings with the Detroit Pistons, Tigers and Red Wings to get the devices in their venues, he said. Detroit bars and restaurants are also on the list.
The company has a three-month backlog of orders and is building 50 units. They are assembled in Ohio from parts made domestically and overseas, Charron said. Each charging unit takes four to six weeks to build.
SafeCharge’s business model is to provide the charging station for free, and also to install and maintain them. The venue gets 10 percent to 12 percent of the revenue from each charge, Charron said. That’s the arrangement with Ford Field.
The company will also sell charging units outright for $4,000 and a $59 monthly service fee. Additionally, it will sell machines wholesale to distributors and keep a 20 percent cut of the revenue from them. The venue can use a flat or variable fee.
The company has 150 units deployed today and will have 300 by the end of 2016.
Charron declined to discuss revenue, but did say they intend to make SafeCharge a $10 million company within five years.
The obvious question about obsolescence in the face of improving batteries and charging doesn’t faze SafeCharge.
Charron said he believes that even with improvements in battery life and charging time, the company has 20 years before technology puts them out of business.
“Even as processors get better, and the way we use the battery gets efficient, the amount of usage increases to take up the battery life you were saving,” he said.
Details about the charging stations and company can be found at TheSafeCharge.com.

Story 81
As many of our readers will be well aware, the Brexit apocalypse is about to strike the foggy shores of Great Britain. The press has been bombarding us with terrifying headlines, warning that, at the end of March, Brits can expect food shortages, a financial meltdown and – if we are to believe one US preacher – the coming of the anti-Christ.
According to the Financial Times, a young transgender food writer, who goes by the name of Jack Monroe, has even filled her outhouse with food in preparation for the March 29.
The iFX EXPO is Back in Limassol!
But before you can start stacking up cans of bully beef, spam, and tinned pineapples, you actually need to pay for them. And in the Mad Maxesque world of Brexit Britain, even facilitating payments isn’t straightforward.
“Brexit is still a wild ghost haunting all of us in Europe, whether we come from the banking industry, payments, legal or even general retail,” ECOMMPAY Regional Partner and Director Michael C. G. Charalambides told Finance Magnates.
“The reason I use the term ‘ghost’ is because we don’t know if this will end up being the ‘good ghost of Christmas past’ or something rather more scary. Until now there is no solid educated answer or magic ‘one size fits all’ response to it.”
Passport problems
Like many other firms operating in the financial services industry, a number of payment companies have their base of operations in London and are regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
For years, they have been passporting their services out into the European Union with no problems. Brexit, and especially a no-deal Brexit, puts all of that at risk.
“Our goal is that our clients will not be affected in any way due to Brexit,” said MoneyNetInt CEO Yishay Trif. “But it does raise challenges as to how we can continue to cooperate with other partners across the continent and whether we will be able to market our services throughout the region or participate in conferences and meetings where we engage with both current clients and prospective customers.”
Paths unknown
The problem for payments companies is that those “challenges” are unknown. Uncertainty surrounding the precise terms of Brexit, deal or not, means that firms are having to take precautions based on potential outcomes rather than definitive legislation.
In general, this has meant payment companies are doing everything they can to ensure they will have regulatory licenses in both the
European Union and the UK. Thus, just as we have seen banks opening offices in Dublin, Amsterdam and Frankfurt, so too have payments companies made sure they have operational offices in Europe by the end of March.
“Many UK financial services firms who currently passport into the EEA are taking steps to ensure that they could continue to operate after [Brexit], mostly by establishing a new EU-authorised subsidiary,” said BridgerPay CEO Ran Cohen. “I believe that we will see more payment provides in the EU than UK , and an increasing need from merchants for a technology to manage and optimize the costs between them.”
One firm that is heading to Europe is Paysafe. Fitting with Cohen’s prediction, the company told Finance Magnates that it is almost ready to open its office in Ireland.
“We are in the final stages of opening an office in Dublin to accommodate our needs from March and act as a gateway when the UK is scheduled to leave the EU,” said Paysafe spokesperson Kate Aldridge.
Suggested articles How Trading Conditions Can Affect a Trader’s PerformanceGo to article >>
“We have been working hard to minimise any impact that Brexit may have on our customers and to ensure that we can continue to provide them with uninterrupted services. Our customers should expect no change in their levels of service.”
Safe in Cyprus
All five of the payments firms that Finance Magnates spoke to in preparation for this article had taken steps to ensure they can provide services in the EU and the UK after Brexit takes place.
Paysafe is heading to Dublin and SafeCharge, iSignthis, MoneyIntNet and ECOMMPAY all have bases of operation in Cyprus and
approval from the local regulator. iSignthis also has a regulatory license in Lithuania which, as a result of Brexit, is becoming a burgeoning hub for technology firms.
Having European licenses means that all of these firms can provide payment services within the EU. But things get more nebulous when it comes to passporting into the UK from Europe.
The FCA has created the Temporary Permissions Regime (TPR) for firms operating in the EU. Companies that are a part of this programme will be able to continue providing their services to the UK from Europe.
Unfortunately for firms based in the UK, the EU has not created a similar programme for British firms.
“If [we] had been licensed in the UK, the EU has no such reciprocal scheme in place to passport UK Firms into the EU,” John Karantzis, the CEO of iSignthis, said last week. “UK firms will be locked out of Europe until such time as they apply for a license via an EU member state.”
Beyond the TPR
Karantzis made those comments as he announced that iSignthis had received permission from the FCA to be a part of the TPR. Philip Atherton, SafeCharge’s Chief Risk Officer, also told Finance Magnates that the payments company’s Cypriot subsidiary has joined the British regulator’s programme.
“To facilitate an orderly transition in the event of a ‘hard’ or ‘no-deal’ Brexit, SafeCharge Limited has sought and obtained transitional authorisation to participate in the FCA’s ‘Temporary Permissions Regime,’ said Atherton. “This means that [our Cypriot subsidiary] will be able to continue to operate in the UK in the absence of a withdrawal agreement.”
Once a firm has joined the TPR, they will have access to UK markets for three years. But it’s unclear as to whether the regime will even last that long. It’s possible, for instance, that the EU could come to an agreement with the UK which would make the TPR superfluous.
Having said that, it’s equally possible that a no deal scenario will play out and the EU and UK government won’t reach any kind of accord. If that is the case, it’s anyone’s guess as to what will happen in the future.
As that is the case, it’s understandable that payments companies – like their banking counterparts – are taking every precaution to make sure they have regulatory coverage as we approach the end of March.
Now, if you’ll excuse me, I have cans of tinned food to buy and an outhouse to fill. Assuming the anti-Christ doesn’t come, and I don’t run out of non-perishable food, I’ll see you all at the beginning of April.

Story 82
Thousands of UK businesses were unable to process payments because of a network outage at the beginning of the week, with reports suggesting Worldpay encountered a temporary fault.
Such an incident illustrates how vendors and their partners must continually assess their infrastructure, says Dr Yannis Larios, Business Development Director at Viva Wallet.
“Typically legacy systems and old servers and multiple vendors in the value chain cause these type of outages. If you have multiple vendors in the value chain of payments, typically one vendor falls and then everything falls down,” Larios says.
“In order to avoid such problems we decided to go end-to-end with our own infrastructure and not to have any intermediaries. And also to have all this infrastructure over the cloud.”
“Since we are based on the cloud we’re always ‘on’”.
Visa, which is part of the supply chain impacted by the outage released a statement: “Earlier this week, a large card processor experienced a system issue that temporarily impacted a number of Visa transactions. The processor has since resolved the issue. Visa’s network continues to operate normally.”
Sage Pay Support tweeted that Worldpay was “experiencing authorisation issues.”
The outage comes after the Visa network experienced a similar outage in June of this year.
As the UK moves towards a cashless society, it is critical for merchants to not only provide a comprehensive selection of payments methods – such as Apple Pay and WeChat Pay - but also implement smart routing capabilities to maximise transaction approvals and avoid losses during network failures, according to Yuval Ziv, CCO of SafeCharge.
“Smart routing is the guardian angel that ensures transactions to be re-routed to an alternative acquirer in case a platform fails, subsequently minimising transaction losses and ensuring a stable payments channel,” said Ziv.
“With digital commerce showing no signs of abating, smart routing will be a key ingredient to improve the shopping experience and most importantly build customer loyalty, which will help merchants to combat churn and drive revenues.”
Larios says he doesn’t expect the outage to have any immediate significant impact. However, it does show how fragile payment systems are if they are not based on modern technologies.
“If you have a system that goes end-to-end you have a much more reliable system,” he says.

Story 83
Sisal.it, piattaforma italiana di giochi online, entra in partnership con SafeCharge, provider mondiale di tecnologie di pagamento avanzate, per assicurare ai propri clienti un’esperienza online ottimizzata sia nelle funzionalità sia nella sicurezza.
L’accordo nasce per potenziare i processi di ricarica e prelievo online, garantendo la sicurezza delle transazioni. In un’ottica di “player protection”, la nuova piattaforma permette di controllare in modo ancora più attento le transazioni per individuare e prevenire eventuali operazioni fraudolente, tutelando così la sicurezza dei pagamenti degli utenti.
Sarà possibile modificare la modalità di pagamento in tempo reale, senza abbandonare la pagina della transazione, che manterrà tutti i dati impostati. Ad esempio, qualora non ci sia credito disponibile sulla carta scelta per la ricarica, sarà possibile selezionarne un’altra precedentemente impostata o diminuire l’importo dell’operazione, senza dover iniziare la procedura dal principio.

Story 84
OK
For optimum operation, this website makes use of cookies. For more information click here

Story 85
🚑 Babylon Health, a UK-based startup that has developed a number of AI-based health services, has raised $550 million in Series C funding at a valuation of more than $2 billion from Saudi Arabia’s Public Investment Fund, a large US-based health insurance company, Munich Re’s ERGO Fund, Kinnevik, and Vostok New Ventures. http://axios.link/adpC
• UrbanClap, an India-based startup that matches customers with home services professionals across India and UAE, has raised $75 million in Series E funding led by Tiger Global Management, with Steadview Capital and Vy Capital also participating. http://axios.link/lVQY
• Latch, a New York-based maker of “smart locks,” has raised $56 million in new funding led by Avenir Growth Capital at a valuation of $400 million. http://axios.link/tzm7
• Attabotics, a Canada-based 3D robotics supply chain company, raised $25 million in Series B funding from Coatue, Comcast Ventures, Honeywell, Forerunner Ventures and Werklund Growth Fund. http://axios.link/gJWX
• Digital Hands, a Tampa, Fla.-based company that sells managed security services, has raised $15 million in new funding from Fulcrum Equity Partners. www.digitalhands.com
• Harver, a New York-based pre-employment assessment software company, has raised $15 million in Series B funding led by Insight Partners. www.harver.com
• Opsani, a Redwood City, Calif.-based developer software startup, has raised $10 million in Series A funding led by Redpoint Ventures, with Zetta Ventures and Bain Capital also participating. http://axios.link/V9om
• Altitude Networks, a San Francisco-based enterprise cloud collaboration security platform, raised $9 million in Series A funding led by Felicis Ventures, with Slack Fund, Accomplice and former Facebook CSO Alex Stamos also participating.
• Bloomscape, a Detroit, Mich.-based direct-to-consumer plant company, has raised $7.5 million in Series A funding led by Revolution Ventures, with Endeavor, Jen Rubio and Charlie Cheever, among others also participating. http://axios.link/DLnG
• Holloway, a San Francisco-based online publishing company distilling industry expertise into information guides, has raised $4.6 million in seed funding from NEA, The New York Times Co., & South Park Commons. www.holloway.com/
• Verb Energy, a Boston-based maker of energy bars, has raised $3.5 million in funding led by Global Founders Capital, with Nebari Ventures, Great Oaks, Supernode Ventures, FJ Labs, Kevin Ryan, and other angel investors also participating. www.verbenergy.co
• New Knowledge, an Austin, Texas-based company that flags and fights social media disinformation campaigns, has raised $3 million in new funding from BuildGroup and Lux Capital. http://axios.link/GWIM
• Flower Co., an Arcata, Calif.-based cannabis wholesale delivery service, has raised $2.8 million in seed funding from Slome Capital, Prehype, Rob Stavis, Adam Draper, Josh Abramson and Camille Hyde. http://axios.link/0SU7
• Fantasy Life, a New York-based online community for fantasy sports players and bettors, has raised an undisclosed amount of Series A funding from SK Ventures, Upstage Ventures and a number of athletes. www.fantasylifeapp.com

Story 86
Teddy Sagi Group is to buy Israel's WOW cosmetics chain for NIS 55 million, sources close to the deal have informed "Globes." The acquisition will be carried out by Fiver, the Teddy Sagi Group's British-based retail and ecommerce division.
WOW Cosmetics is one of the largest low-cost cosmetics chains in Israel. The chain, which has brought to Israel a range of low-cost cosmetics, was founded in 2005, and today has 67 branches throughout the country, and has about 500 employees. The deal also includes WOW's logistics center in Or Akiva. WOW is owned by Ofir Karp (73%), Eyal Schwartz (20%), and Lee Aflalo (7%).
LAYAM CEO Shay Tangi has also been appointed as Fiver's CEO, and it is understood that the WOW acquisition will be signed tomorrow.
WOW was founded in order to offer customers quality cosmetics products at attractive prices that are affordable for all. The company's branches sell a range of makeup products, makeup accessories, products for skincare and haircare, pedicure and manicure products, hygiene products, as well as other accessories (mainly jewelry). All products are safe for use and approved by Israel's Ministry of Health and comply with European cosmetics standards. This standard allows the company to market products throughout Europe.
WOW has been able to successfully sell quality cosmetics products at discount prices by eliminating middlemen in the supply chain. The company imports, designs, and develops all of its products. During the years that it has been operating, WOW has acquired two rival companies in Israel, and merged activities under its own operations by changing brands to the WOW brand.
WOW is one of two leading companies in the low-cost cosmetics field in Israel. In addition to the Israeli market, WOW has international operations and its products are marketed to hundreds of cosmetics stores in South Africa.
Fiver operates mainly in the British market and operates E5P, one of the leading fashion websites in the UK, with five million visitors each month. In the near future, these operations are expected to expand to other countries in Europe.
Fiver CEO Shay Tangi said, "We are always looking for interesting brands that can enhance our electronic commerce experience. We found WOW to be one of the interesting chains operating in Israel. The chain has excellent products, and has gained popularity among Israeli consumers because of its excellent value prices. It is our intention of course to enhance and strengthen the chain in Israel, as well as in addition we plan to bring the benefits of WOW to other countries. In the first stage, we will do this with our ecommerce operations, so that we will market WOW online in European countries."
Published by Globes, Israel business news - en.globes.co.il - on September 25, 2019
© Copyright of Globes Publisher Itonut (1983) Ltd. 2019

Story 87
Access Denied - Sucuri Website Firewall
If you are the site owner (or you manage this site), please whitelist your IP or if you think this block is an error please open a support ticket and make sure to include the block details (displayed in the box below), so we can assist you in troubleshooting the issue.
Block details:

Story 88
Make informed decisions with the FT
Keep abreast of significant corporate, financial and political developments around the world. Stay informed and spot emerging risks and opportunities with independent global reporting, expert commentary and analysis you can trust.

Story 89
Share
tweet

StumbleUpon Submit

London AIM listed online payment processor and wallet SafeCharge has signed a payment transactions agreement with Rank Group subsidiaries Mecca Bingo and Grosvenor Online Casinos.
The Rank Group gaming brands, will deploy SafeCharge’s secure payment platform, which is set to include SafeCharge services for customer risk management and PCI descoping solutions. Rank Group will deploy the payment solutions for all its territories.
Rank Group stated that after pitching for payment solutions partners, it had chosen SafeCharge due to its industry expertise, reputation and advanced technology platform and service.
SafeCharge’s transaction platform will support Ranks regulatory compliance needs, and will be tailored to Rank Group’s risk management customer profiling. Rank Group will now be able to profile payment transaction and customer transaction data in real time
David Avgi, CEO at SafeCharge said:
“SafeCharge is committed to delivering innovative technologies for online & mobile payments. We have put every measure in place to ensure that Rank is satisfied with our innovative products & services.”

Story 90
European authorities have given the multi-billion dollar deal that will see payments giant Worldpay being taken over by Fidelity National Information Services (FIS) the go-ahead.
According to Reuters, anti-trust regulators in the European Union, who had to give their approval to the deal before it could go ahead, have given the green light for FIS to continue with the deal.
Discover the Barcelona Trading Conference – A Top Tier Crypto Trading Event
It will result in a gigantic merger, costing the American technology and financial services company approximately $35 million.
Shares in both FIS and Worldpay rose after Reuters published their report
Not the first time
News of the deal between the two firms was first announced in March of this year. It is the latest in several deals in what is a crowded payments industry.
Suggested articles How Trading Conditions Can Affect a Trader’s PerformanceGo to article >>
Last month, Israeli firm Safecharge, which was founded in 2006 and focuses largely on online payments, was acquired by Canadian payment processor Nuvei for $889 million.
The deal with Worldpay will see FIS expanding into the card payments sector.
Based in London, the firm was spun off from the Royal Bank of Scotland in 2010 after the financial crisis forced the bank to sell off some of its assets.
In 2017, Vantiv – an American technology and payments company – announced that it would acquire Worldpay for $10.4 billion. That deal was eventually completed in January of the following year.
Representatives of the payments firm will be speaking at the Barcelona Trading Conference in just over ten days. So if you haven’t got your free ticket yet, now is the time to go get it.

Story 91
The Israeli branch of New York-headquartered insurance company American International Group Inc. (AIG) is in advanced negotiations with Bank Leumi, one of Israel’s two largest banks, to use its mobile payment app Pepper Pay to pay off customer insurance claims, one person familiar with the matter who spoke on condition of anonymity told Calcalist.
For daily updates, subscribe to our newsletter by clicking here.
Bank Leumi is also in similar negotiations with local insurance companies Phoenix Hldgs Ltd. and I.D.I. Insurance Company Ltd., the person said.
Shay Feldman, CEO of AIG Israel. Photo: Amit Sha'al
Last week, Calcalist reported that Israel’s Bank Hapoalim is in similar negotiations with Israel-based Harel Insurance Investments and Financial Services Ltd.
Credit card issuer Leumi Card is also in negotiations with I.D.I., according to the person familiar with the matter. Bank Leumi currently owns Leumi Card but is required to divest it by 2020 following Israeli regulatory changes. A deal for Leumi Card to be acquired by New York-headquartered private equity firm Warburg Pincus LLC was signed in July and is currently pending completion.

Story 92
NovoPayment, an enabler of digital financial services for the Americas, announced on Wednesday it may now scale the deployment of Visa Direct for instant payments, P2P and P2M payments, account-to-account payments, fast funds, and mass payouts, as well as the use of Visa Token Services.
“As a Visa Ready fintech partner and certified Visa Direct and Visa Token Service provider, NovoPayment extends Visa’s capabilities into emerging payments use cases such as digital account origination, super wallets, and instant and proximity payments via easily consumable APIs.”
NovoPayment also reported that the developments are part of Visa and NovoPayment’s strategic partnership agreement to accelerate the adoption of digital payment solutions and create new commerce experiences in Latin America and the Caribbean. Ruben Salazar, Senior Vice President of Products and Solutions at Visa Latin America and the Caribbean, stated:
“The new API delivery models enabled by NovoPayment provide Visa’s clients and partners another means of adopting key solutions and embedding them into new use cases. This is particularly important for the growth of Visa Direct in the region, which has the potential of truly transforming the way funds are transferred amongst consumers, businesses, and governments in Latin America.”
Anabel Perez, Co-Founder and CEO of NovoPayment, added:

Story 93
Teddy Sagi's SafeCharge International Group plc (AIM: SAFE) has held its IPO on London’s Alternative Investment Market (AIM), a week after XLMedia plc (AIM: XLM).
SafeCharge's IPO did not include an offer for sale by shareholders. The company raised a gross £75.8 million ($126 million) at a company value of £242.6 million ($404 million), after money. The company had planned to raise $100 million, but exploited the stock market rally and the AIM's comeback to raise 25% more, albeit at the same company value. RELATED ARTICLES Teddy Sagi buys Camden Stables Market for £400m Teddy Sagi floating SafeCharge on AIM
Trading in SafeCharge's share will begin on Wednesday, April 2, at a starting price of £1.62. The underwriters are Nomad as the financial adviser and Shore Capital & Corporate Ltd.
SafeCharge is Sagi's second public company on the British capital market, after Playtech Cyprus Ltd. (LSE:PTEC), one of the world's leading online platforms for gaming companies, whcih has a current market cap of £1.9 billion ($3.2 billion).
As with Playtech, Sagi (42) is floating SafeCharge, when 97.1% of the company is owned by his Goodfidelity Trust through Northenstar Investments Ltd. Northenstar's stake will fall to 66.77%, worth $270 million, after the IPO. Other shareholders include SafeCharge founder and CEO David Avgi, with a 2.9% stake, worth $8 million on paper.
Avgi, who so far as is known resides in Bulgaria, where most of SafeCharge's business is conducted, was born and raised in Kiryat Gat. The company is registered in the British Virgin Islands tax haven, but because its controlling shareholder, CEO, and most of its executives are Israelis and it has scores of employees in Israel, the company can be considered as almost Israeli. SafeCharge has 200 employees in the UK, Cyprus, Bulgaria, Austria, and Germany.
After the IPO, JPMorgan Asset Management (UK) Ltd. will own 6.25% of SafeCharge, and Henderson Global Investors will own 5%.
SafeCharge was founded in 2006, after obtaining a payment car industry data security standard (PCI DSS) permit. It subsequently acquired Austrian e-commerce solutions provider XT Commerce, to become one of Europe's leading clearing companies, with a focus, for now at least, on the gaming industry. Its customers include William Hill plc (LSE: WHM) Rank Digital Gaming plc (LSE: RNK), and Gala Coral Group Ltd.
Published by Globes [online], Israel business news - www.globes-online.com - on March 31, 2014
© Copyright of Globes Publisher Itonut (1983) Ltd. 2014

Story 94
Electric vehicle (EV) battery material firm CNGR Advanced Material is enhancing capacity to achieve more market share.
The move comes as the EV battery market is facing a challenging year with high prices of raw material nickel and weaker sales for the EV industry in China, the world’s biggest EV battery producer.
“This year is a tough year, a suffering year for the EV market, for the whole supply chain. That’s why we want to expand … so we can lower the cost,” CNGR’s assistant manager Xu Jie told a nickel conference in Jakarta.
CNGR is planning to almost double its capacity to 126,000 tonnes of EV battery precursor this year from 64,000 tonnes in 2018, and to 160,000 tonnes in 2020, Reuters reported.
CNGR said they were the second biggest ternary precursor last year in China with 16 percent market share, behind GEM with 23 percent market share.
The number of new energy vehicles (NEVs) sold contracted for the second month in a row in August, after jumping almost 62 percent last year, due to China’s subsidies cut for NEVs, data from the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers showed.
NEVs include plug-in hybrids, battery-only electric vehicles and those powered by hydrogen fuel cells.
NEV sales, however, are expected to increase this year at a slower pace than in 2018, the association said.
Xu said the company is expecting nickel consumption in the battery sector to increase to 12 percent of global nickel usage in 2025, from 4 percent as of last year.

Story 95
Share
tweet

StumbleUpon Submit

Online payments and risk management operator SafeCharge has won the 2015 Risk Management Systems prize at the London Fintech Innovation Awards.
SafeCharge who are one of the leading online payment providers for the igaming and sports betting sectors, were awarded the prize for their technology’s flexibility and customisation which met client demands in Fintech, the world’s fastest growing technology market.
David Avgi CEO of SafeCharge commented on the recognition
“We’re glad to win this prestigious award and to gain this industry recognition for our continuous efforts in making ecommerce more secure,”
“We are fully committed to further investing in innovative solutions and to provide our clients with the best tools to handle the ever-changing challenges of payments, fraud detection and risk management.”
In 2014 the online payments provider saw significant corporate growth, as the company listed on the London Stock Exchange AIM for raising new equity capital of $125 million. The company has used its capital to acquire new services and technology, in December 2014 SafeCharge acquired CreditGuard ($8 million) and 3V Transaction Services ($12 million).

Story 96
Digital financial technology platform Wirecard announced on Tuesday it has extended its partnership agreement with credit card giant Visa for new solutions in digital financial technology. It was reported that in partnership with Visa, Wirecard will be able to further support fintechs and start-ups to develop new commerce ideas through white label solutions and banking as a platform.
While sharing more details about the partnership, Suzan Kereere, Head of Merchant Services for Visa in Europe, statd:
“This is an exciting time for the global payments industry with new payment innovators accelerating the creation of new ways to pay and be paid. We fundamentally believe this is good for consumers and good for merchants, Together with Wirecard we have the opportunity to making it easier for merchants and start-ups to access Visa’s capabilities, and support the next generation of payment services.”
Susanne Steidl, Chief Product Officer at Wirecard, also noted:
“We are delighted to announce our extended global strategic cooperation with Visa. Our aim is to shape the international digital payment market with innovative value-added solutions, all through one platform.”
The expansion of Wirecard’s partnership comes just a few months after Wirecard expanded collaboration with ReiseBank. The duo rolled out the mobile banking app bankom last year.

Story 97
Globe Invest, Teddy Sagi's investment company, today sold its remaining shares in Playtech plc (LSE:PTEC), and following the deal Teddy Sagi is no longer a shareholder in the online gaming platform company that he founded 19 years ago.
The sale conducted today of 15,193,489 shares, worth $88 million, follows an additional sale two weeks ago and in total over the past two weeks, Sagi has sold a final 6.4% stake in Playtech through Credit Suisse.
The final sale of Playtech shares is in line with the Sagi Group's long term strategy of diversification and switching to investments in the real estate and high-tech sectors. As part of this, Sagi is investing in developing co-working spaces, e-commerce, and technological ventures. Since Sagi's decision in 2015, he has reduced his exposure to Playtech shares and the final sale today completes this process.
Playtech, which will mark 20 years since its establishment next year, has become the world leader in its field over the past two decades. The company held its initial public offering (IPO) on the London Stock Exchange in 2006.
Over the years, Sagi has expanded his operations in other areas of activity. Within this framework, he acquired London's Camden Lock market and other properties in the Holborn area. Sagi has also set up LABS, which operates in the co-working space sector, and is the controlling shareholder in cyber-security company KAPE (LSE: KAPE) and SafeCharge (LSE: SCH), which is engaged in online payment solutions and risk management. Sagi has also invested in other high-tech ventures in recent years, most of them founded by Israeli entrepreneurs. Last month he completed the acquisition of the operations of SAKAL Duty Free
Teddy Sagi said, “My focus for the last few years has been in real estate, co-working, service apartments, e-commerce and advanced technology, cyber-security and innovation companies. I consider myself part of Playtech’s successful history, and I am proud of what we have accomplished together since its inception. I wish it every success in the future."
Published by Globes, Israel business news - en.globes.co.il - on November 23, 2018
© Copyright of Globes Publisher Itonut (1983) Ltd. 2018

Story 98
Romanian bookmaker Superbet has selected sports betting solutions provider Betgenius as its new in-play trading partner.
The long-term deal will see Betgenius provide Superbet with live betting markets for all sports, including football, basketball and volleyball, across both online and retail.
“We are delighted to work with Betgenius as for Superbet’s business it is critical to work with the best possible partners,” said Superbet Romania general manager Vlad Ardeleanu. “Having the right technologies integrated into our final product is a key component for our overall growth strategy.”
Betgenius global partnerships director Matt Stephenson commented: “Investing in high quality, proven products is vital for an operator with the ambitious and exciting growth plans of SuperBet.
“Our in-play trading service, which includes market-leading products for popular local sports like football, basketball, volleyball and handball, will no doubt play an important role in driving growth for SuperBet across their core Eastern European markets.”

Story 99
Pardon Our Interruption...
As you were browsing citywire.co.uk something about your browser made us think you were a bot. There are a few reasons this might happen:
You're a power user moving through this website with super-human speed.
You've disabled JavaScript in your web browser.
A third-party browser plugin, such as Ghostery or NoScript, is preventing JavaScript from running. Additional information is available in this support article.
After completing the CAPTCHA below, you will immediately regain access to citywire.co.uk.

Story 100
Global aviation services group Air Partner has announced Ed Warner (pictured), OBE, as Non-Executive Chair of the company with effect from 1 April 2019. He will also chair the Nomination Committee and join the Remuneration Committee.
Warner is currently Chair of Grant Thornton UK LLP, Blackrock Commodities Income Investment Trust PLC and derivatives exchange LMAX Ltd, as well as a Director of a suite of Dublin-listed investment funds managed by DCI.
In addition, he is Chair of the Palace for Life Foundation and World Para Athletics and was also Chair of Standard Life Private Equity Trust from 2013 to the end of 2018 and of Panmure Gordon & Co between 2010 and 2016, as well as a Non-Executive Director of SafeCharge International Group from 2014 to 2016.
Air Partner has made a number of acquisitions in recent years and Warner’s significant mergers and acquisitions experience, Air Partner hopes, will help support this objective.
Richard Jackson, who was appointed Chairman on an interim basis on 7 September 2018, will revert to his previous role as Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director.
Mark Briffa, CEO of Air Partner, said: “I am delighted Ed has agreed to become Chair of Air Partner’s Board and I am very much looking forward to working with him. Ed’s extensive PLC and leadership experience, along with his strong understanding of customer-centric businesses, is well suited to Air Partner and will help us to further capitalise on opportunities to diversify and grow our business. I would also like to thank Richard Jackson for the excellent support he has provided as Interim Chairman.”

Story 101
Last Thursday, the Foreign Ambassadors Club in Israel held its "Diplomat of the Year" ceremony in which the "Ambassador of the Year" and "Honorary Consul of the Year" annual awards for excellence were given. This year, for the first time, an award for excellence was given in a new category - promoting international business foreign relations for Israel. The award was given to Israeli businessman Teddy Sagi.
The award ceremony, which is traditionally held at the Herzliya Marina, in the "ambassadors' city," was sponsored by the Herzliya Municipal Company for Tourist Development and was attended by Herzliya Mayor Moshe Fadlon, Herzliya Municipal Company for Tourist Development Chairman Ofra Bell, Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs Tzipi Hotovely and dozens of foreign ambassadors, diplomats and businesspeople.
EU Ambassador to Israel Emanuele Giaufret received the "Ambassador of the Year" award for excellence. Ambassador Giaufret was appointed EU Ambassador to Israel 18 months ago and is considered to be a very dominant ambassador who is highly involved in Israeli public life. Ambassador Giaufret thanked the Ambassadors Club in Israel and the Club's President Ambassador Yitzhak Eldan: "I praise this organization for everything that it gives us diplomats in feeling at home in Israel and for their work as ambassadors of good will for their countries. This prize is significant for me in that it reflects the reality of the deep and important relations between the EU and Israel. The difference of options that exist on certain issues cannot and do not need to overshadow our overall relationship on many subjects that are so productive for the EU and for Israel. In my day-to-day work, I see how much appreciation and cooperation there is, and a desire among Israelis to move even closer to the EU and to Europe. This prize is an encouragement to all those who want to see closer and warmer relations between us."
The "Honorary Consul of the Year" award was won by the Honorary Consul of Lithuania and President of the Industry and Trade Club, Amnon Dotan. 75 year-old Dotan has an impressive record in developing the Israeli economy. He has served as Chairman of the Federation of Bi-National Chambers of Commerce in Israel, Chairman of the Israel-Britain Chamber of Commerce, Chairman of Readymix and Chairman of Nesher Cement. Dotan has been the Honorary Consul for Lithuania in Israel since 2008 and for him the appointment by the Lithuanian government has very special significance due to the fact that all his parents' families, on both sides, were born in Lithuania, and perished in the Holocaust.
International businessman Teddy Sagi took the first-ever award of excellence for promoting international business foreign relations for Israel. Sagi said in his address that the British economy and the EU economy were dependent on each other and expressed his hope for a solution on the issue of Brexit and that both sides would be a little more flexible. The Deputy UK Ambassador described Sagi as a living legend in Britain.
The Ambassadors Club in Israel is a non-political, not-for-profit, and independent organization for foreign ambassadors serving in Israel, dozens of honorary consuls and honorary members. The aim of the organization is to promote links between the members of the diplomatic community and Israeli society. Published by Globes, Israel business news - en.globes.co.il - on January 21, 2019
© Copyright of Globes Publisher Itonut (1983) Ltd. 2019 .

Story 102
Reading Time: 4 minutes
Back in the day, if someone wanted to play slot machines, they have to go to a land-based casino for some gambling fun. With the help of technology, it’s now possible to play in the comfort of your own home.
Online casinos are so popular nowadays that some land-based casinos developed their branded online platforms.
At brick and mortar casinos, around 48% or almost half of casino visitors play slots. People love playing slot machines compared to table games due to several reasons:
Slot machines are fun and more entertaining.
Slot machines are easier to understand and less complicated than blackjack, baccarat, and other table games.
Slot machines let you earn points every time you play. So, the more you play, the more you earn rewards!
Slot machines can be played alone, so there’s no need to worry about competition.
Slot machines are very popular with players who love instant payouts. If you’re lucky, you can win the jackpot with the press of a button!
While many people enjoy playing slots, others are dubious whether online slot machines provide the same kind of enjoyment as bricks and mortar casinos. Is it safe to play slot machines online? Do people win at online slot machines?
If you’re still wondering whether you should try gambling at online slot machines, here are the things that you should keep in mind.
Things to Consider Before Playing an Online Slot Machine
Before you begin wagering at online casinos, you must understand how it works. To play online slots you have to adhere to the rules and regulations of the online casino operator. You should also be aware that illegal sites are operating online casinos preying on unknowing players. And, of course, you’ll want to know if there are strategies to increase the chances of getting higher payouts.
1. RNG and RTP
The random number generator (RNG) is a program responsible for creating random number sequences every time a player clicks the ‘Spin’ button. Every online slot game uses RNG to generate the outcome of each spin. Every spin has a unique result because of the RNG software.
The RTP is the percentage of how much a video slot will payback or return to its players over time. There’s no 100% RTP. Further, if an online slot has higher RTP, the better winning potential it has.
Online slots with high RTPs are very popular among players. Mega Joker Jackpot by NetEnt, Tropic Reels by Playtech, and Nemo’s Voyage by WMS are some examples of online video slots with a 99% RTP.
2. Requirements to Play Online Slots
Not everyone is allowed to gamble at an online casino. Legitimate online casinos are only allowed to accept players that are 18 years old and above. The age requirement varies depending on the state and country where the online gambling operates. Some online casinos have a stricter age requirement – players must be more than 21 years old.
Just like a brick and mortar casinos, the online casino will ask a player to go through a registration process. You should provide real and accurate personal information. Otherwise, you may be prohibited from withdrawing your winnings. The information you supply will be verified by the online casino asking a valid document from you to prove your identity.
At Slotty Vegas, for example, you’re required to submit a valid government-issued ID and proof of your address when you register at the site. The verification of identity is part of their KYC (Know Your Customer) process.
Your computer should meet the minimum system requirements to play at an online casino. Online slots software providers set the minimum hardware requirements to play their game either through desktop, laptop, tablet, or smartphone.
3. Rogue Casinos
Take note that many illegal online casinos exist to defraud players. Virtual slots is a fun and exciting pastime, but losing your money to rogue gambling sites is not fun at all.
Rogue online casinos are those not authorized to operate a gambling website. There are hundreds of places that you can visit to play slots, but you have to make sure you’re dealing with a licensed and regulated online casino.
To avoid playing from a rogue casino, consider these things:
Verify the license: Make sure you’re playing virtual slots at an online casino with a license from a known jurisdiction. The Isle of Man, Alderney, Gibraltar, and Malta are considered the strictest regulators of online casinos. However, just because a gambling site claims on their website that they have a license from a reputable jurisdiction, it doesn’t immediately mean that they’re authorized to offer online casino games.
Reach out to their customer support: Before registering at an online casino, try reaching out to their customer support. If you’re not satisfied with how your questions are asked, spare yourself the headache, and look for another online casino.
Understand the terms and conditions: One sign that you’re dealing with a rogue casino is when the terms of use are vague or lack specifics. Since you’re wagering with real money, make sure to understand their timeframes for withdrawals and rules for wagering.
4. Tips in Playing Online Slots
Set your limit: Play with an amount that you can afford to lose. Gambling is very addictive, and many people have suffered financially because of it. Before starting to play, you must set a budget and never go beyond it.
Game of luck: Unlike card games where you need skill and strategy to win, winning at online slots mostly depends on luck.
Enjoy the game: Choose an online slots game that you enjoy playing. With the wide assortment of video slots available, you’ll be able to find a game that meets your needs. After all, gambling is a form of entertainment, and there’s no point in playing a game that you don’t like.
Conclusion
Despite the proliferation of online slot machines, the online gambling industry is still mostly unregulated. The best way to enjoy playing your favorite online slots is by choosing a legitimate and licensed gambling site so that you can have safe and enjoyable gaming experience.

Story 103
Mit einem freiwilligen Leser-Abo sagen Sie Betrügern den Kampf an, unterstützen die Redaktion und bekommen einen direkten Draht zu uns.
Mit einmaligtragen Sie zur Erhaltung von Onlinewarnungen bei und erkennen unsere Leistung an.. So können Sie uns außerdem unterstützen
In dem Onlineshop Cabanella.de gibt es mal keine Mode. Vielmehr erhalten Sie preisgünstige Outdoor-Produkte wie Hüpfburgen, Grillplätze, Schuppen, Schwimmbäder, Zubehör für Paddeln und Rafting. Die Frage ist jedoch, ob der Shop seriös ist? Wir haben uns cabanella.de genauer angesehen.
Mal wieder fragen sich viele unserer Leser, ob es bei einem Onlineshop mit rechten Dingen zugeht. Die Rede ist diesmal von cabanella.de. Der Webshop ist kein typischer Shop aus dem asiatischen Raum, wie wir zuletzt mit primeShe.com, koogoshop.com, lovovincy.com, QueenEva.com, wish und vova hatten. Er ist auch nicht mit thehannashop.com, modetalente.com und deinschmuckshop.com oder dem Onlineshop Shein zu vergleichen. Denn schon das Produktspektrum ist ein völlig anderes.
Trotz allem stellen sich viele Nutzer die Frage, ob der Onlineshop echt ist oder ob es sich um einen Fakeshop handelt. Denn mit den vielen günstigen Preisen und einigen merkwürdigen Formulierungen kommt ein komisches Gefühl auf. Aus diesem Grund schauen wir uns den Shop genauer an und informieren Sie darüber, was uns aufgefallen ist.
Verpassen Sie keine Warnung.
Hier können Sie uns folgen:
Ist Onlineshopping bei cabanella.de seriös?
Zur Seriosität des Onlineshops können wir keine endgültige Aussage treffen. Nur so viel können wir sagen: Der Webshop cabanella.com hält sich nicht an deutsche Rechtsnormen. Die Webseite hat kein Impressum. Damit verstößt die Seite gegen die in Deutschland vorgeschriebene Impressumspflicht. Auf der gesamten Webseite finden Sie keine Telefonnummer. Das kennen wir sonst nur von Fakeshops. Als einen solchen würden wir cabanella.com aktuell jedoch nicht einstufen. Trotzdem gibt es weitere Kritikpunkte, die wir Ihnen nicht vorenthalten möchten:
Verstößt gegen Impressumspflicht.
Auf der gesamten Webseite gibt es keine Telefonnummer für Verbraucheranfragen.
Der Server steht in Malaysia (untypisch für einen Shop, der seinen Sitz in England hat und auf deutsche Verbraucher setzt).
Enthält komische Formulierungen:
In unserem Geschäft dreht sich alles um das Hier und Jetzt. Wir antizipieren nicht nur Trends, sondern kreieren sie, indem wir unser Mädchenprodukt liefern, das von den Laufstegen, Prominenten und den coolsten Influencern des Augenblicks inspiriert ist. Wir fragen uns, was Mädchenprodukte sind und was Grills und Swimmingpools auf Laufstegen zu suchen haben.
Die Rückgaberichtlinien sind sehr versteckt (bei den Produkten zu finden) und entsprechen nicht den Rechtsnormen für deutsche Verbraucher.
Sie können nur per Kreditkarte bezahlen.
Aussagen zur Qualität der Produkte von cabanella.de können wir derzeit nicht machen. Hierzu fehlen uns eigene Erfahrungen. Gerne können Sie uns Ihre Erfahrungen über die Leser-Kommentare unterhalb des Artikels mitteilen.
Versandkosten und Zölle bei cabanella.de
Der Onlineshop bietet einen kostenlosen Versand, wenn Sie einen Warenwert von 50 Euro bestellen.
Da das Vereinigte Königreich derzeit noch zur EU gehört, müssen Sie nicht mit zusätzlichen Zollgebühren rechnen. Laut der Webseite werden die Waren aus London versendet.
Lieferzeiten bei cabanella.de
Da wir noch keine eigenen Erfahrungen gemacht haben, können wir derzeit nur nach den Angaben auf der Webseite gehen. Hier finden Sie in der Rubrik „Lieferung“ die Angaben der voraussichtlichen Lieferzeit. Die Angaben sind mit dem internationalen Standard von 3 Werktagen angegeben.
Wie wird bei cabanella.de bezahlt?
Bei cabanella.de können Sie derzeit nur mit Kreditkarte (VISA, MasterCard, Maestro, American Express, Discover) bezahlen:
Reklamation und Rücksendung bei cabanella.de
Da Sie auf der gesamten Webseite bei cabanella.de keine Rufnummer finden, werden Sie über das Telefon nichts klären können. Lediglich eine E-Mail-Adresse (kontakt@cabanella.de) ist angegeben.
Auch die Rückgabe entspricht nicht den deutschen Rechtsnormen:
Sie können die meisten ungeöffneten neuen Artikel innerhalb von 14 Tagen nach Lieferung zurückgeben, um eine vollständige Rückerstattung zu erhalten.
Das Problem ist, dass man die Produkte schon auspacken muss, um zu sehen, ob diese auch funktionieren beziehungsweise den eigenen Vorstellungen entsprechen.
Sollten die Artikel falsch oder Fehlerhaft sein, übernimmt das Unternehmen die Rücksendekosten. Gefällt Ihnen das Produkt nicht, müssen Sie die Rücksendekosten tragen.
Vergleichen Sie selbst, welche Rechte deutsche Kunden in Bezug auf den Widerruf von Kaufverträgen normalerweise haben.
Fazit zu cabanella.de
Wir können aktuell nicht sagen, ob cabanella.de ein seriöser Onlineshop ist. Dafür fehlen uns die Erfahrungen. Fakt ist wohl, dass es in Bezug auf die Rechte und Pflichten in Deutschland einige Punkte bei gibt, die nicht für einen Einkauf bei diesem Unternehmen sprechen. Vor allem die nicht eingehaltene Impressumspflicht und die merkwürdigen Rückgaberichtlinien sind eher nachteilig. Hinzu kommt, dass wir auch in punkto Qualität der Produkte nichts sagen können, da uns auch hier die Erfahrungen fehlen.
Nur soviel sei noch gesagt: Die Watchlist Internet listet den Onlineshop seit Anfang April 2019 auf der Liste der Fakeshops.
Ihre Erfahrungen und Probleme mit cabanella.de
Haben Sie schon bei cabanella.de eingekauft? Wie sind Ihre Erfahrungen mit der Plattform? Nutzen Sie die Kommentare unter diesem Artikel, um uns von Problemen und (positiven) Erlebnissen mit cabanella.de zu berichten. Bitte bleiben Sie dabei sachlich. Kommentare, die unter die Gürtellinie gehen, werden nicht veröffentlicht.

Story 104
Razer, a global lifestyle brand for gamers, and Visa announced this weekend that they have formed a partnership with the goal to transform payments in the gaming industry by bringing the scale and reach of Visa’s global network to Razer Pay e-wallet users.
According to the duo, the new collaboration will see Razer’s financial technology arm, Razer Fintech, join Visa’s fintech fast-track program, which is designed to make it easier for fintechs to access the global Visa payments network.
“Razer Fintech and Visa will develop a virtual Visa prepaid solution to be embedded in the Razer Pay e-wallet, that will allow up to 60 million Razer users to make payments wherever Visa is accepted at 54 million merchant locations worldwide.”
While sharing details about the partnership, Chris Clark, Regional President, Asia Pacific, Visa, stated:
“We are pleased to partner with such a forward-looking and innovative company that understands the value and importance of expanding access to digital payments. This announcement reaffirms Visa’s commitment to the fast-growing and digitally savvy Southeast Asia region. Together, Visa and Razer Fintech have the opportunity to transform the payments experience for not only the gaming community but many of Southeast Asia’s unbanked and underserved consumers as well.”
Min-Liang Tan, Co-Founder and CEO of Razer, also commneted:
“Razer Fintech is a core growth initiative for Razer as we continue to empower digital payments across emerging markets, starting from Southeast Asia. We are incredibly excited with the opportunities that this innovative payment solution serves to millions of consumers, connecting them to an extensive network of merchants globally. This partnership with Visa significantly extends Razer Fintech’s position as the largest offline-to-online digital payment network in the region.”
The companies went on to add that Razer Fintech and Visa look to roll out an exclusive Razer-branded Visa prepaid payment solution integrated into Razer Pay through a mini-app.

Story 105
Safello, a secure European provider for purchasing bitcoin and ether, has announced that now its customers across the EU will be able to use Yoti to verify their identity and then pay with a credit card to purchase cryptocurrencies.
The entire process is completed within 60 seconds:
Select the cryptocurrency and amount you wish to buy on Safello. Verify your identity instantly with Yoti. Pay with a credit card.
To keep sensitive data secure, Yoit uses the latest, advanced 256-bit encryption. By scrambling, encrypting and storing personal information with separate cryptographic keys, Yoti ensures there isn’t one honeypot of data for hackers to target.

Story 106
Access Denied - Sucuri Website Firewall
If you are the site owner (or you manage this site), please whitelist your IP or if you think this block is an error please open a support ticket and make sure to include the block details (displayed in the box below), so we can assist you in troubleshooting the issue.
Block details:

Story 107
Visa (NYSE: V) announced on Friday it has signed a definitive agreement to acquire Verifi, a technology solutions company that reduce chargebacks. Visa reported it will integrate Verifi’s enhanced chargeback tools with Visa’s risk management services, including those delivered by CardinalCommerce and CyberSource.
“Buyers, sellers, issuers, and acquirers will benefit from greater automation, near real-time communication and data-driven insights through every stage of the customer journey.”
Speaking about the acquisition, Mary Kay Bowman, Global Head of Seller Solutions of Visa, stated:
“As the way people pay and get paid continues to evolve, the way buyers and sellers communicate to resolve transaction disputes must also keep up with this rapid pace of commerce. The addition of Verifi’s technology to Visa’s risk management solutions will introduce greater collaboration and insights to help resolve disputes quickly. Facilitating trust and transparency across the buying experience is core to Visa’s brand promise and Verifi’s technology and expertise will extend these capabilities to more partners across the payments ecosystem.”
Matthew Katz, CEO of Verifi, also commented:
“Verifi has been a leader and trusted partner for the payments industry for years. We pride ourselves in delivering technology and tools that improve communication and insights through the dispute management process to prevent unwanted chargebacks. We are thrilled to be joining forces with Visa to scale and expand this offering and further modernize the dispute management process.”
Visa went on to add that the closing of the transaction is subject to required regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions.

Story 108
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 109
Pardon Our Interruption...
As you were browsing citywire.co.uk something about your browser made us think you were a bot. There are a few reasons this might happen:
You're a power user moving through this website with super-human speed.
You've disabled JavaScript in your web browser.
A third-party browser plugin, such as Ghostery or NoScript, is preventing JavaScript from running. Additional information is available in this support article.
After completing the CAPTCHA below, you will immediately regain access to citywire.co.uk.

Story 110
The assistant police chief in Clarkston has resigned after being arrested on a charge of driving under the influence in Henry County, officials said Friday.
Thadius Brown had worked in the police department in the small DeKalb County city for more than 10 years before the arrest last weekend.
Clarkston Police Chief Christine Hudson told The Atlanta Journal-Constitution that Brown formally resigned Wednesday, a day before an internal affairs investigation was set to begin.
He was charged with “DUI less safe,” possession of an alcoholic beverage in the passenger area and failure to be obedient to a traffic signal, Hudson said. He was pulled over after allegedly turning right on red at a corner where it was prohibited, she said.
A DUI less safe charge criminalizes driving under the influence of alcohol if it is “less safe” for the person to do so. A driver can be convicted of the charge even if their blood alcohol concentration is less than 0.08 grams.
Brown had worked for the department for more than 10 years. Photo: City of Clarkston / via Facebook
Hudson said she got a call from Henry County police early Saturday morning informing her about the arrest. Brown also called her when he was released from jail, and she immediately placed him on administrative leave with pay.
She contacted the county’s internal affairs unit to begin an investigation. Brown came into City Hall on Wednesday and turned in his resignation to Hudson and City Manager Robin Gomez.
Henry County officials have not released more information about the incident.
In his role as assistant chief, Brown often spoke with the news media for stories about recent cases or department policies. In June 2018, he was recognized by the city staff and City Council for his decade of service in the city, according to a Facebook post.
Brown could not be reached for comment Friday.
Follow DeKalb County News on Facebook and Twitter
﻿In other news:
It's all a part of an alleged scheme run by metro Atlanta home care providers who have now been indicted in DeKalb County.
Support real journalism. Support local journalism. Subscribe to The Atlanta Journal-Constitution today. See offers.
Your subscription to the Atlanta Journal-Constitution funds in-depth reporting and investigations that keep you informed. Thank you for supporting real journalism.

Story 111
EuropeFX, headquartered in Limassol, Cyprus, is now a well-established player in the regulated online trading market. Offering STP forex, CFD and crypto trading across multiple platforms and a suite of add-ons to suit every type of trader, EuropeFX is fast becoming the brokerage of choice for retail investors.
Regulation & Security
EuropeFX is owned and operated by Maxiflex Global Investments Corp Limited, a fully-regulated Cyprus Investment Firm (license number 258/14) that operates in compliance with all MIFID II guidelines regarding transparency and client protection.
Client deposits at EuropeFX are processed through regulated payment processing partners ((Skrill (FCA), SafeCharge (Central Bank of Cyprus), SOFORT (BaFIN) and iDeal (AFM)), and all financial information is held on PCI-compliant servers for maximum security.
To ensure maximum protection of clients’ funds, all deposits are held in segregated accounts, and are protected by the Investor Compensation Fund (ICF) up to €20,000 in the unlikely event that EuropeFX is unable to meet its obligations to its clients.
Platform and Add-Ons
EuropeFX has two trading platforms; the now ubiquitous MT4 for desktop and mobile, and EuroTrader for browser-based trading. What makes EuropeFX stand out from other brokerages, however, are the built-in add-ons available at no extra cost with all account types.
TradeWorks Add-On
Tradeworks provides out-of-the-box Expert Advisors (EAs), and allows EuropeFX clients to build and back-test their own automated trading systems on live or demo accounts.
Mirror Trader Add-On
Mirror Trader is a tracking system that enables EuropeFX clients to follow the trading activity of a community of strategy developers, and copy winning strategies into their own trading accounts.
Robox Add-On
Robox establishes the trading and risk management profiles of individual EuropeFX clients, and provides automated strategies to suit their trading styles.
Account Types
Demo Account
EuropeFX offers a 100% risk-free demo account for its clients to test strategies and practice trading on an exact replica of the live MT4 platform.
For live accounts, all trades are executed using the transparent and client-friendly Straight Through Processing (STP) model, which removes any conflict of interest between broker and client.
EuropeFX has five live account types to choose from, all of which enjoy the maximum amount of leverage (30:1) permitted under new ESMA regulations and a variable spread of 0.1 pips.
Bronze Account
Initial Deposit: GBP200
Micro Lots: Yes
VIP Services: No
Commission: 2 pips per lot
Margin Call: 60%
Silver Account
Initial Deposit: GBP2,500
Micro Lots: Yes
VIP Services: No
Commission: 1.5 pips per lot
Margin Call: 60%
Gold Account
Initial Deposit: GBP5,000
Micro Lots: Yes
VIP Services: No
Commission: 1 pip per lot
Margin Call: 60%
Platinum Account
Initial Deposit: GBP10,000
Micro Lots: Yes
VIP Services: Yes
Commission: Contact EuropeFX for more information
Margin Call: 70%
Premium Account
Initial Deposit: GBP25,000
Micro Lots: Yes
VIP Services: Yes
Commission: Contact EuropeFX for more information
Margin Call: 100%
Pro Account
EuropeFX offers a Pro Account with access to leverage up to 200:1 to experienced clients.
Account funding and withdrawals
Deposits can be made by wire transfer, Visa / Mastercard, Skrill, SOFORT, iDEAL, Giropay, SafePay, TrustPay and Przelewy and do not incur any fees. Withdrawals are also free for accounts funded by credit card or Skrill, otherwise are charged at 40 units of the client’s account base currency.
Education & signals
EuropeFX’s comprehensive Education Center provides video courses on a wide range for topics from market analysis to trading psychology, EBooks, market news, access to webinars and daily signals from their partner Trading Central.

Story 112
DUBLIN, May 21, 2019 /PRNewswire/ -- The "Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market by Charging Level, Application, Charging Infrastructure, Electric Bus Charging, Installation, Charging Station, and Region - Global Forecast to 2027" report has been added to ResearchAndMarkets.com's offering.
Research and Markets Logo More
The global EVSE market is estimated to grow from USD 2.54 billion in 2019 to USD 27.61 billion by 2027 at a CAGR of 34.7% during the forecast period.
EVSE is an umbrella term that stands for electric vehicle supply equipment, and its function is to supply electric energy to charge electric vehicles. Electric vehicle supply equipment (EVSE) is also known as an EV charging station, electric recharging point, or charging point. These stations are installed in municipal parking locations by electric utility companies or at retail shopping centers by private companies. These stations are equipped with special connectors that conform to the variety of electric charging connector standards.

The electric vehicles have witnessed rapid evolution with the ongoing developments in charging infrastructure and technology. Technological advancements in EV charging and enhanced range of distance covered by electric vehicles are some of the major factors driving the growth of the electric vehicle market. In addition, the growing sensitivity of various governments towards a cleaner environment has increased the demand for zero-emission vehicles.

These vehicles require the installation of efficient charging infrastructure. Public and private charging stations play a significant role in this scenario. A public charging station can charge up to 8 times faster than a regular residential outlet, which means an EV can be charged 100% in just 1 to 4 hours depending on battery capacity. With advancements in high end charging technology, the demand for fast charging equipment is significant. The EV charging supply equipment market has attracted huge investments by OEMs.
In addition, OEMs have also started developing charging infrastructure for the convenience of EV owners. For instance, Tesla (US) has already initiated the development of supercharging stations.

The electric vehicle supply equipment market is dominated by globally established players such as Tesla (US), ABB (Switzerland), Siemens (Germany), and Bosch (Germany).
Key Topics Covered:

1 Introduction
1.1 Objectives of the Study
1.2 Market Definition
1.3 Market Scope
1.3.1 Markets Covered
1.3.2 Years Considered for the Study
1.4 Currency
1.5 Limitations
1.6 Stakeholders

2 Research Methodology
2.1 Research Data
2.2 Secondary Data
2.2.1 Key Secondary Sources
2.2.2 Key Data From Secondary Sources
2.3 Primary Data
2.3.1 Sampling Techniques & Data Collection Methods
2.3.2 Primary Participants
2.4 Market Size Estimation
2.4.1 Bottom-Up Approach
2.4.2 Top-Down Approach
2.5 Market Breakdown and Data Triangulation
2.6 Assumptions

3 Executive Summary

4 Premium Insights
4.1 Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market to Grow at A Significant Rate During the Forecast Period (2019-2027)
4.2 the Asia Pacific to Lead the Global Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market
4.3 Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Charging Station and Application
4.4 Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Charging Station
4.5 Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Charging Infrastructure
4.6 Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Level of Charging
4.7 Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Application
4.8 Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Installation

5 Market Overview
5.1 Introduction
5.2 Market Dynamics
5.2.1 Drivers
5.2.1.1 Heavy Investments From Automakers in EVs
5.2.1.2 Government Policies and Subsidies
5.2.1.3 Environmental Pollution Treated as an Alarming Issue
5.2.1.4 Demand for Increasing Vehicle Range Per Charge
5.2.2 Restraints
5.2.2.1 Lack of Standardization in Charging Infrastructure
5.2.3 Opportunities
5.2.3.1 Use of Vehicle-To-Grid (V2G) EV Charging Stations for Electric Vehicles
5.2.3.2 EV Charging Stations Powered By Renewable Sources
5.2.4 Challenges
5.2.4.1 High Initial Cost of EVs in Comparison With Ice Vehicles
5.2.4.2 Stringent Rules for Installation of Charging Stations

6 Industry Trends
6.1 Introduction
6.1.1 Technology Analysis
6.1.2 Turbo-Charging for EV
6.1.3 Terra HP Charge System
6.1.4 Smart Charging System

7 Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Government Regulations
7.1 Introduction
7.2 China
7.3 India
7.4 Japan
7.5 South Korea
7.6 Denmark
7.7 France
7.8 Germany
7.9 Spain
7.10 United Kingdom
7.11 Austria
7.12 Sweden
7.13 US
7.14 Canada

8 Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Charging Level
8.1 Introduction
8.2 Research Methodology
8.3 Level 1 (120 V)
8.3.1 Low Energy Consumption to Boost Level 1 Market
8.4 Level 2 (240 V)
8.4.1 Level 2 Charging to Have the Highest Growth in North America Due to Developed Charging Infrastructure
8.5 Level 3 (200 V-600 V)
8.5.1 Asia Pacific to Have the Largest Market for Level 3 Charging
8.6 Key Primary Insights

9 Electric Vehicles Market, By Charging Station Type
9.1 Introduction
9.2 Research Methodology
9.3 Normal Charging
9.4 Super Charging
9.5 Inductive Charging
9.6 Key Primary Insights

10 Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Application
10.1 Introduction
10.2 Research Methodology
10.3 Private
10.3.1 Convenience of Charging & Low Cost to Drive Private Market
10.4 Public
10.4.1 Developed Economies to Encourage Public Charging for Higher Ev Adoption
10.5 Key Primary Insights

11 Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Charging Infrastructure Type
11.1 Introduction
11.2 Research Methodology
11.3 CCS
11.3.1 Tesla Adoption of CCS Will Boost the Demand
11.4 Chademo
11.4.1 China and Japan to Adopt Chademo as Standard Equipment
11.5 Normal Charge
11.5.1 North America to Witness the Highest Growth of Normal Charge During the Forecast Period
11.6 Tesla Supercharger
11.6.1 North America to Be the Largest and Fastest Growing Market for Tesla Supercharger
11.7 Type-2 (Iec 62196)
11.7.1 Asia Pacific to Have the Largest Market Share
11.8 Key Primary Insights

12 Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Electric Bus Charging
12.1 Introduction
12.2 Off-Board Top-Down Pantograph
12.3 On-Board Bottom-Up Pantograph
12.4 Charging Via Connector

13 Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Installation Type
13.1 Introduction
13.2 Research Methodology
13.3 Portable Charger
13.3.1 Demand for Small and Light Chargers Will Boost the Demand
13.4 Fixed Charger
13.4.1 Government Collaboration With Oem to Install Fixed Charger Will Boost Demand
13.5 Key Primary Insights

14 Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Region
14.1 Introduction
14.2 Asia Pacific
14.2.1 China
14.2.1.1 Gb/T-Fast Charging Solutions Will Boost the Demand
14.2.2 India
14.2.2.1 Indian Government Plans to Provide Fast Charging Infrastructure in the Country
14.2.3 Japan
14.2.3.1 Technological Advancements in Japan to Have A Positive Impact on the Market for Super Charging Segment
14.2.4 South Korea
14.2.4.1 Oems to Work With Government to Build the Required Infrastructure for Electric Vehicles in the Country
14.3 Europe
14.3.1 France
14.3.1.1 Electrification of Public Transport in the Country Will Boost the Demand for Super Charging Segment in the Future
14.3.2 Germany
14.3.2.1 Major Oems in the Country to Develop Super Charging Technologies for their Vehicles
14.3.3 The Netherlands
14.3.3.1 High Rate of Adoption of Electric Vehicles Will Boost the Demand for Super Charging in the Country
14.3.4 Norway
14.3.4.1 Government to Offer High Amount of Subsidies for Charging Facilities in the Country
14.3.5 Sweden
14.3.5.1 Government Investments & Support Schemes to Boost the Evse Market in Sweden
14.3.6 United Kingdom
14.3.6.1 Developed Charging Infrastructure to Boost Supercharge Market
14.3.7 Denmark
14.3.7.1 Reduced Demand for Gasoline and Diesel Vehicle Will Uplift the Market
14.3.8 Austria
14.3.8.1 Developed Charging Network in Austria Will Boost the Demand
14.3.9 Spain
14.3.9.1 Government Incentives to Promote Electric Vehicles Will Boost the Demand
14.3.10 Switzerland
14.3.10.1 Government Providing Subsidies to Build Charging Facilities Will Boost the Demand
14.4 North America
14.4.1 Canada
14.4.1.1 Canada Government to Support Charging Infrastructure Will Boost the Demand
14.4.2 US
14.4.2.1 Inclination Towards Innovation, Technology and Development of Safe and Comfortable Automobiles Will Boost the Demand

15 Competitive Landscape
15.1 Overview
15.2 Market Ranking Analysis
15.3 Competitive Scenario
15.3.1 New Product Developments
15.3.2 Partnerships/Supply Contracts/Collaborations/ Joint Ventures/Agreements
15.4 Competitive Leadership Mapping
15.4.1 Visionary Leaders
15.4.2 Innovators
15.4.3 Dynamic Differentiators
15.4.4 Emerging Companies
15.5 Competitive Leadership Mapping for SME's
15.5.1 Progressive Company
15.5.2 Responsive Companies
15.5.3 Dynamic Companies
15.5.4 Starting Blocks

16 Company Profiles
16.1 Key Players
16.1.1 Tesla
16.1.2 BYD Auto
16.1.3 Yazaki
16.1.4 Schneider Electric
16.1.5 Bosch
16.1.6 ABB
16.1.7 Siemens
16.1.8 Efacec Power Solutions
16.1.9 Engie
16.1.10 Mitsubishi Electric
16.1.11 Leviton
16.2 Other Key Players
16.2.1 North America
16.2.1.1 Blink Charging
16.2.1.2 Clippercreek
16.2.1.3 Semaconnect
16.2.1.4 Webasto
16.2.1.5 Opconnect
16.2.1.6 EVgo
16.2.1.7 Volta
16.2.1.8 EV Safe Charge
16.2.1.9 Chargepoint
16.2.1.10 Pulse Charge
16.2.2 Europe
16.2.2.1 New Motion B.V
16.2.2.2 Alfen
16.2.2.3 Allego
16.2.2.4 Ionity
16.2.2.5 Wallbox
16.2.2.6 Heliox
16.2.2.7 Spark Horizon
16.2.2.8 Bp Chargemaster
16.2.2.9 Pod Point
16.2.2.10 EcoG
16.2.3 Asia Pacific
16.2.3.1 Tgood
16.2.3.2 Delta

17 Appendix
17.1 Key Insights of Industry Experts
17.2 Discussion Guide
17.3 Knowledge Store: Subscription Portal
17.4 Available Customizations
17.5 Related Reports
17.6 Author Details

List of Tables
Table 1 Currency Exchange Rates (Per 1 USD)
Table 2 Impact of Market Dynamics
Table 3 Existing Subsidies and Tax Structure, China
Table 4 Existing Subsidies and Tax Structure, India
Table 5 Existing Subsidies and Tax Structure, Japan
Table 6 Existing Subsidies and Tax Structure, South Korea
Table 7 Existing Subsidies and Tax Structure, Denmark,
Table 8 Existing Subsidies and Tax Structure, France,
Table 9 Existing Subsidies and Tax Structure, Germany
Table 10 Existing Subsidies and Tax Structure, Spain,
Table 11 Existing Subsidies and Tax Structure, United Kingdom
Table 12 Existing Subsidies and Tax Structure, Austria
Table 13 Existing Subsidies and Tax Structure, France,
Table 14 Existing Subsidies and Tax Structure, US,
Table 15 Existing Subsidies and Tax Structure, Canada
Table 16 Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Charging Level, 2017-2027 (Units)
Table 17 Level 1: Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Region, 2017-2027 (Units)
Table 18 Level 2: Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Region, 2017-2027 (Units)
Table 19 Level 3: Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Region, 2017-2027 (Units)
Table 20 Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Charging Station Type, 2017-2027 (Units)
Table 21 Normal Charging: Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Region, 2017-2027 (Units)
Table 22 Super Charging: Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Region, 2017-2027 (Units)
Table 23 Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Application Type, 2017-2027 (Units)
Table 24 Private Charging: Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Region, 2017-2027 (Units)
Table 25 Public Charging: Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Region, 2017-2027 (Units)
Table 26 Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Charging Infrastructure Type, 2017-2027
Table 27 CCS: Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Region, 2017-2027 (Units)
Table 28 Chademo: Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Region, 2017-2027 (Units)
Table 29 Normal Charge: Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Region, 2017-2027 (Units)
Table 30 Tesla Supercharger: Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Region, 2017-2027 (Units)
Table 31 Type 2: Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Region, 2017-2027 (Units)
Table 32 Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Installation Type, 2017-2027 (Units)
Table 33 Portable: Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Region, 2017-2027 (Units)
Table 34 Fixed: Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Region, 2017-2027 (Units)
Table 35 Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Region, 2017-2027 (Units)
Table 36 Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Region, 2017-2027 (USD Million)
Table 37 Asia Pacific: Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Country, 2017-2027 (Units)
Table 38 China: Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Charging Station, 2017-2027 (Units)
Table 39 India: Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Charging Station, 2017-2027 (Units)
Table 40 Japan: Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Charging Station, 2017-2027 (Units)
Table 41 South Korea: Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Charging Station, 2017-2027 (Units)
Table 42 Europe: Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Country, 2017-2027 (Units)
Table 43 France: Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Charging Station, 2017-2027 (Units)
Table 44 Germany: Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Charging Station, 2017-2027 (Units)
Table 45 Netherlands: Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Charging Station, 2017-2027 (Units)
Table 46 Norway: Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Charging Station, 2017-2027 (Units)
Table 47 Sweden: Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Charging Station, 2017-2027 (Units)
Table 48 UK: Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Charging Station, 2017-2027 (Units)
Table 49 Denmark: Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Charging Station, 2017-2027 (Units)
Table 50 Austria: Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Charging Station, 2017-2027 (Units)
Table 51 Spain: Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Charging Station, 2017-2027 (Units)
Table 52 Switzerland: Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Charging Station, 2017-2027 (Units)
Table 53 North America: Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Country, 2017-2027 (Units)
Table 54 Canada: Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Charging Station, 2017-2027 (Units)
Table 55 US: Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Charging Station, 2017-2027 (Units)
Table 56 New Product Developments, 2018-2019
Table 57 Partnerships/Supply Contracts/Collaborations/Joint Ventures/ Agreements, 2016-2019

List of Figures
Figure 1 Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Segmentation
Figure 2 Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market: Research Design
Figure 3 Research Methodology Model
Figure 4 Breakdown of Primary Interviews
Figure 5 Market Size Estimation Methodology for the Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market: Bottom-Up Approach
Figure 6 Market Size Estimation Methodology for the Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market: Top-Down Approach
Figure 7 Data Triangulation
Figure 8 Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market: Market Dynamics
Figure 9 Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, By Region, 2019-2027 (USD Million)
Figure 10 Private Charging to Hold the Largest Share in the Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market in 2019
Figure 11 Growing Ev Infrastructure and Ev Sales Will Boost the Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market
Figure 12 Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market Share, By Region, 2019, USD Million
Figure 13 Normal Charging is Expected to Account for the Largest Share of the Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market in North America in 2019
Figure 14 Normal Charging Station Segment to Hold the Largest Market Share, 2019 vs. 2027 (Units)
Figure 15 Normal Charge Segment to Hold the Largest Market Share, 2019 vs. 2027 (Units)
Figure 16 Level 3 Segment Expected to Grow at the Highest Cagr in the Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, 2019 vs. 2027 (Units)
Figure 17 Public Segment Expected to Grow at the Highest Cagr in the Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, 2019 vs. 2027 (Units)
Figure 18 Portable Segment Expected to Grow at the Highest Cagr in the Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, 2019 vs. 2027 (Units)
Figure 19 Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market: Market Dynamics
Figure 20 Level 3 Charging is Expected to Grow at the Highest Cagr During the Forecast Period (2019-2027)
Figure 21 Key Primary Insights
Figure 22 Super Charging Segment is Expected to Grow at A Higher Cagr During the Forecast Period (2019-2027)
Figure 23 Key Primary Insights
Figure 24 Public Charging Application is Expected to Grow at A Higher Cagr During the Forecast Period (2019-2027)
Figure 25 Key Primary Insights
Figure 26 CCS is Expected to Grow at the Highest Cagr During the Forecast Period (2019-2027)
Figure 27 Key Primary Insights
Figure 28 Portable is Expected to Grow at A Higher Cagr During the Forecast Period (2019-2027)
Figure 29 Key Primary Insights
Figure 30 Government Initiatives and Investments to Boost the North American Market (USD Million)
Figure 31 Huge Subsidies for Electrification of Vehicles Will Have A Positive Impact on the Chinese Market
Figure 32 Europe: Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market Snapshot
Figure 33 North America: Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market Snapshot
Figure 34 Key Developments By Leading Players in the Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market, 2016-2019
Figure 35 Ranking of Key Players, 2019
Figure 36 Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market for Major Companies (Global): Competitive Leadership Mapping, 2018
Figure 37 Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Market for SME's (Global): Competitive Leadership Mapping, 2018
Figure 38 Tesla: Company Snapshot
Figure 39 Tesla: SWOT Analysis
Figure 40 BYD: Company Snapshot
Figure 41 BYD: SWOT Analysis
Figure 42 Yazaki: Company Snapshot
Figure 43 Yazaki: SWOT Analysis
Figure 44 Schneider Electric: Company Snapshot
Figure 45 Schneider Electric: SWOT Analysis
Figure 46 Bosch: Company Snapshot
Figure 47 ABB: Company Snapshot
Figure 48 ABB: SWOT Analysis
Figure 49 Siemens: Company Snapshot
Figure 50 Efacec Power Solutions: Company Snapshot
Figure 51 Engie: Company Snapshot
Figure 52 Mitsubishi Electric: Company Snapshot
Story continues

Story 113
Bankable, a UK-based banking as a service platform, announced on Tuesday it has formed a new partnership with credit card giant Visa to accelerate digital banking solutions. Founded in 2010, Bankable describes itself as a global architect of innovative payment solutions providing Banking as a Service. The company’s core virtual account management is available in white-label or through APIs enabling anyone to deploy payment solutions, which includes virtual account services, e-ledgers, virtual and plastic card programs, and e-wallet and light banking solutions.
“Our key competitive advantage lies in our technology, where our virtual account management platform is core to the broader payment services that we enable. We provide a full turnkey solution depending on your business needs, via a single multi-channel platform. We are connected globally to multiple sponsor banks, processors, card manufacturers and other suppliers in the payments ecosystem, and also provide program management services – enabling us to deliver an end-to-end solution for corporate and consumer payment programs.”
According to Bankable, the partnership will allow Visa members to obtain access to the Bankable platform to help them deploy digital banking and real-time payment services. Speaking about the collaboration, Eric Mouilleron, CEO and Founder of Bankable, stated:
“Bankable is proud to join the Visa global family. We are already at work with Visa’s existing partners. Visa’s support of Bankable’s vision, team and technology means a lot to us. We also found a strong cultural alignment with Visa in terms of business approach, speed and appetite to partner with clients to deliver the banking of the future. In addition to Europe, we will open three markets in the next 12 months (North America, Latam, MENA) to leverage relevant opportunities globally and help our European and US fintech clients expand.”
Bill Gajda, Global Head of Strategic Partnerships and Innovation at Visa, added:

Story 114
GOJEK, a Southeast Asian unicorn, has received backing from global credit and payments provider Visa. According to a release, Visa participated in GOJEK’s ongoing Series F funding round for an undisclosed amount. Other investors include Mitsubishi Motors Corporation, Mitsubishi Corporation, and investment from Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance, as well as Siam Commercial Bank.
Last February, it was reported that GOJEK received a valuation of around $10 billion.
The two companies expect to work together to provide “greater options on cashless payments and more seamless experiences for consumers across Indonesia and Southeast Asia.”
GOJEK is an interesting company. A fast-growing multi-service digital platform, GOJEK provides delivery services as well as a growing number of Fintech offerings.
GOJEK was founded by Brown/Harvard B School Alum Nadiem Makarim, a native Indonesian, who worked at McKinsey for three years before launching the firm.
GOJAK’s “GO-PAY” is Indonesia’s market leader in digital payments. The funding will support the expansion across Southeast Asia. Visa can also expect to better integrate with the agile Fintech.
GOJEK President Andre Soelistyo said they have been humbled by the support during the ongoing funding round.
“We’ve been humbled by investor support over the course of our current fundraising round as they have truly shown confidence in our long-term vision of powering the next phase of technology-enabled growth in Southeast Asia. Visa’s investment in GOJEK is an endorsement of our business model and reflects their belief in GOJEK’s ability to improve the lives of people across the region through our services and payments ecosystem.”
GO-PAY CEO Aldi Haryopratomo said that “GO-PAY and Visa share a collective vision of enabling convenient and seamless transactions for consumers across socio-economic groups.
“…we are delighted to work with Visa to collaborate on further expanding our solutions to consumers across Southeast Asia,” said Haryopratomo. “Together with Visa, we will have the unique opportunity to provide greater access to cashless payments across the region.”
Visa Regional President Asia Pacific, Chris Clark said the two companies share a common objective. Both want to make everyday life more convenient for consumers.

Story 115
It seems that cash is no longer king. Prompted by the rise of global e-commerce and internet-connected mobile devices, we are spurning physical money in favour of cards and other digital payment options. Indeed, according to Capgemini, global non-cash transactions grew 11.2 per cent during 2014-15, reaching 433.1bn: the highest growth of the past decade.
To continue reading, subscribe today and enjoy unlimited access to the following: Tips of the Week
Funds coverage
Weekly features on big investment themes
Trading ideas
Comprehensive companies coverage
Economic analysis Subscribe

Story 116
There is an unknown connection issue between Cloudflare and the origin web server. As a result, the web page can not be displayed.
What can I do?
If you are a visitor of this website:
Please try again in a few minutes.
If you are the owner of this website:
There is an issue between Cloudflare's cache and your origin web server. Cloudflare monitors for these errors and automatically investigates the cause. To help support the investigation, you can pull the corresponding error log from your web server and submit it our support team. Please include the Ray ID (which is at the bottom of this error page). Additional troubleshooting resources.

Story 117
Please tell us about yourself and how you reached your current role.
I have been involved in payments for almost a decade, working with companies such as Elavon, First Data Europe and SafeCharge. I was Head of Business Development for Pago’s sister company, PaySec, focused on delivering Asian Payment methods for e-commerce companies and merchants.
Join the iFX EXPO Asia and discover your gateway to the Asian Markets
In 2016 I moved across to Pago to grow the business proposition for the online trading industry. It’s a great next step for me and we see this industry vertical as a key to our growth.
How would you define the challenges facing payment solutions providers that deal with the online trading industry?
While there are idiosyncrasies for the online trading industry, the reality is that the issues facing online payments are prevalent across the spectrum of online payments. The marketplace for anyone taking payments online is now truly global, but at the moment there is no one-size-fits-all way of approaching it.
In a global world, local knowledge is key. Understanding the legislative situation is vital, but equally important is to understand the trends and demographics in any given territory. Once you move outside of territories that see credit cards as the de facto way of paying, the terrain gets very complicated.
ATM payments, supermarket payments, digital wallet payments, bitcoin – each country has a different mindset on how to make a payment, but then every demographic within that country probably also diversifies.
What hot trends do you identify in the payments industry?
The key trend seems to be that everyone is trying to pick up and follow the key trends. There is a danger that people tend to try to replicate what they see working rather than believing in their own solutions.
Yes, digital wallets will continue to develop and evolve, and yes, it is important that in territories where cash is king some form of hybrid payment mechanism is important, and yes, targeting the un- and underbanked in developing countries is key.
The trend that will continue is the battleground to win hearts and minds on behalf of a specific payment method – but in terms of what those solutions are I think there will be a lot of ebbing and flowing to come yet, making fools of people who insist that one trend is going to lead to the promised land of alternative payments.
One of the results of tightened regulations is the blooming of unregulated forex and binary options brokers. Does this phenomenon affect your business?
Anyone looking to provide payments solutions in this industry needs to think seriously about it.
There is a temptation as a PSP to look to take on any merchant that will process money but you must take care. We carry out KYB and Risk and Fraud with all our merchants or brokers which is just common sense to protect ourselves, but we don’t wish to be facilitating payments for customers using companies that are unreliable. Knowing a company is regulated is one of the more obvious checks we do.
How does Pago accommodate the differing needs of different markets?
The reality is it’s not just a case of differing needs of different markets but of different merchants. And much of the answer to this is related to what we discussed with regard to the online trading industry.
Suggested articles How Trading Conditions Can Affect a Trader’s PerformanceGo to article >>
There are so many ways to pay in and pay out of accounts and part of the trick for us is to educate our clients on the nuances of the territory they are entering and the market they are targeting. That applies to different markets for forex and binary options and then goes one further when you extend to different industry verticals such as travel or e-commerce.
Your average forex trader is a different beast from an online shopper whether you are in Sao Paolo or Sydney.
What are your goals for the company over the next few years?
To make lots of money? That’s a pretty obvious goal and any payment provider who says different is lying but there is more to it than that. I want long-standing partnerships not just because we have a good product but because we offer them good service and support and have relationships with them they want to maintain.
We’re in the early days of our journey but if we do our jobs right I’d like to think we will build the reputation of a company that people think of as providing a good solution, bending over backwards to accommodate individual needs but doing so with a smile on our face.
What do you think sets you apart from the competition?
I think anything we say in answer to that question is going to sound a bit twee. I could come up with the usual… service, support, product, range of solutions, but anyone who doesn’t offer all of those or says that would be quite strange.
It would be fun to say something outlandish such as ‘what makes us different is we keep pet giraffes in our office’ but we don’t believe in cruelty to animals and it wouldn’t be true. So, while it will sound twee I’ll stick to a dedication to find the right solution for any of our clients based on their needs and not what we want to offer.
How do you view the current state of the industry?
Fractured. We were at PayExpo in London last year and they had a boxing ring set up with leading payments experts debating various issues and it really drove home just how many issues there are.
There were more standard debates such as whether digital wallets will replace e-wallets and what will replace cards, but also some completely out there issues, such as whether all non-KYC prepaid cards should be banned or if biometric innovations will replace passwords and PINs.
It’s not just about technology but how that technology is regulated, marketed, taken up, applied, combined with other technologies.
But that is what makes payments such an amazing industry to be involved in – there is so much happening and so many opportunities and people out there with fantastic ideas; it’s so stimulating.
What new fields or opportunities do you see as growth potential in the market?
Everything and nothing. I don’t think there is anything particularly ‘new’ out there. It’s now just a case of which technologies will emerge and be successful, and where.
I equate it to the early days of digital technology. Digital cameras, MP3 players, internet phones – everyone knew they were coming, it was just a case of who would create the best technology and market it the best.
I think we all accept that digital wallets will play a big part, that mobile payments are key, that prepaid cards still have a role to pay… there is growth potential across the board because no single technology will be the answer over and above all others.

Story 118
In September, Calcalist will host its third annual innovation and technology conference, Mind the Tech, in London. Investors, entrepreneurs, and executives from the U.K. and Israel will take part in the three-day conference taking place at Camden Market.
The conference is held in collaboration with LABS, KPMG, Camden Market, Gett, Remagine, UK Israel Tech Hub, EL AL and Thelma Tourism. The event will include a series of lectures and talks on innovation, technologies, business ties with Israel, and investment opportunities.
For more information on the conference and registration, click here.
The conference, which will take place on September 11-13, will open with a formal cocktail reception on Wednesday night, and on Thursday, the conference will be held at Camden House. A meet and pitch event will bring together Israeli entrepreneurs with leading venture capital funds and senior executives from British and other international corporations.
David Gilmour (left), Emma Lloyd, and Teddy Sagi.
One of the keynote speakers at the conference will be Israeli-born businessman. In March 2014, Sagi paid 400 million pounds for London’s Camden Market, and since then acquired additional London real estate. He also founded shared office venture Labs, and is a controlling shareholder at London-listed cybersecurity company KAPE Technologies PLC and payment technology company SafeCharge International Group Ltd.
London@calcalist.co.il.
As part of the event, Calcalist will lead a delegation of selected Israeli startups that will showcase their technologies and meet with local investors and strategic partners in European and U.K.-based corporations. Israeli startups from the fields of retail and e-commerce, fintech, artificial intelligence and big data, smart mobility, and autonomous entertainment are welcomed to apply at
Also in attendance will be, chief business development officer at London-headquartered media and telecommunications company Sky PLC. With 31,000 employees, Sky operates in seven European countries including the U.K., Germany, Italy, and Switzerland, and has 23 million customers.
, the head of global fan engagement at soccer team Chelsea FC, will speak on stage with Yossi Moldawsky, the co-founder and active chairman of Ramat Gan, Israel-based venture capital firm Plus Ventures.
Wei Li, head of EMEA investment strategy for New York-headquartered management corporation BlackRock Inc., is another notable conference attendee. Li is also a commentator on leading economic channels such as Bloomberg and CNBC.
David Gilmour is the vice president of business development at London-listed British Petroleum Inc. (BP). In May 2018, the company invested $20 million in Israel-based battery startup StoreDot Ltd.
Ariel Cohen, co-founder of corporate travel startup TripActions Inc., is another conference speaker. In June, the company announced it had raised a $250 million series D funding round according to a $4 billion valuation. Based in Palo Alto, TripActions develops a business travel management service aimed at saving companies money on their employees’ work-related trips. The company’s customers include the likes of Lyft and Dropbox.
Ricky Knox, the co-founder and CEO of Tandem Bank, is aiming to disrupt the established banking system by creating a completely independent mobile-based bank.
Megumi Ikeda is the managing director at Hearst Ventures. She began her professional career as a journalist and worked at Dow Jones and CNN. Ikeda is also a board member of London-based software company Signal Media Ltd. She previously headed the European arm of the Peacock Equity Fund, GE Capital, and NBCUniversal’s $250 million venture fund.
Jonathan Tudor is the director of technology and innovation strategy at British energy company Centrica PLC. Previously, he was the global managing director of BP Ventures.
Co-founder and CEO Tomer Weingarten of Israel-linked cybersecurity company Sentinel Labs Inc., also known as SentinelOne, will also be in attendance. In June, the company announced it has raised a $120 million funding round.
Rephael Sweary is the co-founder and president of WalkMe Inc. WalkMe nabbed its unicorn badge in August 2018 when it raised $40 million according to a $1 billion company valuation. WalkMe adds a layer of on-screen navigation guidance prompts on top of existing websites, helping users navigate through web pages.
Amir Orad, CEO of Israel-based business intelligence startup Sisense Ltd., is another conference attendee. Founded in 2004, Sisense develops software that allows companies with large datasets to gain insights on customers and users without requiring professional data analysis.
Zack (“Tzahi”) Weisfeld. Photo: Amit Sha'al
Zack (“Tzahi”) Weisfeld serves as the general manager of Ignite, Intel Corp.’s startup accelerator in Israel. Wiesfeld previously worked as the head of Microsoft for Startups.
Azmat Yusuf is the founder and president of public transportation application developer Citymapper Ltd. The company’s app offers functions such as locating the nearest available electric scooter or shared bicycle and hailing a cab.
Trax Image Recognition CEO and co-founder Joel Bar-El will also be in attendance. The company is currently raising a $100 million round at a pre-funding valuation of $1.1 billion.
Amy Wyron is the vice president of business solutions at Israeli taxi-hailing company Gett Inc. The company is currently in the midst of preparing for its upcoming initial public offering, and has made repeated statements of its intent to achieve operational profitability in all its markets by the fourth quarter of 2019.
Autonomous drone developer Percepto, incorporated as Vision Cortex Ltd., develops computer vision and automation software for on-site drone systems. Ariel Avitan, the company’s co-founder, will be presenting the company’s drone technology.
Web telligence startup Cobwebs Technologies Ltd. announced it had raised $10 million from an unspecified U.S.-based hedge fund in March. The company develops a search engine capable of searching the dark web and the deep web for potentially illegal or terrorist activity. The system is capable of running background checks on individuals and providing real-time alerts on potentially harmful interactions.
Lod, Israel-based Nanomedic Technologies Ltd. develops and manufactures on-the-spot electrospun medical products. The company's signature product, a nanospun artificial layer of skin, aims to potentially replace the vast majority of traditional bandages. The transient fake skin can be combined with antibacterial creams, antibiotics, cannabinoids, hydrogel, and silicons, depending on the patient's needs. The temporary and transparent skin layer that Nanomedic generates is applied without actually touching the damaged skin, and peels off on its own once the patient's skin tissue has regenerated.
Sports tech startup PlayerMaker, incorporated as Motionize Israel Ltd., develops a data-based football coaching tool designed to analyze metrics for physical, technical, and biomechanical performance. To collect data, PlayerMaker uses motion sensors installed on players’ shoes to track such indicators as gait and ball contact. PlayerMaker’s technology is used by football teams such as AFC Wimbledon, Atlanta United FC, and Israel’s Maccabi Tel Aviv F.C.
Haim Shani is the co-founder and general partner of Israel Growth Partners. Shani is the former CEO of Nasdaq-listed NICE Systems Ltd.
Ido Erlichman is the CEO of London-listed cybersecurity startup Kape Technologies PLC. Founded in 2011 as Crossrider PLC, Kape pivoted to the cybersecurity domain and changed its name in March.
Also attending the conference is Eze Vidra, co-founder of Tel Aviv-based venture capital firm Remagine Media Ventures LP and a former general partner at Google Ventures Europe.
David Fogel, co-founder and investor at Accelerated Digital Ventures, will also attend the event. Fogel, a former deputy director at Wayra UK, started his career in Israel, where he worked for a software services company. Fogel served as a mentor in five startup accelerators and worked with over 350 startups.
European investment fund Target Global will be represented by general partner Yaron Valler. The firm invested in several prominent companies including cooking ingredients delivery company Blue Apron Holdings Inc., New York-based ride-hailing app Juno, German food delivery company Delivery Hero SE, Auto1 Group GmbH, and Smartfrog.
Yaron Shahar is the CEO of London-based LabTech Investments Ltd., which was founded in 2018 to manage the real estate acquired by the Teddy Sagi Group in recent years. LabTech’s portfolio includes London’s Camden Market and dozens of commercial buildings in the city. LabTech also operates shared-office venture LABS, which currently has five locations in London, and one in Tel Aviv on the top five floors of Tel Aviv’s Azrieli Sarona tower. LabTech also controls several tech companies that support its real estate activities.
Justine Zwerling is the head of primary markets Israel at the London Stock Exchange. As part of her job, Zwerling provides consultation and support for private companies and their investors when it comes to preparing for an initial public offering and assists them in establishing connections with other companies, investment banks, and public relations firms.
The conference will be led by Nimrod Kozlovski, a partner at Israel-based law firm HFN and a senior lecturer on cyber studies at Tel Aviv University. Additional participants are Dina Pasca-Raz, a partner at KPMG; Shahar Markovitch, the head of digital and information at Israeli national carrier El Al Israel Airlines Ltd.; Aya Magen, CEO of Israeli travel agency Talma Travel And Tours Ltd.; and Ayelet Mavor, the director of the U.K. Israel Tech Hub.
Taking part in Calcalist’s delegation will be dozens of Israeli entrepreneurs from the country’s most prominent startups. These include customer analytics startup Glassbox Digital UK Ltd.; encrypted data collaboration startup Duality Technologies Inc.; home network cybersecurity startup Securing SAM Ltd.; automatic checkout startup SuperSmart Ltd.; measurement app developer My Size Inc.; mobile ticketing app developer HopOn Ltd.; information security startup PerimeterX Inc.; payroll management startup Papaya Global Ltd.; endpoint security startup Minerva Labs Ltd.; and online real estate company Home-Made UK Properties Ltd.
As part of the convention, the delegation’d startups will take part in an exclusive Meet & Pitch event, participated by senior representatives from some of the world’s leading companies and funds, including Amazon Web Services (AWS), Facebook, Target Global, Tesco, Citi Ventures, Barclays PLC, Credit Suisse AG, Hearst Ventures, Consensus Business Group Ltd., TPG Capital, BlackRock Inc., the London Stock Exchange, LabTech, BP, State of Mind Ventures, New Era Capital Partners, Techstars Central LLC, Qualcomm Ventures, Bristows LLP, Tel Aviv University’s investment arm TAU Venture, Entrée Capital, Reimagine Ventures, Redline Capital Management, Angular Ventures, Zelig Associates Europe LLP, Boom25 ( UK) Ltd., and Demtech Ventures.

Story 119
U.S.-based independent mobile remittance company Remitly announced on Thursday it has teamed up with Visa to enhance its cross-border money transfer service. Working together, Remitly and Visa are planning to provide the ability to send funds from the U.S. to eligible Visa debit cards across borders, with the goal to expand access to other sending markets worldwide.
Remitly reported it will use Visa Direct to unlock more choices for its customers to send cross-border payments in real-time to eligible Visa debit cards in multiple countries around the world. Matt Oppenheimer, Remitly CEO and Co-Founder, stated:
“Our highest priority is to create the best possible money transfer experience for immigrant communities and their families around the world. Our customers have unique money transfer needs including a need for more choices in how they send and receive money. This collaboration with Visa, the world’s leader in digital payments, helps us meet this need with instant scale, security and reach that will help us continue to improve our service.”
Bill Sheley, Global Head of Visa Direct at Visa, went on to add:
“Our new relationship with Remitly underscores Visa Direct’s ability and commitment in enabling the freedom to securely send money around the world. This collaboration extends Visa’s ability to deliver faster payments to customers, regardless of borders or location.”
As previously reported, Remitly was founded in 2011 and describes itself as an international payments company that leverages digital channels, including mobile phones, to send money internationally. The company claims that its digital products are fundamentally faster, less expensive, and far more convenient for customers to send money across borders.

Story 120
ATLANTA (IT-Times) - Der Markt für digitale Zahlungsdienstleistungen befindet sich bereits in einer Konsolidierungsphase. Das wird auch der deutsche Payment-Processing Spezialist Wirecard zu spüren bekommen.
Bereits gestern hat der Wirecard-Wettbewerber Nuvei angekündigt, den britischen Online-Payment-Dienst SafeCharge für eine dreistellige Millionen-Dollar-Summe übernehmen zu wollen.
Heute berichtet die US-Nachrichtenagentur Bloomberg, dass der Wirecard-Kontrahent Global Payments Inc. mit Sitz in Atlanta Gespräche mit dem Wettbewerber Total System Services Inc. in Columbus, Georgia über eine Übernahme führt.
Das wäre bereits der dritte Mega-Merger im Online-Payment Sektor in diesem Jahr. Ob eine Akquisition oder Fusion bzw. ein Joint Venture der beiden US-Unternehmen zustande kommt, ist bislang allerdings unklar.
Die aktuelle Marktkapitalisierung von Global Payments Inc. liegt bei rund 24,5 Mrd. US-Dollar und die Börsenbewertung von Total System Services Inc. bei rund 19,5 Mrd. US-Dollar. Beide Aktienkurse sind heute deutlich im Plus.
Der Umsatz von Global Payments lag im letzten Jahr bei knapp 3,37 Mrd. US-Dollar und das operative Ergebnis bei rund 793 Mio. US-Dollar. Total System Services erzielte 2018 einen Umsatz von rund vier Mrd. US-Dollar und ein operatives Ergebnis von rund 839 Mio. US-Dollar.

Story 121
There was a problem loading this page. Please try again in a few minutes.

Story 122
It’s hard to imagine close to a billion people in unison; it’s even harder to think of the same number using one app on a regular basis. Yet WeChat, the most popular Chinese messaging platform, claims this extraordinary number are busy clicking away, many shopping socially.
What has the global retail industry all in a frenzy is that this singular mobile application has transformed shopping in China. It’s created a multi-faceted digital experience best understood through an example.
Yu Yan loves shopping online and as a young mother she’s created a baby-and-toddler WeChat group where she can share purchase links of products with her friends. If she sees a bulk discount for nappies, Yu Yan instantly shares the link with friends who check reviews. They complete the purchase together and pay by WeChat Pay. She then receives discounts for the next purchase and a link to an interactive game for her child to play.
“Many people spend more than an hour a day on WeChat. You can browse the integrated WeChat stores of your favourite brands, payment is secure and is done with one click, and it’s seamless,” says Jack Porteous, assistant director of retail at the China-Britain Business Council.
Social shopping mixes it up, it offers recommendations and chat from trusted sources, which is big in China, as an extension of the idea of guangxi, where you only do business with people you know, combined with the convenience of mobile shopping. It’s extremely popular among millennials and in a relatively short time it’s managed to reach almost ubiquity.
“The platform is rich in features and it has created a whole new ecosystem by which people can easily order, pay, rate and share experiences,” explains David Avgi, chief executive of SafeCharge.
It’s so fine-tuned that its owner Tencent is now China’s most valuable listed tech company and, with revenues of $477 billion, it is also one of most highly valued globally. It is up there with Alibaba and Facebook. China’s meteoric rise of social shopping is due to a multitude of reasons, part structural, part cultural and part entrepreneurial.
A lack of fixed-line infrastructure has seen a saturation of mobile phones. At the same time these became transaction devices with the rise of WeChat Pay and Alipay. Culturally people like to buy goods based on trust and platforms enabled this with the boom in social media. Also labour is cheap enough to allow for the quick, efficient and affordable delivery of retail goods to people’s doors.
Even beggars accept WeChat donations via a QR code
“Chinese people have a different attitude to new tech. Changes in China are also not only accepted, but rather cheered for and rapidly adopted in everyday life. Even beggars accept WeChat donations via a QR code. People are happy to have an easier way to pay,” says Thomas Guillemaud, chief operating officer of IT Consultis.
“Compare this with how sceptical people are in Europe when it comes to new tech, especially in terms of payment, and you see why this happened in China and not in the EU.”
Take Chinese New Year, close to 770 million people exchanged hongbao, or red packets, a tradition for the lunar celebrations. You used to get money in a paper envelope, now it comes via WeChat, such is China’s capacity for tech adoption and change. Yet it’s not just a Chinese thing.
“What’s interesting is that other Asian markets are going down the same path, but on different platforms. For example, in Thailand, Line, owned by Korean Naver, can be considered a mini WeChat. In South Korea, Kaokao Talk, which dominates chat is also on the same path,” says Maz Amirahmadi, chief executive of ABN Impact.
The success of WeChat and its peers is about ownership and dominance of the entire system. In the UK, Europe and North America, the digital ecosystem is too diverse and sophisticated to be steamrollered by one player. Even with Google or Facebook, their reach does not stretch across the whole digital universe.
“It’s possible in China because the banks are state owned. If the political power agrees the system is good, all the banks will adapt to support it. Therefore, such a fast spread can happen thanks to full integration with your bank account. In the West, the situation is much more complicated due to the absence of such a strong central power,” says Mr Guillemaud.
However, many social networks in the West are adding payment functionalities and linking up other services such as delivery. For instance, Facebook is teaming up with PayPal to add to Messenger. Considering the strength of the fintech ecosystem in the UK, this could provide some solutions.
“Yet the most likely digital player to achieve a similar level of domination to WeChat is Amazon. But even here we have to acknowledge that multiple retailers have their own vibrant digital offerings,” says Nick Cooper, executive director and head of insights at Landor. “It is difficult to imagine, say, Tesco, Asos or Next simply rolling over and allowing their digital commerce to be absorbed into WhatsApp.”
The key learning from China is that social shopping is coming, so retailers better get ready for it, if only to draw in the Chinese tourists. SafeCharge, for instance, partnered with London’s Camden Market to be one of the first in the UK to accept WeChat at the point of sale. A wise move. If you can’t beat them, join them.

Story 123
Canada-based fintech and global digital investing service, Wealthsimple announced this week it has acquired SimpleTax, a Canadian web-based tax preparation service. According to Wealthsimple, both companies aim to further their joint mission of making financial tools simple and accessible to everyone.
“The acquisition marks Wealthsimple’s first expansion beyond saving and investing, with the SimpleTax software joining its growing lineup of financial products, including a leading investment service, a high interest smart savings account and Canada’s first commission-free trading platform.”
Speaking about the acquisition, Michael Katchen, Co-founder and CEO of Wealthsimple, stated:
“Taxes are so ingrained in our lives, and like most financial services, the process of filing them is inherently complicated, challenging and expensive. We have admired SimpleTax for years. They are doing what Wealthsimple did for investing by making tax filing easy, accessible and affordable. By bringing SimpleTax into the Wealthsimple family, we’re one step closer to simplifying people’s financial journey over their lifetime.”
Jonathan Suter, Co-founder and CEO of SimpleTax, then added:

Story 124
Romanian betting and gaming operator Superbet has begun a redundancy consultation process that will see its Gibraltar office downsized less than a year after setting up the Superbet Digital iGaming arm.
Gaming Intelligence understands that the decision is not related to Brexit, but due to a change in strategic focus by the company's board to build its own sports betting technology and concentrate on Eastern European markets.
Premium subscribers continue here to the full article.

Story 125
Source: Judopay
Judopay has appointed Jeremy Nicholds as interim CEO effective 1st October 2018 to drive and oversee the company’s next phases of business growth.
Nicholds has worked in the payments space for 20 years. Starting as head of consumer cards at Natwest, he went on to join for Mastercard in 2000 as UK country manager then SVP/head of sales and marketing for Europe. Jeremy joined Visa in 2006 to drive business growth and from 2014 led their mobile business unit, overseeing the arrival of Apple Pay and other Pay programmes into Europe. Since leaving Visa, Jeremy has taken advisory roles across multiple businesses including Yoyo Wallet, Yello, 118118 Money, Vipera and was Deputy Chairman for SafeCharge.

Nicholds says: “In this increasingly digital world businesses are reviewing their payment processes to ensure they are fit for purpose - ensuring the best possible experience for their customers who are increasingly transacting on the move. They are selecting the payments partner that provides superior technology, a reliable support structure and fairer pricing. Judopay excels in these areas and therefore this is an incredibly exciting time to compete.

Judopay has concentrated on a mobile first offering since inception and is now ahead of the market as businesses focus on delivering a one click, one tap or one swipe mobile experience. The m-commerce industry is set to be valued at $2trilion by 2020 and Judopay is set to play a major role.”

Story 126
Armory, a San Mateo, CA-based enterprise software company delivering open source continuous delivery platform, raised $28M in Series B funding.
The round was led by Insight Partners, with participation from existing investors Crosslink Capital, Bain Capital Ventures, Mango Capital, YCombinator and Javelin Venture Partners. In conjunction wth the funding, Lonne Jaffe, managing director at Insight Partners, joined Armory’s board of directors.
The company, which has raised more than $42M in funding so far, intends to use the funds for increased research and development around Spinnaker as well as investments in sales, marketing, support, and training.
Led by Daniel R. Odio, CEO, Armory is commercializing Spinnaker, a multi-cloud continuous delivery platform backed by Amazon, Google, Microsoft, Oracle and Pivotal for releasing quality software developed and open sourced by Netflix and Google. It has been tested in production by hundreds of teams over millions of deployments.
Spinnaker’s core functions are application management, which allows users to view and manage cloud resources, and application deployment, which manages continuous delivery workflows.
Spinnaker, which unites a pipeline management system with multiple cloud integrations, is compatible with most major cloud providers, including AWS EC2, Kubernetes, Microsoft Azure and more.
Armory’s platform is used by dozens of Global 2000 customers in financial services, technology, retail, healthcare and entertainment.
FinSMEs
01/08/2019

Story 127
The time has come to innovate and evolve the way payments are processed to online brokerages. We examine why this is, in great detail.
As the FX industry relies completely on electronic, online and hosted services for the operation of every component of its business from the actual trading platform itself, to accessibility to live market pricing via aggregated price feeds electronically provided by prime brokerages, to the relationships with Tier 1 banks, market infrastructure such as connectivity and lastly, payment channels, should one particular component no longer become available, substantial collateral damage would occur.
FinanceFeeds considers the online payments industry to be a completely separate entity, operated by completely separate executives with completely separate career paths and business ethos to the established retail and institutional electronic trading industry, however there is one specific matter that should perhaps be considered, that being the almost over-reliance on a handful of payment processing providers which have angled their business intentionally toward the FX (and binary options) sectors.
Whether receiving direct payments from retail customers, processing withdrawals to client bank accounts, or operating an omnibus account on behalf of large white label partners or introducing brokers, a few payment processing providers are in widespread use, largely due to their ability to conduct payment transfers effectively from all regions of the world, circumnavigate risk related ‘red flags’ that are part of MasterCard or Visa’s commercial remit, that being not to enable transfers from countries with high levels of fraudulent activity such as money laundering, and not to facilitate payments to websites that actively solicit for nefarious goods or services such as lottery or mail fraud, and not to provide payment channels to countries in which certain activities are blocked.
For example, binary options on an OTC basis is not legal in the United States, yet FinanceFeeds has conducted substantial research and can confirm that a vast amount of brands and their respective market makers in the binary options business, which is under massive fire from regulators and governments around the world due to its largely completely fraudulent nature, are still actively soliciting clients in the US and stealing money from them with very little recourse, because the payments are being processed via firms that ‘scramble’ the origin and business activity of the firm which is receiving the payment by processing via third party providers and effectively laundering the money via holding accounts in order that it does not show up on the red flag list of Visa or MasterCard.
Last year, PacNet, which operates the brand Counting House, is a large payment processing provider which has a significant number of commercial customers in the retail FX industry, as well as electronic entertainment and gaming sectors.
According to legal notes from the US Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC), the US government’s sanctions on Counting House and PacNet are have been applied in order to target what the officials have termed a significant transactional criminal organization whch launders millions in illicit funds worldwide.
PacNet, the US government states, has a lengthy history of money laundering by knowingly processing payments on behalf of a wide range of mail fraud schemes that target victims in the United States and throughout the world. PacNet is the seventh TCO targeted under transactional criminal organization laws.
With operations in Canada, Ireland, and the United Kingdom, and subsidiaries or affiliates in 15 other countries, PacNet is the third-party payment processor of choice for perpetrators of a wide range of mail fraud schemes.
U.S. consumers receive tens of thousands of fraudulent lottery and other mail fraud solicitations nearly every day that contain misrepresentations designed to victimize the elderly or otherwise vulnerable individuals. PacNet has a nearly 20-year history of knowingly processing payments relating to these fraudulent solicitation schemes (recently binary options), which result in the loss of millions of dollars to U.S. consumers.
PacNet’s processing operations help to obscure the nature and prevent the detection of such fraudulent schemes. In a typical scenario, scammers will mail fraudulent solicitations to victims and then arrange to have victims’ payments (both checks and cash) sent directly or through a partner company to PacNet’s processing operations.
This is how Israeli OTC binary options firms manage to solicit and extract funds from US customers, even though that is an illegal activity in the US.
Victims’ money, minus PacNet’s fees and commission, are made available to the scammers through wire transfers from the PacNet holding account and by PacNet making payments on behalf of the scammers, thereby obscuring the link to the scammers. This process aims to minimize the chance that financial institutions will detect the scammers and determine their activity to be suspicious.
In 2002, as part of a forfeiture action in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Washington, two of PacNet’s major corporate entities in Canada and Ireland acknowledged that the use of the mail to market lottery chances, shares, and interests within the United States, as well as the use of facilities of interstate or foreign commerce within the United States to handle payments for these types of fraudulent solicitations, violate U.S. federal statutes.
One of the travesties of this is that Counting House angles itself as a major supplier of payment processing services to FX and OTC binary options firms, and in times at which it is difficult to obtain merchant services from many providers, firms could inadvertently use this company.
This represents another potential pitfall that brokers should be aware of, in a similar vein to our research which deduced that Tier 1 banks in top quality jurisdictions including US, Canada, Britain, Australia, Israel and Cyprus – effectively all regions with a high level banking environment (and in which Counting House operated), good safety and compliance rulings and large institutions that carry corporate accounts for some of the world’s largest blue chip companies as well as being home to the lion’s share of the world’s retail FX industry – are continuing to curtail their service and are increasingly turning away FX brokerages as customers.
This means that not only do brokers have limited options as to where to store their operating capital and client funds, but also are now becoming the target of thefts from corporate bank accounts because FX brokers are being increasingly forced to use third degree banks in less than salubrious regions, which, according to our research, is causing great difficulties in security of funds.
One of the criminal activities listed by the US Department of Treasury relating to Counting House’s structure was the use of a ‘third party’ account which allows funds to be deposited into what appears to be a legitimate entity, it is then ‘cleaned’ and sent to the requesting company.
Many companies facilitating this type of service use the same type of structure. Some call themselves ‘algorithmic payment processors’ alluding to the use of some type of algorithm which attempts all types of channels to process a payment that otherwise may not be allowed by a government or a merchant services provider, until a gateway accepts it.
This is absolutely not how these systems work. There is no algorithm, it is purely sold as that to make it appear as though it is a technological solution and part of the ‘FinTech’ structure that powers the world’s financial markets economy, when actually that is a deflection of attention from the real nature of the business which is, if the US Department of Treasury’s decision is to be taken as a benchmark, tantamount to money laundering.
Any activity that seeks to deflect funds from an originating source (retail customer, white label partner or IB) and then deposit the funds to a third party account in a different name to where it is intended, then reprocess it to the requester is a form of money laundering, as it ‘cleans’ the identity of the money and therefore circumnavigates any restrictions on that type of business activity put in place by either governments or Visa or MasterCard.
Israel’s national airline EL AL onboarded SafeCharge’s solution recently, largely because of its ‘smart routing’ capabilities and its ability to acilitate the acquiring relationship with multiple third parties giving EL AL access to global acquiring services and the utilisation of multiple APMs.
What does that mean? Perhaps smart routing refers to the use of third party accounts to ‘clean’ the money that would otherwise be refused by merchant services providers.
As long ago as 2014, the US Department of Justice initiated an investigation called “Operation Choke Point” which instigated criminal and civil litigation against 15 banks for using payment processing compamies that move money for various suspect businesses.
According to documents released on in May 2014 by the House of Representatives’ Oversight Committee, the DOJ had criminal probes open of four payment processors, one bank and several officials as of November 2013.
The department had separate investigations into at least 10 banks and payment processors under a civil fraud law, according to a memo from a DOJ official that was included in the documents.
Maame Ewusi-Mensah Frimpong, an official in the DOJ’s civil division, wrote in the memo that the probe had already caused some banks to stop processing payments for entities the firms believed could be involved in fraud against consumers.
“We believe we already have denied fraudulent merchants access to tens, if not hundreds, of millions of dollars from consumers’ bank accounts, and that amount will increase daily and indefinitely,” said Mr Frimpong.
This occurred at around the same time that the CFTC and NFA banned credit card deposits to FX brokerages or other online trading entities by retail customers, the only method being direct bank transfer, and receipt of withdrawal request by bank transfer.
Outside of the payment processors’ ability to dress up their services as FinTech solutions by using characterized buzzwords such as ‘algo’ or ‘instant’, these methods are often referred to as ‘Card Schemes’, thus carry negative connotations.
Card schemes by their definition are payment networks linked to payment cards, such as debit or credit cards, of which a bank or any other eligible financial institution can become a member. By becoming a member of the scheme, the member then gets the possibility to issue or acquire cards operating on the network of that card scheme.
There are generally two categories, one involving three parties and another involving four parties. A three-party scheme consists of three main parties as described in the diagram here.
In this model, the issuer (having the relationship with the cardholder) and the acquirer (having the relationship with the Merchant) is the same entity. This means that there is no need for any charges between the issuer and the acquirer. Since it is a franchise setup, there is only one franchisee in each market, which is the incentive in this model. There is no competition within the brand; rather you compete with other brands.
Examples of this setup are Diners Club, Discover Card, American Express, although in recent times these schemes have also partnered with other issuers and acquirers in order to boost their circulation and acceptance.
In a four-party card scheme, the issuer and acquirer are different entities, and this type of scheme is open for other institutions to join and issue their own cards. This signifies card schemes such as Visa, MasterCard, Verve Card, UnionPay and RuPay. There is no limitations as to who may join the scheme, as long as the requirements of the scheme are met.
When taking this into consideration, despite the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) having astonishingly upheld PacNet as a regulated payments processor one day after it was sanctioned by the US government, it may well be the time to begin future-proofing the payment channel by looking away from these types of firms and seeking new channels as regulators may begin to chop these services.
In a meeting with Saxo Bank senior executives in London at the end of last year, FinanceFeeds discussed the possibilities that brokerages may begin expanding their own payment processing services and banking systems to suit the FX industry and offer a bona fide alternative. This would be a welcome direction indeed.
The industry is, after all, far more sophisticated and evolved at retail level than it was ten years ago, hence it is only a matter of time before the hawk-eyed regulators put a stop to the use of PacNet-style payment processing companies altogether, hence now’s the time to start working on institutional-grade alternatives.

Story 128
Eduardo Barreto é o novo diretor-geral para Portugal da HiPay, Fintech especializada em serviços de pagamentos Omnicanal, com presença em mais de 170 países. Como diretor-geral da empresa em Portugal, Eduardo Barreto terá como responsabilidade o desenvolvimento e expansão da operação da HiPay no mercado nacional.
Formado em Direito pela Universidade de Exeter, com um mestrado em Direito Europeu pela Universidade de Rennes, o novo responsável pela operação da HiPay em Portugal iniciou o seu percurso profissional na Xerox em 2008, como responsável de desenvolvimento de negócio no Reino Unido.
Em 2012 transitou para a ACS Solutions, empresa do grupo Xerox, especialista em serviços de IT e software, onde foi responsável de vendas pan-europeu do portefólio de Business Process Outsourcing e Gestão Documental da empresa.
Em 2016 o profissional integra a equipa da Elavon, em Londres, um dos maiores operadores globais de soluções de pagamento, na equipa internacional de vendas corporativas, ascendendo em seguida a diretor de vendas corporativas internacionais para o setor da hospitalidade.
Desde 2017 e antes de ser nomeado diretor-geral da HiPay para Portugal e Espanha, Eduardo Barreto encontrava-se na SafeCharge como Head of Travel & Hospitality, onde desenvolveu e implementou a estratégia da empresa para todo o segmento de viagens e hospitalidade.
A HiPay é uma plataforma de pagamentos global que possibilita aos comerciantes aceitar pagamentos de forma segura em 150 divisas e mais de 220 meios de pagamento em todos os canais: online, mobile, e em loja.
Em Portugal, a HiPay conta com uma equipa de 12 colaboradores e, em 2018, foi responsável por 345 milhões de euros em pagamentos processados no mercado nacional, onde trabalha, entre muitos outros, com clientes como a Decathlon, a Delta Cafés, a Mega Animal, ou o Grupo Viagens Abreu.
A nível europeu, a empresa trabalha com marcas internacionais como a Pizza Hut, o Club Med ou a Veepee (antiga vente-privée) entre centenas de outras.

Story 129
Air Partner plc announced that, following a comprehensive search process, Mr Ed Warner OBE has been appointed as Non-Executive Chair of the Company with effect from today.


Ed will also chair the Nomination Committee and join the Remuneration Committee.

Ed has extensive PLC experience and has chaired the boards at a range of prominent organisations. He is currently Chair of Grant Thornton UK LLP, Blackrock Commodities Income Investment Trust PLC and derivatives exchange LMAX Ltd, as well as a Director of a suite of Dublin-listed investment funds managed by DCI. In addition, he is Chair of the Palace for Life Foundation and World Para Athletics. Ed was also Chair of Standard Life Private Equity Trust PLC from 2013 to the end of 2018 and of Panmure Gordon & Co between 2010 and 2016, as well as a Non-Executive Director of SafeCharge International Group from 2014 to 2016.

Ed knows the broking sector well and was a Non-Executive Director of Clarkson PLC, the world’s leading provider of integrated shipping services, for over 10 years until February 2019. He served as Acting Chair for the last 11 months of this appointment. He also has a wealth of Financial Services broking experience from years spent in senior positions at several investment banks and financial institutions, including Old Mutual Financial Services, Bankers Trust, Dresdner Kleinwort Benson and, most recently, IFX Group, where he was CEO until 2006.

Air Partner has a long-term strategy to build a more complete portfolio of aviation services, to which end it has made a number of acquisitions in the last few years. Ed has significant mergers and acquisitions experience, including the integration of numerous small accretive acquisitions, which will help support this objective.

Richard Jackson, who was appointed Chairman on an interim basis on 7th September 2018, will revert to his previous role as Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director.

Mark Briffa, CEO of Air Partner, said: “I am delighted Ed has agreed to become Chair of Air Partner’s Board and I am very much looking forward to working with him. Ed’s extensive PLC and leadership experience, along with his strong understanding of customer-centric businesses, is well suited to Air Partner and will help us to further capitalise on opportunities to diversify and grow our business. I would also like to thank Richard Jackson for the excellent support he has provided as Interim Chairman. His commitment has been much appreciated and enabled the Company to successfully navigate a challenging period."

Ed Warner, Chairman designate of Air Partner plc, said: "I am delighted to be joining Air Partner as Chair. Excellent progress has been made against the Group’s organic and acquisitive growth strategy and Air Partner’s customer offering is well respected across its international markets. I am confident we can continue to grow and develop our enviable customer base from here, and I am very much looking forward to working with the team to help the Company reach its full potential.”

Story 130
Best Answer: Yes, the Galaxy Note 10 and 10+ both support USB-PD charging. However, the Note 10 only supports up to 25 watts of wired charging while the Note 10+ supports up to 45 watts. If you want to hit those speeds, you'll need to buy your own 45W charger. The right charger: 45W USB-C Fast Charging Wall Charger ($50 at Samsung)
Noteable upgrade: Galaxy Note 10+ ($1,100 at Samsung)
A spare cable: 6.6ft USB-C to C E-mark cable ($8 at Amazon)
What is USB Power Delivery, and why is it important?
Very simply, USB Power Delivery is a standard developed by the USB-IF, or Implementers Forum, that allows USB C-based devices to charge at speeds that are both fast and safe for the particular product. While the standard technically supports current of up to 100 watts, companies will set a limit on the device itself based on the thermal tolerances of the battery inside it. A phone, for instance, requires more protection around the battery if charging at high speeds than a tablet or laptop since there's less room for heat dissipation. USB Power Delivery, or USB-PD for short, is a USB C-based alternatives to proprietary charging standards like Qualcomm's Quick Charge, OPPO's VOOC charging and OnePlus's Warp Charge. It even competes with Samsung's own Adaptive Fast Charge, all of which use the older and more limited USB-A port from the charging brick. So both the Note 10 and Note 10+ support USB-PD?
Yes, both phones support USB-PD — in addition to Quick Charge 2.0 and Samsung's own Adaptive Fast Charge — but the smaller Note 10 only charges at 25W maximum and the larger Note 10+ charges at 45W with the right charger. The Note 10 has a smaller 3500mAh battery, but its 25-watt wired charging ability should go from dead to full in around an hour. In comparison, Samsung says that the Note 10+, when paired with a 45-watt wired charging, should be able to reach a full charge in less than an hour despite having a larger 4300mAh battery. That's pretty fast. If you find yourself without a USB-PD charger — say an older Adaptive Fast Charger from a previous Galaxy device, or a Quick Charge brick — the Note 10s will charge at a maximum of 18W, which is similar to older Samsung phones. Thankfully, it's not hard to find good USB PD-compatible chargers these days. Do I need a specific type of charger and cable to reach those speeds?
Glad you asked. Yes, especially when trying to eke 45W from the Note 10+. The safest and most effective charging route is just to buy Samsung's official chargers — the 25W charger comes in the box, and the 45W charger costs $50. But if you want to buy your own 45W charger, you'll need to know a few things: It needs to support the latest USB-PD revision 3
It needs to support charging speeds of at least 11V/4.05A or 15V 3A (which together add up to 45W)
It needs to support the PPS, or Programmable Power Supply, standard If you're curious about PPS, you can read up about it. The gist, though, is that it allows the charger to gradually increase or decrease the voltage and current in small increments so as to minimize heat loss, which in turn keeps the battery at a stable (and safer) temperature. Given Samsung's history with bad batteries in the Note line, this requirement for high-speed charging makes a lot of sense. Aside from the official Galaxy Note 10 charger, Aukey makes a great 75W PPS-enabled wall charger with a 45W USB-C port. We're digging into other chargers at the moment, but this is one of the few we know will charge the Galaxy Note 10+ at its top speed. In addition to needing the right PPS-enabled charger, you're also going to need something called an e-marked USB-C to C cable. These are cables that adhere to the USB3.1 Gen 2 standard and are certified to transfer power of up to 100W or speeds as high as 10Gbps. You can't tell whether a cable is e-marked just by looking at it, so the main way to tell whether it's going to carry those high speeds is by checking its wattage or bandwidth certification. Most USB-C to C cables from reputable companies are e-marked these days. Of course, the charger that comes in the Note 10+ box is e-marked, so you can just use that with whatever 45W charger you choose to pick up. What about wireless charging?
Both Notes support fast wireless charging, too, but the speeds are much more down to earth — 12W for the Note 10 and 15W for the Note 10+. This is still faster than any previous Galaxy device, but for the convenience, you're going to be charging at between half and a third of the speed of a wired charger. To achieve those speeds, though, Samsung's not adhering strictly to the Qi standard but uses its own proprietary Fast Wireless Charging 2.0 standard. We have a roundup of the best wireless chargers for the Note 10 and Note 10+ if you're interested.

Story 131
UK based Fintech Shieldpay has formed a partnership with Visa (NYSE: V) to provide card payments across peer to peer marketplaces and classified ad sites. Shieldpay said the partnership will open up the use of debit and credit cards to the £120 billion classified industry. Shieldpay reported that it will work with Visa’s CyberSource platform to allow access to new verticals where secure peer to peer payments have been challenging due to intrinsic transactional risk.
Shieldpay provides an “instant digital escrow solution” that mitigates the risk of fraud by verifying the identity of all parties and only releasing funds when both parties are satisfied with the transaction. Shieldpay’s partners will also be able to make use of the Visa Direct push payments service, enabling funds to be disbursed directly to a Visa card in real time in many European markets.
Peter Janes, CEO and Founder of Shieldpay, said the Visa and Shieldpay partnership is a game changer for the digital peer to peer marketplace and classified ad world.
“Fraud is a huge concern for users of these platforms, and the security Visa and Shieldpay can now offer will revolutionise the space. The team at Shieldpay continually strives to offer the most secure payment solutions to give consumers complete piece of mind when buying and selling online. Partnering with Visa will give us a strong platform for expansion and enhance our product offering by leveraging our combined assets. We are excited about the future and what we can build alongside Visa.”
Mike Lemberger, SVP Product Solutions for Visa, described the partnership as a great opportunity to bring Visa’s digital payments capabilities to all types of marketplaces.
Shieldpay’s payments process is designed to protect both buyer and seller in any payment by verifying the identity both individuals. Earlier this year, Shieldpay reportedly powered the first fully digital real estate transaction to reduce the potential for fraud. Shieldpay is authorized as payments provider in 32 countries including the UK and US.

Story 132
Global Charging Lockers Market Insights Report 2019-2025 : Mobile Charging Lockers, LocknCharge, Smarte Carte, SafeCharge, KwikBoost
The Global report entails the overall and all-encompassing study of the "Charging Lockers Market" with all its relevant factors that might have an influence on the growth of the market. This report is rooted in the methodical quantitative and qualitative evaluation of the global Charging Lockers market.
Click Here To Access The Sample Report: https://www.promarketresearch.com/request-for-sample.html?repid=705
Furthermore, it also evaluates the most recent improvements while estimating the growth of the leading players Mobile Charging Lockers, LocknCharge, Smarte Carte, SafeCharge, KwikBoost, Ergotron, Brightbox, American Locker, YS Locker, Barcoding Inc., Datamation Systems, goCharge of the market.
The key aim of this Global report is to provide updates and data relating to the Charging Lockers market and also make out all the opportunities for expansion in the market. To begin with, the report entails a market synopsis and offers market definition and outline of the Charging Lockers market. The synopsis section comprises market dynamics entailing market restraints, drivers, trends, and opportunities trailed by pricing analysis and value chain analysis.
The report presents a demand for individual segment in each region. It demonstrates various segments Cell Phone Charging Lockers, Laptop Charging Lockers, Multipurpose Charging Lockers, Other and sub-segments of the global Charging Lockers market. Further, the report provides valuable data such as offerings, revenue, and a business outline of the prominent players in the Charging Lockers market. The Global report draws attention to a number of avenues for the expansion of the Charging Lockers market in the projected period together with its latest trends.
Read Detailed Index Of Full Research Study @:: https://www.promarketresearch.com/global-charging-lockers-market-2018-by-manufacturers-regions-705.html

In addition, the Charging Lockers market is also categorized based on the types of services or product, end user, application segments, region, and others. Every segment expansion is evaluated along with the evaluation of their growth in the forecast period. Furthermore, the Charging Lockers market is also divided on regional basis into the Middle East & Africa, Asia Pacific, North America, Europe, and Latin America. Lastly, the Global report on Charging Lockers market offers a thorough study on industry size, sales volume, demand & supply analysis, shares, and value analysis of numerous firms along with segmental analysis, in relation to significant geographies.
There are 15 Chapters to display the Global Charging Lockers market
Chapter 1, Definition, Specifications and Classification of Charging Lockers , Applications of Charging Lockers , Market Segment by Regions;
Chapter 2, Manufacturing Cost Structure, Raw Material and Suppliers, Manufacturing Process, Industry Chain Structure;
Chapter 3, Technical Data and Manufacturing Plants Analysis of Charging Lockers , Capacity and Commercial Production Date, Manufacturing Plants Distribution, R&D Status and Technology Source, Raw Materials Sources Analysis;
Chapter 4, Overall Market Analysis, Capacity Analysis (Company Segment), Sales Analysis (Company Segment), Sales Price Analysis (Company Segment);
Chapter 5 and 6, Regional Market Analysis that includes United States, China, Europe, Japan, Korea & Taiwan, Charging Lockers Segment Market Analysis (by Type);
Chapter 7 and 8, The Charging Lockers Segment Market Analysis (by Application) Major Manufacturers Analysis of Charging Lockers ;
Chapter 9, Market Trend Analysis, Regional Market Trend, Market Trend by Product Type Cell Phone Charging Lockers, Laptop Charging Lockers, Multipurpose Charging Lockers, Other, Market Trend by Application ;
Chapter 10, Regional Marketing Type Analysis, International Trade Type Analysis, Supply Chain Analysis;
Chapter 11, The Consumers Analysis of Global Charging Lockers ;
Chapter 12, Charging Lockers Research Findings and Conclusion, Appendix, methodology and data source;
Chapter 13, 14 and 15, Charging Lockers sales channel, distributors, traders, dealers, Research Findings and Conclusion, appendix and data source.
Enquire Here Get customization & check discount for report @: https://www.promarketresearch.com/inquiry-for-buying.html?repid=705

