Story 0
Dublin, Oct. 29, 2019 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- The "Africa & Middle East Mobile Money Business Frameworks, Niche Navigation, and Execution Strategies 2019 to 2025" report has been added to ResearchAndMarkets.com's offering.

This research provides an end-to-end analysis of the trends and ecosystem developments impacting the payments, banking, commerce, and retail markets of Africa & Middle Eastern regions.
The research includes regional market developments, technology trends, player strategies, and is a must-have purchase for both leaders and start-ups looking to establish a position among mobile money players.
The research charts prominent case studies to point out winning strategies, and setbacks players must plan maneuver before entering this space.
The research analyses mobile money use cases across key verticals and attempts to assist executives to explore a range of new & existential mobile money offerings, value propositions, and challenges unique to these regions.

Questions Answered by the Research

1. What are the various strategies adopted by players in the payments, banking, commerce, and retail markets in Africa & Middle East?
2. How payments, banking, commerce, and retail market have evolved in Africa & Middle East?
3. Who are the leading players, and what are their unique strategies?
4. What approach should be adopted to register unprecedented growth in the future?
5. What is the opportunity size and growth rate across various segments in payments, banking, commerce, and retail?
Countries Covered
Kenya
Rwanda
Tanzania
South Africa
UAE
Key Topics Covered

1. Africa & Middle East Mobile Money Market Analysis
1.1 Africa Market Statistics
1.2 Africa FinTech Directory
1.3 Middle East Statistics
1.4 300 Words on African Market Setup

2. Africa & Middle East Mobile Money Case Studies
2.1 Case Study: SID Instant
2.2 Case Study: GeoPay
2.3 Case Study: SureSwipe
2.4 Case Study: SureRemit
2.5 Case Study: Peers Exchange
2.6 Case Study: SimbaPay
2.7 Case Study: mVisa
2.8 African Banks & FinTechs
2.9 Case Study: Equity Bank: Kenya, Rwanda, and Tanzania
2.10 Mobile Money Transfer Services in Kenya
2.11 Case Study: First National Bank as MVNO, South Africa
2.12 FNB Connect Pricing at Launch
2.13 Case Study: Wells Fargo, Africa
2.14 Humanising Digital Technology
2.15 Case Study: Virtual banking, UAE
2.16 Case Study: M-Akiba Treasury bonds

3. Mobile Money Vertical Business Use Cases
3.1 Tele & IT
3.2 Public Transport
3.3 Retail
3.4 Education
3.5 Energy and Utility
3.6 Media and Entertainment
3.7 Hospitality and Tourism
3.8 Events
3.9 SCM and Logistics

4. Africa & Middle East Mobile Money Market Forecasts
4.1 Africa Mobile Money Users (In Million), 2019-2025
4.2 Middle East Mobile Money Users (In Million), 2019-2025
4.3 Africa Mobile Banking Users (In Million), 2019-2025
4.4 Middle East Mobile Banking Users (In Million), 2019-2025
4.5 Africa M-Payment Users (In Million), 2019-2025
4.6 Middle East M-Payment Users (In Million), 2019-2025
4.7 Africa M-Payment Revenue (In US$ Billion), 2019-2025
4.8 Middle East M-Payment Revenue (In US$ Billion), 2019-2025
Companies Mentioned

BACB
FNB Connect
Federal Bank
Fedmobile
GeoPay
Lloyds Bank
M-Akiba
NAB Bank
mVisa
O2
Paypal
Peers Exchange
SID Instant
SK Planet
Soneri Bank
SureRemit
SureSwipe
Unilend
Visa
Wells Fargo
Xero
For more information about this report visit https://www.researchandmarkets.com/r/31g8rq
Research and Markets also offers Custom Research services providing focused, comprehensive and tailored research.
CONTACT: ResearchAndMarkets.com Laura Wood, Senior Press Manager press@researchandmarkets.com For E.S.T Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470 For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call 1-800-526-8630 For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900

Story 1
Access Denied - Sucuri Website Firewall
If you are the site owner (or you manage this site), please whitelist your IP or if you think this block is an error please open a support ticket and make sure to include the block details (displayed in the box below), so we can assist you in troubleshooting the issue.
Block details:

Story 2
From left to right: Anton Gaylard, co-founder and COO of Crossfin; Paul Kent, CEO of Sureswipe; Dean Sparrow, co-founder and CEO of Crossfin; and Nic Smalle, MD of Apis.
African fintech holding company Crossfin Technology and Apis Growth Fund, a private equity fund managed by Apis Partners, have acquired card-payment solutions firm Sureswipe.
The acquisition will see the three financial services providers collaborate to form Crossfin Transactional Solutions (CTS).
Crossfin invests in high growth and established cash-generative businesses, while Apis Partners is a private equity asset manager that supports growth stage financial services and financial infrastructure businesses in Africa and Asia, by providing them with catalytic growth equity capital.
In July, Crossfin announced a partnership with Apis, aimed at transforming the local payments acceptance market. Through the collaboration, both partners said they would drive financial inclusion to SMMEs and informal merchants in Southern Africa.
Studies have found that 46% of banked low-income earners in SA tend to use cash as a result of limited card acceptance at micro-merchants, particularly in rural and peri-urban communities where there is no alternative to cash, according to Crossfin.
The acquisition aims to provide financial services, a key enabler for any emerging economy.
“Although the three strong brands have been consolidated under one entity, they will continue to operate independently within their distinctive markets,” says Sureswipe MD Paul Kent.
“We believe each provides a distinctive client solution. By layering a common shared services platform across the three businesses, CTS will provide merchants a ‘one-stop shop’ to help them grow their business.”
Sureswipe is a local financial technology company that has brought card-payment systems to small local businesses since 2008.
The Crossfin group owns stakes in several companies in the fintech industry, including Innervation, WiGroup, Emerge Mobile, Alacrity and Blue Garnet Ventures.
Isaac Mophatlane, former BCX CEO, joined Crossfin as a non-executive director in December 2017.
Crossfin has been on an acquisition trail over the past few years.
Last month, it acquired a stake in insurtech start-up Nobuntu, for an undisclosed amount. Nobuntu brings affordable pension savings products to lower income workers.
In March, Crossfin announced an undisclosed investment in Retail Capital, a South African provider of alternative business funding to SMEs.
The investment aimed to provide Crossfin with opportunities to augment and improve the delivery of fintech products and services to the underserved merchant market.
In 2018, Crossfin snapped up another firm when it acquired a majority stake in payments enablement firm Crossgate. This followed Crossfin's partnership with Investec to identify early-stage fintech businesses.
“If we are to accelerate the migration of South African consumers to a cashless and financially inclusive society, the payments industry must focus on improving accessibility to payment channels, and educate consumers and merchants on the true costs and dangers of cash,” Kent notes.
CTS says it is among the largest independent merchant acquirers operating in SA, servicing over 25 000 active clients, 50 000 active card machines and $5 billion in transaction value. The company will have operations in seven African jurisdictions.
Crossfin CEO Dean Sparrow says the collective scale of CTS gives each company the benefit of cross-leveraging best practices, market opportunities, products, services and distribution.
“We see the companies working together to address the different tiers of the South African payments market comprehensively, with a value proposition that will be very beneficial to their respective clients, as well as provide sufficient resources to develop best-of-breed technologies that can be brought to market faster than at present.
“With Apis’s valuable international network and strong capital backing, we’re confident we can make significant inroads into establishing a more inclusive and supportive payments ecosystem for the informal and formal markets, both here and into the rest of Africa,” notes Sparrow.

Story 3
The choose-your-own adventure style of storytelling, once a structure solely for books, has found a new wave of interest in Hollywood . Even before the critical praise of Black Mirror‘s 2018 special Bandersnatch, HBO and director Steven Soderbergh tried something similar with the slow-burn thriller Mosaic . Last April, Netflix dropped an interactive series with adventurist Bear Grylls, You vs. Wild. And 20th Century Fox announced a branching narrative film in the works.
Now the dating app Tinder, for its first foray into original content, is looking to ride the wave with Swipe Night.
Directed by Karena Evans—the filmmaker behind Drake’s viral music videos for “In My Feelings” and “God’s Plan”—Swipe Night is a first-person POV series where the house party you were invited to quickly devolves into apocalyptic mayhem. A meteor is barreling toward Earth, and you have to decide how you’re going to spend the last three hours of your life. Throughout Swipe Night, you have seven seconds to make a series of choices as seemingly small as whether or not to dance, or weightier moral dilemmas such as ratting out a friend for his infidelity. At the end of the experience, you’re matched with a list of people based on your choices.
Swipe Night is an interesting approach to finding new matches, like seeing a movie on a virtual blind date you can chat about afterward. It’s also a clear play into using content to appeal to Tinder’s target demographic: Gen Z (24-year-olds and under). But, more importantly for Tinder, Swipe Night is a way for the dating app giant to shore up some key stats that it needs to remain strong if it’s going to remain the top-grossing app that’s not a game.
Call in the Z team
According to Tinder, half of its users are Gen Z, which prompted the company last year to create the Z Team, a group within Tinder devoted specifically to studying and understanding this generation. Thus far, the Z Team is responsible for such new features as Tinder U, a university-centric version of Tinder; and festival mode, a means to navigate the summer festival circuit.
With Swipe Night, the Z Team focused on creating an experience that was entertaining as well as served the purpose of breaking the ice between users in way that would be meaningful.
“Gen Z is spending a ton of time on entertainment—on YouTube, on Instagram, on Snapchat,” says Ravi Mehta, who had been a product director at Facebook and joined Tinder in June to be its chief product officer. “They’re spending a lot time talking to each other about that entertainment. “That was really the genesis of Swipe Night. How can we create a really interesting, content-centric, interactive entertainment experience that helps you meet each other and helps you come up with really interesting things to talk about?”

Story 4
Dublin, Oct. 29, 2019 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- The "Worldwide Mobile Money Modernisation & Monetisation in Payments, Retail, Commerce & Banking 2019 to 2022" report has been added to ResearchAndMarkets.com's offering.

Changing times are often interpreted as bad times. Changes can threaten a working business because some of the pre-existing precious matrices, formulas, and models may no longer be applicable or embraced. A similar situation is faced by the mobile money industry today.
While executives struggle to make sense of one opportunity, a brand new list of multiple opportunities come out calling for attention. Add to it the outer accouterments, pressures of returns on investments... the intermix of opportunities has left executives with utter confusion and ambiguity. This is bad for the industry.

By applying critical - contrarian perspectives, bottom-to-top strategies, for example, the research educates in the language of patterns, forces of nature, & accomplishments. So much that you understand and use positive constraints to achieve perceived growth & results.

Questions Answered by the Research

Q1. MNO Resolve - Resolution to threats imposed by Banks - FinTechs - TechGiants on MNO Mobile Money Businesses? What are some Conventional, partly-Modern, and fully-Modern Gateways available to Operators for effective Monetisation - via Modernisation? Who so far has best handled the threat?

Q2. Sandbox Model' Not Yielding Desired Results! How can Operators stay Relevant & Innovative amid Sandbox Model Crackdown? What options do Operators have apart from the Sandbox Model (& Partnerships)? How can the supply of innovation be continued with far-shorter turnarounds opposite to Traditional Models? Outmanoeuvring & Validating Results of (your) Incubation Labs? Know when a Sandbox Model' will not yield? Alternatives to Sandboxes?

Q3. FinTechs - Making a dream Debut? How can new FinTechs gain sufficient exposure in the absence of any strong backing or brand behind them? Choosing Partners: Learning the morals & perils of Partnerships? Q4. Banks, their Vulnerabilities - Best of the Bank & Company' Initiatives, Worldwide? Gaps in their Achievements? How can Payment Banks exploit those Gaps; Pound upon their leverage; and woo their customers? Regions Covered by the Research North America Latin America Europe Asia Pacific Middle East & Africa
Key Topics Covered

1. Executive Summary
E1. Rationale
E2. Modern Mobile money Outlook
E3. Why Modernise?
E4. Operators versus Rest: Plying Consumer Delicacies, Servicing Gaps, Vulnerabilities, & More.
E5. Parametric Evaluation of Modernity from a Mobile Money Business.
E6. There's A Proof
E7. Protentions 2030: A sneak into Future Possibilities, Market Inclinations, and Forecasts w/ Cautionary

2. Market Leadership & Opportunity Analysis W/ Recommendations across Mobile Payments, Banking, Commerce, & Retail 2017 to 2030
2.1. Journey Hitherto: Period Y2012 to Y2016
2.1A. Analysis #1: Banks accept the threat posed by mobile operators.
2.1B. Payment Market Spread Y2012 to Y2016
2.1C. Retail & Commerce Market Spread Y2012 to Y2016
2.2. Mobile Payment Service Distribution (4Q 2016)
2.2A. Government 2 Person (G2P)
2.2B. Informal Payroll
2.2C. Micro-finance & Credit
2.2D. Cross-Border Remittance
2.2E. Savings & Deposits
2.2F. Utilities & Billing
2.2G. Peer 2 Peer (P2P)
2.2H. Public Transport Payments
2.3. Way Forward 2021
2.3A. Analysis #2: Modern roadmap for unknown' opportunities
2.3B. Operators versus Banks Possible scenarios
2.3B.1. Infusion of Retail, Payments, & Commerce 1 - Bank concept
2.3B.2. So. . . Is banking going to be just namesake?
2.3C. Way Forward 2021 > North America
2.3C.1. USA & Canada - Part 1 Retail & commerce beyond 2016
2.4. Using Stringent Reputations to Your Advantage
2.4A. Country Case > Singapore
2.4A.1. 45% Singapore Small Businesses don't have access to Bank Loan.
2.5. Way Forward 2021 > Europe
2.6. Way Forward 2021 > Africa & Middle East
2.7. Way Forward 2021 > Latin America
2.8. Modern Cases for Inspiration & Strategy.
2.8A. Case Study #1 Branch A mobile micro-financing startup.
2.8B. Case Study #2 T-Mobile
2.8B.1. Why it failed? Analysis # 3
2.8C. Case Study #3 Airtel Airtel's FBN Padi4Life'
2.8D. Case Study #4 Tigo Kiiray
2.5. Way Forward 2021 for Banks
2.5A. Possible Seamless Transition Strategies
2.5B. Solution #1 From state of < turbulence 2 profusion >
2.5C. Solution #2 Compatibility issue of < systems & it overhaul >
2.5D. Solution #3 Basel III law & domestic legal framework issue

3. Goal-oriented, Multi-Roadmap Modern Business Frameworks, Niche Navigation, and Executions. 2017 & Beyond
3.1. Introducing Goal-oriented, Multi-roadmap Modern Frameworks
3.1A. Parallel Model Short to mid-term framework
3.1A.1. a.k.a. The Challenger Model
3.1B. Perpendicular Model Mid to long term framework
3.1C. Skew Model Purely goal aligned' framework
3.1C.1. a.k.a. Multi Roadmap Model
3.2. Enabling a Modern Portfolio
Figure 3 1: Modern Mobile Money Roadmap for MNOs
3.3. The Niche Science Guest expert contribution # 1
Pilot P1. Niche-as-a-gateway (N-A-A-G)
Pilot P2. Poorly, A Billion Dollar Business Model Available for purchase - an exclusive TeleResearch Labs' patent.
Pilot P3. (MM) Modern Insurance Business Model
3.4. North America
3.4A. 300 Words on North America Market (4Q 2016) Guest expert contribution # 2
3.5. Why Modernise?
Survey 3-1: The Cult of Made in America'
Survey 3 2: Those Organic Offerings' are Good for Nothing!
3.6. Security Threat The no. of ransomware attacks quintupled to 5000 attacks per day
3.7. Analysis #4 Security solutions available in North America
3.8. US Payment Market Litmus Test How reliable/ realistic solutions adopted by the big - 3 are?
3.9. US Retail/ Commerce Market Litmus Test How top contenders are maneuvering the security threat?
3.10. Analysis #5 Over 80% banks are relying on solutions offered by one company!
3.11. Modern Payments & Commerce in Retail In - use setups, processes, & methodologies
3.11A.1. Preparation & Execution (2016 & Beyond)
3.11A.2. Traditional Commerce Online/ mobile commerce
3.11A.3. Offline Commerce Offline wallets, micro ATMs, alt in-store/ open air buying, etc
3.11A.4. Contextual Commerce Non - disruptive, virtual @ source (instant buying), & more
3.11A.5. Key in-use Setups W. exclusive process & methodology details
3.12. Modern Prepaid Commerce
3.13. Analysis #6 Payments - on - the - move
3.14. Modern Payment Innovation
3.14A.1. On-Visit Payments
3.14A.2. Pay-In-Part Model a . k . a . EMI MODEL
3.14A.3. Modern Post-Pay Model
3.14A.4. Modern Subscriptions Members only payments, rewards, etc.
3.14A.5. Escrow-Tach Retail
3.14A.6. Virtual Payments
3.14A.7. Cryptocurrencies
3.14A.8. Modern Automated Payments
3.14A.9. Enterprise Payments Small/ Mid/ Large enterprise payments
3.14A.10. Bundled Payments Employee salary, etc.
3.14A.10A. Thin Bundle Payments High margin payments [resellership, royalty, IPR payments, etc.]
3.14A.10B. Thick Bundle Payments Low margin/ bulk payments
3.14A.11. Business 2 Business Payments Inward/ outward, 3rd party payments
3.14A.12. Cross-Border Payments Inter-regional/ Forex, travel payments, etc
3.14A.13. Instant Payouts Instant/ real-time payments
3.14A.14. Business 2 Customer Payments B2C refunds, referral payments, etc.
3.14A.15. Tweaked Payments Device compatible, interoperable, hybrid/ multi-platform tweaking
3.14A.16. Offline (+) Online a.k.a. JUGAD 4 Payments
3.15. Ultra Modern Payments
3.15A.1. AI (Artificial Intelligence) Payments
3.15A.2. VR (Virtual Reality) Payments
3.15A.3. Robotic Payments
3.16. Asia Pacific
3.16A. Analysis #7 B2B logistics & startups
3.16B. Performance Review: Banks & FinTechs
3.16C. Case Study #5 Soneri Bank, Pakistan
3.16D. Case Study #6 Xero & PayPal, New Zealand
3.16E. Case Study #7 Federal Bank, Kerala, India
Table 3 1: Fedmobile Key Features
3.16F. Case Study #8 NAB Bank & Visa, Australia
3.16G. Analysis #8. Blockchain polynomy beyond 2016
3.17. Africa & Middle East
3.17A. Africa Market Statistics
Table 3-1: Africa FinTech Directory
3.17B. Middle East Statistics
3.18. 300 Words on African Market Setup Guest expert contribution # 5
3.18A. Case Study #9 SID Instant
3.18B. Case Study #10 GeoPay
3.18C. Case Study #11 SureSwipe
3.18D. Case Study #12 SureRemit
3.18E. Case Study #13 Peers Exchange
3.18F. Case Study #14 SimbaPay
3.18G. Case Study #15 mVisa
3.18H. African Banks & FinTechs
3.18H.1. Case Study #16 Equity Bank: Kenya, Rwanda, and Tanzania
Table 3 2: Mobile Money Transfer Services in Kenya, December 2016
3.18H.2. Case Study #17 First National Bank as MVNO , South Africa.
Table 3 3: FNB Connect Pricing at Launch
3.18H.3. Case Study #18 Wells Fargo, Africa
3.18I. Humanising Digital Technology
3.18I.1. Case Study #19 Virtual banking, UAE
3.19. 300 Words on Latin American (MM) Market Guest expert contribution #6
3.20. 300 Words on European (MM) Market Guest expert contribution #7
3.20B. Case Study #20 O 2, UK/ Germany
3.20C. Case Study #21 BACB, UK
3.20D. Case Study #22 Lloyds Bank, UK
3.20E. Case Study #23 Unilend, France
3.21. 300 Words on the Asia Pacific Modern (MM) Market Guest expert contribution #8
3.22. Cluster Analysis Visualising 2021 [w/ recommendations]
3.22A. Channelisation-A-Tool
3.23. Analysis #9 Micropayments service & (its) future
3.24. Analysis #10 Cryptocurrencies
3.25. Vertical Business Use Cases
3.25A. Tele & IT 3.25B. Public Transport
3.25C. Retail 3.25D Education
3.25E. Energy and Utility
3.25F. Media and Entertainment
3.25G. Hospitality and Tourism
3.25H. Events
3.25I. SCM and Logistics
3.26. More Vertical Cases
3.26A. Case Study #24 SK Planet's Syrup
3.26B. Case Study #25 M-Akiba Treasury bonds
3.26C. Case Study #26 Italy mobile money market
3.27. Analysis #11 Mobile money offline vs. online

4. Hypergrowth 2.0.: Modern - Mobile Finance (M - MFS), Advanced Business Conglomeration, & Niche Navigation for Enhanced Market Share & Revenues. 2017 & Beyond
4.1 Hell Bent for Leather? Hypergrowth may better suit you
4.2. Contenders Mobile Operators, Banks, FinTechs & Others
4.3. Analysis #12 What can conglomerations bring to the table?
4.4. Hypergrowth Models Business model innovation
4.4A. Hypergrowth Model #1 @Payments > India > Asia Pacific
4.4A.1. Objective Direct Carrier Billing
4.4A.2. Niche Anchors
4.4A.3. Business Model Transformation Skew Model
4.4A.4. Analysis #13 Conglomeration/ result analysis
4.4B. Hypergrowth Model #2 @Lending & investments > Canada > North America
4.4B.1. Objective Fast cloud (loan) processing
4.4B.2. Niche Anchors
4.4B.3. Business Model Transformation Skew + Perpendicular model
4.4B.4. Analysis #14 Conglomeration / result analysis
4.4C. Hypergrowth Model #3 @Payments> Estonia > Europe
4.4C.1. Objective Direct Carrier Billing
4.4C.2. Niche Anchors < NA: In - App payments; post - paid payments>
4.4C.4. Business Model Transformation Skew + Perpendicular model
4.4C.4. Analysis #15 Conglomeration / result analysis
4.4D. Selling - off to Millennials Guest expert contribution # 9
4.4E. Hypergrowth Model #4 @Payments > Indonesia > Asia pacific
4.4E.1. Objective Rapid adoption of POS in Indonesia
4.4E.2. Niche Anchors
4.4E.3. Business Model Transformation Skew + Perpendicular model
4.4E.4. Analysis #16 Conglomeration / result analysis
4.4F. Hypergrowth Model #5 @Payments > Czech Republic> Europe
4.4F.1. Objective Diversifying & monetising m - POS in Czech Republic 4.4F.2. Niche Anchors
4.4F.3. Business Model Transformation Skew + Perpendicular model
4.4F.4. Analysis #17 Conglomeration / result analysis
4.4G. Future of M-Pesa in South Africa Guest expert contribution # 10 [w / recommendations]
4.4H. Hypergrowth Model #6 @ Lending & investments > UK >Europe
4.4I.1. Objective Additional revenue via increased end use
4.4I.2. Niche Anchors < NA: Personal finance manager >
4.4I.3. Business Model Transformation Skew + Perpendicular model
4.4I.4. Analysis #18 Conglomeration / result analysis
4.4J. Hypergrowth Model #7 @Lending & investments > Germany > Europe 4.4J.1. Objective Manoeuvring excess regulation & compliance 4.4J.2. Business Model Transformation Skew + Perpendicular model
4.4J.3. Niche Anchors < NA: 1 - Click loan; fast consumer on-boarding & adoption >
4.4J.4. Analysis #19 Conglomeration / result analysis
4.5. Hypergrowth Models Business model innovation
4.5A. Hypergrowth Model #8 @Payments @Lending & investments > Netherlands > Europe
4.5A.1. Objective Fraud/ risk control & enhanced customer servicing
4.5A.2. Business Model Transformation Perpendicular model @work
4.5A.3. Niche Anchors
4.5A.4. Analysis #20 Conglomeration / result analysis
4.5B. Hypergrowth Model #9 @Payments @Lending & investments > Kuwait & Egypt > Middle East
4.5B.1. Objective Fast payments & consumer on-boarding, & support
4.5B.2. Business Model Transformation Parallel & perpendicular models
4.5B.3. Niche Anchors
4.5B.4. Analysis #21 Conglomeration / result analysis
4.5C. Hypergrowth Model #10 @Oman > Middle East
4.5C.1. Objective Digital bank transformation
4.5C.2. Business Model Transformation Parallel & perpendicular models 4.5C.3. Niche Anchors
4.5C.4. Analysis #22 Conglomeration / result analysis
4.5D. Hypergrowth Model #11 @Card payments > Bangladesh > Asia Pacific
4.5D.1. Objective Becoming a pioneer in digital/ card payments
4.5D.2. Business Model Transformation Parallel & perpendicular models
4.5D.3. Niche Anchors
4.5D.4. Analysis #23 Conglomeration / result analysis
4.5E. Hypergrowth Model #12 @Payments > UK > Europe
4.5E.1. Objective Cross border & social payments w/ zero leakage
4.5E.2. Business Model Transformation Perpendicular model
4.5E.3. Niche Anchors
4.5E.4. Analysis #24 Conglomeration / result analysis
4.5F. Hypergrowth Model #13 @Payments Thailand > Asia Pacific
4.5F.1. Objective Demonetisation & digital / cash-less upgrade for country
4.5F.2. Business Model Transformation Perpendicular model
4.5F.3. Niche Anchors
4.5F.4. Analysis #25 Conglomeration / result analysis
4.5G. Hypergrowth Model #14 @Payments > Australia > Asia Pacific
4.5G.1. Objective Innovation, customer service, & new product opportunities
4.5G.2. Business Model Transformation Skew model
4.5G.3. Niche Anchors
4.5G.4. Analysis #26 Conglomeration / result analysis
PILOT #4. Hypergrowth Model #15 Blockchain commercialisation
PILOT #4A. Objective Blockchain monetisation in a marketplace
PILOT #4B. Case #27: Korean Exchange Bank South Korea > Asia Pacific
PILOT #4C. Niches Anchors
PILOT #4D. Analysis #27 Pilot result analysis
4.5H. Hypergrowth Model #16 @Payments > Nigeria > Africa
4.5H.1. Objective A cheaper, real time, & everywhere ready P2P - PoS' solution
4.5H.2. Business Model Transformation Perpendicular model
4.5H.3. Niche Anchors 4.5H.4. Analysis #28 Conglomeration / result analysis
4.5I. Hypergrowth Model #17 @Lending & investments > UK > Europe
4.5I.1. Objective Core banking transformation via cloud
4.5I.2. Business Model Transformation Parallel model
4.5I.3. Niche Anchors
4.5I.4. Analysis #29 Conglomeration / result analysis
4.5J. Hypergrowth Model #18 @Payments > India > Asia Pacific
4.5J.1. Objective Retail & merchant banking transformation
4.5J.2. Business Model Transformation Parallel + perpendicular model 4.5J.3. Niche Anchors
4.5J.4. Analysis #30 Conglomeration / result analysis
4.5K. Hypergrowth Model #19 @Payments > Romania > Europe
4.5K.1. Objective SEPA compliance + fast payment/ digital ID authentication
4.5K.2. Business Model Transformation Perpendicular + skew model
4.5K.3. Niche Anchors
4.5K.4. Analysis #31 Conglomeration / result analysis
4.6 Hypergrowth Models -Business model innovation
4.6A. Hypergrowth Model #20 @Payments > UK > Europe
4.6A.1. Objective Fast & convenient realty payments
4.6A.2. Niche Anchors
4.6B. Hypergrowth Model #21 @Payments > US > North America
4.6B.1. Objective Easy messaging / messenger payments
4.6B.2. Niche Anchors
4.6C. Hypergrowth Model #22 @Payments > USA > North America
4.6C.1. Objective Ride comparison + shopping on the move
4.6C.2. Business Model Transformation Perpendicular
4.6C.3. Niche Anchors
4.6D. Hypergrowth Model #23 @Payments > Spain > Europe
4.6D.1. Objective Enabling small merchants accept card-less payments
4.6D.2. Business Model Transformation Perpendicular
4.6D.3. Niche Anchors
4.6E. Hypergrowth Model #24 @Payments > UK > Europe
4.6E.1. Objective Fast on boarding, cross - border compliance and real time fraud control
4.6E.2. Business Model Transformation Perpendicular
4.6E.3. Niche Anchors
4.6F. What's common between ASOS - A fashion slate; Expedia - A travel agency; Cathay Pacific - An international airline; Freelancer - A job site; and Digital World International?
4.6G. Hypergrowth Model #25 @Payments > Argentina > Latin America
4.6G.1. Objective Greater market- share via portfolio diversification & revenues
4.6G.2. Business Model Transformation Parallel, perpendicular
4.6G.3. Niche Anchors
4.6G.4. Analysis #32 Conglomeration / result analysis
4.6H. Case Study #28 Trustly in year 2017 & beyond
4.6I. Hypergrowth Model #26 @Payments > Argentina > Latin America
4.6I.1. Objective Catching & stopping fraud at the earliest
4.6I.2. Business Model Transformation Parallel, perpendicular
4.6I.3. Niche Anchors
4.6I. Analysis #33 - Coexistence of mobile wallets & credit cards
4.6J. m - MFS Insurance A short walk to modern execution & monetisation'
4.6K. Hypergrowth Model #27 @Insurance > UK > Europe
4.6K.1. Objective Subscription based + low cost/ risk, cloud collateral management
4.6K.2. Business Model Transformation Parallel, perpendicular
4.6K.3. Niche Anchors
4.6K.4. Analysis #34 -Hybrid solution for complex compliance & collateral margin requirements
4.7. International Remittance Initiatives for Migrants
4.8. Gen-X Entry of FinTech Players as MMOs (2017 & Beyond) Guest expert contribution #13
4.9. MNO - Lead (MM) Credit Cards
4.9A. Case Study #29 - Rogers Bank credit card
4.9B. Case Study #30 - Indosat mobile money ATM card
4.10. Modern Mobile Money Curiosities 2017 & beyond
4.10A. Proposed Evolutionary Modern (Mm) Businesses
4.10B. Transition Strategies (2017 & Beyond) - From basic to advanced (MM) offerings
4.10C. Applying MVP' To Push Mobile Money Services
4.10D. The T-Mobile Way of M-Payment adoption?
4.11. (New) Customer Onboarding
4.12. Driving Customer Loyalty Via Early Adoption, & Retention Tactics

5. Live Projects: Selected Modern Mobile Money Profiles to Suit Your Market Positioning & Investments
5.1 North America
5.1A. Acorns
5.1B. Affirm
5.1C. Allied Payment Network
5.1D. Apple Pay
5.1E. Billguard
5.1F. Billmatrix
5.1G. Ceretel's Prepaid Card Program
5.1H. Clearxchange
5.1I. Credit Karma
5.1J. Credit Sesame
5.1K. Doxo
5.1L. Dwolla
5.1M. Ezuza
5.1N. Google Wallet
5.1O. Moneystream
5.1P. Moven
5.1Q. Movil Cash
5.1R. Paynearme
5.1S. Paypal
5.1T. Payso
5.1U. Payzapp
5.1V. Popmoney
5.1W. Prism
5.1X. Regalii
5.1Y. Rentmoola
5.1Z. Ripple
5.1.AA. Sofi
5.1.AB. Square Cash
5.1.AC. Venmo
5.1.AD. Wirex
5.2 Asia Pacific
5.2A. Alipay
5.2B. Billpay
5.2C. Citrus
5.2D. Direcpay
5.2E. Freecharge
5.2F. Hello Paisa
5.2G. Instamojo
5.2H. Mobiquity Money
5.2I. Moneyview
5.2J. M-Paisa Roshan Afghanistan
5.2K. Oxigen Wallet
5.2L. Paytm
5.2M. Payzippy
5.2N. Ruplee
5.2O. Mobomoney
5.2P. Tenpay
5.2Q. Upaisa
5.2R. Wolaidai
5.2S. Mpay
5.2T. Ola Money
5.3 Africa
5.3A. Bitpesa
5.3B. BK-Money
5.3C. Irembo
5.3D. Mobicash
5.4 Europe
5.4A. Astropay
5.4B. Atom Bank
5.4C. Azimo
5.4D. Icushy
5.4E. Monese
5.4F. Moneyswap
5.4G. Mopay
5.4H. Movilway
5.4I. Mpeso
5.4J. Osper
5.4K. Paypoint
5.4L. PayU
5.4M. Sign2Pay
5.4N. Transferwise
5.4O. Weeleo
5.4P. Yoyo Wallet
5.5 Middle East
5.5A. Zain Wallet
5.5B. Zain Cash
5.5C. Asiahawala
5.5D. SABB Mobile
5.5E. Superwallet
5.5F. Ooredoo Mobile Money (OMM)
5.6 Latin America
5.6A. Allpago
5.6B. Billetera Movil (Bancolombia)
5.6C. Banwire
5.6D. Braspag
5.6E. Conec Mobile Wallet
5.6F. Conekta
5.6G. Daviplata
5.6H. Haitipay
5.6I. Maxipago!
5.6J. Mercadopago
5.6K. Miplata
5.6L. Mobile Money Guyana
5.6M. Pagseguro
5.6N. Tu Dinero Movil, Peru

6. Global Mobile Money Demand Estimates: Opportunity Analysis, & Forecasts. 2018 & Beyond
6.1 Mobile Money Market 2019-2025
6.2 Mobile Banking Market 2019-2025
6.3 M-Payment Market 2019-2025
6.3A. M-Payment Users
6.3B. M-Payment Revenue
6.3C. NFC Mobile Payment Market 2019-2025
6.3D. NFC-Enabled Cellphones' Shipment
6.4 Mobile P2P Payments

7. Mobile Money X-Tra Miles: Conclusions, Recommendations, & Protentions. 2021 & Beyond
7.1 Dark Horses - All Operators, Banks, & FinTechs Should be Afraid of!
7.2. Case Study #31 Amberoon
7.3. Mobile Money Evils
7.4. Conclusions
7.5. Recommendations

Story continues

Story 5
Traderoot Africa is the regional sales and support subsidiary of Traderoot Technologies, a FinTech software company based in Cape Town. Traderoot Africa has offices in Johannesburg, Cape Town and Windhoek, and its role is to support and engage with new and existing clients on the African continent, bring new clients on board and provide third-line product support for the software.
Traderoot’s software is licensed to customers, who range from some of the largest financial institutions in the region to end-user point-of-sale merchants.
As an example, clients like Metropolitan Momentum Insurance (MMI) use a Traderoot Core Account solution to manage account balances and account holder profiles, including the collection of fees. MMI’s Core Account system integrates with their health insurance system, their customer-facing structures and their accounting systems.
Old Mutual uses a custom Traderoot solution to aggregate transactions and calculate interest on their Old Mutual Money Account and Retail Mass 2-in-One Savings Plans.
Traderoot software underlies much of the transaction switching and routing between retail merchants and banks in the region. Major payment service providers (PSPs) and their merchants are using Traderoot software, including Innervation, Sureswipe and Dashpay.
In Namibia, Traderoot software is used by Namclear, the national payment clearing house, to route transactions among the country’s banks and provide inter-bank settlements. Furthermore, NamPost licenses a suite of four Traderoot solutions to meet all their business requirements, from biometric authentication to paying bulk salary payments, and managing proof of life for the Government Employees Pension Fund (GEPF).
Some of the other Traderoot clients in the Southern African region are the Botswana Building Society (BBS) and NASCU, a Zambian financial inclusion initiative sponsored by Mastercard.
The FinTech solutions available from Traderoot Africa include two forms of PSP software: the PSP–Channel, which aggregates transactions from a community of merchants and payment terminals, and the PSP–Acquirer, which additionally interacts with banks to settle the merchants’ accounts from their customers’ banks.
The available solutions also include the Card Management System (CMS), which manages the production and issuing of cards and authenticates cardholders using PIN and biometric data.
Their Universal Issuing Platform—Core Account (UIP–Core Account)—provides core banking functions such as managing customer profiles and their account balances, as well as calculating interest and collecting fees.
The Electronic Value Distribution (EVD) solution manages the distribution of value-added services such as airtime vouchers and payment of bills and amenities. The Billing and Reconciliation Engine automates business-to-business functions, including transaction reconciliation and the production of invoices and statements.
Traderoot Africa’s solutions, therefore, cover the entire spectrum of business requirements in banking and payment processing, and their relationship with the region’s banks ensures that their clients’ solutions are compatible and integrated with the established standards.
Investment
Traderoot Africa is well-established, growing and profitable, and they are seeking strategic partners to help them accelerate growth throughout Africa in line with a clearly defined and prioritised market strategy. The Banking as a Service licensing model offers further opportunity to increase their already high proportion of recurring revenue derived from support and maintenance, and from transaction fee income from existing clients. This business model makes Traderoot Africa an exciting investment case for both capital and debt finance. Interested parties should contact the CEO.
Traderoot Active
Traderoot Technologies, through its Africa operations, believes in making a contribution to the future of our country and community by sponsoring education and sporting talent in a meaningful and lasting way that empowers children to become well-educated and healthy leaders of the future.
Rather than simply supporting organisations that tackle the problem of education superficially, they feel that their contribution can be made far more effectively by supporting individual children and young adults from disadvantaged backgrounds who have shown the potential for success, by providing a sustained support network that enables them to reach their goals and achieve that potential. This is the most effective way to foster and mentor genuine leadership potential in future generations.
The Traderoot Active initiative is their way of achieving this aim, while encouraging people’s passionate involvement in active, constructive sporting and leisure activities at the same time. The Ride for a Child and Run for a Child campaigns bring together runners and cyclists to raise funds for education. The people who do these sports are often passionate about the activity, and they have created a platform that enables these people to fund a passion for education through the efforts of an activity that they love doing.
The basis of these campaigns is that people take part in recognised provincial, national or global sporting events competing in Traderoot Active racing gear. Every kilometre they run, swim or ride is sponsored, either by Traderoot or by independent sponsors, and raises money for a charity that significantly benefits a child’s education. In addition, all the funds raised from sales of the branded racing gear go to the same charities.
Traderoot has partnered with Bright Start, an educational charity that places promising children from underprivileged communities into schools with a high standard and continues to work with the child, teachers, parents and others to provide holistic support and guidance throughout the child’s educational career.
Traderoot is also involved with Support SA Talent, an investment project focused on sustainable funding for talented South African athletes.

Story 6
Unlike other emerging economies, the challenge of financial inclusion in South Africa is not the low numbers of bank cardholders but rather the low numbers of payment acceptance points. There are around 80 million bank cards in circulation, yet usage within these accounts remains low. Many South Africans use their bank cards once a month to draw their full salary or grant. In urban suburbs, bank cards are accepted for purchases almost everywhere; but as you move into peri-urban or rural areas only one in 10 retailers accept card payments.
It is no wonder that over 60% of all transactions in South Africa are conducted in cash, and this increases to as much as 90% in rural areas where both informal retailers and low-income levels prevail. According to a study by Mastercard, the cost of cash in South Africa tops at R23-billion — 0.53% of GDP — and it is largely low-income earners who are carrying this cost.
According to the World Bank, financial inclusion means that “individuals and businesses have access to useful and affordable financial products and services that meet their needs — transactions, payments, savings, credit and insurance — delivered in a responsible and sustainable way”.
Access to the National Payment System is limited and payment service providers still need to partner with one of the big financial institutions to operate
This is not the case in South Africa and it is the indigent who are the most adversely affected by the way our financial services sector is structured. Financial technology or fintech companies have stepped in to change that, but the odds that they face as entrepreneurs are huge.
For payment service providers like Sureswipe, which has been joined by newer fintech start-ups such as Yoco and iKhokha, the ability to access and service the informal sector at a price point that makes commercial sense has been one of the main business challenges. Expensive regulatory and compliance requirements make the costs of onboarding a new retailer far greater than the revenue earned on the transactions that the retailer makes every month. Though this changes as the retailer moves from start-up to small business, the initial outlay is being carried by fintech providers.
Furthermore, access to the National Payment System is limited and payment service providers still need to partner with one of the big financial institutions to operate. All this has done is decrease both competition and product reliability and increase costs.
Interestingly, since the inception of card payment fintech players into the South African market, the increase in competition to incumbent banks has seen merchant discount (transaction) fees almost halve, putting millions of rand back into the pockets of independent retailers.
Unemployment crisis
It is well known that the solution to our unemployment crisis will come from the small and medium enterprise sector. Many small businesses and particularly independent retailers start as a way for people to survive. Those that can move beyond the start-up phase and grow not only provide jobs to the business owner and their family, but over time to the broader community as well.
SMEs have a far better chance of surviving if they can accept card payments. Mastercard studies have also shown that merchants who introduce card acceptance report an average increase in turnover of 50%, while those who introduce mobile payment acceptance — via quick response (QR) codes — see their revenues climb by 10%.
To ramp up financial inclusion in South Africa, we need to look at other emerging economies. The Indian and Indonesian governments introduced differentiated banking licences to increase financial inclusion. This has allowed smaller financial services companies to provide specific products and sometimes only in prescribed geographies. This approach is more affordable for the fintech companies offering the service and provides a niched solution to a specific market. The Mexican government worked with its Chamber of Commerce and Visa to subsidise payment devices for informal retailers. About 20 000 devices were deployed, building more businesses, triggering sales and uplifting local economies.
Our government could step in on two fronts by introducing differentiated banking licences and by driving more impactful public-private partnerships to quickly build a stronger SME sector.
Between Sureswipe, Yoco and iKhokha, we have more than 40 000 payment devices in South Africa and we estimate that over 30 000 businesses are accepting card payments for the first time.
This year, Sureswipe marks its 10th year of existence. Yet in reaching this significant milestone, we have carried a lot of the risk ourselves by providing card payment services to businesses and independent retailers that would otherwise not have been able to afford them. Through our cash advance offering, we are also stepping in to provide loans that merchants would be hard-pressed to secure from the big banks. This is effectively access to working capital for merchants to expand or improve their businesses which is paid through customer card swipes.
Since 2010, more than 55 countries have made commitments to financial inclusion, and more than 30 have either launched or are developing a national strategy. Research by the World Bank has also shown that when countries institute a national financial inclusion strategy, they increase the pace and impact of reforms.
South Africa needs a national financial inclusion strategy that has the commitment of all the dominant players in government and business.

Story 7
New kids on the block in Nigeria’s payments scene




JOHANNESBURG - Nigeria's payments scene is hotting up. While in South Africa, card payments innovators like Yoco, Sureswipe and Ikhokha are in full PR-mode as they try to position themselves as the next big thing, in Nigeria it’s online payments start-ups like Paga, Paystack and Flutterwave that are keenly chasing headlines, and for good reason. Nigeria’s legacy payments infrastructure is notoriously unwieldy to say the least - but that’s something these three firms have boldly decided to tackle head-on. Since Paga was founded in April 2009 by Tayo Oviosu and Jay Alabraba, the company has sought ubiquity by sporting a mostly direct-to-consumer focus. The platform enables users to transact electronically by turning their mobile phones into electronic wallets. Paga customers are able to perform a number of useful everyday chores like send cash, purchase airtime, pay bills and retailers, and more recently, transfer money to any bank in the country, as well as receive money from anywhere around the world. It’s easy to underestimate the complexity of executing on such an undertaking. Not only did the start-up require the personal financial backing of one of Silicon Valley’s most prominent angel investors, Tim Draper, to get off the ground, but also two subsequent rounds of investment - the latest of which was a Series B led by Adlevo Capital in 2015. Then, there was the small matter of negotiating key partnerships that both fortified the company’s local-global (“glocal”) offering and offered customers unprecedented interoperability across mobile networks and financial institutions.
A case in point is Paga’s deal with MFS Africa, which has long been in the making. It was announced a couple of months ago, shortly after MFS Africa chief executive Dare Okoudjou hinted at Afrobytes Tech Conference 2017 in Paris that he and his team were working on something ambitious in Nigeria.
The Paga-MFS partnership offers customers seamless transaction potential across networks and across borders - enabling Paga users and Nigerian bank account holders receive cash transfers from mobile money customers using regional and global money transfer operators connected to MFS’ hub.
Just this month, Paga announced that they were now fully integrated into Nigeria’s banking system. In a Medium blog post, Paga’s chief executive, Tayo Oviosu, recounted how when Paga first launched, the only way to load a Paga account with money was via a “manual deposit”- either through a Paga agent or by depositing directly into the company’s bank account in-branch or via EFT.
Back then, twenty staff members were needed to make this manual deposit process work, and it took an average of two hours to process deposits. Today, cash transfers can instantly be made to Paga accounts from any bank in the country, and vice versa. As of October 1, 2017, Oviosu expects Paga’s manual deposits to be a thing of the past.
Paystack was founded in 2015 by Shola Akinlade and Ezra Olubi.
According to media reports, they’ve so far landed $1.42million (R18.87m) in investment since they launched the business. Quite notably, their seed round which closed in December 2016 roped in Comcast Ventures, Singularity Investments and Tencent Holdings.
Last week, Akinlade, Paystack’s chief executive, shared a Medium blog post which featured the start-up’s successful 2015 application to Y Combinator (YC) - with accompanying commentary. YC is a US seed accelerator and venture capital firm, based in Silicon Valley. It is widely considered one of the most powerful start-up incubators in the world. The article revealed some interesting facts regarding the pain points around accepting online payments that Akinlade and Olubi sought to help businesses address.
In 2014, Akinlade claims to have spent the year servicing bank contracts for the implementation of payments and disbursement solutions. That experience led him to the conclusion that most of the infrastructure needed to build a full stack payments application programme interface already existed.
He figured that what was missing was people willing to do the hard work of neatly putting it all together. In the blog post, Akinlade, revealed that when he first started Paystack, there was no way to accept recurring or “one-click” payments. He sensed at the time that financial services incumbents weren’t interested in innovating in that direction.
In his commentary, Akinlade admits the naiveté of that notion, given what he now understands about the complexities of bringing fintech offerings to market and the challenges of promoting innovation within legacy financial institutions.
When YC asked Akinlade to describe his company’s competitive landscape back in 2015, he listed three major types of rivals within the payments space, namely local financial institutions, global payment companies and local non-financial institutions. He noted that local financial institutions tended towards buying white label software solutions and were hamstrung by an inability to make “incremental progress”.
He also reasoned that global payments firms like Stripe and Braintree would find meeting the needs of African merchants challenging, because while they might easily offer them Bitcoin or Apple Pay integration, more complex local offerings like the Pan-African card scheme, Verve Cards and telco-run mobile money services would be much more difficult to assimilate.
While Akinlade didn’t say as much, I imagine that he probably realised that the mobile money services run by mobile networks were some way away from leveraging cross-network interoperability, to say nothing of being well-integrated with the systems of legacy financial institutions.
Conspicuously absent from Akinlade’s competitor breakdown, however, was a detailed profiling of local start-ups also keen on securing a piece of the online payments action. In fairness, he may well have had the mobile telcos and start-ups like Paga in mind when he cited the competitive threat of “non-financial institutions”.
Nevertheless, I am certain that the Paystack‘s founders couldn’t have predicted the rapid progress that yet another Nigerian Y Combinator alum would later enjoy just one year into its existence. Founded by Iyinoluwa Aboyeji - of Andela fame - Paystack’s Silicon Valley-based rival, Flutterwave, successfully closed a $10m Series A in July 2017, courtesy of Green Visor Capital and Greycroft Partners. Flutterwave’s more overtly Pan-African outlook and San Francisco address have no doubt contributed positively to the firm’s investment prospects.
Unlike the founding chief executives of Paga and Paystack, I sense a reluctance on Aboyeji’s part to reduce the start-up success he has so far enjoyed into an executable thesis others might apply to their own hustle.
In a recent exchange I had with him on Twitter, I asked why he was disinclined to speaking on the intricacies of his founder experience. His response: “It is better to stumble with the foot than with the tongue", and “It is too early to distinguish between luck and knowledge.” “Fair enough,” I shot back.
Andile Masuku is a broadcaster and entrepreneur based in Johannesburg. He is the executive producer at AfricanTechRoundup.com. Follow him on Twitter @MasukuAndile and The African Tech Round-up @africanroundup.

Story 8
Cash isn't king when it comes to saving already-burdened consumers a few extra bucks – and the problem is biggest in rural areas and among poor South Africans.
This is according to Paul Kent, MD of Sureswipe, a payment service provider (PSP) active in South Africa for 10 years. It has been joined by other fintech service providers like Yoco and iKhokha.
However, says Kent, the impact of such companies is limited due to a shortage of payment acceptance points. Electronic transactions are typically cheaper, but for many South Africans, access remains a problem.
Fin24 previously reported that although over 70% of South African adults have bank accounts, only 24% make more than three monthly transactions – and high fees are the biggest deterrent.
READ: Eight simple ways to save big on bank charges
"There are around 80 million bank cards in circulation, yet usage within these cards remains low," says Kent. "Many South Africans use their bank cards once a month to draw their full salary or grant.
"In urban suburbs, bank cards are accepted for purchases almost everywhere, but as you move into peri-urban or rural areas, only one in 10 retailers accept card payments."
Hence over 60% of transactions in SA are conducted in cash, and this increases to 90% in some rural areas.
But cash is costly. A 2017 study conducted by Mastercard found that the cost of cash in SA is some R23bn or 0.53% of GDP, and it is mostly low-income earners bearing the brunt.
The cost to start-ups
Kent says the ability to access and service the informal sector at a price point that makes commercial sense has been "one of the main business challenges" for PSPs.
"In SA expensive regulatory and compliance requirements make the costs of onboarding a new retailer far greater than the revenue earned on the transactions that the retailer makes every month," he explains.
"Though this changes as the retailer moves from start-up to small business, the initial outlay is being carried by fintech providers."
Furthermore, he says, access to the national payment system (NPS) is limited, and PSPs are obliged to partner with a large financial institution in order to operate. "All this has done in SA is decrease both competition and product reliability and increase costs," he says.
READ: How banks can cash in on hidden charges
Kent believes the successful introduction of card payment fintech players into the SA market would increase competition for major banks, driving merchant transaction fees downwards and putting rands back into pockets.
"Our government could step in on two fronts by introducing differentiated banking licenses and by driving more impactful public-private partnerships to quickly build a stronger SME sector," he says.
Between Sureswipe, Yoco and iKhokha there are currently some 40 000 payment devices in SA.
* Sign up to Fin24's top news in your inbox: SUBSCRIBE TO FIN24 NEWSLETTER

Story 9
The Global Payments/TSS deal and the American Tower/Eaton Towers deal dominated the international ICT market last week.
At home, we saw the reappointments at the Department of Communications.
Key local news
Mixed interim numbers from Reunert, with revenue up 9.2% but profit down 15.8%.
Good year-end numbers from Cartrack Holdings, with revenue up 27.8% and profit up 16.3%; and ISA, with revenue up 10.9% and profit up 41.5%
Mixed year-end figures from Telkom SA, with revenue up 5.3% but profit down 5.6%.
A positive trading update from the Huge Group.
Crossfin Technology, an African fintech holding company, and Apis Growth Fund, a private equity fund managed by Apis Partners, have acquired Sureswipe, a card payment solutions firm.
Naspers will list its consumer Internet business on Amsterdam’s Euronext exchange on 17 July, subject to market conditions.
The departments of higher education and science and technology will be merged into one, headed by former transport minister, Blade Nzimande, with Buti Manamela as his deputy.
The appointment of Sipho Mngqibisa as acting CEO of USAASA.
The reappointments of Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams as minister of the Department of Communications, and Pinky Kekana as deputy minister in that portfolio.
The resignation of Denzil Perreira, chairman of ISA.
The departure of Lumko Mtimde, CEO of USAASA.
Key African news
State-owned Cameroon Telecommunications (Camtel) is poised to generate more revenue by selling shares to public and private investors after officially opening up its capital.
The Moroccan government will sell up to an 8% stake in Maroc Telecom, Morocco's largest telecoms operator.
The appointment of Shashank Sharma as Lenovo’s executive director and GM for the Middle East, Turkey and Africa region.
Key international news
American Tower acquired Eaton Towers, which owns and operates approximately 5 500 communications sites across five African markets, in a deal worth $1.85 billion.
Apple bought Tueo Health, a digital health solutions start-up.
FireEye purchased Verodin, a security instrumentation company, for $250 million.
Foursquare acquired Placed, a location-data specialist.
Global Payments bought its peer Total System Services for $21.5 billion.
Insight Partners purchased Recorded Future, a cyber security company.
Intuit acquired Origami Logic, a developer of technology to analyse and gain insights from multiple data sets.
LinkedIn bought Drawbridge, a digital identity management company.
NetApp purchased Israeli data security developer Cognigo.
NXP Semiconductors acquired Marvell Technology Group's wireless connectivity business for $1.76 billion.
Palo Alto Networks bought Israeli cyber security firm Twistlock and PureSec’s expertise in serverless security to the Prisma cloud security suite.
Ultrahaptics, a gesture tracking firm, purchased Leap Motion, its US-based rival, for $30 million.
Upland Software acquired Kapost, a leading content operations platform provider for sales and marketing, in a deal worth $50 million.
Investment firms WaveDivision Capital and Searchlight Capital Partners bought Frontier Communications’ assets in some US states for $1.35 billion.
United Group, a Balkan telecoms and media company, purchased Tele2 Croatia, a Croatian telecoms operator, for €220 million.
Innolux, a flat panel maker, has won a patent lawsuit against China-based rival Chongqing HKC Optoelectronics Technology, citing a ruling released by an intermediate people's court in China.
Germany’s anti-trust office is extending its review of a mainframe computing deal between T-Systems, the IT services arm of Deutsche Telekom, and IBM.
Ireland’s Supreme Court has dismissed a bid by Facebook to block a landmark privacy case regarding the transfer of EU users’ data to the US being referred to Europe’s top court.
The US Justice Department is preparing an investigation of Alphabet's Google.
Japan’s government said hi-tech industries will be added to a list of businesses for which foreign ownership of Japanese firms is restricted. It made no mention of specific countries or companies that will be impacted by applying existing foreign ownership restrictions to the IT and telecoms industries.
Sword & Shield, Terra Verde and TruShield have come together under the ownership of growth equity firm Sunstone Partners to form Avertium, a 150-person managed security service provider that will be led Jeff Schmidt, who most recently served as president and CEO of Authomate, a secure access provider.
The US Justice Department is preparing an investigation of Alphabet's Google to determine whether the tech giant broke anti-trust laws in operating its sprawling online businesses.
A US judge ordered Facebook to give shareholders e-mails and other records concerning how the social media company handles data privacy, after data for 87 million users was accessed by British political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica.
Semiconductor Manufacturing International has announced plans to delist its American depositary shares from the NYSE.
Excellent quarterly results from Jianpu Technology (back in the black).
Excellent year-end figures from Uros (Finland).
Very good quarterly figures from Veeva Systems and YY.
Good quarterly numbers from SilverSun Technologies.
Satisfactory quarterly results from Booz Allen Hamilton, Dell Technology (back in the black), Descartes Systems Group, Elbit Systems, Keysight Technologies, Semtech and Verint Systems (back in the black).
Mixed quarterly figures from Momo and VMware, with revenue up but net income down; and from Bezeq Telecom and Tech Data, with revenue down but net income up.
Very poor quarterly figures from Partner Communications.
Quarterly losses from Anaplan, Bharti Airtel, Cellcom Israel, Daktronics, iClick Interactive Asia, Marvell Technology Group, Nutanix, Okta, Palo Alto Networks, QAD, Westell Technologies, Workday, Yext, Zscaler and Zuora.
A full-year loss from Altitude Group.
The appointments of Bimal Dayal as CEO of the new tower company to be formed by the merger of Indus Towers and Bharti Infratel; Raghu Rau as vice-chairman of TiVo (was interim CEO); Dave Shull as CEO of TiVo; and Jeff Tarr as CEO of Solera Holdings, a global leader in risk and asset management data and SaaS solutions for the automotive and insurance industries.
A planned IPO this month in London from Airtel Africa.
A good IPO on London’s AIM market by essensys, a workplace software management company.
Research results and predictions
South Africa:
Smartphone unit sales in SA declined by about 7% year-on-year in Q119, while the value of the smartphone market climbed nearly 3% to around R8.6 billion, as shoppers splashed out on higher-end models with larger screen sizes, according to GfK South Africa’s Weekly Monitor.
EMEA/Africa:
Shipments of EMEA traditional PCs (a combination of desktops, notebooks and workstations) will total 71.3 million in 2019, a 0.4% year-on-year (YOY) decline, according to IDC.
Artificial intelligence spending in the MEA region is poised to reach $290 million this year, rising to $530 million in 2022, according to IDC. It expects investment in AI across the region to grow 42.5% year-on-year in 2019 and continue increasing at a CAGR of 22.2% over the 2019-2022 period.
The overall tablet market in EMEA declined 10.9% year-on-year, shipping 9.7 million units in Q119, according to IDC.
Worldwide:
Global sales of smartphones to end-users declined 2.7% in the first quarter of 2019, totalling 373 million units, according to Gartner.
Global shipments of wearable devices reached 49.6 million units during 1Q19, up 55.2% from the previous year, according to IDC. While wrist-worn wearables accounted for most of the market, with a 63.2% share, ear-worn devices experienced the fastest growth (135.1% year-over-year) and accounted for 34.6% of all wearables shipped.
Global smartphone shipments will face another challenging year in 2019, with volumes forecast to decline 1.9% from 2018, according to IDC.
The combined consumer and enterprise worldwide wireless local area network market segments increased 6.9% year-over-year in 1Q19, finishing at $2.4 billion, according to IDC.
The worldwide Ethernet switch market (layer 2/3) recorded $6.8 billion in revenue in 1Q19, an increase of 7.8% year-over-year, according to IDC. Meanwhile, the worldwide total enterprise and service provider router market revenue grew 8.2% year-over-year in 1Q19 to $3.6 billion.
Stock market changes
JSE All share index: Up 2.3%
FTSE100: Down 1.6%
DAX: Down 2.4%
NYSE (Dow): Down 3%
S&P 500: Down 2.6%
Nasdaq: Down 2.4%
Nikkei225: Down 2.4%
Hang Seng: Down 1.7%
Shanghai: Up 1.6%
Look out for
International:
The potential buyers for prepaid wireless brand Boost Mobile in an upcoming sale valuing the offshoot of T-Mobile US and Sprint at up to $3 billion.
South Africa:
Further developments regarding the AYO investigation.
Final word
Fortune magazine recently published its 2019 Top 500 list. However, the list extends from 501-1 000 online. Following are some changes to the online list from a technology perspective:

Story 10
Completing the CAPTCHA proves you are a human and gives you temporary access to the web property.
What can I do to prevent this in the future?
If you are on a personal connection, like at home, you can run an anti-virus scan on your device to make sure it is not infected with malware.
If you are at an office or shared network, you can ask the network administrator to run a scan across the network looking for misconfigured or infected devices.

Story 11
Tradebridge, the leading South African value-added transaction switch company, has successfully completed another effective technology implementation with high performing and secure ICT solution provider, Datacentrix. The most recent in a string of projects involves a storage replacement and virtualisation solution upgrade to help the organisation improve efficiency, availability and agility.
Tradebridge provides solutions that enable immediate, secure and reliable messaging between organisations that support financial transactions, currently operating through three member companies: Healthbridge, which handles electronic claims switching between medical aids and medical practices; SureSwipe, which is the fastest growing provider of debit and credit card swipe machines in South Africa; and the DCM Group, which provides debt counselling and restructuring services.
As a group, tradebridge handles a large volume of financial data, as well as real-time transactions, so the selection of a strong, security-conscious ICT partner was a top concern.
Says Carel van Heerden, group IT manager for tradebridge: "Tradebridge has worked with Datacentrix for more than a decade in a partnership that has encompassed networking, servers, storage, software implementation and support. Over this time, we have found that we can come to Datacentrix with a challenge and the company will bring the right minds together to find a speedy, cost-effective solution."
Van Heerden explains that Datacentrix has been able to provide the best technical expertise and support, as an HP Platinum Partner, while also delivering the personal "human touch".
"The type of relationship the two companies have can be exemplified by an experience last year; tradebridge experienced a serious, area-wide power outage that damaged one of our storage devices. Datacentrix managed to source the correct parts and have us up and running again by the very next day, a feat that could not be achieved by many other technology partners.
"Tradebridge and Datacentrix have walked a long road together, and this in itself speaks volumes," Van Heerden concludes.

Story 12
Wendy Williams’ Ex-Husband Spills The Tea About Her Alleged Infidelity During Their Marriage
Wendy Williams‘ husband Kevin Hunter reportedly just had a baby with his mistress, but he might not be the only one who has been unfaithful in the past.
The TV personality’s ex-husband, Bert Girigorie, opened up to Radar Online and shared the details of her alleged infidelity during their marriage. The duo dated from 1992 until 1994 before tying the knot. They reportedly called it quits on the marriage a year later in 1995.
Related: Wendy Williams’ Husband Is Still On The Set Of Her Show Amid Drama
Bert dished about how “she would stay out all night” without explanation:
“She would stay out all night and come home about 10 or 11 o’clock in the morning and was like ‘Oh?’ and she didn’t offer any explanation. And that pissed me off. I just let it go. I do not wish her any ill will. I hope that she is able to find some peace of mind.”
Seems like it was because of her drug use, which she’s been extremely candid about.
But it wasn’t until after their divorce that he began to receive confirmations from people about her supposed infidelity:
“After we broke up people started calling me up and telling me different things. At that point it didn’t matter. Several people came to me with stories about her being with other people.”
Today, Bert considers the marriage a “sham” for publicity:
“I didn’t really consider it but looking back part of the reason why we hooked up was because I fit the profile that she thought would be acceptable to her parents. I came from a good family, a middle class/upper middle class family, educated. I was working at the radio station. I just fit the profile of the guy that she could bring home to her parents.”
To add insult to injury, when asked if he believed Miz Williams loved him during their marriage, Bert said:
“I don’t think so.”
Ouch!
He continued to reflect back on their brief time as man and wife:
“All I could tell you is that we had a really good time – we laughed a lot but you know maybe that wasn’t enough for a good marriage.”
Related: Wendy Williams Reportedly Rushed To Hospital After Being Found Drunk
Girigorie, who is referred to in the TV host’s 2001 biography Wendy’s Got Heat under the pseudonym Robert Morris III, further divulged that the man she was allegedly cheating with was involved in the “entertainment and media” industry, but refused to reveal his name as “it might impact his relationship” with his spouse.
Big yikes!! This really isn’t what Wendy needs coming out right now, regardless of whether or not it’s true…
What are your thoughts on these accusations, Perezcious readers? Sound off (below) in the comments!!
[Image via Derrick Salters/WENN.]

Story 13
Swedish payments and banking firm Klarna became the most valuable European fintech startup after new funding pushed its post-money valuation to $5.5bn.
Klarna reached that status after raising $460m in an equity round that will help it “continue its rapid rise in the U.S. market where it is currently growing an annual rate of six million new U.S. consumers,” the company said in a statement on Tuesday.
With its new funding, the Stockholm-based startup leapfrogs European fintech darlings TransferWise and N26, which have recently been valued at $3.5bn.

Klarna helps online shoppers arrange financing at points of purchase, as well as provide merchants with payment tools. It challenges companies such as PayPal Holdings, Square Inc. and Adyen NV, each of which has their own twist on facilitating commerce between sellers and shoppers.
Dragoneer Investment Group led the raise, according to the statement. Other participants included the Commonwealth Bank of Australia, HMI Capital LLC, Merian Chrysalis Investment Co. and Sweden’s AP1 state pension fund, as well as accounts managed by BlackRock Inc. These additional investments follow the January announcement that the rapper known as Snoop Dogg had invested in the Swedish firm.
Numis acted as exclusive financial adviser and placement agent to Klarna.

Story 14
QUIZ: Which ‘Game Of Thrones’ Character Will YOU Marry!?
Think it’s hard to find love in your city? Imagine looking for it in Westeros!
With the White Walker army on its way, now’s the perfect time to settle down and find a Game Of Thrones character to grow old with… so to speak.
Related: ‘Game Of Thrones’ Fans EXPLODE Over Arya Stark’s Sex Scene!
Lucky for you, there are quite a few eligible bachelor/ette’s left. Sure, it’s mostly because their significant others were brutally murdered — but don’t let that stop you from taking them back off the market! Love is a battlefield: it’s scary and bloody and, in this case, will probably lead to an army of literal broken hearts.
Are you ready to tie the knot? Good! Sign up for Tinderos (aka take our quiz, below) and find out who your Game of Thrones soulmate is!
[Image via HBO]

Story 15
Considering how many minutes a day you probably spend looking at your iPhone (and if you don’t know, iOS 12 is about to tell you), you might be surprised how many hidden features you’re overlooking that could save you time and hassle every day. Here are our top 10 tricks to make any recent iPhone a little bit handier than ever.
1. Don’t ‘close’ apps
If you habitually double-tap your Home button and swipe up on all the ‘open’ apps to ‘close’ them – well, don’t. Sure, swipe up an app if it’s glitching. Otherwise, you’ll save time and battery life by leaving apps alone, so they don’t have to reset when you re-open them. Exceptions? Apps that use GPS in the background, like Maps.
2. Do it one-handed
With an iPhone 6 or larger, it’s a juggle to tap every part of the screen using only one thumb – essential when strap-hanging on the bus or texting while parenting. iOS can help.
Double-tap (not press) the Home button for Reachability, shunting the display halfway down. This also facilitates the ‘tap to top’ gesture, where you touch the very top of the screen to move to the start of a list (you knew about that, right?).
Reachability is turned on and off in Settings > General > Accessibility; it’s off by default on the iPhone X, but if turned on is activated by swiping downwards near the bottom of the screen.
For one-thumb typing, tap and hold the emoji key and pick the first icon to squish the keyboard towards the left (or the third icon if you use your right hand).
3. Teach Siri about you
Asking Siri ‘Take me home’ should get you the relevant directions. If not, tap your name at the top of Contacts, then Edit, and enter an address tagged as Home. You can give Siri other information, too. If the contact called Jill is your sister, say, ‘Hey Siri – Jill is my sister.’ From now on, ‘Call my sister’ will phone Jill.
4. Feel who’s calling
Select anyone in Contacts, tap Edit, scroll down and tap Ringtone. Not only can you choose a sound specific to that person, you can change the vibration associated with their calls, so even with your phone on silent you’ll know who’s trying to reach you.
Besides some standard patterns, Create New Vibration lets you tap in your own. So what if you set the boss to Darth Vader’s Imperial March? They can’t hear it.
5. Auto-reply while you’re busy or driving
When you can’t take a call, you can tap to respond to it with a preset message. That’s legal while driving in the UK if your iPhone is in a fixed holder. Set messages in Settings > Phone. To auto-reply to texts, you’ll need to use Do Not Disturb While Driving, found (in iOS 11 and higher) under Settings > Do Not Disturb.
If set to Activate Automatically, this triggers when your iPhone detects car-like movement. Better, pick Manually, and in Settings > Control Center > Customize Controls tap the plus icon for Do Not Disturb While Driving.
Now whenever you’re busy you can swipe up from the bottom of the screen and tap the car icon. Anyone who texts you, if they’re in your Contacts or Favorites, will receive the Auto-Reply message set at the bottom of Settings > Do Not Disturb.
6. Store more fingerprints
You can store up to five fingerprints in Settings > Touch ID & Passcode. Take the time to do both thumbs, for when you’re holding the phone, and both forefingers, for when it’s on a desk, and you’ll never have to fumble again.
7. Maximise battery life
Your iPhone doesn’t automatically minimise energy usage as much as it could. If you often have to hunt for a power socket, consider tweaking your Background App Refresh settings, reducing your screen brightness, using Low Power mode and limiting Location Services.
8. Fade out
You’ve used iOS’ Timer (from Control Center or the Clock app) to play a sound after a chosen period. But did you know it can also stop sounds playing? Tap When Timer Ends, scroll all the way down and pick Stop Playing. Tap Set and start your timer. Whatever audio you play – from the Music app, iPlayer Radio or whatever – will fade out after the set time. Nighty-night.
9. Lend your phone safely
You’re about to hand your iPhone to a co-worker, relative or child to read something on your screen, take over a phone call or try a game. What could possibly go wrong? To limit the risks, be prepared.
Turn on Settings > Accessibility > Guided Access, tap Passcode Settings and set a passcode (separate from your unlock passcode) or choose Touch ID (or Face ID). In future, open the app you want your friend to use, press the Home button three times, and tap Guided Access and then Start (if asked). Now only this app will work until you log back in.
10. Upgrade to iOS 12
Software upgrades bring shiny new features but make your phone go slower. It’s a fact of life, right? Maybe not. Apple promised this year’s version, expected around 18 September, would not only run on older iPhones but actually make them faster. Many beta testers have reported it’s true.
Check your iPhone’s current iOS version in Settings > General > Software Update. If it’s 11.0 or higher, you can install iOS 12, which will appear here when it’s released. You might want to hang on a bit, though, both in case of early glitches and because Apple’s servers get very busy on release days.

Story 16
Meghan Markle’s Estranged Half-Brother Believes The Royal Baby Will Heal Their Complicated Family
Here we go again…
Thomas Markle Jr., older half-brother of Meghan Markle, claims that despite not speaking to his royal sister since 2011, her baby brings hope for healing their family issues.
Related: George Clooney Defends Meghan Markle Against “Unfair” Media
While appearing on the Italian TV program Live Non è La d’Urso, the 52-year old made a plea last week to his half-sister in yet another attempt from her estranged family to get their 15 minutes of fame.
"Meghan ti amo tanto" Il dolce messaggio del fratello della principessa a #noneladurso Mediaset Play @carmelitadurso pic.twitter.com/NBA0tcznHK — Live – Non è la d’Urso (@LiveNoneladUrso) March 14, 2019
Mr. Markle back-tracked on the letter he wrote to the Queen and Prince Harry ahead of the May 2018 wedding, where he claimed that the Suits alum was a “danger to the royal family,” and that the nuptials were “the biggest mistake in royal wedding history”:
“I wrote that letter in a period of real frustration. She did reply and said I was only distant family and I felt very frustrated by it. I couldn’t believe it, as we were so close growing up as kids. No, no, she’s absolutely not a danger to the Royal Family. She is a loving, warm intelligent person who loves her family. She’s an extraordinary woman.”
That’s a pretty big change of tune from someone who once referred to Miz Markle as a “jaded, shallow, conceited woman that will make a joke of you and the royal family heritage” who was “obviously not the right woman for” her future husband…
Ouch!!
The estranged bro continued:
“I reached out to her for help to deal with the press but didn’t get any and it was all very frustrating for me. That’s why I wrote that letter. Things have changed since I wrote that letter. I am all for Meghan and I want to be reunited as a family. I just want to say I love you very much and I want us to be together as a family.”
Related: Meghan Markle’s Half-Sister Calls Her “Heartless” In New Documentary
He also touched on when they last spoke and their relationship today:
“The last time I spoke to Meghan was 2011. The big question is why she doesn’t want to speak to me or her sister Samantha. There is a lot of pressure on her. She went into the spotlight overnight and it’s been very difficult.”
While the Duchess of Sussex’s exact due date is unclear, this uncle-to-be says he’s looking forward to meeting the royal baby:
“Any new baby that comes into a family is a very big deal. I would love to meet the little prince or princess.”
What do you think, Perezcious readers?? Will this baby heal these family wounds or just throw salt in them? Sound off (below) in the comments!!
[Image via John Rainford/WENN & Inside Edition/YouTube.]

Story 17
If you’re looking for the most credit card value for your dollar, then credit cards with no annual fees are just what the doctor ordered. These cards offer plenty of the perks you get from credit cards that charge annual fees but without that yearly hit to your bank account. These perks include airline miles, cash back, and introductory 0% APRs, even if your credit score is less than perfect.
Another benefit of no-annual-fee credit cards is that it’s easy to keep using them over the long run, as you’ll have no annual fee to raise your blood pressure. That’s important because the credit bureaus look favorably upon a longer average age for your credit accounts and may reward you with a higher credit score. Check out our expert picks for the best no-annual-fee credit cards — one (or more) — might be perfect for you.
Best Overall | Cash Back | Signup Bonus | Air Miles | Travel | Rewards | Business | Student
Bad Credit | Fair Credit | No Credit | FAQs
Best Overall Cards With No Annual Fees
The Discover it® Cash Back card uses a quarterly system of revolving offers that lets you earn 5% cash back at different places throughout the year. All you have to do is activate the card each quarter to rack up cash back (up to the quarterly limit) at places like grocery stores, gas stations, restaurants, Amazon.com, and more. You can use your rewards immediately at Amazon.com checkout. You automatically earn 1% cash back on all other purchases.
One coveted feature of the Discover it® Cash Back card is dollar-for-dollar Cashback Match™ on all purchases new cardmembers make during the first year. Your cash back never expires, and you can redeem your rewards whenever you want, in any amount. This card can also save you money on other fees beyond just the annual one. There are no fees for exceeding your credit limit, foreign transactions, or your first late payment.
Moreover, your APR won’t go up if your payment is late. When you sign up, Discover will alert you for free if your Social Security number pops up on any of the thousands of risky websites it monitors.
2 Chase Freedom Unlimited® at Chase'ssecure website BEST OVERALL RATING ★★★★★ 5.0 OVERALL RATING Our Review » 5.0/5.0 Earn a $150 Bonus after you spend $500 on purchases in your first 3 months from account opening.
after you spend $500 on purchases in your first 3 months from account opening. Earn unlimited 1.5% cash back on all purchases.
on all purchases. 0% Intro APR for 15 months from account opening on purchases and balance transfers, then a variable APR of 16.74-25.49%.
for 15 months from account opening on purchases and balance transfers, then a variable APR of 16.74-25.49%. 3% intro balance transfer fee when you transfer a balance during the first 60 days your account is open, with a minimum of $5
No annual fee
Free credit score, updated weekly with Credit Journey℠ See application, terms and details. Intro (Purchases) Intro (Transfers) Regular APR Annual Fee Credit Needed 0% Intro APR on Purchases 15 months 0% Intro APR on Balance Transfers 15 months 16.74% - 25.49% Variable $0 Good/Excellent
Chase calls this card “unlimited” because you earn 1.5% rewards on all purchases, without any annual caps. There is no annual fee, and you can receive a signup bonus. You can get more value from your rewards through monthly discounts on 150 popular gift card brands, and an extra 1% to 15% cash back at more than 350 online retailers via Shop through ChaseⓇ. Cash back doesn’t expire, and there’s no minimum to redeem.
The Chase Freedom Unlimited® packs many consumer protection features, including zero liability for unauthorized charges and a one-year extension on eligible U.S. manufacturers’ warranties of three years or less. You also get 120 days of purchase protection against damage or theft up to $50,000 per account and $500 per claim. Add to that auto rental collision damage waiver, trip cancellation/interruption insurance, travel and emergency assistance services, and a free credit score anytime, and you can see this card provides a lot of value for no annual fee.
The Wells Fargo Cash Wise Visa® Card should please consumers who want to receive unlimited 1.5% cash rewards on all purchases without quarterly activations or rotating category restrictions. Furthermore, you earn more cash rewards when you use your qualified mobile wallet for purchases during the first 12 months. You can reap bonus rewards and special deals when you use this card to shop on the Wells Fargo Earn More Mall website, and rewards do not expire for the life of the account.
Receive 0% APR on new purchases and balance transfers for 12 months
Receive up to $600 in cellphone protection
Pay $0 annual fee
You can redeem your cash rewards on the GoFarRewards website, at a Wells Fargo ATM, on your desktop computer or mobile device, at a Wells Fargo branch, through direct deposit to your checking or savings account, or applied against your qualified Wells Fargo mortgage principal balance. Consumer protections include mobile alerts, 24/7 fraud monitoring, and zero liability protection when you promptly report unauthorized transactions. Other benefits include auto rental collision damage waiver, cellphone protection, and emergency cash advances.
(The information related to Wells Fargo Cash Wise Visa® Card has been collected by CardRates.com and has not been reviewed or provided by the issuer or provider of this product or service.)
4 Chase Freedom® at Chase'ssecure website BEST OVERALL RATING ★★★★★ 5.0 OVERALL RATING Our Review » 5.0/5.0 Earn a $150 Bonus after you spend $500 on purchases in your first 3 months from account opening
after you spend $500 on purchases in your first 3 months from account opening Earn 5% cash back on up to $1,500 in combined purchases in bonus categories each quarter you activate. Enjoy new 5% categories each quarter!
Unlimited 1% cash back on all other purchases - it's automatic
on all other purchases - it's automatic 0% Intro APR for 15 months from account opening on purchases and balance transfers, then a variable APR of 16.74 - 25.49%.
for 15 months from account opening on purchases and balance transfers, then a variable APR of 16.74 - 25.49%. 3% intro balance transfer fee when you transfer a balance during the first 60 days your account is open, with a minimum of $5.
No annual fee See application, terms and details. Intro (Purchases) Intro (Transfers) Regular APR Annual Fee Credit Needed 0% Intro APR on Purchases 15 months 0% Intro APR on Balance Transfers 15 months 16.74% - 25.49% Variable $0 Good/Excellent
The Chase Freedom® no-annual-fee card earns you cash back for every purchase. You can earn 5% cash back on up to $1,500 per quarter on combined purchases in bonus categories you activate. All other purchases earn 1% cash back. Cash back rewards don’t expire as long as you keep the account open. There is no minimum redemption amount, and you can redeem your rewards via a statement credit, purchase of gift cards and certificates, or direct deposit into most U.S. savings and checking accounts. Link your card to Amazon.com and use your cash back rewards for eligible orders at checkout.
The Chase Freedom® provides several services and protection features, like zero liability protection against unauthorized charges and purchase protection on new purchases against theft or damage for 120 days. Eligible U.S. manufacturers’ warranties of three years or less receive an automatic one-year extension. The card protects you from fraud using real-time transaction monitoring, and Chase will alert you by email, text or phone if it detects unusual activity. One last nifty feature: You can go contactless with the Chase Freedom® card, ensuring secure checkout by simply tapping the card on the checkout terminal.
5 Capital One® VentureOne® Rewards Credit Card BEST OVERALL RATING ★★★★★ 4.8 OVERALL RATING 4.8/5.0 $0 annual fee and no foreign transaction fees
Earn a bonus of 20,000 miles once you spend $1,000 on purchases within 3 months from account opening, equal to $200 in travel
Earn 1.25X miles on every purchase, every day
Earn 10X miles on thousands of hotels, through January 2020; learn more at hotels.com/venture
Transfer your miles to over 12 leading travel loyalty programs
Enjoy 0% intro APR on purchases for 12 months; 13.74% - 23.74% variable APR after that See application, terms and details. Intro (Purchases) Intro (Transfers) Regular APR Annual Fee Credit Needed 0% for 12 months N/A 13.74% - 23.74% (Variable) $0 Excellent, Good
For those with good to excellent credit, the Capital One® VentureOne® Rewards Credit Card offers 1.25 miles on everyday purchases, with no annual limit. Plus, you earn 10X miles on thousands of hotels on Hotels.com when you pay with the card. Miles don’t expire for the life of the account and are easy to redeem. You can also transfer your miles to any of Capital One’s available loyalty programs from airlines such as Air Canada, Air France KLM, and Qantas.
The card delivers many other benefits, beginning with no foreign transaction fees, 24-hour travel assistance services, auto rental collision damage waiver, travel accident insurance, and extended warranty protection. You can manage your account on the Capital One mobile app featuring fingerprint sign in, monitor your credit with the CreditWise app, and receive alerts from the Eno® intelligence assistant that also lets you make online purchases using virtual card numbers for added security. Speaking of security, you’re covered by $0 fraud liability and card lock on stolen or lost cards.
Best “Cash Back” Card With No Annual Fee
Is there any reward more versatile than cold hard cash? When you activate the quarterly revolving system from the Discover it® Cash Back, you earn 5% cash back up to the quarterly limit. The revolving categories include restaurants, gas stations, and grocery stores, as well as immediate redemption at Amazon.com checkout. For all other purchases, you earn 1% cash back automatically. Your cash rewards never expire and can be redeemed at any time.
6 Discover it® Cash Back at Discover Card'ssecure website CASH BACK RATING ★★★★★ 4.9 OVERALL RATING Our Review » 5.0/5.0 INTRO OFFER: Discover will match ALL the cash back you've earned at the end of your first year, automatically. There's no signing up. And no limit to how much is matched.
you've earned at the end of your first year, automatically. There's no signing up. And no limit to how much is matched. Earn 5% cash back at different places each quarter like gas stations, grocery stores, restaurants, Amazon.com and more up to the quarterly maximum, each time you activate.
like gas stations, grocery stores, restaurants, Amazon.com and more up to the quarterly maximum, each time you activate. Plus, earn unlimited 1% cash back on all other purchases - automatically.
on all other purchases - automatically. Redeem cash back any amount, any time. Rewards never expire.
Use your rewards at Amazon.com checkout.
Get an alert if we find your Social Security number on any of thousands of Dark Web sites.* Activate for free. See application, terms and details. See Rates & Fees Intro (Purchases) Intro (Transfers) Regular APR Annual Fee Credit Needed 0% for 14 months 0% for 14 months 13.74% - 24.74% Variable $0 Good/Excellent
On all purchases during the first year, Discover provides unlimited dollar-for-dollar Cashback Match™. The card is serious about saving you money, with no annual fee and no fees for your first late payment, exceeding your credit limit, or transacting at a foreign location outside of the U.S., and late payments won’t cause your APR to rise. For added peace of mind, Discover monitors your Social Security number should it appear on any of the risky websites it scrutinizes.
Best “Signup Bonus” Card With No Annual Fee
The Wells Fargo Cash Wise Visa® Card welcomes new cardmembers with a cash back bonus when you use the card to make purchases and meet the minimum required spending amount during the initial three months. The card is also a good alternative for those who don’t care for quarterly rotating categories, as it pays you 1.5% cash rewards on all purchases all year long. During the first 12 months, you earn even more cash back on purchases made with your qualified mobile wallet. The card delivers special deals and bonus rewards to online shoppers on the Earn More Mall website.
You can easily redeem your rewards at any Wells Fargo branch or ATM, on your mobile device or computer, on the GoFarRewards website, or via direct deposit to your savings or checking account. You can even apply your cash rewards to the principal balance of your qualified Wells Fargo mortgage. When you sign up for the card, you’ll enjoy 0% APR on new purchases and balance transfers for a limited time. After that, your creditworthiness will determine your APR.
Receive 0% APR on new purchases and balance transfers for 12 months
Receive up to $600 in cellphone protection
Pay $0 annual fee
Wells Fargo’s got you covered with zero liability protection on promptly reported problems, around the clock fraud monitoring, emergency cash advances, cellphone protection, and collision damage waivers on your rental vehicles.
(The information related to Wells Fargo Cash Wise Visa® Card has been collected by CardRates.com and has not been reviewed or provided by the issuer or provider of this product or service.)
Best “Airline Miles” Card With No Annual Fee
Frequent fliers will appreciate that you won’t suffer the indignity of blackout dates when you redeem your miles on this card. You can fly on any airline, any time. The Discover it® Miles card delivers 1.5x miles for every dollar you spend on purchases, and the miles never expire. During the first year, Discover matches all the miles you earn, automatically. Your miles never expire, even if you close the account, and you can redeem your miles in any amount to credit travel purchases from your statement.
8 Discover it® Miles at Discover Card'ssecure website AIR MILES RATING ★★★★★ 4.9 OVERALL RATING Our Review » 4.8/5.0 UNLIMITED BONUS: Discover will match ALL the Miles you’ve earned at the end of your first year, automatically. For example, if you earn 35,000 Miles, you get 70,000 Miles. That’s $700 towards travel! The more you earn, the more you get.
Earn unlimited 1.5x Miles for every dollar spent on all purchases - with no annual fee.
for every dollar spent on all purchases - with no annual fee. No Blackout Dates. Simply pay for travel purchases like airlines, hotels, rental cars, and more with your Discover it® Miles card.
Miles Pay You Back. Easily redeem Miles as a statement credit for travel purchases. Or get cash.
Freeze your account in seconds with an on/off switch either on the mobile app or website to prevent new purchases, cash advances, and balance transfers.
Get your free Credit Scorecard with your FICO® Credit Score, number of recent inquiries and more. See application, terms and details. See Rates & Fees Intro (Purchases) Intro (Transfers) Regular APR Annual Fee Credit Needed 0% for 14 months 10.99% for 14 months 13.74% - 24.74% Variable $0 Good/Excellent
Frugal consumers will love that this card has no annual fees and no fees for exceeding your credit limit, paying by phone, making foreign transactions, or for the first time you pay late. You can freeze your account in seconds, and you have $0 fraud liability on unauthorized purchases. Discover will alert you when your Social Security number appears on any suspicious websites and when any new account appears on your credit report. You can access your free credit scorecard to check your FICO Score and related information.
Best “Travel” Card With No Annual Fee
The Capital One® VentureOne® Rewards Credit Card is our top travel card in part due to its arrangement with Hotels.com. Cardholders receive 10X miles on thousands of hotels listed on this site when using the Capital One® VentureOne® Rewards Credit Card. In addition, Capital One works directly with airline loyalty programs, including Qantas, Air France KLM, and Air Canada, that will accept your miles. The card delivers 1.25 miles per dollar spent on all other purchases without any annual limits.
9 Capital One® VentureOne® Rewards Credit Card AIR MILES RATING ★★★★★ 4.9 OVERALL RATING 4.8/5.0 $0 annual fee and no foreign transaction fees
Earn a bonus of 20,000 miles once you spend $1,000 on purchases within 3 months from account opening, equal to $200 in travel
once you spend $1,000 on purchases within 3 months from account opening, equal to $200 in travel Earn 1.25X miles on every purchase, every day
Earn 10X miles on thousands of hotels, through January 2020; learn more at hotels.com/venture
Transfer your miles to over 12 leading travel loyalty programs
Enjoy 0% intro APR on purchases for 12 months; 13.74% - 23.74% variable APR after that See application, terms and details. Intro (Purchases) Intro (Transfers) Regular APR Annual Fee Credit Needed 0% for 12 months N/A 13.74% - 23.74% (Variable) $0 Excellent, Good
The Capital One® VentureOne® Rewards Credit Card boasts an intro rate of 0% for 12 months on new purchases and a 13.74% - 23.74% (Variable) APR afterward. Capital One offers several features to make this card more secure and convenient, including credit monitoring via CreditWise, fingerprint security on its mobile app, $0 fraud liability protection, and virtual card generation for online purchases using the Eno® intelligent assistant. Other benefits include collision damage waivers on car rentals, extended warranty protection, and travel accident insurance.
Best “Rewards” Card With No Annual Fee
The Wells Fargo Propel American Express® Card earns top marks for its rewards, starting with thousands of bonus points when you meet the minimum spending requirement in the first three months. You earn 3x points on specified activities, such as dining out or ordering in, transportation-related expenses, and popular streaming services. All other purchases earn 1x points, and your points don’t expire as long as you keep the account open.
You can redeem points for cash back, travel, gift cards, and more. When redeeming for gift cards, your cost for a $25 card is as low as 2,500 points. When redeeming points through the GoFarRewards website, you’ll experience no blackout dates on air travel.
Receive 0% APR on new purchases and balance transfers for 12 months Earn 3x points on eating out and ordering in, gas, and travel Pay $0 annual fee

Other benefits include 24/7 fraud monitoring, rapid alerts for suspicious or irregular activity, zero liability for unauthorized transactions, cellphone protection, 90-day retail protection, and extended warranty protection. In addition, paying for travel arrangements with the card entitles you to lost luggage reimbursement, car rental loss and damage insurance, roadside assistance, emergency cash advances, and 24/7 travel and emergency assistance.
(The information related to Wells Fargo Propel American Express® Card has been collected by CardRates.com and has not been reviewed or provided by the issuer or provider of this product or service.)
Best “Business” Card With No Annual Fee
If you are a small business owner, the Ink Business Cash℠ Credit Card will provide you lucrative rewards on business-related purchases. You earn 5% cash back on the first $25,000 spent each account anniversary year for combined purchases on phone, cable, and internet services and at office supply stores. In addition, you earn 2% cash back in each account anniversary year on the first $25,000 spent in combined purchases at restaurants and gas stations. All other purchases earn unlimited 1% cash back.
11 Ink Business Cash℠ Credit Card at the issuer'ssecure website BUSINESS CARD RATING ★★★★★ 4.9 OVERALL RATING Our Review » 4.6/5.0 Earn $500 bonus cash back after you spend $3,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening
Earn 5% cash back on the first $25,000 spent in combined purchases at office supply stores and on internet, cable and phone services each account anniversary year
on the first $25,000 spent in combined purchases at office supply stores and on internet, cable and phone services each account anniversary year Earn 2% cash back on the first $25,000 spent in combined purchases at gas stations and restaurants each account anniversary year
on the first $25,000 spent in combined purchases at gas stations and restaurants each account anniversary year Earn 1% cash back on all other card purchases with no limit to the amount you can earn
0% introductory APR for 12 months on purchases
Employee cards at no additional cost See application, terms and details. Intro (Purchases) Intro (Transfers) Regular APR Annual Fee Credit Needed 0% Intro APR on Purchases 12 months N/A 12 months 14.99% - 20.99% Variable $0 Good/Excellent
Rewards that never expire as long as the account remains open can be redeemed for cash back, travel, gift cards, and more via Chase Ultimate Rewards®. You can add employee cards to your account at no extra cost. The card entitles you to fraud protection, travel and emergency assistance services, and auto rental collision damage waiver. You also get protection against damage on new purchases for 120 days and for theft up to $50,000 per account and $10,000 per claim.
Best “Student” Card With No Annual Fee
Discover knows that students often have a scant credit history, and have structured the Discover it® Student Cash Back card as the ideal first credit card for your college years. For starters, it pays you a $20 statement credit each school year, for up to five years, when you earn a GPA of at least 3.0.
The card pays 5% cash back, up to a quarterly maximum, on different places like restaurants, grocery stores, gas stations, and Amazon.com that rotate every quarter — all you have to do is activate the cash back each quarter. All other purchases earn 1% unlimited cash back. At the end of the first year, Discover automatically matches dollar for dollar all the cash back you earned.
12 Discover it® Student Cash Back at Discover Card'ssecure website STUDENT RATING ★★★★★ 4.9 OVERALL RATING Our Review » 4.5/5.0 INTRO OFFER: Discover will match ALL the cash back you've earned at the end of your first year, automatically. There's no signing up. And no limit to how much is matched.
Earn 5% cash back at different places each quarter like gas stations, grocery stores, restaurants, Amazon.com and more up to the quarterly maximum, each time you activate. Plus, earn unlimited 1% cash back on all other purchases - automatically.
at different places each quarter like gas stations, grocery stores, restaurants, Amazon.com and more up to the quarterly maximum, each time you activate. Plus, earn unlimited 1% cash back on all other purchases - automatically. Good Grades Rewards : $20 statement credit each school year your GPA is 3.0 or higher for up to the next 5 years.
: $20 statement credit each school year your GPA is 3.0 or higher for up to the next 5 years. No annual fee. No late fee on first late payment. No APR change for paying late.
Get 100% U.S. based customer service & get your free Credit Scorecard with your FICO® Credit Score, number of recent inquiries and more.
Freeze It® on/off switch for your account that prevents new purchases, cash advances & balance transfers in seconds. See application, terms and details. See Rates & Fees Intro (Purchases) Intro (Transfers) Regular APR Annual Fee Credit Needed 0% for 6 months 10.99% for 6 months 14.74% - 23.74% Variable $0 Fair/New to Credit
The card delivers additional student-friendly benefits, including immediate on/off account switching, unauthorized-use alerts, and free monthly access to your FICO Credit Score, as well as U.S.-based customer service.
Best Card for “Bad Credit” With No Annual Fee
Capital One has designed the Capital One® Secured Mastercard® to help you rebuild your credit score. Its $0 annual fee helps you take control of your credit when you use the card responsibly. You secure the card with a required, refundable security deposit of $49, $99 or $200, depending upon your creditworthiness.
After you make the minimum required deposit, you’ll receive a starting credit line of $200. If you make a larger initial deposit, you can get a higher credit line. You may also be able to increase your credit line by meeting your first five monthly payments by their due dates.
13 Capital One® Secured Mastercard® BAD CREDIT RATING ★★★★★ 4.7 OVERALL RATING 4.0/5.0 No annual fee, and all the credit building benefits with responsible card use
with responsible card use Unlike a prepaid card, it builds credit when used responsibly, with regular reporting to the 3 major credit bureaus
You will get an initial $200 credit line after making a security deposit of $49, $99, or $200
Get access to a higher credit line after making your first 5 monthly payments on time with no additional deposit needed
after making your first 5 monthly payments on time with no additional deposit needed Easily manage your account 24/7 with online access, by phone or using our mobile app
It's a credit card accepted at millions of locations worldwide See application, terms and details. Intro (Purchases) Intro (Transfers) Regular APR Annual Fee Credit Needed N/A N/A 26.99% (Variable) $0 Limited, Bad
New cardmembers will receive a 26.99% (Variable) APR. You can personalize your payments by selecting a monthly due date and payment method — online, check, or at your local branch. Other card benefits include instant purchase notifications on your Capital One Mobile App, email or text account alerts, fraud coverage, card lock, virtual card numbers from ENO®, automatic monthly payments, and 24/7 customer service.
You also receive travel accident insurance, extended warranties on purchases, auto rental collision damage waiver, and 24-hour travel assistance services. There are no foreign transaction fees, and you can monitor your credit for free with CreditWise® from Capital One.
Best Card for “Fair Credit” With No Annual Fee
If your credit score is fair to average, consider the Capital One® Platinum Credit Card. You could receive access to a higher credit limit with five consecutive on-time monthly payments.
14 Capital One® Platinum Credit Card FAIR CREDIT RATING ★★★★★ 4.8 OVERALL RATING 3.8/5.0 Pay no annual fee
Get access to a higher credit line after making your first 5 monthly payments on time
Fraud coverage if your card is lost or stolen
Use online banking to access your account, even from your smartphone, with our mobile app
Pay by check, online or at a local branch, all with no fee - and pick the monthly due date that works best for you
Get access to your account 24 hours a day, 7 days a week See application, terms and details. Intro (Purchases) Intro (Transfers) Regular APR Annual Fee Credit Needed N/A N/A 26.99% (Variable) $0 Average, Fair, Limited
The regular APR for new cardmembers is 15.74% - 25.74% (Variable), depending upon your creditworthiness and the prime rate. There are no foreign transaction fees and the card comes with impressive features, such as SureSwipe/TouchID for fingerprint or customized pattern sign-in on the Capital One Mobile App.
Account management is easy as you receive personalized account alerts, view monthly recurring transactions, autopay your monthly bill, add authorized users, and access 24/7 customer service. You also receive a slew of Capital One card benefits for retail, travel, security, and digital services.
Best Card for “No Credit” With No Annual Fee
Capital One is a reputable global bank that offers its customers a slew of perks and conveniences, so it’s no wonder the convenient Capital One® Platinum Credit Card is our top choice for those with fair credit, limited credit, and no credit history at all.
You’ll receive free credit monitoring with CreditWise from Capital One and ENO® acts as your intelligent assistant, answering your questions, sending you alerts, creating virtual card numbers for online purchases, and reporting your account status 24/7. That’s a lot of technology-forward features for no annual fee.
15 Capital One® Platinum Credit Card NO/LIMITED CREDIT RATING ★★★★★ 4.8 OVERALL RATING 3.8/5.0 Pay no annual fee
Get access to a higher credit line after making your first 5 monthly payments on time
Fraud coverage if your card is lost or stolen
Use online banking to access your account, even from your smartphone, with our mobile app
Pay by check, online or at a local branch, all with no fee - and pick the monthly due date that works best for you
Get access to your account 24 hours a day, 7 days a week See application, terms and details. Intro (Purchases) Intro (Transfers) Regular APR Annual Fee Credit Needed N/A N/A 26.99% (Variable) $0 Average, Fair, Limited
The card comes with many other conveniences, like setting up automatic monthly account payments on the due date of your choosing. You’ll receive $0 fraud liability coverage if your card is stolen or lost, and you can instantly lock the card if you misplace it. Security alerts can be delivered via your phone, email, or text message.
In travel and retail settings, the card delivers 24-hour travel assistance services, travel accident insurance, auto rental collision damage waiver, and extended warranty protection coverage. There are no foreign transaction fees when you use the card outside of the United States.
What Are Pros & Cons of Credit Cards Without Annual Fees?
You’d be justified in thinking that, all things being equal, consumers would choose only no-annual-fee credit cards and save some money. The rub is, all things aren’t equal. Cards with annual fees offer more generous rewards and more lavish benefits. Let’s explore the pros and cons of credit cards without annual fees.
Pros
Here are some compelling reasons to prefer a credit card with no annual fees:
A good first card: If you are new to credit cards, you may find it difficult to gauge whether you would use an annual-fee card enough to benefit from its more generous rewards. Although cards with annual fees tend to be more lavish, the benefits they bestow may not be enough to overcome the fee, especially if you don’t plan to use the card much. Therefore, it may make sense to start with a solid no-annual-fee card and get your credit sea legs before committing to a card with annual charges.
Simple is as simple does: Some of us like to live a simple life, where value and convenience outweigh perks and rewards. Your life may not revolve around travel miles or cash back. You may want a credit card simply because you don’t like paying with cash or checks. If so, the simplicity of a card with no annual fees can be quite appealing.
You just hate fees: The idea of paying extra fees to a credit card company makes your skin crawl. Happily, you can see from our list of cards above that you don’t have to sacrifice much to get a first-rate card that gives you many of the same rewards you’ll find on cards with annual fees.
Your credit is poor or non-existent: You can build (or rebuild) your credit using a no-annual-fee card without diverting money to pay a fee. From our list, you can see there are several no-annual-fee cards available for the credit-challenged. A good strategy would be to lift your credit score using a no-fee card, and then switching to a fancier card once you prove your creditworthiness.
Cons
Here are some reasons cards with no annual fees may seem less rewarding to use:
Higher APRs, fewer rewards: Compared to their annual-fee brethren, cards with no annual fees generally provide slimmer rewards. You won’t find any no-fee cards with a 50,000-mile signup bonus, something you can get from a card with an annual fee. No-annual-fee cards tend to have higher APRs and lower credit limits, although exceptions exist.
Waived fees: Many credit cards waive their annual fees for the first year before imposing them on the first anniversary of the account opening. That means you can get an annual-fee card and all its benefits without shelling out the fee in the first year. This gives you a chance to decide whether to pay the fee on your first anniversary or switch to a no-fee card.
Is It Worth Getting a Credit Card With an Annual Fee?
Credit cards with annual fees need to justify them by offering a more rewarding package compared to no-annual-fee cards. Here are some advantages of cards with an annual fee:
Big spenders get big rewards: You may find the annual fee small change compared to the generous and unlimited rewards available from many annual-fee credit cards. Those rewards will probably pay for fees with plenty to spare. You can select a credit card that matches your spending patterns, such as ones offering travel miles or hotel discounts.
Robust sign-up bonuses: The sign-up bonuses are almost always better on credit cards with annual fees. We see sign-up bonuses on these cards of 50,000 miles or sign-up bonuses on these cards of 50,000 miles or more and cash back bonuses of up to $500. Naturally, the first-three-month spending requirements to qualify for the sign-up bonus from these cards are also higher.
Expensive cards offer more perks: If you have the need for a personal concierge, automatic upgrades to flights and hotels, and discounts on cruises or luxury car rentals, you may be tempted to plunk down a three- or four-figure annual fee to obtain a premium credit card. Some of these cards are so exclusive that you can only get them by invitation. If you don’t settle for anything but the best, these cards are for you.
Prestige!: Let’s just stipulate that certain people on this planet like to impress the rest of us with their wealth, power, and prestige. What better way to subtly hammer that home than with a credit card that charges a hefty annual fee. Hey, whatever floats your boat.
Saving on Fees Means More Money in Your Pocket
With a no-annual-fee credit card, all your payments go toward reducing your balance. As we’ve seen, many of these cards offer good benefits and easy access, even if your credit is poor or non-existent. There are cards geared toward travelers, students, businesses or just ordinary consumers. For many people, credit cards with no annual fee are a perfect combination of low cost and high value, as our list of the top 15 cards vividly reveals.

Story 18
Blueberries Medical Corp. (CSE: BBM) (OTC: BBRRF) (FRA: 1OA) (the “Company” or “Blueberries“), a leading Colombia-based licensed producer of medicinal cannabis and cannabis-derived products is pleased to announce the appointment of Dr. Patricio Stocker, the former Chief Executive Officer of PharmaCielo Ltd. (TSXV: PCLO) as Chief Executive Officer of the Company. Mr. Christian Toro has been appointed as Executive Chairman of the Board.
Dr. Stocker is an accomplished executive with extensive international experience having led the successful development of numerous companies, including most recently PharmaCielo Ltd. (“PharmaCielo”), a leading Colombian producer of medicinal cannabis. Dr. Stocker joined PharmaCielo in 2015 and served as CEO through 2018. During his tenure of as CEO, Dr. Stocker was instrumental in the development of corporate strategies, formation of strategic relationships, the cannablis licensing process and capital raising initiatives. Dr. Stocker was also actively involved in the development of PharmaCielo’s Colombian operations to establish a scalable and competitive cultivation and oil production strategy.
“Dr. Stocker has a proven track record of growing emerging businesses, combined with extensive expertise in the cannabis industry and capital markets. The board of directors is confident that his skillset and experience make him an ideal leader for the company as we continue to scale our operations rapidly and execute on our global growth strategy” stated Christian Toro, Executive Chairman.
Dr. Stocker stated “I have been very impressed with Blueberries on a number of fronts. Their team, relationships, facilities and strategy are unique and have positioned the Company to become a dominant player in the Latin American and global cannabis markets. I am looking forward to leading Blueberries as we continue to execute on a domestic and international business plan.”
Dr. Stocker is fluent in English, Spanish, German and Portuguese. He also holds a PhD in Economics and B.A. in Business Administration from the University of St. Gallen in Switzerland. Prior to his role as CEO of PharmaCielo, Dr. Stocker held top management positions in the automotive industry, including service on the board of directors of multinational corporations.
The Company has granted 1,000,000 compensation shares to Dr. Stocker as well as options (the “Options”) to purchase up to 3,000,000 common shares in the capital of the Company, pursuant to the Company’s stock option plan. The Company has also granted 100,000 Options to advisors of the Company pursuant to the Company’s stock option plan. The Options are exercisable at a price of $0.55 per share.
About Blueberries Medical Corp.
Blueberries is a Colombia-based licensed producer of naturally grown premium quality cannabis with its primary operations ideally located in the Bogotá Savannah of central Colombia. Led by a specialized team with proprietary expertise in agriculture, genetics, extraction, medicine, pharmacology and marketing, Blueberries is fully licensed for the cultivation, production, domestic distribution, and international export of CBD and THC-based medical cannabis. Blueberries’ combination of leading scientific expertise, agricultural advantages and distribution arrangements has positioned the Company to become a leading international supplier of naturally grown, processed, and standardized medicinal-grade cannabis oil extracts and related products.

Story 19
Paul Booth.
2018 was another vibrant and exciting year for the technology industry, with worldwide growth expected to reach 4.5%, according to Gartner, although the stock markets haven't necessarily reflected this situation. In this regard, there have been dramatic fluctuations, with some markets still at below their start-of-year positions.
The international market has been dominated by the finalisation of the AT&T/Time Warner deal and IBM's acquisition of Red Hat; the African market by the ongoing MTN/Nigeria situation; and the local market by increased B-BBEE activity.
As has been the norm for the past few years, 2018 has seen the emergence of numerous start-ups; a significant number of IPOs globally; heavy private equity activity that was not limited to the USA alone; and a feverish merger/acquisition scene.
From a business perspective, cost containment remains a high priority, with the areas of BI/analytics and cyber security key for many companies. From a technology perspective, artificial intelligence (AI), the continued move towards the digital world and the rapid growth regarding the Internet of things continues to head up the list of opportunities going forward.
In addition, consolidation continues apace, particularly in the BI/analytics, cyber security, semiconductor and telecommunications/communications fields, and many of the 'bigger boys' continue to streamline their operations by either splitting off, listing or selling off non-strategic elements of their businesses.
Local scene
This year has been a mixed one for ICT listed companies, with no new listings. On the positive side, though, there were no de-listings.
In addition, PBT underwent a significant change of ownership; Ansys and MICROmega Holdings were renamed as Etion and Sebata Holdings respectively; and Softworx was rebranded as EOH Infor Services.
Don't be surprised at the demise or acquisition of some global names, including CyberArk, Fitbit, GoPro, Proofpoint and Symantec.
Moreover, there were a handful of new entrants and new companies launched into the local market, although some indirectly, including Arcserve, Avanti Communications Group, BlueFinity International, China Unicom, I-Life Digital Technology, PCI Pal, Ring, Thingstream and Workday.
As usual, there was much merger/acquisition and investment activity, including multiple ones by 4Sight Holdings, Datatec, HeroTel and Naspers. Other deals included Adapt IT snapping up Conor Solutions; Agility Group buying Indaba Mobile; Alaris taking over mWAVE Industries; Altron purchasing iS Partners but disposing of Altech UEC; the Argility Technology Group acquiring US-based SkyData Communications; Ayo Technology Solutions buying 55% of Zaloserve, which in turn owns 100% of Sizwe Africa IT; Community Investment Ventures investing in Vumatel; Connection Telecom snapping up Analog and Digital Communications; Dimension Data buying E2y and Millennium 1 Solutions; Enterprise Outsourcing acquiring PwC SA's technology solutions division; EOH buying LSD IT; Epsidon Technology acquiring Even Flow Distribution; Foursight Holds buying AccTech Systems and Dynamics Africa Services; HPE taking over Cape Networks; Jasco purchasing Ramm Technologies; MasterCard acquiring Oltio; MTN taking over Simfy; Partner Technology buying Corex; Reunert taking over Skywire Technologies; Silversoft buying Magnetic; Sureswipe taking over Humble Till; Terragon absorbing Bizerre; and Ulwembu Business Services buying Smart Integration.
Other key events included the cabinet approval of the ECA Bill; the announcement that the Department of Telecommunications and Postal Services is to be merged into the Department of Communications and led by Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams; the merger of Cradle Technology Services and Turnkey Solutions; MTN's sell-off of Monaco Telecom; Naspers undertaking some unbundling with the formation of the Multichoice Group and the sell-off of its Flipkart stake; the closure of Sahara Computers, including Annex Distribution and Sahara Systems; as well as Tariffic and ThoughtWorks; Vodacom completing a major B-BBEE deal and a roaming agreement with Telkom SA; a major restructuring at EOH that included a major BEE deal involving Lebashe; and several disclosures that involved The Guptas.
Key appointments during the year included new country managers/GMs/CEOs/MDs at many companies, including Accenture SA, Ayo Technology Solutions, BCX, Britehouse Group; the Department of Communications, Ellies, EOH, IFS, Jasco, Kyocera Document Solutions, Liquid Telecom, Multichoice Group, Newland ID, NEXTEC, Securicom, Software AG, SqwidNet, Sybrin Systems, T-Systems, Veeam Software, Vumatel and Workday. In addition, Bill Venter, founder of Altron, finally announced his retirement. Unfortunately, Jere Brown, a former CEO of Dimension Data; Libby Lloyd, a major ICT specialist involved with government; and Brian Seligmann, an ICT industry veteran, all passed away.
From an awards viewpoint, the key winners included Teddy Daka, CEO of JSE AltX-listed Etion as the IITPSA's IT Personality of the Year for 2018, and Jacques Barkhuizen, Absa's CIO for virtual channels/digital banking as the Visionary CIO for 2018. In addition, seasoned ICT forerunner and Datacentrix CEO Ahmed Mahomed has been honoured for his leadership and wealth of experience at executive management level, receiving the coveted title of 'Businessperson of the Year'.
African scene
The African scene was again dominated by activities in Nigeria and particularly around MTN and its Nigerian subsidiary, which seems to have caused a delay of its planned IPO.
However, as the African market continues to mature, the emergence of potential regional hubs continues apace, with Kenya emerging as the centre for East Africa, and a duel between Ghana and Nigeria for the West African space. North Africa continues to fall under the Middle East/Egypt region. As was the situation previously, there are still no IT companies listed in the current 'Top 500 Companies in Africa' list from outside SA, and still only a handful of telecoms companies included.
Other activities in Africa included American Tower acquiring 723 towers from Telkom Kenya; AI Technologies (Ghana) buying BusyInternet Ghana; the investment by Liquid Telecommunications in CEC Telecom; MTN listing in Ghana; the SACS cable landing; Seacom buying FibreC, as well as SAI, an SME-focused KZN-based Internet service provider; Nigerian-based Teleology Holdings GIB taking over Uganda Telecoms as well as acquiring Nigeria's 9Mobile; TPG Growth purchasing TRACE; Zambia awarding a fourth mobile licence; and Zinox Technologies buying Konga.
In addition, many new EMEA/regional/African appointments were made during the year, particularly in the telecommunications sector, as well as from companies such as Altron, Canon, Cisco, Citrix, Digital International, Ericsson West Africa, F5 Networks, Facebook, Fortinet, IBM Egypt, Kyocera Document, Mitel, Net One, Oracle, SAP Africa, SUSE, Temenos, Trend Micro, Veeam Software, VMware and Westcon-Comstor.
International scene
This year has again epitomised a healthy, thriving and growing ICT industry with significant consolidations in many sectors. The most significant happenings were the finalisation of the AT&T/Time Warner deal ($85.4 billion); Broadcom's acquisition of CA Technologies ($18.9 billion); Comcast's successful bid for Sky (£29.7 billion); IBM buying Red Hat ($34 billion); T-Mobile US's $26.5 billion acquisition of Sprint; and Vodafone Group's $21.8 billion acquisition of Liberty Global's assets in Germany, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Romania.
Eleven technology companies have each been involved in at least four or five acquisitions/major investments in 2018. These companies were Accenture; Alibaba, including Ele.me (almost $6 billion) and Ofo (a $3 billion investment); Alphabet/Google; Amazon; Apple; AT&T; Cisco; IBM; Microsoft; Softbank; and Tencent Holdings.
In addition, there were several other significant deals, including Atos's acquisition of Syntel ($3.57 billion); Adobe's acquisition of Marketo ($4.75 billion); SS&C buying DST ($5.4 billion); CommScope purchasing Arris International ($7.4 billion); Francisco Partners taking over Verifone Systems ($3.4 billion); General Dynamics snapping up CSRA ($9.6 billion); KKR buying BMC ($8.5 billion); KLA-Tencor acquiring Orbotech ($3.4 billion); Microchip Technology taking over Microsemi ($10.15 billion); a Macquarie-led consortium buying out TDC ($6.7 billion); Renesas Electronics taking over Integrated Device Technology ($6.7 billion); Salesforce acquiring MuleSoft ($6.5 billion); SAP taking over Qualtrics ($8 billion) and Callidus ($2.4 billion); and CC Capital, Cannae Holdings and funds affiliated with Thomas H. Lee Partners acquiring Dun & Bradstreet ($5.3 billion).
Other major international activities included a settlement of the Apple/Samsung patent dispute; US president Donald Trump's ban on the Broadcom/Qualcomm and Qualcomm/NXP deals, as well as protests/actions against Huawei, Kaspersky and ZTE; Cloudera and Hortonworks entering a definitive mergeragreement; and Facebook suffering significant fallout from the data leak involving Cambridge Analytica.
There were an unprecedented number of IPOs during the year, including the listings of Adyen, Anaplan, Ayondo, Arlo Technologies, Aurora Mobile, Avast, Bilibili, Bytedance Technology, Cardlytics, CATL, Ceridian HCM Holding, China Tower, CLPS, Codemasters, CooTek, Dell, DocuSign, Domo, Dropbox, Endava, Foxconn Industrial Internet, Global Financial Technology, Huya, I3 Verticals, iQiyi, M17 Entertainment, Meituan-Dianping, nLight, One Stop Systems, Opera, Pinduoduo, Pintec Technology, Pivotal, Pluralsight, Qutoutiao, Sensyne Heath, Smartsheet, Sonus, Spotify, StoneCo, Survey Monkey, Tenable, Viomi, Xiaomi and Zuora.
Major international appointments included new CEOs at Avanti Communications, Avid, Bezeq, Black Knight, Bouygues Telecom, BT Group, CDK Global, CDW, Centrify, CenturyLink, Cerner, Diebold Nixdorf, EFI, Equifax, Fluent, IFS, Iliad, Intel, Intellicheck, ITS (UK), KCom, Lattice Semiconductor, Lazada, Lexmark, Nuance, Orange Business Services, Palo Alto Networks, Quantum, Sage Group, SES, Sierra Wireless, Software AG, Sony, Sprint, Systemax, Tech Data, Telecom Italia, Tetra Technologies, TI, Tintri, Toshiba, TSMC, Tyler Technologies, Verifone, Verizon Communications, Vodafone, Xerox, Xplore, ZTE; and, unfortunately, the deaths of Jonathan Flaxman, COO of HP; Jim Shaw (ex-CEO of Shaw Communications); Ron Huddleston, a pioneering former Salesforce and Microsoft Channel executive; Brian Jellison, chairman and ex-CEO of Roper Technologies; Patrick Winter, CEO and co-founder of SoftwareONE; Kazuo Kashio, co-founder and CEO of Casio Computer; Wang Jian, co-founder and chairman of HNA.
During the year, Lenovo regained the number one PC slot and Dell the number one server position, while Apple remained the number one technology company by revenue and Microsoft became the number one most valuable company by market capitalisation (as of the time of the publication of this article). In addition, NXP Semiconductor replaced CA Technologies in the NASDAQ-100 Index, following the latter's acquisition by Broadcom.
2019 and beyond?
The international scene next year looks to be another exciting one, with continued consolidations, particularly within the AI, IOT, semiconductor and telecoms sectors, in addition to the finalisation or otherwise of the proposed $26 billion deal involving Sprint and T-Mobile US.
Don't be surprised at the demise or acquisition of some global names, including CyberArk, Fitbit, GoPro, Proofpoint and Symantec; IPOs from many companies currently controlled by private equity firms, as well as ones from Cloudflare; Hitek Global; ICE Group, a Scandinavian telco; Lyft; Slack; Uber; and Softbank's Japanese telecoms unit; GE disposing of its ICT interests; the continued pillage of the Israeli technology sector; the emergence of more conglomerates that have a growing ICT portfolio; further pronouncements/actions regarding China's networking and semiconductor technology companies; and more from the ongoing legal battles involving Apple and Qualcomm.
In Africa, expect further developments regarding the establishments of regional hubs; Econet Wireless listing some of its entities; further developments regarding the opening up of the telecoms market in Ethiopia; MTN listing in Nigeria and Uganda; and more offices being opened on the continent by the 'big boys' as well as South African-based companies. In addition, expect listings in London and/or New York from some of the global tower companies.
Locally, the focus will be on the government's announcement from the 2018 Budget that the Department of Telecommunications and Postal Services (DTPS) plans to establish a state IT company and a state ICT infrastructure company by 2020; developments regarding the MTN/Nigeria situation; the future of TCS; Telkom SA making another bid for Cell C; and the further expansion of ICT interests by many of the conglomerates.
Conclusion
The ICT industry continues to be very much alive and kicking, with a worldwide growth of 3.23% and a South African growth of 5.14% expected in 2019. As usual, there are bound to be many shocks over the coming year, as nothing is sacred in this industry. So don't be surprised at what may happen or take anything for granted.

Story 20
Lady GaGa Breaks Her Silence On R. Kelly In Lengthy Apology
Lady GaGa has finally broken her silence on R. Kelly.
Following Wednesday night’s airing of Lifetime docuseries Surviving R. Kelly, the artist took to her Instagram Story, Facebook, and Twitter to apologize for ever collaborating with the R&B singer.
Related: JAY-Z & Many More Stars Declined To Be Interviewed For Docuseries
For those who may not remember, the songstress featured a duet with the controversial star titled Do What U Want on her album Artpop in 2013. They later went on to perform the single on Saturday Night Live and the AMAs. A video was filmed by Terry Richardson, with leaked footage making its way out, but after being delayed, the whole visual was scrapped.
Most recently, GaGa was called out by Surviving R. Kelly producer Dream Hampton for her work with the controversial artist who has been accused of sexual, physical, and mental abuse.
Well, in a lengthy statement yesterday, GaGa noted she will never work with Kelly again:
“I stand by anyone who has ever been the victim of sexual assault.”
And she continued, giving his alleged victims their support, writing:
“I stand behind these women 1000%, believe them, know they are suffering and in pain, and feel strongly that their voices should be heard and taken seriously. What I am hearing about the allegations against R. Kelly is absolutely horrifying and indefensible. As a victim of sexual assault myself, I made both the song and video at a dark time in my life, my intention was to create something extremely defiant and provocative because I was angry and still hadn’t processed the trauma that had occurred in my own life. The song is called ‘Do What U Want (With My Body).’ I think it’s clear how explicitly twisted my thinking was at the time.”
She shared:
“If I could go back and have a talk with my younger self I’d tell her to go through the therapy I have since then, so that I could understand the confused post-traumatic state that I was in—or if therapy was not available to me or anyone in my situation—to seek help, and speak as openly and honestly as possible about what we’ve been through.”
The 32-year-old singer also added that the song would be pulled from streaming services, and apologized for not speaking up sooner.
Read her full apology (below):
I stand by anyone who has ever been the victim of sexual assault: pic.twitter.com/67sz4WpV3i — Lady Gaga (@ladygaga) January 10, 2019
What do U think of her message?? Better late than never?
Sound OFF (below)!
[Image via Instagram.]

Story 21
/EIN News/ -- NEW ORLEANS, Oct. 28, 2019 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Kahn Swick & Foti, LLC (“KSF”) and KSF partner, former Attorney General of Louisiana, Charles C. Foti, Jr., remind investors of pending deadlines in the following securities class action lawsuits:

Greenlane Holdings, Inc. (GNLN)
Class Period: shares issued either in or after the April 2019 initial public offering.
Lead Plaintiff Motion Deadline: November 12, 2019
MISLEADING PROSPECTUS
To learn more, visit https://www.ksfcounsel.com/cases/nasdaqgs-gnln/
ViewRay, Inc. (VRAY)
Class Period: 3/15/2019 - 8/8/2019
Lead Plaintiff Motion Deadline: November 12, 2019
SECURITIES FRAUD
To learn more, visit https://www.ksfcounsel.com/cases/nasdaqgs-vray/
Farfetch Limited (FTCH)
Class Period: 9/21/2018 - 8/8/2019 or purchase of securities issued either in or after the September 2018 Initial Public Offering.
Lead Plaintiff Motion Deadline: November 18, 2019
SECURITIES FRAUD, MISLEADING PROSPECTUS
To learn more, visit https://www.ksfcounsel.com/cases/nyse-ftch/
Ollie’s Bargain Outlet Holdings, Inc. (OLLI)
Class Period: 6/6/2019 - 8/28/2019
Lead Plaintiff Motion Deadline: November 18, 2019
SECURITIES FRAUD
To learn more, visit https://www.ksfcounsel.com/cases/nasdaqgm-olli/
If you purchased shares of the above companies and would like to discuss your legal rights and your right to recover for your economic loss, you may, without obligation or cost to you, contact KSF Managing Partner, Lewis Kahn, toll-free at 1-877-515-1850, via email (Lewis.Kahn@KSFcounsel.com), or via the case links above.
If you wish to serve as a Lead Plaintiff in the class action, you must petition the Court on or before the Lead Plaintiff Motion deadline.
About
KSF, whose partners include former Louisiana Attorney General Charles C. Foti, Jr., is one of the nation’s premier boutique securities litigation law firms. KSF serves a variety of clients – including public institutional investors, hedge funds, money managers and retail investors – in seeking recoveries for investment losses emanating from corporate fraud or malfeasance by publicly traded companies. KSF has offices in New York, California and Louisiana.
To learn more about KSF, you may visit www.ksfcounsel.com .
Contact:
Kahn Swick & Foti, LLC
Lewis Kahn, Managing Partner
lewis.kahn@ksfcounsel.com
1-877-515-1850
1100 Poydras St., Suite 3200
New Orleans, LA 70163



Story 22
At NerdWallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. To do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. However, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own.
Mobile banking can give you access to financial services anytime you want them. With banking apps — or a bank website — on your phone or tablet, you can complete many common tasks, including checking your account balance, finding nearby ATMs and depositing a check by snapping a photo.
Here are banks and credit unions with the best mobile banking experiences. To compare a wider range of banks, see our roundup of best banks and credit unions.
+ See a summary of our best banks and credit unions for mobile banking Best mobile banking apps Simple : Best mobile-focused bank (tie)
: Best mobile-focused bank (tie) Chime : Best mobile-focused bank (tie)
: Best mobile-focused bank (tie) Discover : Best online bank (tie)
: Best online bank (tie) Charles Schwab : Best online bank (tie)
: Best online bank (tie) Chase : Best big bank (tie)
: Best big bank (tie) Capital One : Best big bank (tie)
: Best big bank (tie) Alliant: Best credit union
Simple
Best mobile-focused bank (tie)
Learn More at Simple, Deposits are FDIC Insured
Simple gets good user reviews for its Android and iOS apps, which let you track expenses and set money goals. Although it currently offers only a checking account, that account comes with perks, including ways to set up savings goals. And it’s fee-free. It also has a Safe-to-Spend feature that lets you know how much you have left after taking into account your goals, bill payments and scheduled future transactions. That’s a step up from the usual “available balance” provided by other bank apps. Simple also offers a bonus: Earn up to $500 on top of 2.15% APY with qualifying activities.
+ Bonus details from Simple "Earn $500 when you open a new Simple Account by 10/31/19 4:59 p.m. PT, deposit $20,000 into the new account by 11/15/19 4:59 p.m. PT, and maintain that balance of at least $20,000 through 1/31/20 4:59 p.m. PT. Or earn a $250 bonus when you open a new Simple Account by 10/31/19 4:59 p.m. PT, deposit $10,000 into the new account by 11/15/19 4:59 p.m. PT, and maintain that balance of at least $10,000 through 1/31/20 4:59 p.m. PT. Qualifying customers will receive the bonus credit to their Simple Account by 2/14/20 4:59 p.m. PT. Balances in the Simple Account earn 0.01% APY. Also open an Individual Protected Goals Account and transfer funds there to earn up to 2.15% APY. So long as your combined balance in both accounts total the minimum balance requirements for the offer, you’ll be eligible for the bonus - meaning you could earn up to $500 and a competitive 2.15% APY."
» Ready to make a change? Here’s how to switch banks
Chime
best mobile-focused bank (tie)
Learn More at Chime, Member, FDIC
Chime is a mobile-only bank, so it makes sense that it would have good reviews for its iOS and Android apps. It keeps customers informed with balance updates and real-time spending alerts, and it rounds up each transaction and deposits the difference in your savings account. Your money won’t earn much interest there, but you won’t pay many fees with Chime, either. The bank doesn’t charge overdraft or monthly service fees, and nor are there foreign transaction fees.
Discover
best online bank (tie)
Learn More at Discover, Member, FDIC
With only one branch, Discover is primarily an online bank. It has an attractive rewards checking account with no monthly fees and cash back on debit card purchases. Its Android and iOS banking apps are also strong. They offer standard mobile banking services, such as bill pay, money transfer and mobile check deposit, and earn high ratings in app stores. The mobile banking apps also give Discover credit card customers the ability to freeze and unfreeze their accounts if their card is misplaced. As a customer, you can use the app to notify Discover when you travel to make sure there are no hiccups with card use.
Charles Schwab
Best online bank (tie)
Schwab is primarily known as a brokerage, but it’s also a low-fee bank with perks for international travelers, including unlimited ATM reimbursements. Its highly rated apps support mobile check deposit and bill pay. You can also use the app to open a new brokerage or bank account, and it can let you monitor all your accounts in one place.
Chase
best big bank (tie)
Learn More at Chase, Member, FDIC
Chase’s mobile app offers all the essentials: mobile check deposit, a branch and ATM locator and bill pay.
Chase gets consistently high reviews on both iOS and Android platforms and has branch and ATM coverage in nearly 30 states and Washington, D.C.
Capital One
best big bank (tie)
Capital One isn’t just home to highly rated checking and savings accounts that earn interest — it has a robust mobile banking platform, too. The app has all the standard functions of mobile banking, like mobile check deposit, bill pay and the ability to send money to other people in the U.S. It also adds a layer of security with Touch ID or SureSwipe, a custom pattern that you draw with your finger when signing in to the app. Both iOS and Android users give Capital One high star ratings.
Alliant Credit Union
best credit union
Alliant’s app checks all the usual boxes: ATM locator, transaction history, bill payments and balances on demand. But its mobile deposit and money management tools are especially member-friendly. There’s an unusually high daily limit of $50,000 for depositing checks through the app. And the charts and graphs in the money management tool let users analyze their spending habits and keep tabs on budget categories.
7 best banks and credit unions for mobile banking in 2019
Bank Notable characteristics Learn More at Simple, Deposits are FDIC Insured Savings and budgeting tools Learn More at Chime, Member, FDIC Automatic and roundup savings options Learn More at Discover, Member, FDIC High ratings and rewards perks Read Review Unlimited ATM reimbursements worldwide Learn More at Chase, Member, FDIC Wide branch access Read Review High APYs and advanced mobile app security Read Review High APYs and high daily limit for depositing checks
Methodology

Story 23
TLC’s Chilli Angers Fans By Saying ‘All Lives Matter’
She might come to regret this!
Rozonda “Chilli” Thomas of TLC has made some comments about the Black Lives Matter movement that may come back to haunt her.
Related: TLC Release Their New Song Way Back
The singer was being interviewed alongside bandmate Tionne “T-Boz” Watkins on Channel 4 UK Tuesday when she was asked for her thoughts on BLM.
She said:
“For me, all lives matter, you know what I mean? Because there’s a time when different groups are targeted for different things. Even with the police brutality against these young black boys and stuff like that, and all of that kind of stuff is wrong. Even if it was a Caucasian teen kid this was happening to, it’s just not right.”
Although it’s true that police brutality is awful no matter who it’s targeting, be it a white person or a black person, the truth is that black people are disproportionately affected by it, more than any other group. Unfortunately, there is still confusion on what the movement is about.
Some people on Twitter have already called her out, with tweets such as:
Chilli from TLC: wElL tU mE aLl LiVeZ mAtTuR pic.twitter.com/vPOLYX2oFJ
├óΓé¼ΓÇ¥ ├ó┼í┬»├ìΓÇ║Esaias Fan Acct├óΓÇô┬│├ó╞ÆΓÇÖ├ó╞Æ╦£ (@DrDreddyMurphy) May 10, 2017
First bow wow, and now chilli ( TLC) #Disappointing
├óΓé¼ΓÇ¥ TeamUsher (@theresajackie18) May 10, 2017
@Blavity Chilli don’t make me throw all my TLC albums away, damnit ├░┼╕╦£ΓÇÖ
├óΓé¼ΓÇ¥ Realo Parks (@Real1Hund) May 10, 2017
TLC didn’t say ‘all lives matter’ Chilli said ‘all lives matter’. Drag her and leave T-Boz out of it.
├óΓé¼ΓÇ¥ dad (@animalfriespls) May 10, 2017
However, she does go on to call for better vetting of police officers:
“Some people take that authoritative position and go crazy with it obviously. I think that before people are higher in these positions, they need to do a background check or mental stability check on them to see if they can really handle being in a position like that.”
Meanwhile, T-Boz addresses Donald Trump‘s presidency, and how she really just doesn’t care for him:
“I don’t care about Donald Trump. I mean, God is my president, so I just feel sorry for people it affects. But I don’t care about him…I worked on Celebrity Apprentice when he wasn’t president and I wasn’t too fond of him then. So I don’t care really.”
There you have it, TLC fans!
Watch the full clip (below)!
Thoughts???
[Image via YouTube.]

Story 24
State officials are hoping what is good for elvers will be good for urchins, too.
Having implemented an electronic “swipe” card system in the elver fishery in 2014, the Maine Department of Marine Resources now is requiring urchin fishermen and wholesale dealers to use such cards to register every transaction. The requirement, which will give the department up-to-the-minute statewide harvest data, went into effect when the urchin season got underway on Sept. 1.
The goal, according to DMR officials, is to better manage the struggling fishery, which has seen far better times. Just over 20 years ago, Maine’s annual urchin landings briefly exceeded $40 million, noted Patrick Keliher, head of DMR. Only lobstering, which in the mid-1990s first passed the $100 million-a-year mark, was more valuable.
With only $4.3 million in total statewide landings in Maine in 2015, urchins now are the state’s seventh-most lucrative commercially fished species. The vast majority of all the urchins harvested in Maine are shipped to the Far East for the region’s voracious seafood market.
“The DMR has had great success with the swipe card system in the elver fishery,” Keliher said in a statement. “This technology has helped Maine ensure the future of that important fishery. We anticipate that the swipe card system will also support efforts to restore and sustain Maine’s urchin fishery.”
In the state’s elver fishery, which also has seen a decline in landings, swipe cards have provided regulators with better catch data and have convinced the Atlantic State Marine Fisheries Commission, which a few years ago considered shutting the fishery down, to allow the catching of young eels to continue. Elvers generated $11.4 million in fishing revenue in Maine in 2015.
Trisha Cheney, urchin management coordinator for DMR, added that improved catch data could improve the likelihood of more harvesting opportunities for fishermen down the road.
“When managers must rely on insufficient or outdated information, it forces them to be more precautionary in their approach,” she said in the statement. “By providing managers with more timely and accurate data, the new urchin swipe card system will improve our understanding of the fishery, allowing for more targeted measures.”
Phippsburg urchin diver Clint Richardson, who sits on DMR’s urchin advisory council, is not sure swipe cards will help people like him anytime soon. He called the cards a “double-edged sword.”
According to Richardson, DMR officials have suggested that, because the cards can be used to track when a fisherman goes out, the cards could be used to create a system by which fishermen could avoid bad weather. Because state law does not allow urchin fishermen to possess more than their daily limit of seven crates, also known as totes, he said, they sell their catch at the end of each day so they can go out again the next morning.
Fishermen are only allowed to collect urchins a few days a week, he said, so there is pressure to go out even in bad weather. But if the cards can be used to demonstrate that a fisherman did not go out on a stormy day, Richardson said, that fisherman conceivably could get permission to go out instead on a calmer day.
That’s a theoretical benefit. The drawback, Richardson said, is that using the cards makes urchin transactions slower because fishermen must answer a number of questions about each catch. “It takes about 15 minutes longer,” he said. “It’s an inconvenience, [but] as long as it doesn’t cost any extra money, fishermen will go along with it, even if they don’t like it.”
Urchin fishermen in Maine have seen a lot of changes in their fishery over the past 30 years.
Before 1987, the value of statewide landings never reached $10,000 a year. By 1993 a surge in demand from the Far East, similar to the more recent boom in Maine’s elver fishery, pumped Maine’s annual urchin fishing revenue to more than $40 million.
But the urchin fishing frenzy, which was largely unregulated and for six straight years netted more than 20 million pounds of urchins, didn’t last.
By the early 2000s, the value and volume of the fishery were quickly declining. Last year, Maine’s 305 licensed urchin fishermen harvested 1.5 million pounds of urchins with a dockside value of $4.31 million. That was the lowest volume since 1988 and and the lowest value since 1990.
Meanwhile, demand for the spiny creatures has remained relatively high. The average price urchin fishermen have earned for their catch for each of the past four years has been above $2.50 per pound, more than double what they were getting during the frenzy. At the peak of the fishery in the mid-1990s, the per-pound price for fishermen ranged from $0.86 to $1.12.
Richardson said he doesn’t expect Maine’s urchins to ever generate the revenue they did 20 years ago, when there were “a few thousand” fishermen in the state diving and dragging for them. Now, there are fewer than 400 Maine fishermen with urchin licenses, which didn’t exist back then, he said.
“It will never be a $40 million fishery again,” he said. “They let [too many fishermen] in, and they chewed them all up. Under [proper management] it could be a $20 million industry, and very healthy.”
Richardson said that he expects the catch data from the swipe cards, combined with the annual springtime scientific surveys of the Gulf of Maine urchin population, to help shape efforts to rebuild the urchin population.
Meanwhile, members of Maine’s congressional delegation say they are making progress in streamlining the federal inspection process for live urchin exports, which should help protect the viability of the perishable shipments.
As urchin prices increased, federal officials stepped up their inspections of live urchins and sea cucumbers entering and leaving the country. Seafood dealers in Maine successfully pushed U.S. Rep. Chellie Pingree in 2014 and later U.S. Rep. Bruce Poliquin to introduce legislation to reduce the inspection requirements, which dealers say cause unnecessary delays and put their live product at risk of dying. That measure recently passed the House and faces an uncertain future in the Senate.
“Urchin dealers in Maine should be exempted from these inspections just like lobster and other shellfish are,” Pingree said in the statement. “This is a highly perishable product, and the shipments keep getting held up waiting for someone from the federal government to sign off on them.”
Just recently, Pingree added, she intervened when Maine urchins worth an estimated $50,000 were held up at JFK airport in New York while inspectors were off duty over the long Labor Day weekend. She was able to expedite their clearance so they could be exported before the weekend was out.
Poliquin said in the statement that passage of the House bill is “a big win” for more than 650 Mainers who work in the urchin and sea cucumber industries.
“There is no reason for bureaucrats in Washington to get in the way of their livelihoods by imposing unnecessary and harmful rules that directly threaten their businesses,” he said.
In June, Maine Sens. Angus King and Susan Collins asked the Senate Appropriations Committee to express concerns about the inspections. Such language was included in the report accompanying the 2017 Interior Appropriations bill that passed that committee.
“This shift [toward increased inspections] has had negative economic effects with no demonstrated benefit,” the report said. “The committee notes that the general inspection of seafood for import or export is not included in the [U.S. Fish and Wildlife] Service’s mandate and directs the service to reevaluate its interpretation of shellfish to encompass aquatic invertebrates marketed and consumed as seafood.”

Story 25
Nick Cannon Confirms He IS Expecting A Baby With Ex Brittany Bell — Surprise!
Well, there you have it!
On Thursday, Nick Cannon finally addressed the rumors he’s expecting a baby with his ex-girlfriend Brittany Bell…
And yes, the America’s Got Talent host IS the father!
Related: Details Into Mariah Carey & Nick’s Divorce Settlements Revealed
Chatting with Power 105.1’s The Breakfast Club earlier this morning, the 36-year-old proudly confirmed the big news:
“I don’t have any exes, they turn everybody into my ex. [├óΓé¼┬ª] I got a baby on the way. God said be fruitful and multiply, I’m doing the Lord’s work.”
Dang. You can listen to his reveal (below):
Welp it looks like @nickcannon confirms the rumor about having a baby with #brittanybell >> check out the rest of the interview at breakfastclubonline.comA video posted by The Breakfast Club (@breakfastclubam) on Nov 17, 2016 at 8:51am PST
Hope his two kids with Mariah Carey, Moroccan and Monroe, are ready to be half-siblings as Brittany is reportedly six months pregnant!
Speaking of, is anyone else curious about what the newly single songstress might be thinking about her ex’s baby news??
[Image via Instagram & FayesVision/WENN.]

Story 26
Seth Rogen In Talks To Make A Where’s Waldo Movie With Partner Evan Goldberg! Find All The Deets HERE!
Every time we think Hollywood has run out of properties to adapt, something like this happens!
It’s been reported that Seth Rogen and Evan Goldberg are in talks to produce a live-action Where’s Waldo movie!
MGM studios, who acquired the film rights to the elusive wool-hatted traveler in 2011, has tapped The Interview star and his longtime writing/producing partner to develop the film adaptation!
Video: Seth & Amy Schumer Launch The Bud Light Party!
According to Deadline, the script will be penned by Seth and Evan’s proteges Kyle Hunter & Ariel Shaffir, who also wrote the script for The Night Before.
No word yet on who will play the titular character, but we would LOVE to see Seth take on the role himself — he already has the glasses for it…
Are YOU excited to find Where’s Waldo on the big screen?
[Image via Classic Media/WENN.]

Story 27
Capital One, a bank and credit card company, has acquired Monsoon, a design, development and marketing services firm, and rolled out a digital platform for customers that starts with an iPhone app.
The moves highlight how multiple industries are trying to transform to be more digital. Capital One is aiming to be seen as a technology company as much as a financial institution. Capital One previously acquired digital design firm Adaptive Path and its personal finance app called Level Money. Capital One's acquisition of ING Direct, a mostly digital bank, was the beginning of a transformation effort that started in late 2010.
"We see an industry (banking) in desperate need of reinvention," said Toby Russell, Capital One's managing vice president of digital. Russell added that the new iPhone app is among the first physical products from Capital One's digital transformation, which revolves around acquisitions, hiring developers, engineers and product designers and cultural change led in part by design thinking.
"Digital can't be bolted on," said Russell.
Special Feature Innovation: How to be a World-Changer The best business leaders use tech as one of their most important levers to drive innovation and change. Here's the wisdom to make it happen. Read More
Nevertheless, Capital One hasn't been scared to do acquisitions to build out its talent base. After a few years of evangelism, Russell said the bank has been able to recruit more developers to reinvent what is a regulated industry not exactly synonymous with software expertise.
For what it's worth, Russell said Capital One has multiple tech openings in its various hubs, notably San Francisco and the Washington D.C. area.
Capital One's acquisition of Monsoon is designed to give the bank more talent, development knowhow and design tools to better innovate. Capital One was also beefing up its San Francisco operations and Monsoon, based in Oakland, contributes to that goal.
Monsoon was among the first agencies to deliver apps using Apple's Swift programming language. Capital One hopes to take Monsoon and deliver native apps and better customer experiences. Sandeep Soop, CEO of Monsoon, said the deal with Capital One was a natural fit based on culture and expertise. Monsoon counted Capital One as a customer.
Rob Alexander, CIO of Capital One, said "we found Monsoon shares a common language and values such as product, design and building web experiences in an integrated way with product partners and getting those products to market quickly."
As for Capital One's latest digital efforts. The bank rolled out a native application so customers can manage all accounts in one place, search transactions and customize features. The app, initially available on the iPhone with iPad, Android and Apple Watch to follow, also offers single sign-on and integration with Touch ID or Sure Swipe.
What's notable about Capital One's new app is that the company is aiming to take its analytics knowhow---built from marketing to consumers direct for years---to surface useful information to customers before they get to the usual account balance screens.
"What people want is simplicity and an app that can wade through data and flag relevant things that are action oriented," said Russell. The app features a photo of the customer and a profile first to highlight users are at the center of the experience.
Here's a look at a few screen shots.

Story 28
Amy Schumer, Taraji P. Henson, Uzo Aduba, & More Get The Bratz Doll Treatment In Honor Of The Emmys!
We just wanna put ’em in our pockets.
The Emmys may be over, but that doesn’t mean you have to stop celebrating your favorite TV stars anytime soon!
That’s because some of the television’s most iconic celebs just got turned into Bratz!
The toy company took it upon itself to honor some of the award show’s big winners and nominees and made a line of dolls completely in their likeness.
Photo: The 2015 Bratz Dolls Are Decked Out From Head To Toe
We’re talking celebs like Amy Schumer, Amy Poehler, Christina Hendricks, Andy Samberg, Heidi Klum, Uzo Aduba, Sof├â┬¡a Vergara, and Taraji P. Henson!
These little cuties are almost better than winning the statue itself! Almost.
Ch-ch-check out Amy Schumer and Taraji P. Henson’s reactions to the adorable dolls (below)!
We are AmyA photo posted by @amyschumer on Sep 25, 2015 at 7:41am PDT
Which of the eight custom “acting figures” is your fave??
[Image via Bratz/MGA Entertainment.]

Story 29
The Affair Kicks Off Season 2 With Some Full Frontal Male Nudity! Find Out Whose Peen You Could Have Seen!
The Affair was one of the most critically acclaimed new shows this year, even winning a Golden Globe for Best Drama!
On Sunday night, the Showtime series returned for season 2 with even more drama, and a lot more peen!
Related: Twin Peaks‘ Log Lady Catherine Coulson Dead At Age 71
Season two finally introduces us to two more POVs — that means we’ll get a lot closer to Helen (Maura Tierney) and Cole (Joshua Jackson)!
SPOILERS!
While we have to wait until episode two for Cole’s, the second half of the premiere episode introduced Helen’s POV — which started with a steamy bedroom scene!
Helen was hooking up with Noah’s (Dominic West) troublemaking friend Max (Josh Stamberg) right in the wake of her divorce proceedings, and Max bared it ALL for the cameras!
Before you get too excited, it wasn’t actually the Stamberg’s goods on the screen. West explained that we actually saw a stand in with pre-approved genitalia. He said:
“I don’t know why they decided they wanted a full-frontal male, but I thought it was so funny. He gets up out of bed, with his ass to camera and he crosses the camera…and then the stand-in just steps in. This completely different guy who had to have his d*ck inspected.”
We wonder who has the pleasure of conducting that inspection! LOLz!
Tierney admitted that while the sex scene made her cringe, she really “liked” it because “it’s a big jump ahead for the character!”
See what more nudity is to come when The Affair airs Sundays at 10pm EST on Showtime.
[Image via Showtime.]

Story 30
Zendaya Is A Fierce Floral Queen In Emanuel Ungaro At The MTV Movie Awards!
Oh wow! We’re totally digging this mature look!
Zendaya showed up to the MTV Movie Awards in a drop dead gorgeous Emanuel Ungaro dress that was flashing the florals and we are LO-VI-NG it!
Plus, she was totally WERKING that red carpet!
That look of nonchalance! That thigh-high slit! Such sass! We’re absolutely obsessed!
Especially those ring-laden fingers! We’re loving that John Hardy ring from his Bamboo Collection.
Total win all around! You go, gurl!
[Image via AP Images.]

Story 31
Is Selena Gomez Still Trying To Make Justin Jealous? Because These Two SeXXXy Ensems Might Just Do The Trick!
Is it hot in here or is it just Selena Gomez??
Obviously, it├óΓé¼Γäós just Selena, but even if we didn├óΓé¼Γäót see these two steamy ensems, recent experience would definitely still point to the latter!
Ever since the brunette bombshell flashed her nips a week ago, she├óΓé¼Γäós been all about the drama with her day-to-day looks and that├óΓé¼Γäós been no different since her arrival in Ischia, Italy!
Roaming around town on Friday, Selly was spotted in a flirty and floral two-piece, which showcased just a glimpse of her toned midriff.
That├óΓé¼Γäós got to be the most conservatively she├óΓé¼Γäós dressed all week! Which might be why later that night she stepped out to the Ischia Global Film and Music Festival screening of Rudderless in a stunner of a gown!
Werking the thigh-high slit like it was nobody├óΓé¼Γäós business, Selena again served up a side of her juicy thigh and glimmering cleavage. All it took was this sheer, buttoned-up Emanuel Ungaro number for her to transform into a total vixen! Oh, and her delicate body chain.
P.S. CLICK HERE to see her recent seXXXy style metamorphosis from good girl to bad!
[Image via AKM-GSI & WENN.]

Story 32
Benedict Cumberbatch PUNCHED A Rude Journalist For Keira Knightley Because He Said WHAT?!?
Defending a woman’s honor! Talk about swoon-worthy!
Keira Knightley was chatting with Elle UK and revealed to them that her good friend Benedict Cumberbatch actually punched a journalist for her because the guy said something rude about her!
The incident happened a very long time ago, but reportedly Mark Kermode, of BBC Radio 2, referred to Keira as “Ikea Knightley,” (because her acting “was so wooden”) within earshot of the Sherlock actor and he punched him!
Well, the punch was in jest, and only on the arm, (not across the face) but the next time Keira saw him, she was surprised to hear that he had, indeed, stood up for her!
She asked him:
“When I saw him again, I said, ‘Did you punch a journalist?’ and he was like, ‘I f***ing did.’ Everybody needs a friend like that.”
Who knew these two were such good pals?!?
Man, we can only IMAGINE how nice it must be to have Benedict as a buddy!
Handsome AND does the right thing for his friends? AH-MAZING!
[Image via Dan Jackman/WENN.]

Story 33
Will Russell Brand’s Defense Of Justin Bieber Convince You We Should Leave The Biebs Alone?
Justin Bieber has found a surprising number of defenders after the leaked video evidence of his young racism.
Everyone from Whoopi Goldberg to 50 Cent has explained their take on why the Biebs shouldn’t be held accountable for his transgressions.
Well now Russell Brand, a man who is no stranger to controversy himself, is weighing in with his own unique defense.
He says Justin was just too young! He says:
“It was ages ago when he used to have that haircut. You can├óΓé¼Γäót do him for stuff he done when he had that haircut.”
We know he was young, but it’s not like he was five years old and didn’t understand what he was saying! We’re talking about someone who was 15! That’s old enough to know better, isn’t it?
Ch-ch-check out the video (below) to see Russell’s entire explanation of his defense!
[Image via BauerGriffinOnline.]

Story 34
PEREZ Making Cameos In Music Videos!!
James Van Der Beek isn’t the ONLY ONE who’s made cameos in music videos!
Check out the videos (above) for Rihanna’s S&M and Simple Plan’s When I’m Gone, both of which feature appearances by none other than the Perezzers!
Then, check out all the other music videos featuring Perez Hilton cameos AFTER THE JUMP!
…Oh, and we’ve even included some of our own videos, including a FIERCE cover of Right Said Fred’s I’m Too Sexy!
Enjoy!
Pussycat Dolls – Hush Hush

Eric Hutchinson – Rock & Roll

Jedward – Bad Behaviour

Vengaboys – Rocket to Uranus

The Script – Talk You Down

Perez Hilton – I’m Too Sexy

Perez Hilton – The Clap

Perez Hilton – My Penis


Story 35
Kim Kardashian & Kanye West In Fashion? Nobody ‘Gives A Flying F*ck’ And Here’s Why, At Least According To This Industry Pro!
Tell us how you REALLY feel, Kelly Cutrone!
Sure, there are all sorts of varied opinions on the ways Kim Kardashian and Kanye West influence or don’t influence the fashion world.
But this latest opinion is all sorts of HARSH!
Kelly Cutrone, a renowned fashion publicist, recently dished on how she sees — and how she feels others see — Kimye in fashion. And she did NOT hold back!
The 48-year-old expert first ranted about Yeezus, saying:
“I don├óΓé¼Γäót think there├óΓé¼Γäós one person who really works in the fashion industry who gives a flying f*ck about Kanye West. I think they have no influence in the fashion world whatsoever. I mean, most people who watch the [Keeping Up with the] Kardashians can├óΓé¼Γäót afford Givenchy. I don├óΓé¼Γäót mean to be mean. Are [counterfeiters] on Canal St. benefiting from it? Probably, but that├óΓé¼Γäós not the fashion world.”
Fair enough, but she can’t ignore the fact that ‘Ye IS good friends with Vogue editor Anna Wintour, besties with Givenchy designer Riccardo Tisci, and has created multiple sold-out fashion lines!
Even so, Kelly didn’t stop there. She also went on to tear Kim Kardashian down a peg, saying that her style isn’t cutting edge enough.
Cutrone continued:
├óΓé¼┼ôThere├óΓé¼Γäós a movie called Breakfast at Tiffany├óΓé¼Γäós. Givenchy is a good brand, but is it cutting edge? No. It├óΓé¼Γäós a gazillion-year-old luxury brand from Europe. Have Kim and Kanye had an impact on pop culture? Absolutely. Do I think that [Vogue editor-at-large] Hamish Bowles wakes up in the morning, calls [former Vogue editor-at-large] Andr├â┬⌐ Leon Talley and says, ├óΓé¼╦£Did you see those pants that Kanye was rocking on SNL?├óΓé¼Γäó No. The truth of the matter is that Kim Kardashian is not doing anything fresh in fashion, either. She├óΓé¼Γäós not getting into the nitty-gritty, super avant-garde players. She├óΓé¼Γäós not even wearing [Vivienne] Westwood yet.”
So apparently even Givenchy isn’t good enough!! No one is safe!
And even though Miz Cutrone claims that no one in the fashion industry cares about Kimye, she obviously cares enough about them to know that Kim hasn’t been wearing Vivienne Westwood!
That HAS to mean she cares just a little bit, right??
[Image via WENN.]

Story 36
In this guide we’ll detail some of the most common Galaxy Note 8 keyboard problems and offer tips to fix them. Samsung’s Galaxy keyboard has a lot to offer and plenty to like, but it’s not perfect. Here’s what to know about these issues.
While there are dozens of replacement keyboards for Android, most Galaxy Note 8 users stick with the keyboard that comes pre-installed. And while it has lots of neat customization options, it’s frustrating when words don’t capitalize or you get extra spaces in sentences.
This post may contain affiliate links. Click here for more details.
Read: How to Reset a Frozen Galaxy Note 8
If you’re experiencing issues while typing on the Galaxy Note 8, you’re not alone. We’re seeing complaints about the Note 8 keyboard freezing, lag, capitalization issues, and problems with autocorrect.
Other complaints suggest punctuation doesn’t always work or the keyboard simply won’t show up at all. We’ll help you fix these problems or explain settings you can change to avoid them.
Galaxy Note 8 Keyboard Not Capitalizing
The biggest issue we’re seeing is the Galaxy Note 8 keyboard doesn’t always capitalize words or names, especially at the beginning of a sentence. Furthermore, some state it auto-corrects letters to lowercase, which is frustrating.
Read: How to Fix Galaxy Note 8 AutoCorrect Problems
By default, the keyboard should automatically capitalize the first word of any sentence. The first potential solution is making sure you didn’t turn off the auto capitalization feature. Here’s where to look. Head to Settings > General Management > Language & input > On-screen keyboard > Samsung Keyboard and look through the list of options. The 3rd option is what you’re looking for, as shown below.
Enable auto capitalization if it’s not already on. If it is, something else is wrong. If so, you’ll want to clear the cache for the keyboard, which we’ll explain in our next category. We’ve also heard downloading a secondary keyboard from Google Play, switching to it, and back to Samsung’s fixes a lot of little problems.
Galaxy Note 8 Keyboard Not Showing Up at All
Apparently, the Galaxy Note 8 keyboard simply won’t show up at all sometimes, which is a problem Galaxy S8 users are experiencing too. There’s no way to fix this in settings either, as it should just work. It’s basically a software glitch, and we have two steps that should fix it.
For almost any keyboard problem your first step is a quick reboot of the phone. Press and hold the power button and hit Restart. When the phone reboots the keyboard should go back to full working order.
Next, if the keyboard is still missing try clearing the cache for the keyboard application. Head to Settings > Apps > All Apps > Samsung Keyboard and tap Force Stop. You can also click on Storage, then clear the keyboard data and cache. This might delete your saved dictionary, but you’ll get the keyboard back. We’re also hearing this fixes a lot of other problems when you can’t change something in settings.
And finally, there’s a similar glitch where instead of not showing up some will see the keyboard, but it’s completely frozen. Nothing works. Again, try rebooting your phone or clearing the cache.
Galaxy Note 8 AutoCorrect Fails
Your Galaxy Note 8 should learn from your typing habits over time, and gradually get more accurate when it comes to autocorrect or word predictions. For some, it’s not learning at all, or if it is, autocorrect ruins perfectly normal words. With my Galaxy Note 8, when I type “to/too”, “home” and “come”, occasionally I’ll get “top”, “hone”, and “cone” instead. That’s an autocorrect fail if I’ve ever seen one. Here’s how to fix it.
Follow the steps we mentioned earlier and head back to the Samsung Keyboard settings menu. Scroll down and tap on Predictive text. Don’t turn it on or off with the switch, tap the option instead. Now, uncheck “Auto Replace”. This way the phone will still predict words for you, and show them above the keyboard, but it won’t replace them automatically.
This way you won’t get the aggressive autocorrect, but the suggestions still populate above the keyboard.
Keyboard Predictions Not Appearing
However, sometimes those predictions and autocorrections don’t even show up. Irritating, we know. When the keyboard knows what you want while you type, it makes life easier. Here’s how to fix it if you’re not seeing those helpful predictions. This will also fix the problem where after a prediction you get a weird double-space in your sentence.
Head to the same Settings > General Management > Language & input > On-screen Keyboard > Samsung and look through the settings list. Make sure “Predictive Text” is enabled, and try toggling it off and back on. Sometimes it just gets stuck. Also, try tapping on Predictive Text and making sure you didn’t uncheck the “auto-replace” options.
And finally, you’ll also see “Auto spacing” in this menu, which inserts a space automatically after you add a word using predictive text. When you choose a predicted word or hit spacebar to use the highlighted word, the software adds a space for you. Then, you added a space yourself out of habit. That’s where the double-space is coming from.
Disable auto spacing or turn off predictive text completely. Some love it, while others feel it only slows them down.
Galaxy Note 8 Keyboard Lag
Another common problem is lag while you’re tying. Basically, the keyboard lags behind and struggles to keep up. It’s not freezing, but it’s getting close. This usually fixes itself, but if not, try this.
We know Samsung is working on a big bug fixing update for December, and hopefully keyboard lag is part of it. That said, there is another one trick that should fix it, and potentially any other problem you’re experiencing.
Go into Settings > General Management > Language & Input > On-screen Keyboard > Samsung Keyboard and scroll to the very bottom. Now, select “Reset to Default Settings” and then tap the “Reset keyboard settings” option too. This will revert any and all changes you’ve made to the keyboard. So while it might ruin some of the settings we explained above, it will fix the frustrating lag. If not, you’re stuck waiting for Samsung to issue an update.
Furthermore, there’s an option in here to clear all personalized data too. Which might fix some of those other pesky problems we’re hearing about.
Missing Keyboard Sounds
Keyboard sounds are a nice little confirmation that you’ve hit the button you want, and most owners like them. However, a lot of people disable this option in settings too. Or, you did by accident and now don’t know why your keyboard isn’t making noises while you type.
To change this you need to head to your phone’s settings, not the keyboard settings we mentioned earlier. So, go to Settings > Sounds & Vibrations > and scroll down the Keyboard sound. Make sure this isn’t turned off. Flip the switch on, and your keyboard sounds should come back. If not, try a reboot or wiping all the data as we mentioned in our last category.
Another potential reason for this is your phone is in silent mode. Yes, this affects the keyboard sounds too. Press the volume up button and make sure your Note 8 isn’t in silent mode. Or vibrate only mode.
Galaxy Note 8 Swipe & Typing Problems
If you’re experiencing random problems in general, or are having a hard time swiping to type on the Galaxy Note 8, there are a few different potential reasons. First, make sure swipe or gesture typing is turned on in your keyboard settings.
However, the number one problem with typing on the Galaxy Note 8 is because of your screen protector. Do you have a screen protector on the Note 8? With a curved screen, some of these accessories don’t fit perfectly and leave little gaps on the screen. As a result, some swipes or taps don’t register. You think it’s the keyboard, but it’s actually just your screen protector. Obviously, this isn’t ideal, but take it off and try again. Or, try one of these 10 Best Note 8 Screen Protectors.
Replace the Galaxy Note 8 Keyboard
Did you know there are dozens of replacement keyboards for Android? If you’re not able to fix your problems or want to try something else, download a replacement keyboard from the Google Play Store. First, we recommend you download and install Gboard, from Google. Previously know as the Google Keyboard. It’s extremely fast, user-friendly, and has the power of Google search built-in.

Story 37
Rihanna The Red-Nosed Reindeer! See All Of RiRi├óΓé¼Γäós Christmas Pics & Vids HERE!
Was Badgal RiRi a good enough girl to get a visit from Santa this year?!
It looks like she was based on all of those presents under her tree!
Rihanna took off for warmer weather in Barbados to spend the holidays with her family!
And she brought a Christmas costume to wear with her!
Ch-ch-check out RiRi the Red-Nosed Reindeer!
How fantastically festive and adorbs!
Rihanna told her fans that her holiday tradition is to wrap all of her gifts on Christmas Eve without any help from her assistant! She posted a pic on Instagram with a caption that read:
“And P.S. I hand wrap every single gift I give, all on Christmas Eve, every year in Barbados! My assistant stays in America with her family!├óΓé¼┬¥
She of course had to put on some tunes while she prepared her presents though. And what better song to jam out to on Xmas Eve than a little Mariah Carey?!
Watch video of Ri shaking dat ass and singing along to All I Want For Christmas Is You├óΓé¼┬ªAFTER THE JUMP!!!
[Images via Instagram.]

Story 38
Michelle Rodriguez Gets HIGH With Fans At Fast & Furious 6 Premiere!!
It├óΓé¼Γäód be a lot harder to be Fast & Furious when high, ha!!
But apparently the premiere of Fast & Furious 6 attracted a very marijuana-friendly audience the other night, much to the confusion of seXXXy star Michelle Rodriguez!
While being interviewed on the red carpet, Michelle├óΓé¼Γäós attention wavered briefly and she exclaimed the following:
“I smell pot. Don’t you smell pot? You guys are smoking! Is Snoop in there somewhere? Where’s Snoop? I smell weed. I’m getting high. It’s going in my mouth.”
LOLz!! There must├óΓé¼Γäóve been A LOT of smoke hanging around for that to happen!
Who knew Fast & Furious fans were so into smoking that they couldn’t even leave their blunts at home for a red carpet premiere!!
Save it for a 420 concert, people!
[Image via WENN.]

Story 39
Over the past year, banks and credit unions have focused their efforts on trying to keep up with the demands of the highly mobile digital consumer, who wants access to their accounts 24/7 and the ability to perform more and more sophisticated transactions on a smartphone or tablet with one or two taps of a finger. The result has been a plethora of exciting innovations and enhancements to the way consumers bank with their mobile device.
Using examples culled from Mapa Research, who conducts ongoing quantitative and qualitative analysis of dozens of the most innovative financial institutions worldwide, The Financial Brand has compiled some of the best examples of great mobile banking apps and functionality. While some of the functions are provided by multiple banks, we show only one institution as an example. Each example illustrates the importance of the three pillars of any successful mobile app:
Simplicity : The ability to remove steps or make a current process easier to perform
: The ability to remove steps or make a current process easier to perform Engagement : The ability to encourage greater user involvement that will increase loyalty
: The ability to encourage greater user involvement that will increase loyalty Contextuality: The ability to leverage user insight to improve the functionality of an app
Mobile Banking Trends
In fact, many of the comments made by the dozens of participants in the discussion revolved around simplicity of design, the removal of friction and the ability to improve the customer experience.
Consumers expectations around mobile banking are higher than ever as use of mobile banking increases at the expense of desktop banking.
100% of the banks surveyed support both iPhone and Android devices, with 60% supporting Windows and fewer financial institutions investing in Blackberry support.
24% of banks surveyed allow balances to be viewed before login, 29% allow mobile blocking of a credit or debit card, and 68% allow the viewing of future transactions post login.
72% of banks allow a user to save their ID on the mobile app while only 26% require mobile specific login details.
While the vast majority of banks integrate savings, overdraft and credit cards within the mobile banking app, far fewer include loans or investments.
91% of banks allow consumers to make payments to an existing payee, roughly half allow the payment to a new payee or mobile phone number, while only 14% allow payment to an email address and 2% using social media.
Sales and marketing as well as the ability to buy products within the mobile banking app is available at fewer than 30% of the banks monitored.
Secure messaging is available at 30% of the organizations, with live chat only provided by 7% of the institutions.
Overall, the Mapa Research report found that while many innovations have been introduced in the past 12 months, other mobile banking functionalities that were once considered ‘new’ are now simply table stakes in the competition to improve the consumer experience. ( sponsored content ) 7 Mistakes to Avoid When Building a Digital Bank Launching a digital bank is plagued with pitfalls associated with legacy ways of thinking at traditional financial institutions - technology choices are critical today. Click Here Digital Experiences in Banking 2019 Analysis Report Take a deep dive into the first 20 'Forbes Top 100 Best Banks in America' to analyze digital experiences across the industry. Click Here
Enhanced Mobile Banking Engagement
From account opening to the login and home screen, financial institutions are working on new ways to create a simple and engaging first step for the mobile banking customer. As more institutions are providing easy ways to leverage the camera within a smartphone to facilitate account opening, others are providing more functionality prior to login (such as viewing balances) and are redesigning their home pages to generate greater engagement using icons, personalization options and visuals.
Improved Mobile Banking Payment Functionality
One of the key drivers of increased usage of mobile banking apps is the ability for customers to do more within the app. Greater self-servicing capability, payment functionality and account integration are all moving from the desktop to the mobile device. As functionality increases, so does the challenge of maintaining a good user experience as the mobile applications begin to feel busy. In the past year, banks seem to have focused primarily on adding functionality, but future spoils will go to those who are able to combine increased functionality with an improved user experience through better navigation and design.
Expanded Mobile-First Capabilities
Using the GPS and photo capabilities inherent within a smartphone, many banks are now providing unique capabilities that enhance the customer experience and provide potential revenue opportunities for financial institutions. These are apps that many believe are the future of mobile banking because of the ease of use and digital value provided. A small number of banks have been introducing digital storage where consumers can store important information, usually pertaining to accounts held at the bank, but sometimes expanding to insurance documents, etc. Barclays is one of the first provider to introduce Cloud Storage. The usefulness and logistics of digital storage is still being evaluated by many banks and credit unions.
Improved Sales and Service
Despite all of the improvements to mobile banking over the past couple of years, mobile sales and service has lagged. This is the key to a true omnichannel experience, however, as financial institutions hope to migrate more costly transactions from the branch or call center to more of a self-service mode. Calculators and comparison tools have been introduced in the past 9 months, but sales and monetization in the app are still not common. It is believed that part of the reason for lack sales integration is related to the challenge of selling within a limited space and at the same time not being too intrusive or disturbing to the consumer. One functionality with great growth potential is allowing the consumer greater access to customer support from the secure site either via live chat or a secure click to call. At this point, most mobile customer service is done through text messaging.
About The Report
The 80-page Mapa Research report entitled, ‘Mobile Banking Series: State of the Market 2014,’ provides an extremely in-depth analysis of mobile banking trends and innovations worldwide. 48 banks were researched in depth, providing the basis for the data presented throughout the report. In addition, other banks and financial service providers were used to provide additional insights in this report.

Story 40
Simon Cowell Signs 10-Year-Old Girl After Watching Her Vid On YouTube
There are some extremely talented kids in Canada!
Not only did Lady GaGa show her support for a young girl in Winnipeg who uploaded a beautiful performance of Born This Way on YouTube earlier this week, but now Simon Cowell has decided to back a different 10-year-old performer, Heather Russell of Toronto.
After viewing a YouTube video of Heather singing one of her original songs, Simon gave her a contract. And now the young girl is already working with producer Rob Fusari, who also produced Lady GaGa.
Wow. That’s incredible. She must be extremely talented to catch Simon’s eye. We can’t wait to see what the future holds for her.
[Image via WENN.]

Story 41
Powerful smartphones like the Samsung Galaxy S4 do not have problems running multiple apps at the same time. Thus, it goes without saying that it won’t have any issues running as many widgets as possible. However, there were a lot of users who reported that the Galaxy S4 cannot display multiple widgets.
If this problem happens to you, there’s one basic thing you should know about–the Swipe feature. Multiple widgets on the lock screen will not be displayed if Swipe is not enabled. Therefore, before you actually resort to finding other troubleshooting procedures, follow the steps below to make sure Swipe is enabled on your phone.
From the Home screen, touch the Menu key. Choose Settings then tap the My Device tab. Touch Lock screen, then Screen lock. If you already have a screen lock setup other than Swipe, enter the requested security unlock information and touch Continue. Select Swipe from the list. Touch Lock screen widgets. Touch the slider Off to turn Favorite apps or Camera On . Touch Favorite apps or Camera to select which widget should be displayed. Choose either Favorite apps or Camera. Touch Save to apply the changes.
To view multiple widgets or to know if they are displayed on the lock screen, here’s what you need to do:
Quickly press the Power key to turn off the display. Press the Power key once again to wake up the device in the lock screen. Swipe from the right to the left to view either your Favorite apps or Camera widget.
Customizable Lock Screens
You can have up to four (three on select devices) customizable lock screens, which let you select a different widget to be displayed on each lock screen.
From the lock screen, swipe from the left to the right. Touch Add Icon to add a new widget. Select a widget from the list. You can add one widget to each page.
Removing a Customizable Lock Screen
You can remove any of the three customizable screens.
From the lock screen, swipe from the left to the right. Touch and hold the widget until the edit screen is displayed. Drag the widget to Remove and release.
Reorder Lock Screens
You can reorder any of the customizable screens.
Swipe from the left to the right until the desired lock screen is displayed. Touch and hold the widget until the edit screen is displayed. Drag the widget to the right or left to reorder the lock screens and release.
Edit Lock Screen Widget Settings
Some select lock screen widgets can be further customized. The Favorite apps widget, for example, can be customized to display the apps you select. To edit a lock screen widget, touch.
Tell us your problems
The solutions we provided here are based on reports and testimonies from owners who have encountered these problems. I also ask my XDA developer friends regarding some of the problems. Now if you have other problems or questions with your smartphone that you want answered, don’t hesitate to send us email at [email protected]
We don’t guarantee a reply to all emails because we receive hundreds of them daily, but rest assured your email messages will be read by me. But I urge you to provide as much details as possible so I could easily find references and compare your problems with reports from other owners. If your problem is as common as others, there could already be solutions that exist and I would surely point you to them. Screenshots often help so attach one if you can.

