Story 0
Washington (CNN) US and Chinese negotiators reached a preliminary agreement Friday that will ease trade tensions, but it falls short of a comprehensive deal.
"We've come to a very substantial phase one deal," President Donald Trump announced in the Oval Office alongside Chinese Vice Premier Liu He Friday afternoon. "We've come to a deal, pretty much, subject to getting it written."
The deal, Trump said, amounts to a "love fest" after months of friction.
Finalizing the agreement on paper, Trump said, would take three to five weeks.
"We're going to be in Chile together in the big summit," he added, appearing to confirm a meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping at the APEC summit next month.
Read More

Story 1
Chinese President Xi Jinping warned on Sunday that any attempt to divide China would be crushed, as four months of anti-government protests continue in Hong Kong and the United States ramps up criticism over Beijing's treatment of Muslim-minority groups.
"Anyone attempting to split China in any part of the country will end in crushed bodies and shattered bones," he said during a visit to Nepal on Sunday, according to China's state broadcaster CGTN.
"Any external forces backing such attempts dividing China will be deemed by the Chinese people as pipe-dreaming," he was quoted as saying, without mentioning a specific adversary.
The Chinese leader did not mention any region by name, but riot police and pro-democracy protesters clashed again in Hong Kong over the weekend.

Rallies erupted in multiple neighbourhoods across the city on Sunday, with some protesters blocking roads, sabotaging train tracks, and attacking businesses suspected of being pro-China.

China has accused "external forces" of fuelling unrest in the semi-autonomous city, a former British colony that enjoys rights unheard of in the mainland, including freedom of speech.

The protests were sparked by opposition to a now-scrapped proposal to allow extraditions to mainland China, but have since morphed into a larger movement for democracy and police accountability.
Xi Jinping was the first Chinese president to visit Nepal in more than two decades.[Prakash Mathema/Pool via Reuters]
Trade war
As Hong Kong's administration struggles to contain the demonstrations, China is also attempting to de-escalate a protracted trade war with the US.
US president Donald Trump had said it would be difficult to negotiate with China if anything "bad" happens in Chinese authorities' handling of the Hong Kong protests.
Trump said he discussed the issue of Hong Kong with Chinese Vice-Premier Liu He on Saturday during their latest round of talks. Both sides reached a "phase-one deal" that has raised optimism for a broader agreement although many fundamental issues remained unresolved and existing tariffs are still not lifted.
Washington last week also blacklisted 28 Chinese companies over Beijing's treatment of predominantly Muslim ethnic minorities.
China has faced growing international condemnation over the existence of what it calls re-education and training centres in the remote western region of Xinjiang.
Activists say they are mass detention camps holding more than one million ethnic Uighurs and other Muslims.
Xi, the first Chinese president to visitÂ NepalÂ in 23 years, signed 20 deals and pledged aid of nearly $500m during the state visit.
Nepal is home to an estimatedÂ 20,000 Tibetans.
Before travelling to Nepal, Xi was in India for talks with Indian Prime Minister Narendra ModiÂ amid scattered anti-China protests from Tibetan groups.
China sent troops into remote, mountainous Tibet in 1950 and has ruled ever since.
The Dalai Lama, Tibet's spiritual leader, fled to India in 1959 after a failed uprising against Chinese rule.Â
The authorities in Beijing have branded the Dalai Lama a dangerous reactionary who seeks to split off nearly a quarter of the Chinese land mass.

Story 2
Hong Kong (CNN Business) Asian markets traded in the green Monday as investors cheered progress on US-China trade talks .
Hong Kong'sis up 1%. The index seems likely to extend its gains from Friday, when it logged its biggest daily increase in more than a month.
Japanese markets were closed Monday for a holiday.
US President Donald Trump announced Friday that the United States and China have reached a "very substantial phase one deal."
Details are still to be finalized, but it includes a halt on US tariff increases that were supposed to go into effect this week. Trump also told reporters that intellectual property, financial services and agricultural purchases are included in the agreement.
Trump also suggested that he would meet Chinese President Xi Jinping at next month's APEC summit in Chile.
Dow INDU S&P 500 SPX Nasdaq COMP Trade tensions have dominated global markets . But sentiment has improved after the most recent developments. In the United States, futures for theandwere all trading up about 0.3% Monday during Asian hours.
Meanwhile, investors shrugged off trade data from China that fell short of analyst expectations.
Data from the Chinese government on Monday showed that exports fell 3.2% last month compared to the same period a year ago. That's worse than the 3% decline that analysts polled by Reuters expected. It's also more than the 1% fall recorded in August.
September imports fell by 8.5% — well below the 5.2% drop that analysts predicted.
Exports will probably continue to drag in the months ahead. Friday's limited trade agreement and the lack of increased tariffs should only have a "marginal impact" on on export growth, wrote Martin Lynge Rasmussen, China economist for Capital Economics, in a research note Monday.
He added that while imports may tick up slightly in the short term, they are also not likely to have a strong rebound, since domestic demand is soft.

Story 3
BEIJING—China’s exports to the U.S. shrank by more than one-fifth last month, hit by heavier tariffs, underscoring the urgency for Beijing to resolve trade friction with Washington.
Chinese shipments to the U.S. slumped nearly 22% in September from a year earlier, accelerating from a 16% decline in August, data from the General Administration of Customs showed Monday. The U.S. decline was a major factor, along with a slowing global economy, in the 3.2% drop in total exports in September. That compared with August’s 1% decrease...

Story 4
Chinese state media warned the U.S. over the weekend to "avoid backpedaling" on the partial trade agreement, and expressed caution about the initial phase of the deal which President Donald Trump called "very substantial."
On Friday, the Trump administration announced it was suspending a tariff increase to 30% from 25% on at least $250 billion in Chinese goods which were set to take effect on Tuesday. However, a tariff hike implemented in September was not rolled back and plans for another hike just before the the Christmas holiday on Dec. 15 remain in place.
"While the negotiations do appear to have produced a fundamental understanding on the key issues and the broader benefits of friendly relations, the Champagne should probably be kept on ice, at least until the two presidents put pen to paper," said China Daily on Sunday.

Story 5
A crucial mechanism for both trends is the internet, once hailed as a great liberator and now revealed as something rather different — a surveillance engine that the N.K.V.D. could only dream about, a machine that induces its users to trade privacy for entertainment and distraction, and a panopticon whose global expanse exposes anyone who wants to do business in China to the manufactured consensus of Chinese nationalism, the grievance politics of the Politburo.
China’s influence within American industry is evident well beyond the online realm, of course. But its successful censorship of U.S. businesses generally involves websites, app stores, social media. It’s not a coincidence that the National Basketball Association’s supine behavior toward China in the past week — from what is supposedly the most progressive and politically engagé of the American professional sports leagues — followed from a general manager fleetingly expressing support for the Hong Kong protesters on Twitter. Likewise when China induced Marriott to fire a luckless $14-an-hour worker recently, it was for seeming to endorse Tibetan independence by “favoriting” a tweet. Having figured out how to tame their internet, the Chinese are intent on using commercial power to tame ours.
How afraid should this make us? One possibility is that just as Chimerican optimism was once delusional, so now Chimerican fears are overblown. The Chinese regime has capabilities that outstrip Soviet Russia, but deep weaknesses as well. China’s demographic picture is potentially disastrous, its economic surge may be leveling off, many of its best and brightest are eager to depart, and it has more to lose than America from constant trade brinksmanship, a trans-Pacific Cold War footing. As with fears of Japanese dominance in the 1990s, some Sinophobes may overrate the internal strength of the Chinese model, the permanence of its ascent.
But one can believe that China may be somewhat weaker than it looks and also believe that the fear of the People’s Republic is a healthy thing for Americans to cultivate. For one thing, our policy approach to Chinese power clearly needs adjustment, and yet there are many high-dollar reasons for our elite to protect their Chimerican entanglements — with “elite” here including not only the influence-peddlers of D.C. and Silicon Valley, but also figures like Golden State Warriors coach Steve Kerr, whose professional obligations induced him to draw shameful analogies between America’s sins and Chinese totalitarianism this week.
Given those elite incentives, the only way our China policy will be permanently adjusted is if the outrage that bubbled against the N.B.A. in recent days becomes a permanent factor in American politics, a sentiment that cannot be ignored.

Story 6
President Xi Jinping has wrapped up a landmark visit to Nepal, the first by a Chinese president in 23 years, with 20 deals signed and nearly $500m in financial aid pledged amid Beijing's growing influence in the impoverished Himalayan nation.
After talks in the capital, Kathmandu on Sunday, Xi and Nepalese Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli witnessed the signing of 18 agreements and two letters of exchange in areas of connectivity, security, border management, trade, tourism and education.
Along with a Chinese delegation, Xi arrived in Kathmandu from Chennai on Saturday for the start of his two-day state visit after meeting Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He departed for Beijing on Sunday.
Nepal's Foreign Minister PradeepÂ Gyawali described Xi's visit as one of "historic significance" for Nepal.
"Our priority is to create opportunities for Nepal, joining it to China's development. We are focusing on connectivity between the two countries," he said.
In a signed article published in Nepali newspapers on Friday, Xi said he would use the two-day visit to "renew friendship and explore cooperation with my Nepali friends".
"It is important that we adopt a strategic and long-term perspective and draw up a blueprint for our bilateral relationship to take it to a new height in this new era," Xi added.
President Rt. Hon. Mrs. Bidya Devi Bhandari flanked by Vice-President Rt. Hon. Mr. Nanda Bahadur Pun, Prime Minister Rt . Hon. K P Sharma Oli and Chairman of the National Assembly bid farewell to the President of the People's Republic of China H.E. Mr. Xi Jinping.@PradeepgyawaliK pic.twitter.com/JDPPeptm1w â MOFA of Nepal ð³ðµ (@MofaNepal) October 13, 2019
During delegation-level talks with PresidentÂ Bidhya Devi Bhandari on Saturday, Xi announcedÂ 56 billion rupees ($492m) in economic assistance for Nepal over the next two years, an official told the Kathmandu Post on condition of anonymity.
Separate deals for a trans-Himalayan railway link to Tibet and a tunnel were reached on Sunday.
The 70-km (42-mile) rail link will connect Gyiron in Tibet with Nepal's capital city of Kathmandu, making it one of the most ambitious infrastructure projects in the country.
Key geopolitical actorÂ
Landlocked Nepal, geographically sandwiched between India and China, is seeking closer ties and much-needed energy and infrastructure investment from Beijing.
Asian giants India and China have both sought to woo Nepal and have poured in aid and infrastructure investment.
190910095511176
In 2017, Nepal signed up to China's Belt and Road initiative, a vast global infrastructure programme, which includes the building or upgrading of highways and airports in the country.
Although India has traditionally been Nepal's main ally, China has intensified its presence, pumping millions of dollars into projects ranging from roads to hydropower plants.
Lok Raj Baral, a former Nepalese ambassador to India, said NepalÂ has to be "very cautious" and maintain a "good balance" between the two neighbours.Â
"Nepal is very important from a geopolitical point of view, it's location itself is very important, which is why we should be very careful," he told Al Jazeera in a phone interview from Kathmandu.
"We cannot play one neighbour against the other."
'Political costs'
India has extensive influence on Nepal's economy and politics, while China and Nepal share a border covered with high mountain peaks.
A prolonged blockade of its border crossings with India in 2015 and 2016 left Nepal short of fuel and medicine for months.
According toÂ Manoj Kewalramani, a fellow forÂ China Studies at the Bangalore-based Takshashila Institution,Â smaller states like Nepal see China as an opportunity to "hedge what they might see as India's excessive influence" in the region.Â
"From an Indian point of view, I would say these are signs of how things are changing for India in the neighbourhood," he saidÂ of Xi's visit.Â
"We need to accept the fact that China is much more active and expressively intent through actions of wanting Nepal to [move from being] landlocked to land-linked, and that link has to come through China," he told Al Jazeera in a phone interview.Â
He noted, however, that there are "certain political costs" attached to Beijing's increased investment.Â
"This is an opportunity to develop and to attract investment for the betterment of the economy, but there are risks with that and it's about the dexterity of your foreign policy to be able to manage some of these risks and that's the challenge."
Additional reporting by Saba Aziz: @saba_aziz

Story 7
Hong Kong (CNN Business) Tencent has quietly resumed online broadcasts in China of National Basketball Association preseason games after a dispute last week prompted all of the American league's official Chinese partners to suspend ties.
The Chinese tech giant on Monday live streamed two games — one between the Toronto Raptors and Chicago Bulls in Toronto and another between Israeli team Maccabi Haifa and the Minnesota Timberwolves in Minneapolis — a week after saying it would not show two preseason games that took place in China last week.
Tencent has the exclusive rights to stream the NBA in China, and it was one of several companies to hit back against the league after Houston Rockets General Manager Daryl Morey tweeted support for pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong.
When asked about the resumption of streaming, a Tencent spokesperson reiterated the company's statement from last week, which said it would suspend broadcasts for the "China games."
Its decision to resume live broadcasts was a trending topic on Chinese social media platform Weibo on Monday, with many users accusing the company of using a loophole to continue its relationship with the NBA despite the backlash.

Story 8
President Trump on Friday announced a trade deal with China that he called “tremendous” or “tremendously” positive 15 times. The details look far more modest to us, but this truce in the trade war beats the alternative of escalating tariffs that have already caused a significant global economic slowdown.
Mr. Trump said China will make some $40 billion to $50 billion more in agricultural purchases over two years and has promised to better protect intellectual property and welcome more foreign financial services. In return the...

Story 9
SHANGHAI, CHINA - FEBRUARY 23: The Chinese flag floats before the skyscrapers of multinational corporations on February 23, 2018 in Shanghai, China. Vincent Isore/IP3 | Getty Images
BEIJING — China is pressing ahead with opening up its financial industry to foreign ownership amid worries that the U.S. and China could grow further apart due to ongoing trade tensions. The China Securities Regulatory Commission on Friday released a time frame for removing limits to foreign stakes in futures, mutual fund and securities companies. The plan, set to roll out in January, would give foreign companies full ownership. Last year, the commission began to allow some foreign financial entities to increase their minority stake to a majority 51%. "Chinese regulators continue to move forward with constructive reforms to the domestic funds management landscape," a spokesperson for Invesco said in a statement. "This latest announcement enhances competition and enables all market players to bring compelling offerings to the Chinese market."
One of the U.S. complaints in trade tensions with China is that many Chinese industries are closed to foreign firms or dominated by state-owned entities, making it difficult for American companies to compete on even ground with their Chinese counterparts. The dispute between the world's two largest economies has increased pressure on cross-border business, with the application of tariffs on billions of dollars' worth of goods from both countries. The U.S. also placed several major Chinese technology companies on a blacklist that effectively bars them from doing business with American suppliers. But China would like to attract more foreign capital to its markets and help the local financial industry mature. The opening of its financial markets "will help promote the internationalization of China's futures market, increase its international influence, and help it become an international pricing center for commodities," Yanghui Cao, deputy director of the Hangzhou-based Nanhua Futures Research Institute, said in a Chinese statement translated by CNBC. Cao also pointed out that international markets have relatively greater experience with derivative products, and the entrance of such foreign players to the Chinese market will increase local competition.
Impact of trade tensions
The time frame announced Friday will be rolled out over 2020. If companies can get needed approvals and business licenses, the move will come close to matching Chinese Premier Li Keqiang's announcement in September last year, when he said he hoped that "in three years' time, there will be a number of foreign ventures qualified for full-license, full-ownership operation in the financial sector." Jan. 1, 2020 — Futures companies April 1, 2020 — Mutual fund management companies Dec. 1, 2020 — Securities companies In July this year, Li also said China would lift restrictions on foreign ownership of securities, futures and life insurance firms by 2020 — a year earlier than previously planned. "What's noticeable is the fast implementation schedule of the timetable. This could imply that the trade war negotiation is having some pressure on Chinese policy making," Tianjun Wu, deputy economist at The Economist Intelligence Unit, said in an email.
This is the ultimate realization of China's commitment of market opening to foreign players. Ray Chou partner at Oliver Wyman
China has been slow to open its domestic market to foreign players, often waiting until local companies have had time to grow large enough. The foreign complaint is that while a homegrown Chinese payments processing company like UnionPay has been able to expand rapidly overseas, Visa and Mastercard still face challenges in accessing China. In late September, PayPal said it became the first foreign payment platform to be licensed to provide online payment services in China. Last November, American Express received approval for a joint-venture application for clearing bank card transactions. Other foreign companies are waiting to jump on next year's opportunity to tap China's financial markets. Fidelity International — the now independent overseas arm of the U.S. asset management giant — said in a statement it "looks forward to bringing our exceptional investment research capabilities to Chinese investors. Leveraging our strong presence of over 1,000 staff in China, we will be ready to make the foreign (asset management corporation) license application in due course."

Story 10
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 11
Hong Kong (CNN) Custom officers stopped the middle-aged woman because of her strange, lumbering gait. They searched her and found vials of blood stashed in her bra, according to an official statement . Each one was labeled with a pregnant woman's name from China.
The passenger was crossing Futian port's inspection hall, a border post separating the mainland Chinese city of Shenzhen from Hong Kong, on a sweltering Friday in July 2017.
Hong Kong has become a hub for Chinese women who want to find out the gender of their unborn child by smuggling vials of blood into the city.
Four days later, they intercepted another woman, carrying what appeared to be a heavy backpack, according to the statement. Again, it was full of vials with pregnant women's blood. There were 203 of them, wrapped in plastic bags. Because of the heat, the blood had started to decay.
Hong Kong officials say the women were mules who admitted they had been paid 100 to 300 RMB ($14 to $42) to carry the sensitive material over the border.
More recently, in February 2019, a 12-year-old girl was stopped at Luohu port, another entry point into Hong Kong, with 142 blood samples hidden in her backpack. "Cross-border students basically don't bring anything other than books, stationery and snacks, so their schoolbags usually look lean. But we saw that hers looked so full that it might burst, so we scanned her bag," said a Luohu port staff member quoted by China's state-run People's Daily.
Blood smuggling to Hong Kong from mainland China, where sex testing is forbidden, has increased sharply over the past three years. The samples are sent to Hong Kong clinics to be tested for fetal DNA, which allows the future parents to find out the sex of their child.
Demand for China is strong. Despite the partial lifting of the one-child policy , many Chinese couples are opting to only have one baby, and when they do they want it to be a boy.
Vials hidden in stuffed animals
Desperate to find out whether they are having a boy or a girl, Chinese parents turn to intermediaries offering to send a blood sample across the border into Hong Kong to have it tested. Dozens of agencies offer this service on Weibo, a Chinese microblogging site similar to Twitter.
A sales representative for one such company told CNN that "women can start testing when they are 6-7 weeks pregnant." The agency, which CNN approached by contacting the WeChat account listed on its Weibo page, asks only for an ultrasound proving the pregnancy has reached the adequate stage and a blood sample.
"The woman can go to the hospital or ask a nurse to come to her home to draw blood," the representative said.
The pregnant woman is encouraged to hide the vial inside a plush animal or within boxes of packaged snacks, to avoid detection, and mail it straight to Hong Kong using the postal service. "We no longer hire manual couriers," the agent added. "It is too risky, as the government has cracked down recently on our activities."
The company, which has over 380,000 followers on Weibo, charges 3500 RMB ($490) for its services and the test takes about a week. It is carried out by a lab based in a remote part of Hong Kong, according to the agent, who CNN spoke to via WeChat messaging.
An online agent offering sex tests to pregnant women in China encourages her customers to hide their blood sample in a plush animal. To advertise her services, she posts the results of past tests on Weibo.
China's Population and Family Planning Law banned gender testing in 2002, to prevent a widening of the country's gender imbalance. In this country of 1.4 billion people, men outnumbered women by 32.7 million at the end of 2017, according to the National Bureau of Statistics
Under China's one-child policy, which limited parents to one child, sex-selective abortions became widespread in the hope of securing a son -- from 1970 to 2017, this prevented 12 million girls from being born, according to a study published in May by National University of Singapore researchers.
The policy against having multiple children was partially scrapped in 2015, but many parents still forgo having more than one child because of the cost involved.
To get around the local ban on sex testing, some couples started sending blood samples across the border, into Hong Kong. This is illegal, with China's National Health and Family Planning Commission issuing a notice in 2017 banning the export of human blood.
Yet Hong Kong allows the importation of blood samples, provided they are not suspected of containing infectious agents and as long as a permit is secured, a spokeswoman from the city's Department of Health told CNN via email. Since 2015, the department has referred three cases involving laboratories conducting prenatal blood testing to the board for investigation, but all were dismissed "due to insufficient evidence," she said.
'Eyes half closed'
Hong Kong labs are only allowed to carry out tests if the patient's blood sample was referred to them by a registered medical practitioner, according to the Medical Laboratory Technologists' code of practice . But many labs choose to ignore this, said Kwok Ka-Ki, a member of Hong Kong's parliament, who is also a urologist.
"The Department of Health could rat them out by pretending to be a customer, but I have yet to see it launch a single undercover investigation," he told CNN. "The government prefers to keep its eyes half closed for fear of hurting Hong Kong's medical lab industry, which is big business."
So far none of the investigations launched by the Department of Health has led to a prosecution, according to a spokesperson who cited a lack of "sufficient evidence." She added that any complaints against Hong Kong's medical labs are handled by the Medical Laboratory Technologists Board, their statutory body.
Customs officials in Shenzhen discovered 142 blood samples in a backpack carried by a 12-year-old girl. Each one was attached to an application form for sex testing, according to local media reports.
Hong Kong's thriving sex-testing industry was made possible by a blood test called non-invasive prenatal testing (NIPT), which was invented in the city. "Whereas a pregnant women previously had to wait until she was 4 to 5 months pregnant to find out the sex of her child, with NIPT she can know as early as 10 weeks," said Tom Shakespeare, a British sociologist who co-authored a study on the ethics of NIPT for the Nuffield Council on Bioethics.
This has strong implications for sex-selective abortions, Shakespeare added. "Terminating a pregnancy at 10 weeks is much more straightforward than at 18 weeks," he said.
NIPT is the brainchild of Chinese University of Hong Kong chemical pathology professor Dennis Lo. He first started looking for an alternative to amniocentesis and chorionic villus sampling -- the two invasive methods commonly used to test for chromosomal abnormalities in fetuses -- as a medical student at Oxford University in the late 1980s.
"Both of these tests carry a small risk of miscarriage, so I wondered if I could develop a safer way to test for genetic disorders," he said. Back then, the prevalent wisdom was that the mother's and child's circulatory systems were separate. But Lo had a hunch: what if some fetal DNA made its way into the pregnant woman's blood and could be detected?
In 1997, he published a paper in The Lancet proving the presence of the baby's DNA in its mother's blood plasma. But it took him a further 10 years to develop a working test for chromosomal abnormalities.
"It involves randomly sequencing millions of DNA fragments in a small sample of plasma taken from the mother and then looking at the ratio of DNA fragments originating from different chromosomes," he details. An abnormally high proportion of DNA fragments from the number 21, 18 or 13 chromosomes signals the presence of Down Syndrome, Edwards' Syndrome or Patau Syndrome , respectively.
Millions of tests
The test developed by Lo, which has an accuracy rate of 99%, was launched commercially in the United States in 2011 by a Californian company called Sequenom. Others were quick to follow. NIPT is now provided by a host of companies, including fellow Californian companies Illumina and Natera and Swiss pharmaceutical giant Roche.
It has completely transformed prenatal testing, making it safer for the baby and less invasive for the mother. "Approximately 7 million women have it every year worldwide," Lo said. The market for NIPT is expected to reach $3.9 billion in 2019, with a yearly growth rate of 13.5%, according to a MarketsandMarkets report.
especially popular in China, even though it can't be used for sex testing. Chinese women are choosing to have children NIPT isespecially popular in China, even though it can't be used for sex testing. Chinese women are choosing to have children later in life , encouraged by their increasing participation in the workforce and the partial lifting of the one-child policy , which has led many women in their late 30s and early 40s to have a second child. That increases their risk of having babies with birth defects and makes them particularly receptive to prenatal genetic testing.
The local market is dominated by local players BGI and Berry Genomics. "In 2018, we tested 1 million blood samples using this method," said Berry Genomics CEO Zhou Daixing. "And the market is growing at a rate of 20 to 30% per year." Overall, 4 million Chinese women had NIPT last year, equivalent to about a quarter of all pregnancies, he added.
But whereas in most countries NIPT allows women to find out the sex of their baby as early as 10 weeks into their pregnancy, Chinese doctors have to withhold this information from mothers-to-be. This fuels the market for sex testing in Hong Kong, which has grown steadily since 2015, figures provided to CNN reveal.
As of September 2019, Hong Kong's Department of Health had investigated a total of 53 cases related to the importation of blood samples from China without a permit. There was only one case in 2015, but 17 in 2017 and 18 in 2018. As of September, there have been 12 cases.
"This is most likely just the tip of the iceberg," believes Kwok. "If you consider the large number of medical labs offering sex testing in Hong Kong, there must be dozens of blood smuggling cases every day."
Dennis Lo, a professor of Chemical Pathology at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, invented Non Invasive Prenatal Testing.
But sex testing is not the only application of NIPT. "We have demonstrated that this method enables us to sequence the whole genome of a fetus, which means it could be used to test for virtually any genetic disorder," Lo said.
Cystic fibrosis, hemophilia, thalassemia and congenital adrenal hyperplasia, which leads to an overproduction of male hormones, are some of the diseases which can now be predicted by NIPT, according to Lo. In the future, this technology may also be used to predict which pregnant women will develop pre-eclampsia, or have a premature baby, he added.
This opens up incredible possibilities. "If congenital adrenal hyperplasia is discovered early on in the pregnancy, the mother can take medication to suppress the production of male hormones, which would make it the first genetic disease ever to become treatable prenatally," Lo said.
But it also creates moral dilemmas. "If we find out a baby will get diabetes when he or she turns 40 or develop a cancer later in life, should we tell his mother and burden her with this knowledge before her child is even born?" Lo added.

Story 12
It has been a bad few weeks for anyone wanting to express approval for Hong Kong protesters online. A player of the Hearthstone online game, for example, ended a stream with a statement of support for those engaged in the protests against local police and government. While doing so, he wore a mask similar to the ones worn by many protesters. Blizzard, the owner of the game, was not amused: the player was immediately removed and banned from participation in Hearthstone esports for 12 months.
In another case, Daryl Morey, general manager of the Houston Rockets basketball team, tweeted – and quickly deleted – a message in support of Hong Kong’s protesters. It seems that the National Basketball Association was alarmed by the furore this caused in China, where there is a huge following for US basketball. Eventually, the tweet was restored after some US politicians became exercised about the curbing of free speech in their jurisdiction. But the point was made: don’t annoy the Chinese.
And then on Wednesday, Apple removed HKmap.live from its App Store just days after approving it because the authorities in Hong Kong claimed protesters were using it to attack the police. Around the same time, the company also removed the app of the news organisation Quartz following complaints from the Chinese government.
The email sent to staff by Apple’s CEO, Tim Cook, explaining the deletion of the app was quickly leaked. Two of the assertions in it, including the claim that it was being “used maliciously to target individual officers for violence”, were subjected to a devastating critique by Maciej Ceglowski, who has done some graphic on-the-spot reporting of the demonstrations. The inescapable conclusion is that Apple executives were prepared to act on the basis of unwarranted and inaccurate assertions by the Hong Kong authorities.
Recent developments show how fear of losing out can intimidate people and corporations
There’s lots more where that came from. What’s happening is that the delusions of decades of wishful western thinking about China are finally being exposed by the crisis in Hong Kong. These delusions took various forms over the years. First, there was the theory that since economic development required capitalism, then that would bring democracy. The Chinese said they would have one without the other, thank you very much. And they did.
Then there was the fantasy that adopting the internet would bring openness and therefore democracy. Same story. The most recent delusion is that China’s current turn towards totalitarianism is doomed because such societies stagnate and decay. Xi Jinping and his colleagues beg to differ: they believe that information technology can enable them to have total control without sclerosis. Given their track record, it’d be unwise to bet against them.
Western delusions, however, only partly explain why the Chinese regime has been given such a free pass for so long. The most persuasive factor has been the tunnel vision of western corporations. When they look at China, they see either a colossal (and exponentially expanding) potential market or an emerging tech superpower (and therefore a formidable competitor), or both.
On the marketing side, those who are obsessed with getting a foothold in the Chinese market seem indifferent to the necessary ethical compromises. As the New York Times columnist Farhad Manjoo puts it: “If the first and most important cost of doing business in China is the surgical extraction of a CEO’s spine, many businesses are only too happy to provide the stretcher and the scalpel.”
Then there is the prevailing tech industry obsession with China’s putative advantage over the west in artificial intelligence, which, at the moment, is mostly just big data, plus machine learning. The conventional wisdom in that field is that the more data one can acquire for training machines, the better. Since the Chinese state asserts its right to all data gathered by digital companies, this is seen as giving its firms a colossal advantage over western firms, which are hampered by our tiresome obsessions with privacy, human rights and the rule of law.
This perception is what makes tech companies apparently unable to see China as what its behaviour reveals it to be: a growing and existential threat to freedom. That’s why the developments of the last few weeks have been so revealing. They show how perceptions of commercial power and fear of losing out can intimidate people and corporations.
What’s happened is that the old world of the cold war has morphed into a new bipolar world in which the alternative to liberal democracy is not the Russian federation but China. Russia is annoying and dangerous (and it has nukes), but it’s not an alternative system. China is – and one that may prove increasingly attractive to many non-aligned countries because of its amazing accomplishment of lifting so many people out of poverty so quickly.
The west – and its giant tech corporations – urgently needs to come up with a smarter way of dealing with China than the current approach of kowtowing to it on account of its market potential. It’s time they remembered that kowtow is derived from a Chinese word that means “the act of deep respect shown by prostration, that is, kneeling and bowing so low as to have one’s head touching the ground”. In other words, a servile cringe.
• John Naughton writes the Networker column for the Observer New Review

Story 13
What appears to be a dazzling meteor lit up the sky over northeast China on Friday (Oct. 11), appearing as a brilliant fireball in surveillance videos of the event.
The meteor occurred at about 12:16 a.m. Beijing Time, turning night into day and casting dark shadows as it streaked through the sky, according to the state-run CCTV. Videos of the fireball were captured by surveillance cameras in the city of Songyuan in the province of Jilin, as well as by many residents across northeast China, CCTV reported.
The meteor also visible from Heilongjiang Province, the news agency reported.
Video: See China's fireball of Oct. 11, 2019!
Related: Falling Fireballs Crashed in Chile. They Weren't Meteorites
A meteor lights up the midnight sky over the northeastern China provinces of Jilin and Heilongjiang in this dashcam and surveillance camera video views taken on Oct. 11, 2019. (Image credit: CCTV)
Scientists with the Purple Mountain Observer, part of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, are reviewing videos to study the fireball, but there have been no reports of any meteorites found on the ground from the fireball, CCTV reported.
Email Tariq Malik at tmalik@space.com or follow him @tariqjmalik. Follow us @Spacedotcom and Facebook.

Story 14
SOPA Images/LightRocket via Getty Images
Apple has found itself in a PR nightmare in recent days, with the tech giant’s troubled relationship with China thrust into an unwelcoming media spotlight. What began as a little trouble in big China—the withdrawal of an app that let Hong Kong’s citizens track protest trouble spots, has become a fiery geopolitical debate over Apple’s loyalties and whether it puts profits before politics, reality before reputation.
This started with an app—but it has now pushed Apple’s track record of acquiescence to Beijing into the media. It has also exposed a leaning towards continuing self-censorship on Apple’s part that has even embroiled the company’s new flagship TV streaming service. Never before has Apple’s China problem presented such a challenge to the wider business, with such potential for lasting reputational damage.
The game of yoyo HKMap Live played with Apple’s App Store is well documented. The app crowdsources Hong Kong citizen data to track protests and police activity. At first Apple rejected it for “allowing users to evade law enforcement.” There was a public backlash that led to Apple reversing its decision. This in turn led to threats against Apple in China’s state media for being “reckless” and a warning of “consequences.” And that led to the app being rejected from Apple’s store once again.
The strength of criticism directed at Apple following that re-reversal was enough to prompt CEO Tim Cook to write to staff. “These decisions are never easy,” he said, “and it is harder still to discuss these topics during moments of furious public debate.”
In his letter, Cook shared Apple’s official line, that the company had “credible information, from the Hong Kong Cybersecurity and Technology Crime Bureau, as well as from users in Hong Kong, that the app was being used maliciously to target individual officers for violence and to victimise individuals and property where no police are present. This use put the app in violation of Hong Kong law.”
Needless to say, the fact that Apple’s information came primarily from the Hong Kong authorities somewhat undermined its credibility. The app focuses on concentrations of police officers, not individuals as had been claimed, and there is no reporting of unpoliced areas—except if you judge empty parts of the map to have malicious intent.
Charles Mok, a member of Hong Kong’s legislative council wrote to Cook, accusing Apple of putting profits before values, and stressing that its decision will “cause problems for normal Hong Kong’s citizens trying to avoid police presence while they are under constant fear of police brutality.”
As many fiery headlines as it has made, HKMap Live is still a sideshow for Apple. But it has pushed its wider relationship with China into the media, and that’s a serious issue for the company. Apple has form for keeping Beijing happy. As reported by the South China Morning Post, this was one of many examples of the times “Apple gave in to China,” and in combination it presents a narrative that will be unwelcome in Cupertino.
The newspaper listed out the recent removal of the Taiwan flag emoji in the latest updates to iOS 13; the restrictions on engraving Apple products in China with words that the state might find offensive, terms linked to Taiwan, Falun Gong, dissidents, dictatorship, independence, human rights; the removal of “unacceptable” Western news outlets from China’s App Store, as well as gambling sites and VPNs that push too hard against China’s “Great Firewall.” There is also the restrictions on iBooks and iTunes movies, and the storage of Chinese users’ iCloud data inside China to comply with local cybersecurity regulations—and facilitate state access requests.
All this was rehashed in the media after the HK Map Live controversy. And that led to a watch and wait approach as to what would come out next to back claims that Apple was compromising itself in China for all the wrong reasons.
It didn’t take long—but when it came, it was still unexpected. As reported by BuzzFeed News, Apple preemptively censored content for its forthcoming Apple TV+ service, telling show runners “to avoid portraying China in a poor light.” BuzzFeed News was told by sources that “the instruction was communicated by Eddy Cue, Apple’s SVP of internet software and services, and Morgan Wandell, its head of international content development.” No comment from Apple.
The ongoing tech Cold War between the U.S. and China, with its tariffs and sanctions, presents a major threat to Apple—the country provides some $50 billion in sales and its core manufacturing base. The politics of Apple’s relationship with Beijing have made headlines before—exchanging letters with U.S. lawmakers in 2017 over VPN removals and neglecting to mention China over the cyberattacks on iOS devices linked to the Uighur population a few weeks ago. But this seems lasting, with media scrutiny into how Apple will handle itself at every turn—a nightmare for the company.
Ultimately, there is a strong chance that Apple will turn a corner at some point and its relationship with China will gradually diminish—to some extent, at least. The company is exploring options to shift manufacturing to other locations in Asia given business risk and the impact of new tariffs on Chinese-made goods. There are also the U.S. sanctions against Huawei (and others) that has led to speculation that China will follow suit at some point.
Given this is Apple, there is also the reputational dimension—U.S. tech giants have all played the game with China. Microsoft and Google in particular have faced criticism for their work with Chinese entities and seeming double-standards when it comes to enabling technology freedoms to be compromised inside the country. But this is Apple. It presents itself as adhering to a higher set of standards.
Above all, though, there is realpolitik around the split emerging between East and West. Apple’s exposure to China is moving at a fairly rapid pace from opportunity to threat, and so in Cupertino, one can image seriously grown-up contingency planning taking place even as the company publicly defends its stance.

Story 15
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 16
European stocks fell Monday morning as traders track developments in a crucial week for Brexit, while details of the partial trade accord between the U.S. and China remain hazy.
The pan-European Stoxx 600 slipped 1.1% during morning trade, with basic resources stocks shedding 2.6% to lead losses as all sectors and major bourses traded in negative territory.
The U.S. agreed to postpone an increase in tariffs from 25% to 30% on at least $250 billion of Chinese goods, which had been scheduled for Tuesday. President Donald Trump said that the first phase of a trade deal will be drawn up within the next three weeks, and will see China purchasing between $40 billion and $50 billion of U.S. agricultural products.
Markets in Asia Pacific rose on Monday following the news, led by Chinese stocks with all three mainland indexes adding more than 1%.
However, customs data showed that China's import and export figures were worse than expected in September, with exports falling 3.2% on the year in U.S. dollar terms, while imports declined 8.5%, according to Reuters.

Story 17
Josh Edelson / AFP / Getty Images
“Chinese netizens hail Apple’s removal of app that aids HK rioters."
That was how the Global Times, a Chinese Communist Party outlet, covered Apple’s removal of HKmap.live, an app that helped Hong Kong protesters track police, from the iOS App Store. It was emblematic of the adulatory coverage news outlets controlled by the Chinese government have bestowed on Apple this week. “Apple highly values the Chinese market and removing the controversial app is a smart move,” an analyst said in the article, driving home the party’s approval. In the People’s Daily, the Chinese Communist Party's official newspaper, the story “Apple removes app which helped HK rioters elude police” was the business section’s most read story Friday. Apple’s recent actions in China are a continuation of the company’s years-long practice of appeasing Beijing. To do business in China, the company adopts to local dictates, distasteful as they may be to its CEO Tim Cook, an outspoken gay rights advocate and privacy crusader. It's an ironic inversion of a longstanding argument in the West that by bringing China into the world trade system, the country would adopt western values. Instead, China is asking tech companies to adopt its values — and Apple is willing to pay that price. In early 2018 as development on Apple’s slate of exclusive Apple TV+ programming was underway, the company’s leadership gave guidance to the creators of some of those shows to avoid portraying China in a poor light, BuzzFeed News has learned. Sources in position to know said the instruction was communicated by Eddy Cue, Apple’s SVP of internet software and services, and Morgan Wandell, its head of international content development. It was part of Apple's ongoing efforts to remain in China’s good graces after a 2016 incident in which Beijing shut down Apple’s iBooks Store and iTunes Movies six months after they debuted in the country. A spokesperson for Apple declined comment.
"They all do it. They have to if they want to play in that market."
Apple’s tip toeing around the Chinese government isn’t unusual in Hollywood. It’s an accepted practice. "They all do it," one showrunner who was not affiliated with Apple told BuzzFeed News. "They have to if they want to play in that market. And they all want to play in that market. Who wouldn't?" For Apple, which is in many ways already playing in that market and reliant on China for tens of billions in annual sales and the manufacture of the hundreds of millions of iPhones it sells around the world each year, it is particularly important to avoid running afoul of Chinese government. And as we’ve seen over the past week, it is particularly vigilant about apps. Developers told BuzzFeed News the incidents are hardly anomalies. “We just get a phone call from Apple and they say ‘We just got a call from the Chinese government’ and five minutes later our app is off the App Store,” one US technology executive told BuzzFeed News. “It’s not a line of communication that would be open to any discussion.” “They have so much market power in general and they wield that pretty indiscriminately,” the US technology executive said of Apple. The removal of HKmap.live was one of a series of actions Apple took at China’s instigation in the past week. Apple removed the Quartz app from its app store in China — “Presumably because of the excellent work our team in Hong Kong has been doing covering the protests,” Quartz technology editor Mike Murphy said — and removed the Taiwan flag emoji for iOS users in Hong Kong. These were hardly the first of their kind. In the second half of 2018, Apple challenged or rejected just two of 56 app takedown requests from China, removing 517 apps at the government’s behest, according to the company’s transparency report. Apple said the vast majority of these apps were for porn and gambling, but it has also removed an unspecified number of virtual private networking and news apps. Apple provided customer data to the Chinese government 96% of the time when it asked about a device, and 98% of the time when it asked about an account. In the US, those numbers were around 80% and the US government did not make any app removal requests. In September, Apple seemed to brush off the seriousness of an exploit attack directed at the Uighur ethnic minority. “The sophisticated attack was narrowly focused, not a broad-based exploit of iPhones ‘en masse,’” Apple said in a blog post acknowledging the attack. “The attack affected fewer than a dozen websites that focus on content related to the Uighur community.” The blog post infuriated critics, who called out Apple’s appeasement of the Chinese government and seemingly callous attitude toward the plight of the Uighurs. “Apple's response to this massive hack of iPhones is 'don't worry, it only affected the Uighur community'” Matt Stoller, a fellow at the Open Markets Institute, said at the time. “WTF,” Stoller added. In 2018, the iPhone maker placed its iCloud storage and cryptographic keys for Chinese users in China, giving the government easier access to its customers’ data than when it was stored in the US. The company has also disappeared a song about Tiananmen Square from Apple Music in China and removed the New York Times app in the country.
"Given how authentically good Apple is at protecting user privacy, it's very dismaying to see it doing the wrong thing in other areas."
“Given how authentically good Apple is at protecting user privacy, it's very dismaying to see it doing the wrong thing in other areas, especially its relationship with the [Chinese Communist Party],” one former Apple employee told BuzzFeed News. Apple is not the only US institution to run into controversy trying to maintain its values while remaining in the Chinese government’s good graces. The National Basketball Association incurred China’s ire when Houston Rockets general manager Daryl Morey tweeted in support of the Hong Kong protesters this month. Known for their outspokenness, the NBA’s stars largely stayed mum on the issue, a reporter was shut down when asking about it, and fans were kicked out of arenas for bringing in messaging supporting the protests. Google, meanwhile, removed a game in which users could play as Hong Kong protesters from its Play Store. And game maker Blizzard faced a boycott after it suspended a player who supported Hong Kong protesters.
Apple Told Some Apple TV+ Show Developers Not To Anger China- hey and don’t mention that Turkey is bad. We sell a lot of watches there. And don’t mention Saudi Arabia murdering journalists- they love the iMac and don’t mention Russia—big iPad market. https://t.co/1sHGO18MxX

Story 18
BEIJING (Reuters) - China’s rare earth exports in September fell 17.9% from August, customs data showed on Monday, amid lingering fears that the world’s top producer of the minerals will restrict supply because of its trade row with the United States.
China, the world’s largest rare earth exporter, sold 3,571 tonnes of rare earths in September, figures from the General Administration of Customs of China showed.
This was down from 4,352 tonnes in August. The volumes also fell 27.9% from 4,950 tonnes in September 2018.
China has raised the prospect of limiting rare earth exports to the United States in retaliation for U.S. tariffs, although it has not publicly announced any restrictions.
U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross went last week on an official visit to Australia, home to Lynas Corp (LYC.AX), the only major rare earths producer outside of China, as Washington seeks to shore up alternative sources of supply.
In the first nine months of 2019, China’s rare earth exports, which can fluctuate widely, came in at 36,398 tonnes, down 9% from the same period last year.

Story 19
The same year, Mercedes-Benz apologized for an Instagram post that quoted the Dalai Lama: “Look at situations from all angles, and you will become more open.” The Chinese objected to this perfectly boring statement because the Dalai Lama supports greater autonomy for Tibet. Mercedes sells twice as many cars in China than in the U.S. or Germany, and analysts have concluded that “without the emergence of China, the German premium business model would be broken.” So Mercedes looked at the situation from all angles and then, it would seem, selected the angle of shareholder preservation. They deleted the post and apologized profusely.
The muzzling of free expression at the behest of China extends even into the academic world. Last year, The New Republic reported on “an epidemic of self-censorship at U.S. universities on the subject of China.” Many scholars reportedly feel that criticizing the country is too risky, because colleges accept so much money from Chinese institutions affiliated with Beijing.
China exercises a kind of veto power over the global marketplace of speech. Every piece of content that is critical of the government, or dubious of its claims about Tibet, or Taiwan, or Tiananmen Square, or Xinjiang, is subject to grave financial punishment. It amounts to a kind of “values tariff” on the companies and individuals with which China does business. That is, rather than [x] percent tax on imported goods in China, companies must compromise [x] percent of their values to do business in China. The focus might be on the NBA today. But each firm with business there is paying the values tariff.
Read: China bends another American institution to its will
Everybody is having it both ways.
The NBA wields social advocacy as a sword within the U.S. and surrenders its outspokenness at the border. Multinational companies ask their employees to “bring their full selves to work” and then fire those employees when their “full selves” offend Beijing bureaucrats living 10,000 miles away. Academic institutions say they cherish free thought while giving Beijing sway over their employees’ thinking.
But if the NBA is cowardly, and Marriott is shameful, and colleges are hypocrites, then what are we, the consumers, in this equation? China is the U.S.’s largest trading partner, from which we import hundreds of billions of dollars’ worth of computer parts, toys, furniture, shoes, and plastic.
The American consumer is prone to ethical spasms, if not to consistency. When Equinox members discovered that one of the gym’s investors was a Trump supporter, it caused a national scandal. Meanwhile, the most popular app in the world, TikTok, was built by the Beijing-based company ByteDance, which, like every Chinese tech company, works closely with the same Chinese Communist Party that tortures Muslims in Xinjiang. Does this mean that American teens are ethically required to delete the app until China shuts down its Xinjiang reeducation camps? Does it mean, by extension, that smartphone users should boycott the iPhone until Apple extricates its supply chain from China? Is there such a thing as ethical trade with China at all?

Story 20
Workers extracting oil from oil wells in the Permian Basin in Midland, Texas on May 1, 2018.
Oil prices fell more than 2% on Monday as scant details about the first phase of a trade deal between the United States and China undercut optimism over a U.S.-Sino thaw that had helped lift crude markets by 2% at the end of last week.
Brent crude dropped $1.46 to $59.05 a barrel by 1015 GMT, while U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude lost $1.27 at $53.43 a barrel.
Late on Friday, the United States and China outlined the first stage of a trade deal and suspended this week's scheduled U.S. tariff hikes. But existing tariffs remain in place and officials on both sides said much more work was needed before an accord could be agreed.
"The oil market is taking a cautious stance as to what comes next given that the thorny issues of industrial policy, intellectual property rights, technology transfer among others were not addressed," BNP Paribas oil strategist Harry Tchilinguirian said.
Brent and WTI rose more than 3% last week, their first weekly increase in three.
A good portion of their gains came after the United States announced on Friday it was deploying more troops to Saudi Arabia, and after an Iranian oil tanker was attacked in the Red Sea.
"While the market waits for potential responses from the Iranians, the continued inability of geopolitics to sustain price gains is a testament to the state of concerns over demand," JBC analysts said in a note.
There are also worries that further escalation along the Syrian and Turkish border could affect output or exports from Iraq, providing more support for oil prices. Syrian troops entered a northeastern town on Monday.
The Saudi energy minister, Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman, said oil exporters taking part in a global output deal between OPEC and its allies, a grouping known as OPEC+, were showing serious commitment to the cuts.
Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak said there were no talks underway to change the OPEC+ deal.
The compliance of OPEC+ producers with the supply-reduction agreement was seen at above 200% in September, sources familiar with the matter said on Monday.
China showed strong demand for oil, with its September imports rising 10.8% from a year earlier as refiners ramped up output amid stable profit margins and solid demand for fuel.

Story 21
Ford Motor (NYSE:F) said its sales in China fell 30.3% in the third quarter from a year ago to 131,060 vehicles, as trade-war politics and a weak auto market continued to exacerbate Ford's ongoing slump in the region.
Year to date through September, Ford's sales in China are down 29.2%.
The raw numbers
Ford China's current leadership has sharply reduced the amount of information it shares around sales, meaning it no longer releases detailed model-by-model sales information. But it did share a few key figures for the third quarter:
Sales of Ford-brand vehicles, including both imports and Fords manufactured in China, totaled 77,443 in the third quarter. That's down 37.7% from the same period last year, and down 16.6% from its second-quarter total
Lincoln vehicle sales fell 24.1% from a year ago, and 6.3% from the second quarter, to 11,618.
Sales of the JMC-brand trucks produced by Ford's joint venture with Chinese truck-maker Jiangling Motors fell 13.3% from a year ago, to 41,999 vehicles. That's down 13.9% from the second quarter of 2019.
What happened with Ford in China in the third quarter
While the overall sales number wasn't good, Ford wants auto investors to know that within the quarter, the sales trend was moving in the right direction. Ford-brand sales in September were up 5% from August and 25% from July, the company said, while Lincoln's September sales were up 11% from August and 13% from July.
What's moving the needle? Some new (and new-ish) models. Ford's biggest challenge in China over the past couple of years was a sense that its products were dated. China's new-car market is huge, with nearly all of the global automakers competing head to head with a long list of domestic Chinese auto companies.
All of that competition means there are always new products for consumers to choose from. Products that are four or five years old, like much of Ford's China lineup until recently, tend to be overlooked by many Chinese car-shoppers. That was the core of Ford's problem in China: Ford's brand had all but slipped out of view, and its dealers began to lose confidence.
But Ford has begun taking steps to right the ship. Back in April, Ford announced its "China 2.0" plan, a sweeping turnaround effort that will include over 30 new models for China by the end of 2021. Several of those new models have already arrived, and Ford credited a few of its recent arrivals -- including the Lincoln Nautilus crossover and the China-only Ford Territory SUV, now available in a battery-electric version -- for the month-to-month sales improvements within the quarter.
How Ford's China sales result will affect earnings
Ford lost $283 million in China in the first half of 2019. That's not good, but it was a big improvement over the $633 million it lost in the first half of 2018, and there have been growing signs that Ford China CEO Anning Chen has the business moving in the right direction.
I don't expect Ford to report a profit in China when it releases its third-quarter earnings results on Oct. 23. But despite the year-over-year sales decline, I do expect a substantial improvement over the $378 million loss it posted in China in the third quarter of 2018.

Story 22
A couple of weeks before the start of the 2019-20 NBA regular season, the league finds itself involved in a controversy with China stemming from a now-deleted tweet from Houston Rockets general manager Daryl Morey. In the tweet, Morey gave a message of support to protesters in Hong Kong who are currently involved in demonstrations that began in opposition to controversial proposed legislation.
Morey's tweet was met with considerable backlash from Chinese authorities, while several different parties, including NBA commissioner Adam Silver, have weighed in on the issue. The timeline of events has been lengthy. Below is a rundown of how we got from Morey's tweet to the current situation between China and the NBA along with the latest on this constantly evolving situation.
How did this all start?
On Oct. 4, Morey tweeted (and later deleted) support for the ongoing protests in Hong Kong which began in opposition of controversial legislation that would allow criminal suspects to be extradited to mainland China. The protests have since expanded. The tweet read: "Fight for Freedom. Stand with Hong Kong." Morey's tweet showing direct support for Hong Kong was viewed by some as criticism and/or opposition to China's political strategy and was not received well by Chinese officials.
The Hong Kong protests initially opposed government legislation that would allow people to be extradited to mainland China to face charges. They are now generally pro-democracy protests that expand far beyond the removal of the legislation. CBS News has you covered with the latest news on all things related to the Hong Kong protests, including what the protesters want from China beyond the removal of the legislation. The protests are in their fifth month.
What backlash have the NBA and Rockets faced?
The backlash to Morey's tweet was felt immediately by the Rockets and the league. The Chinese consulate in Houston released a statement expressing its "strong dissatisfaction" with Morey's tweet, stating that "anybody with conscience would support the efforts made by the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region to safeguard Hong Kong's social stability." Also, sponsors began to cut ties with the Rockets and the league as a whole:
Chinese state television CCTV said it would no longer air the Rockets' preseason games in China.
CCTV also made a statement strongly disagreeing with the league's stance on Morey's comments:
We've noted that Adam Silver, the commissioner of the NBA who has been attending events in Japan, has responded to the inappropriate comment on Hong Kong made by the general manager of the Houston Rockets, Daryl Morey. We voice our strong dissatisfaction and opposition to Adam Silver offering as an excuse the right to freedom of expression. We believe that no comments challenging national sovereignty and social stability fall within the scope of freedom of expressions. In light of this, China Media Group sports channel has decided to immediately suspend the current plans to relay broadcast the NBA pre-season (China games) and will immediately undertake a full check of all cooperative exchanges involving the NBA.
How did the NBA respond?
Two days after Morey's tweet, the league released an official statement on the matter.
We recognize that the views expressed by Houston Rockets general manager Daryl Morey have deeply offended many of our friends and fans in China, which is regrettable. While Daryl has made it clear that his tweet does not represent the Rockets or the NBA, the values of the league support individuals' educating themselves and sharing their views on matters important to them. We have great respect for the history and culture of China and hope that sports and the NBA can be used as a unifying force to bridge cultural divides and bring people together.
With all the backlash, Silver spoke with Toyko-based news corporation Kyodo News about the reception of the league's initial statement. "There is no doubt, the economic impact is already clear," Silver said. "There have already been fairly dramatic consequences from that tweet, and I have read some of the media suggesting that we are not supporting Daryl Morey, but in fact we have."
Silver's comments created a new level of backlash for the NBA, this time from American fans and government officials. By not making it clear that Morey's freedom of speech will not be impeded by the league, the statement instead came across like the NBA was denouncing Morey's stance. It also didn't help that the statement the league released in China had a substantially different tone.
The Chinese version of the league's statement, which was shared on Weibo -- a Chinese social media platform similar to Twitter -- said the league was "extremely disappointed" by the "inappropriate" comment made by Morey. The statement ends by saying that Morey's comments "severely hurt the feelings of Chinese fans."
After the initial statement was met with backlash, Silver spoke out a little more in-depth to clarify the league's stance. The full statement can be read here, but here is a key excerpt:
"It is inevitable that people around the world -- including from America and China -- will have different viewpoints over different issues. It is not the role of the NBA to to adjudicate those differences. However, the NBA will not put itself in a position of regulating what players, employees and team owners say or will not say on these issues. We simply could not operate that way."
Despite all of the turmoil, Silver still attended the Lakers and Nets game in China on Thursday, however his scheduled press conference prior to the game was canceled. During a news conference in Tokyo, Silver said: "I understand that there are consequences from that exercise of, in essence, [Morey's] freedom of speech, and we will have to live with those consequences." Silver went so far as to say the league isn't apologizing for Morey's freedom of expression, but instead "regret that so many people are upset."
Silver's plan is to try to meet with Yao Ming, a chairman of the Chinese Basketball Association, when he gets to Shanghai to attempt and repair the large rift that has been created from Morey's tweet, and the league's response. "I'm hoping together that Yao Ming and I can find accommodation," Silver said. "But he is extremely hot at the moment, and I understand it. There's no question that Daryl's tweet has hit what I would describe as a third-rail issue in China. I think Yao is extremely unsettled. I'm not quite sure he accepts how we are operating our business right now."
How did the Rockets respond?
Houston's team owner Tilman Fertitta sent a tweet acknowledging that Morey's opinions do not reflect the views of the Houston Rockets.
Listen....@dmorey does NOT speak for the @HoustonRockets. Our presence in Tokyo is all about the promotion of the @NBA internationally and we are NOT a political organization. @espn https://t.co/yNyQFtwTTi — Tilman Fertitta (@TilmanJFertitta) October 5, 2019
Morey then released the following apology on Twitter for his remarks, but the damage had been done.
I did not intend my tweet to cause any offense to Rockets fans and friends of mine in China. I was merely voicing one thought, based on one interpretation, of one complicated event. I have had a lot of opportunity since that tweet to hear and consider other perspectives. I have always appreciated the significant support our Chinese fans and sponsors have provided and I would hope that those who are upset will know that offending or misunderstanding them was not my intention. My tweets are my own and in no way represent the Rockets or the NBA.
Morey's job is not in jeopardy at the moment, according to reports from The Athletic and The New York Times.
Even Rockets star James Harden issued an apology for Morey's remarks. While speaking to media with teammate Russell Westbrook, Harden expressed his deep appreciation for all their fans in China: "We apologize, we love China, we love playing here," he said. "For both of us individually, we go there once or twice a year and they show us the most support and love. We appreciate them as a fanbase, and we love everything they're about. We appreciate the support they give us individually, and as an organization."
Why are the Rockets so popular in China?

The Rockets have been the most popular team in China for years, dating back to the day when Yao was drafted by the team with the No. 1 overall pick in 2002. The Hall of Famer spent his entire NBA career in Houston and became an unofficial global ambassador for the league. His popularity in China helped the NBA grow its league on a global scale like never before, and the Rockets became China's adopted hometown team.
Over the years, the Rockets have shown deep appreciation for their Chinese fans and even went so far as designing their City Edition jersey to honor their international fan base in 2018. Since Morey's tweet, though, the relationship between China and the Rockets has been severely damaged, if not severed.
China has been a significant area of growth for the NBA over the past decade with many of the league's international efforts focused on the world's most populated country.
What are NBA players saying?
There have been responses from several prominent NBA players. Most are supporting the right for members of the league to voice their opinions while also showing confidence that Silver will work with China toward a solution.
Bucks forward Giannis Antetokounmpo: "I feel like in the NBA they always allow us to express our feelings. Players come out, GMs come out and express their feelings. At the end of the day, the NBA wants to have a great relationship with China and with the fans. I know this situation, they're going to solve it in a way. But what can you do? Like, I feel like the NBA gives you a great platform to express your feelings and say what you believe and what you think about situations in the world. But I know that they're going to find a way to solve this situation. It was just a misunderstanding."
Spurs coach Gregg Popovich: "[Silver] came out strongly for freedom of speech. I felt great again. He's been a heck of a leader in that respect and very courageous."

Story 23
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 24
BEIJING/SHANGHAI (Reuters) - Auto sales in China fell for a 15th consecutive month in September, data from its biggest auto industry association showed, dampening hopes for a second-half turnaround in the world’s largest auto market.
Cars for export wait to be loaded onto cargo vessels at a port in Lianyungang, Jiangsu province, China October 14, 2019. REUTERS/Stringer/Files
Total auto sales fell 5.2% from the same month a year earlier to 2.27 million vehicles, the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers (CAAM) said on Monday.
This followed declines of 6.9% in August and 4.3% in July. Car sales in 2018 declined from a year earlier, the first annual contraction since the 1990s against a backdrop of slowing economic growth and a crippling trade war with the United States.
September and October, known as “Golden September, Silver October” by China’s auto insiders, are regarded as the high season for sales, with customers traditionally returning to make purchases after the summer.
The association had previously said it expected sales in the second half to improve, but that overall annual sales would fall 5% year-on-year to 26.68 million vehicles in 2019.
“Sales have risen in the second half but they have not hit expectations and the pace has been slow,” said Chen Shihua, CAAM assistant secretary-general.
“Competition has become fiercer,” said senior CAAM official Xu Haidong, adding that independent Chinese brands, rather than joint venture ones, were bearing the brunt of the sales slide.
“It’s become the survival of the fittest.”
As recently as three years ago, automakers had enjoyed double-digit annual growth in China.
Fifteen cities and provinces, which account for more than 60% of car sales in China, implemented new vehicle emission standards earlier than the central government’s 2020 deadline, damaging sales of traditional-fuel vehicles in particular, according to CAAM, analysts, dealers and consumers.
Sales of new energy vehicles (NEV), which China has been a keen supporter of, have also been impacted by subsidy cuts, falling 34.2% in September following a 15.8% decline in August, CAAM said. NEV sales had jumped almost 62% last year as the broader auto market contracted.
NEVs include plug-in hybrids, battery-only electric vehicles and those powered by hydrogen fuel cells. CAAM has said it expects sales of new energy vehicles to increase this year, but at a slower pace to 1.5 million, down from a previous forecast of 1.6 million.
The impact of the subsidy cuts on the NEV sector was set to linger, Chen said. “I feel that there will be difficulties in reaching the target in the following three months,” he said.

Story 25
Hong Kong (CNN Business) American companies doing business in China are navigating an unprecedented array of risks, from slowing growth to the trade war and pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong . But that hasn't stopped many of them from pushing deeper into the vast Chinese market.
A handful of US businesses have gotten positive signals fromChina in recent weeks, paving the way for lucrative deals in the world's second biggest economy., for example, clinched a license to provide digital payments last month. The Wall Street Journal reported last week thathas talked to Chinese tech firmabout a potential tie-up. Andwon an auction in August that should allow the bank to take control of its asset management business in China. Final approval is still pending.
Plenty of other US companies are becoming more entrenched in China, too.spent the last year building a massive factory in Shanghai in a bid to tap the world's biggest market for electric cars. Reuters reports that the factory may start production as early as this month. Tesla did not respond when asked about the report by CNN Business earlier this month.
Such relationships between American firms and China aren't unusual. The country is home to more than one billion people, after all, which many companies see as a customer base ripe for the taking.
Corporate America is "still very much interested" in China, said Ker Gibbs, president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Shanghai, in an interview with CNN Business last week. "I think if you talk to American business executives, they don't see a full decoupling as an option at all."
'We're not slowing down'
For one thing, it pays to be on the ground. Nearly 77% of the companies that took part in AmCham's annual survey this summer said they made money in China in 2018. Almost half of the respondents also said they expected to invest more in the country this year, compared to just under a quarter that said they would scale back.
"China will be a fully developed nation in 30 years. Its economy is going to be as big as the US," JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon told Bloomberg in March . While he cited a litany of challenges — including corporate corruption and a lack of transparency — he also pledged his bank's commitment to doing business there. "We're all in. And so we're not slowing down," Dimon said at the time.
William Reinsch, the Scholl Chair in International Business at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, pointed to the sheer size of the market as something many businesses feel they can't ignore.
If you say ... you're never going to get more than 3% of the market, well, 3% of China is still a lot of money. Bill Reinsch, Scholl Chair in International Business, Center for Strategic and International Studies
"With 1.2 billion people, you can't really be a multinational company or a global company without some kind of presence there one way or the other," he said. "I think that's part of what's driving the train."
Alibaba's BABA For the companies that do manage to break into China, even a small presence can be fruitful. Reinsch pointed to PayPal, which might not be able to capture much more than a sliver of the digital payments market from incumbents such asAlipay and Tencent.
"If you say, well, you're never going to get more than 3% of the market, well, 3% of China is still a lot of money," he added.
While Beijing is relaxing restrictions on some types of foreign investment, regulatory barriers can still be tough to overcome.
Mastercard MA Visa V American behemoths likeandare still locked out of the market. Acceptance of PayPal could suggest the country feels increasingly confident that its homegrown players will continue to dominate
"It's alright to let them in because they're no longer a threat to their national champions," Reinsch said of PayPal.
Challenges in China
There are other headwinds to contend with, though.
China's economic slowdown and its ongoing trade war with the United States have created huge uncertainty for business — and that's not going away. Slowing growth was the top concern cited in AmCham's summer survey. And more than 53% of respondents said they would either delay or reduce investment as a direct result of US-China trade tensions
"In China, American companies are basically keeping their heads down and making contingency plans," said Jeffrey Towson, a private equity investor and professor at Peking University.
Walmart WMT Towson said some companies, likeand Tesla, continue to build in China. But others are postponing decisions, for now.
"Until China and the US reach a new understanding about how they will operate in each other's markets, lots of companies are going to stay flexible and non-committal," he added. "That is bad for business and for [foreign direct investment] in particular."
Foreign direct investment by American companies in China reached $6.8 billion in the first half of the year, according to the Rhodium Group. That's slightly higher than the average recorded in the first six months of the previous two years. The research firm recorded a surge in the automotive sector, driven by Tesla's factory project.
Tariffs aren't as much of a concern for companies that don't use China as a major manufacturing base. But the trade war has evolved into a bigger fight over the future of technology and national security, creating other headaches.
Intel INTC Micron MICR Take the US government ban on doing business with some Chinese firms, like Huawei. A decision in May to blacklist the tech company created complications for its American suppliers, likeand. Micron has been able to sell some products to Huawei that aren't subject to restrictions, but said in September that the ban has affected its revenue expectations and dragged on sales.
"It's very political, and it could really shift very quickly," Gibbs said. "And again, that's the kind of thing that leads companies to delay their investment decisions."
An uncomfortable place
Sustained pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong have also turned the spotlight on another big risk for American companies: The clash between their values and those of the Chinese Communist Party.
An NBA team executive set off an international storm last weekend when he tweeted support for the protesters. Tensions between Hong Kong and Beijing, which controls the former British colony, have been fueled by months of political unrest
Reinsch, the Washington expert, said the episode illustrated how China is using its economic power to try to achieve its political goals.
"In that sense it's an effort to deepen the Party's control over people's lives through censorship, not only domestically but internationally," he said. "This definitely adds a new element of risk for foreign businesses and drags them into political debates most companies try very hard to avoid."
The NBA on Friday canceled all media availability for teams for the remainder of their trip to China this week as the league.
"[The teams] have been placed into a complicated and unprecedented situation while abroad and we believe it would be unfair to ask them to address these matters in real time," according to the statement from the NBA.
CNN anchor Christina Macfarlane was shut down by the Houston Rockets' media officer on Thursday as she tried to ask a question about the standoff with China. The NBA later apologized to Macfarlane.
Activision Blizzard ATVI For American companies, the debate highlights fundamental, philosophical differences. The NBA's initial response to the controversy — it said it recognized the executive's views "have deeply offended many of our friends and fans in China, which is regrettable" — sparked bipartisan condemnation in the United States. Another American company, the video game publisher, was targeted with boycotts this week by western consumers after it banned a Hong Kong player from a competition.
"In the case of American companies, China's actions squeeze them between Chinese demands to conform to their version of reality and Americans' expectations that they will stand for freedom and human rights," Reinsch added. "Not a comfortable place."
Correction: An earlier version of this article mischaracterized Micron's ability to sell some products to Huawei.

Story 26
President Donald Trump greets Sen. Ted Cruz during a campaign rally at the Toyota Center in Houston, Texas, October 22, 2018. SAUL LOEB/Getty Images
Sen. Ted Cruz became the latest in a handful of Republican senators to criticize President Donald Trump for his public call that China investigate former Vice President Joe Biden and his son. “Of course not,” Cruz told Margaret Brennan during an interview on CBS’ Face the Nation, when he was asked whether it were appropriate for Trump to ask Beijing to investigate the Biden family. “Elections in the U.S. should be decided by Americans and it’s not the business of foreign countries, any foreign countries, to be interfering in our elections,” Cruz added.
Brennan went on to ask about Ukraine: “Do you think that the president’s personal attorney Rudy Giuliani who’s been talking about China, who’s been talking about Ukraine, do you want to hear him testify about this sort of shadow foreign policy?” Cruz again reiterated that “foreign countries should stay out of American elections” and it didn’t matter which country. “That’s true for Russia, that’s true for Ukraine, that’s true for China, that’s true for all of them,” Cruz said. “It should be the American people deciding elections. I don’t know what Rudy’s been saying. I do know though that we should decide our elections. It should be the American people making those decisions.”
MARGARET BRENNAN: China's a surveillance state. Is it appropriate for President Trump to be saying China should look into the Biden family? Is that appropriate?

TED CRUZ: Look, of course not. ... It's not the business of any foreign countries to be interfering in our elections. pic.twitter.com/VfxKFqBIR0 — JM Rieger (@RiegerReport) October 13, 2019
Cruz went on to say that “it’d make a lot of sense” for Giuliani to testify before the Senate Judiciary Committee. Even though Sen. Lindsey Graham, the chairman of the committee, is the one who has to decide on that, “I’d like to see Rudy testify, yes,” Cruz said.
Lots of Republican lawmakers have been struggling on how to respond to questions from journalists about whether Trump’s public call for China and Ukraine to investigate Biden and his son. Sens. Ben Sasse, Mitt Romney and Susan Collins were the first Republican senators to speak out against Trump’s call for a foreign government to investigate a political rival. Sen. Rob Portman also criticized the way Trump mentioned Biden in his call with the Ukrainian leader. “The President should not have raised the Biden issue on that call, period,” Portman said, according to the Columbus Dispatch. “It’s not appropriate for a President to engage a foreign government in an investigation of a political opponent.” Portman emphasized though that he doesn’t “view it as an impeachable offense.”

Story 27
Shadow foreign affairs minister says PM makes decisions against the national interest for ‘short-term political gain’
Penny Wong labels Scott Morrison’s warning against negative globalism “disturbingly lightweight” in a speech targeting his handling of foreign affairs and the China relationship.
In a speech to the Australian Institute of International Affairs on Monday Labor’s shadow foreign affairs minister will argue that Morrison makes decisions against the national interest for “short-term political gain”.
In a draft of the speech, seen by Guardian Australian, Wong also takes aim at Morrison for echoing Chinese propaganda by suggesting legitimate questions about the Liberal MP Gladys Liu’s links with China were racist.
Scott Morrison unleashes foreign policy fetish while staying passive on economy | Katharine Murphy Read more
Earlier in October in a major speech to the Lowy Institute after his visit to the US, Morrison declared sovereign nations need to eschew an “unaccountable internationalist bureaucracy” and the world needs to avoid “negative globalism”, an echo of Donald Trump’s speech to the United Nations declaring the future belonged to patriots, not globalists.
On Monday Wong will accuse Morrison of using rhetoric “reminiscent of the right-wing nationalism” in the US to “distract and divert” from a poor record on foreign policy.
Wong will question what Morrison “actually means” given that Australia’s international commitments “have been voluntarily entered into” and assessed as in the national interest.
“Scott Morrison knows the nationalist agenda in the US is an anti-immigration agenda – but it is equally an anti-trade agenda,” she says.
“You can’t be pro-free trade and anti-globalist – and we all need to call Scott Morrison’s bluff on this.
“Even if Scott Morrison seeks to follow President Trump in closing Australia to immigration, he can never close Australia to trade.”
Wong describes Morrison as “the best political tactician in Australia right now” but argues he “hasn’t delivered anything of substance, because that’s not who he is”.
When Labor pursued Liu in parliament questioning whether she had inappropriate links with the Chinese Communist party, Morrison dismissed the questions as “grubby smear”.
Wong quotes a number of commentators who suggested Morrison had “done Beijing’s work for it” because the Chinese government often deflects criticism or scrutiny of alleged foreign interference with claims of racism.
Wong accuses Morrison of having being similarly reckless in the handling of the relationship with China when he declared China was a developed country while in the US after attending a Trump rally.
“This gave unnecessary fuel to the Chinese government’s narrative that Australia just follows the United States; that when we make decisions that China doesn’t like – on 5G or the South China Sea for example – we do so only because we have been asked to by the US.”
Wong argues that Australia must deal with strategic competition between the US and China and major global disruption but the Morrison government has “no plan”.
The Lowy speech was “a disturbingly lightweight speech for the prime minister of a third term government” which “laid out no pathway on strategic competition – not one new idea, not one solution”, Wong argues.
Wong will say Labor is committed to engage on China in a bipartisan way but notes the government is yet to respond to Labor’s proposal for better parliamentary briefings on the relationship.
Peter Dutton: China accuses home affairs minister of 'shocking' and 'malicious' slur Read more
Wong argues Australia’s national interest is best served by bipartisanship in international engagement but warns “Morrison’s motivations are not the national interest”. “They are short-term political interests.”
Wong argues the international affairs community has a responsibility to call out Morrison for “his willingness to use reckless language and take risky decisions for domestic political gain”.
On Friday the home affairs minister, Peter Dutton, launched a wide-ranging attack on the Chinese Communist party, accusing it of engineering a series of cyber-attacks on Australian targets, stealing intellectual property and muzzling free speech.
China’s government rejected the “irrational accusations”, labelling them “shocking and baseless”.
On Sunday the resources and northern Australia minister, Matt Canavan, defended Dutton’s intervention, telling Sky News he was speaking “the facts of the matter … that our system of government, our philosophy, is inconsistent with communist regimes”.
Canavan noted the government had expressed concerns about the arrest and treatment of Australian citizens in China, their lack of access to legal representation, and treatment of Uighurs in China.

Story 28
Minister says Australia’s issue is with the Communist Party of China, not the Chinese-Australian community
The home affairs minister, Peter Dutton, has launched a wide-ranging attack on the Chinese Communist party, accusing it of engineering a series of cyber-attacks on Australian targets, stealing intellectual property and muzzling free speech.
The comments prompted a sharp rebuke from the Chinese government overnight, with China’s foreign ministry spokesman, Geng Shuang, telling reporters during a press conference that he hoped “Australia will reject the cold war mentality and bias, and work to advance bilateral relations and mutual trust”.
Meanwhile, the Chinese embassy issued a statement saying: “We categorically reject Mr Dutton’s irrational accusations against China, which are shocking and baseless.”
While drawing a clear distinction between “the amazing Chinese diaspora community in Australia” and the Chinese government, Dutton said Australia needed to have a “frank conversation” over China’s global influence, its infrastructure Belt and Road Initiative, expansionism in the South China Sea and growing military and aid presence in the Indo-Pacific.
Dutton’s comments are, by some margin, the strongest criticism of the Chinese government by a serving Australian minister.
The Chinese embassy described Dutton’s comments as “anti-China rhetoric”.
“We strongly condemn his malicious slur on the Communist Party of China, which constitutes an outright provocation to the Chinese people,” the embassy statement said. “Such ridiculous rhetoric severely harms the mutual trust between China and Australia and betrays the common interests of the two peoples.”
Australia's relationship with China in a 'terrible' state after Morrison's US visit, Labor says Read more
Dutton said China’s actions on the global stage often conflicted with Australian values and were incompatible with democratic forms of government.
“We have a very important trading relationship with China, incredibly important, but we’re not going to allow university students to be unduly influenced,” Dutton said. “We’re not going to allow theft of intellectual property and we’re not going to allow our government bodies or non-government bodies to be hacked into.
“Our issue, as I’ve said before, is not with the Chinese people, not with the amazing Chinese diaspora community that we have here in Australia. My issue is with the Communist Party of China and their policies to the extent that they’re inconsistent with our own values.
“In a democracy like ours, we encourage freedom of speech, freedom of expression, thought, and if that’s being impinged, if people are operating outside of the law, then whether they’re from China or from any other country, we have a right to call that out.”
On Saturday, the Australian prime minister, Scott Morrison, downplayed Dutton’s comments.
“I think they just simply reflect the fact that we’re two different countries,” Morrison told reporters in Suva on Saturday during his visit to Fiji. “I think our relationship with China will always remain positive, because it’s focused on the things that we agree on and that benefit each country, not on the areas that I think there are clear differences.”
But Labor backbencher Peter Khalil accused the Morrison government of undermining the relationship with China.
“They’ve botched this relationship,” Khalil told the ABC. “There’s something called diplomacy, diplomatic language. I wish there were more adults in the Coalition party room and government.
“They’re saying these things for domestic political point-scoring, not for Australia’s national interests.”
Relations between the Australian and Chinese governments are strained over a number of long-running issues.
Canberra has protested over Chinese government interference in Australia, particularly in politics and education, while Beijing has been volubly displeased at Australia’s new foreign interference laws, and the banning of Chinese telco Huawei from building any of Australia’s 5G network, citing national security concerns.
Beijing has criticised Australia’s position that China should no longer be recognised as a “developing” country by the World Trade Organisation but rather as a “newly developed” one.
Australia has also spoken out strongly over the continued detention of Australian writer and democracy activist Yang Hengjun, who has been held in Beijing for seven months and potentially faces the death penalty over alleged espionage. Australia strongly suspects his arrest is politically motivated and that there is no evidence to support the charges.
While it has not been confirmed, Australia’s intelligence agencies also believe Chinese hackers were behind attacks on the Australian National University, as well as on political parties, and the Parliament House computer system.
The government has established a taskforce to safeguard Australian universities from foreign interference, after concerns were raised about Chinese academics collaborating on security, surveillance and defence technology-related projects in Australia.
Dutton’s comments on China on Friday came as the Australian prime minister, Scott Morrison, visited Suva for talks with his Fijian counterpart, Frank Bainimarama, the pair greeting each other with a hug.
ANU says blaming China for massive data breach is speculative and 'harmful' Read more
The two prime ministers announced Pacific Islanders living in Australia will be able to bring double the amount of kava – from 2kg to 4kg – into the country under new relaxed regulations. A trial program for the commercial importation of kava – the roots of the kava plant are used to make a bitter, sedative drink that holds strong cultural significance in the Pacific – will begin next year.
Morrison, accompanied by the foreign affairs minister, Marise Payne, and the minister for international development and the Pacific, Alex Hawke, will visit the Black Rock military base, a key regional training hub for police and peacekeepers at the weekend.
Australia is funding the development of Black Rock, having effectively outbid China for the right to contribute to the project.
Morrison drove over the Fiji-China friendship bridge on the way to his meeting with Bainimarama, held nearby to a 30-storey tower being built by Beijing, soon to be the tallest building in the Pacific islands.
During the Pacific Islands Forum in Tuvalu in August, Bainimarama said Australia’s heavy-handed attitude during discussions on climate change was driving Pacific countries towards closer ties with China.
Describing Morrison as “very insulting, very condescending”, Bainimarama said: “China never insults the Pacific.”

Story 29
ON THE MEKONG RIVER — When the Chinese came to the village of Lat Thahae, perched on a muddy bend of a Mekong River tributary, they scrawled a Chinese character on the walls of homes, schools and Buddhist temples.
No one in this isolated hamlet in northern Laos could read what it said. But the character means “demolish” — the fate of hundreds of communities along Asia’s great river reduced to a single foreign word.
This year, a dam will begin transforming this stretch of jagged hills and pristine jungle in one of the world’s most remote countries, part of a broader effort to propel some of Asia’s least-developed economies. It is one of seven Chinese-built hydropower projects on the Nam Ou River.
To make way for the dams, Lat Thahae and dozens more villages are being demolished. A Lat Thahae resident who goes by one name, See, said she was not satisfied with the offer from Sinohydro Corporation, China’s largest builder of dams overseas, to build her a bamboo shack miles away in return for destroying her spacious riverside home.

Story 30
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 31
Comments by the United States' Ambassador to New Zealand critical of Chinese censorship have caused a stir within China's Wellington embassy.
US Ambassador Scott Brown chastised China live on The AM Show on Friday, saying the Chinese Government was attacking freedom of speech, "taking away people's ability to think", and not playing by the rules on the world stage.
The Chinese Embassy has now hit back, telling Newshub that Brown's comments on China are "groundless, irresponsible and distorted".
The US Ambassador's criticism of Chinese censorship came amid a crisis for the North American National Basketball Association (NBA) after the Houston Rockets' general manager, Daryl Morey, tweeted support for protesters in Hong Kong critical of mainland China's influence in the city. That was sharply rebuked by the Chinese Government.

The demonstrations in Hong Kong - which is part of China but with its own leadership - have infuriated Beijing, which has repeatedly criticised pro-democracy protesters as it tries to quell anti-Chinese sentiment and any suggestion that Hong Kong could secede.
An NBA game - which did not feature the Rockets - still went ahead in Shanghai. But in response to Morey's tweet, which has since been deleted, media conferences didn't happen, state television didn't broadcast the fixture, promotional content was scrapped, and Houston Rockets' merchandise was reportedly pulled from stores across the Middle Kingdom.
Brown on Friday called the fallout "absolutely outrageous" and said it was an example of how disagreeing with China led to negative consequences.
But a spokesperson from the Chinese Embassy in New Zealand told Newshub China interacted with the international community with "an open and inclusive mind" and that foreign organisations and people were always welcome in China on the basis of "mutual respect, equality and mutual benefit".
"Whether it is in China, the US or anywhere else, mutual respect is a prerequisite for exchange and cooperation. When one conducts exchange and cooperation with China while having no knowledge of the opinion of the ordinary Chinese people, that will not work," the spokesperson said.
While Brown said many support the Hong Kong demonstrators' ability to protest peacefully, the embassy spokesperson called the protesters violent vandals.
"Radical forces and violent offenders in Hong Kong flagrantly disrupted social order, vandalised public facilities, attacked the police and left a trail of smashed or burned items all over the city," the spokesperson told Newshub.
"These behaviours have gone far beyond the scope of marches or assemblies. They trampled on the bottom line of morality, crossed the bottom line of rule of law, and challenged the bottom line of 'one country, two systems'.
"Ending violence and chaos and restoring order has become the widest consensus and the strongest appeal of all social sectors in Hong Kong."

Story 32
Myron Brilliant, the executive vice president and head of international affairs at the Chamber of Commerce, said that a more comprehensive pact could still be announced but that the scope of the deal would depend on what Chinese negotiators offered. The Trump administration could also contemplate removing the threat of additional tariffs that are scheduled to be imposed in December or roll back some of the tariffs it has already levied on more than $360 billion of Chinese goods based on what the Chinese negotiating team offers, he said.
There have been some recent signs of accommodation between the two countries in recent weeks. China has resumed purchases of American agricultural goods. And in what is likely to be viewed as a gesture of good will by the Chinese, the Trump administration plans to approve licenses soon that will allow some companies to sell nonsensitive goods to the Chinese telecom provider Huawei, which has been blacklisted from buying American products.
But China has resisted many of the administration’s demands to make more transformative changes to the way it runs its economy. Chinese officials appear unlikely to agree to the administration’s longstanding demands that Beijing limit its subsidies to Chinese firms, change its policies surrounding the treatment of data or make other structural changes, people familiar with the negotiations said.
The potential for such a limited agreement has fueled private deliberations within the White House on options for escalating economic pressure on China.
Officials have held meetings in recent weeks to consider options if the current round of negotiations fails to address the administration’s primary concerns. Mr. Trump’s top economic advisers have publicly played down the discussions, which have centered on tightening scrutiny of Chinese companies listed on American stock exchanges and limiting the direct exposure of government-run retirement funds to China.
Larry Kudlow, the director of the National Economic Council, acknowledged on Tuesday that the administration was looking for ways to protect Americans who were investing in Chinese companies.
“We’ve opened up a study group to take a look at it,” Mr. Kudlow said on the Fox Business Network.
But the options under consideration go further than that. According to a memo circulated within the White House and reviewed by The New York Times, the administration is studying a menu of actions that, if carried out, would most likely rattle the Chinese government.

Story 33
We are now seeing China’s clear effort to influence American businesses.
China’s aggressive response to the National Basketball Association after one of its members expressed support of democracy in Hong Kong is yet another reminder that the Chinese Communist Party is a totalitarian dictatorship that wants to lessen freedom and bolster its own influence across the globe.
In fact, the NBA is just the latest American organization China has sought to bully into following its party line by weaponizing China’s massive market share.
As I discuss in my upcoming book, "Trump vs. China: Facing America’s Greatest Threat," the Chinese Communist Party has used similar economic tactics with American communication companies, Hollywood and other U.S. industries.
TUCKER CARLSON: 'WOKE' NBA SHOWS THAT CHINA'S FASCISM IS GOOD FOR BUSINESS AND BAD FOR OUR FREEDOM
However, this just one of the ways China has been using (or misusing) economics to weaken its rivals and strengthen itself. On this week’s episode of “Newt’s World,” I discuss what we are calling China’s con game.
For years, Chinese companies – which are traded on U.S. stock exchanges – have been inflating (or completely falsifying) their valuations to entice U.S. investment. I spoke with one guest who described a supposed factory in China that would only turn on the lights when investors came to inspect it.
In another example, a supposedly massive factory operating in China was found to only have 40 employees. The result has been that U.S. investors have poured many millions of dollars into these Chinese companies only to have the businesses turn out to be completely phony – leaving investors out of luck with almost no recourse.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE OPINION NEWSLETTER
While these companies are traded on U.S. exchanges, many are able to conceal their financials – and ignore other transparency rules that would foil their schemes.
This is not a small number of companies. One of my guests, Dan David – who risked jail to investigate the companies in China – found that 30 out of 30 companies he first investigated were complete shams. The CEOs of these companies would simply keep all the investment capital and keep the scams going as long as they could. Since they are in China, there is no real consequence for stealing from American citizens.
This isn’t simply hotshot investors who are losing their money. Since these companies are traded on U.S. markets, many are included in mutual funds, 401k plans, and other retirement packages held by ordinary Americans.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
In many cases, the large banks that are trading these stocks aren’t concerned about the legitimacy of the companies – so long as they keep money flowing. And my guests told me government agencies were all but powerless to stop the thefts.
It was a tremendously eye-opening conversation for me, and I hope you will listen this week and learn about China’s con game.
CLICK HERE TO READ MORE FROM NEWT GINGRICH

Story 34
A China Telecom Corp. communications truck stands in a parking lot at the MWC Shanghai exhibition in Shanghai, China, on Thursday, June 27, 2019. Photographer: Qilai Shen/Bloomberg © 2019 Bloomberg Finance LP
China Telecom is a telecommunications company that provides wireless and wireline based voice and data services and related applications across Mainland China. The company has 4 operating segments (1) Mobile Services & Phones: provides wireless and data services across Mainland China. The segment also sells mobile handsets. (2)Landline Phone Services: provides landline voice services and Information and Communications Technology related services. (3) Broadband Internet: this segment provides wireline broadband Internet services in China (4) Business lines: provides managed data services as well as Optic fiber, circuits, VPN, and bandwidth which are leased out by the company. In this analysis, we break down the key drivers of the company’s revenues.
View our interactive dashboard analysis on China Telecom Revenues: How Does China Telecom Make Money?
China Telecom’s Total Revenue has grown 7.5% from $53 billion in 2016 to almost $57 billion in 2018 and is expected to grow 12% to around $64 billion in 2 years
Trefis
Revenue growth of about $7 billion over two years to be driven by:
$5 billion increase in Mobile Services & Phones, and
$1 billion increase each in the Landline and Broadband division.


Revenue from Mobile Services & Phones to increase 16% (about $4.7 billion) in the next two years, with its share of Total Revenue expected to be about 51% by 2020
Segment revenues grew from $26 billion in 2016 to $28 billion in 2018, driven by a higher number of wireless subscribers, although this was partly offset by falling ARPUs.
We expect revenues to grow to about $33 billion in 2020, driven by further growth in the number of subscribers as well as slightly higher ARPUs.


Revenue from Landline Phones & Services to increase 8% (about $1 billion) in the next two years, with its share of Total Revenue expected to be about 24% by 2020
Segment revenues grew from $12.7 billion in 2016 to $14.1 billion in 2018, driven by higher revenues from its Information and Communications Technology services, while Landline services revenues declined.
We expect revenues to grow to about $15 billion in 2020, driven by further growth in ICT operations.
Revenue from Broadband Internet to increase 12% (about $1.4 billion) in the next two years, with its share of Total Revenue expected to be about 19% by 2020
Broadband revenues declined from $11.5 billion in 2016 to $11.2 billion in 2018, driven by a significant decline in average monthly revenues per user amid higher competition from rivals such as China Mobile.
We expect revenues to grow to about $12.6 billion in 2020, driven by stabilizing ARPUs and a growing subscriber base.
What’s behind Trefis? See How It’s Powering New Collaboration and What-Ifs For CFOs and Finance Teams| Product, R&D, and Marketing Teams More Trefis Data Like our charts? Explore example interactive dashboards and create your own

Story 35
Become an FT subscriber to read:
Leverage our market expertise
Expert insights, analysis and smart data help you cut through the noise to spot trends, risks and opportunities.
Join over 300,000 Finance professionals who already subscribe to the FT.

Story 36
The People’s Republic of China is the largest, most powerful and arguably most brutal totalitarian state in the world. It denies basic human rights to all of its nearly 1.4 billion citizens. There is no freedom of speech, thought, assembly, religion, movement or any semblance of political liberty in China. Under Xi Jinping, “president for life,” the Communist Party of China has built the most technologically sophisticated repression machine the world has ever seen. In Xinjiang, in Western China, the government is using technology to mount a cultural genocide against the Muslim Uighur minority that is even more total than the one it carried out in Tibet. Human rights experts say that more than a million people are being held in detention camps in Xinjiang, two million more are in forced “re-education,” and everyone else is invasively surveilled via ubiquitous cameras, artificial intelligence and other high-tech means.
None of this is a secret. Under Xi, China has grown markedly more Orwellian; not only is it stamping its heel more firmly on its own citizens, but it is also exporting its digital shackles to authoritarians the world over. Yet unlike the way we once talked about pariah nations — say East Germany or North Korea or apartheid South Africa — American and European lawmakers, Western media and the world’s largest corporations rarely treat China as what it plainly is: a growing and existential threat to human freedom across the world.
Why do we give China a pass? In a word: capitalism . Because for 40 years, the West’s relationship with China has been governed by a strategic error the dimensions of which are only now coming into horrific view.
[Farhad Manjoo answered your questions about this column on Twitter.]
A parade of American presidents on the left and the right argued that by cultivating China as a market — hastening its economic growth and technological sophistication while bringing our own companies a billion new workers and customers — we would inevitably loosen the regime’s hold on its people. Even Donald Trump, who made bashing China a theme of his campaign, sees the country mainly through the lens of markets. He’ll eagerly prosecute a pointless trade war against China, but when it comes to the millions in Hong Kong who are protesting China’s creeping despotism over their territory, Trump prefers to stay mum.

Story 37
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 38
"We too love money more than freedom and democracy,” their statement reads. “Xi doesn’t look just like Winnie the Pooh at all. Tune into our 300th episode this Wednesday at 10! Long live the Great Communist Party of China! May this autumn’s sorghum harvest be bountiful! We good now China?”

Story 39
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 40
Image copyright EPHE
Until 2017, Tashpolat Tiyip was a model academic, head of Xinjiang University, globally connected, and with an honorary degree from a prestigious Paris university.
But that year, without warning, he disappeared, with no word from officials. His friends believe that after a secret trial, Prof Tiyip was convicted of separatism and sentenced to death.
Prof Tiyip is a Muslim Uighur, and rights groups say he was caught up in a wider persecution of Uighur intellectuals as China tackles what it says is a separatist, terrorist threat.
"There are hundreds of Uighur academics and professionals swept up into this mass internment campaign," Michael Caster, a researcher and author of The People's Republic of the Disappeared, told the BBC.
"This is targeting community, cultural, and intellectual leaders; it is tantamount to cultural genocide."
Fellow academics fear that if he is still alive and detained, Prof Tayip faces imminent execution.
Who is Tashpolat Tiyip?
Until his disappearance, Tashpolat Tiyip was an esteemed professor of geography at Xinjiang University, which like all Chinese universities is an official state institution.
A member of the local Uighur community in Xinjiang, he had studied geography in his home province, and after a stint in Japan, returned home to his alma mater to teach.
Skip Twitter post by @KenRoth Uighur scholar and university president Tashpolat Tiyip (left, pictured with his brother) faces possible execution for supposedly trying to split Xinjiang from China. He is one of more than one million Uighur Muslims arbitrarily detained for reeducation. https://t.co/AorcgOLBZw pic.twitter.com/isouCTU3zc — Kenneth Roth (@KenRoth) September 30, 2019 Report
He'd been active in international academic circles - receiving a title from France's Ecole Pratique des Hautes Etudes - and was part of a tight-knit international network of scholars in his field.
He was also a member of the Chinese Communist Party and in 2010, he became president of Xinjiang University, a position he held until his disappearance.
How did he disappear?
The proceedings against Prof Tiyip were shrouded in secrecy and there's no official record of what happened to him.
Image copyright Handout Image caption Mr Tiyip (left) with fellow academics Arslan Abdulla and Rahile Dawut who have also disappeared
Friends say that in 2017, he was on his way to Europe for a conference and to launch a co-operation with a German university. But at Beijing airport he was stopped and told he had to return to Xinjiang's capital Urumqi. That's where the trail ends, a former colleague of the professor told the BBC from the US.
He never returned home and his friends and relatives were soon questioned over corruption allegations around him.
Eventually, the family heard news he had been convicted of separatism and had received the death penalty, the former colleague explains - but China has never confirmed anything about his case.
Working as a researcher in the US, she is herself a Uighur originally from Xinjiang and asked to remain anonymous so as not to endanger her own friends and family back home.
China's hidden camps
She says the crackdown has created an atmosphere of horror where "everyone feel like they're being watched all the time".
"There is a huge sense of fear - people tell me they sleep in their clothes because no-one knows whether at night they might be taken away.
"A friend has described it to me as China waging a war of fear. And that friend has also disappeared since then."
Where is Tashpolat Tiyip now?
UN experts and rights groups say China is holding about one million Uighurs and other Muslims and minorities in detention camps.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The BBC meets Uighurs in Turkey who say their children are missing in China
China doesn't deny the massive operation, but says it is preventing terrorism and separatism by providing education to those detained, helping them to better integrate into mainstream Chinese society.
Prof Tiyip's friends say contacting loved ones in Xinjiang is difficult and only possible with code words to avoid alerting the authorities, who monitor communications. There are reports of people being detained for even having WhatsApp on their phone.
"When we talk to them, we can't use his name," the former colleague explains. "For instance we have to ask how the patient is, whether the doctors already gave a diagnosis, or whether he's been released from hospital."
"That's the only way that relatives can tell us anything."
Mr Tiyip's family believe he is still alive. They have also heard that he and other academics convicted of alleged separatism are used as scare examples in propaganda videos shown in detention centres.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The BBC visits the camps where China’s Muslims have their "thoughts transformed"
Mr Caster says the pattern of vanishing into a secret justice system is typical.
"The Chinese State does not want people to know about him and his ongoing incommunicado detention fits the textbook definition of an enforced disappearance."
What's been the reaction?
Since the disappearance of Mr Tiyip, supporters have again and again tried to draw attention to his case.
They believe he was given a two-year suspended death sentence - if so that period would now be ending and amid the uncertainty there are new efforts to rally support.
Image copyright EPHE Image caption In 2008, Professor Tiyip received international accolades at France's EPHE university
Earlier this month, the American Association of Geographers (AAG) called for his release in a letter signed by more than 1,300 academics from around the world.
"Tashpolat Tiyip's arrest, detention and death sentence is a devastating threat to intellectual and scientific freedom in China and around the globe," according to Dr Gary Langham of the AAG.
The French university that had awarded the honorary degree also EPHE also urged for the release of Mr Tiyip, warning that it was part of a "wave of Chinese repression that few people in Europe know about".
Rights group Amnesty International in September described the trial as "secret and grossly unfair" and has called for urgent action to urge China to release them.
Scholars at Risk has also released a statement, urging China to "immediately intervene" to halt the execution and "secure his unconditional release".
The group warns that "in addition to the harm to Dr Tiyip and his family, such incidents have a chilling effect on academic freedom and suggest an attempt to undermine academic communities and limit free expression".
Last year, Pen America condemned the detention of the academic along with several other Uighur writers as "an outrageous abdication of the rule of law, and a clear demonstration of the government's broad-scale attack on Uyghur intellectual life under the guise of preventing 'separatism'".
"The fact that several prominent Uyghur intellectuals have disappeared only to re-emerge months later, sentenced to death or to life imprisonment, tells you all you need to know about the state of free expression in Xinjiang today," Summer Lopez, senior director of Free Expression Programs at Pen America, said.
Is Prof Tiyip the only one?
A wave of academics have vanished in China's Xinjiang province. Among the first high profile arrests was economist Ilham Tohti who was convicted of separatism and sentenced to life in prison in 2014.
Image copyright AFP Image caption Ilham Tohti was awarded the Vaclaw Havel Prize while in prison in China
Mr Tohti had been a moderate critic of Beijing's policies towards Uighurs, questioning the government's role in persistent violent confrontations between Uighurs and the dominant Han Chinese.
Last month, he was awarded the Council of Europe's Vaclaw Havel Prize for human rights.
Another example is anthropologist Rahile Dawut, also of Xinjiang University.
Like Mr Tiyip, she'd long been praised by Chinese authorities as a model academic, applauded for their integration within the Chinese and global academic context.
Ms Dawut disappeared in late 2017 and has not been heard of since. Efforts to understand what happened to her or what she might have been charged with, have been futile.

Story 41
Ronnie O'Sullivan anticipates paring down his tournament appearances in the United Kingdom as he would prefer to devote the overwhelming majority of his schedule to competing in China.
O'Sullivan, who sidestepped questions about whether he will defend his UK Championship title next month, started his season by winning the Shanghai Masters for a third successive year.
The invitation-only event features many of the world's best players and lasts for only a week, which clearly appeals to the five-time world champion.
He told the PA news agency: "I like the city, I like the promoters and I just enjoy that sort of format; just 16 top players so every match feels like a final. I enjoy those events more than some of the other ones.
"I'll probably play more of the China events now because they're the big events and I really enjoy travelling to the place.
"I can't do it all so as long as I qualify for the China events, 80% of my tournaments are probably there, and I'll probably play the odd few in the UK."
O'Sullivan is set to feature in the English Open in Crawley this week but when asked whether he will be at any of the Triple Crown events - the UK Championship, Masters and World Championship - he was coy.
He added: "I really haven't scheduled what I'm going to play in at the moment. I'll decide nearer the time.
"I'd love to play a full schedule but I just couldn't do it, I'd never be at home and I'd be living out of a suitcase.
"Sometimes you have to look at the end of it and think 'is the prize worth the effort?' For me, it's not so I choose to play minimum events because it's something for me to do.
"If I win a tournament then great but if I don't then it's no big deal. I think it's more important that I enjoy and have a balanced schedule."
O'Sullivan's success in Shanghai ensured the continuation of a staggering record in which he has won at least one title in every season since 1993/94.
The 43-year-old - speaking to promote 'Ronnie O'Sullivan's American Hustle', which premieres on Blaze next month - thinks he could go on playing for a decade or even longer, as long as he remains near the top of his profession.
The world number two said: "With me now, it's just about playing as much as I can, just enjoying what's left of my career. How long that is, I don't know. It could be five years, it could be 10 years, it could be 15 years.
"I've kind of surprised myself, really, so I've stopped trying to have a plan and just accept that every year is a bonus.
"If I didn't feel like I could win tournaments, I would probably stop because I haven't got to that point yet where I'm happy to lose.
"There's going to come a time where I might get on the start line and think I'm maybe 10th favourite to win a tournament, where I'm relying on nine people to get beat for me to win a tournament.
"Maybe that would be the time where I probably think about turning it in. But at the moment, I don't see it that way.
"There are a few of us at the top that are sharing victories so as long as every time I've got my hat in the ring, I've got half a chance then I'll keep going."

Story 42
China is a very large country, inhabited by many Chinese. Looking back it seems fair to say Charles de Gaulle was probably right in this assessment, not to say prophetic. In the intervening years China has become even larger. It is inhabited by even more Chinese.
To the outsider this vastness can seem a little dizzying. This is the last great wilderness once humans have killed off the rest of them: other humans. China has more than one hundred cities with more than a million inhabitants, cities with their own traditions, infrastructure, hierarchies, artisan coffee stall scenes and endless, unknowable inner lives. China has 250 million pensioners. Imagine four United Kingdoms occupied entirely by old people. Imagine four Brexits. That’s how many people there are in China.
And yet it seems this still isn’t quite enough. Not when it comes to World Cup qualifying and the fevered dreams of Xi Jinping-era Chinese football. As of this month it is necessary to add a plus-one to the 1.4 billion population in the shape of former Everton and England Under-21 defender Tyias Browning, who is now a Chinese citizen, and even has a Chinese name: Jiang Guangtai.
Browning signed for Guangzhou Evergrande in February after spells at Sunderland, Preston and Wigan. Six months later he is officially Chinese. Although not yet Chinese enough – according to reports in the Chinese-English media – for his legal team to convince Fifa he has the right to take part in this week’s round of AFC Group A World Cup qualifiers.
‘A lot of work to be done’: Southgate says England’s Czech defeat is wake-up call Read more
When full clearance arrives Browning will have a fair chance of lining up in China’s central defence behind another familiar face. Nico Yennaris did play for China against Guam this week. In July, Yennaris, formerly of Arsenal and the England age groups, became the first naturalised player for the world’s most populous nation. He also has a Chinese name: Li Ke.
There is a serendipity to all this. Fancy seeing you here old boy! Eight years ago Jiang Guangtai and Li Ke played on opposite sides as Arsenal reserves beat Everton reserves 4-1 at London Colney, a match also notable for the fact Shkodran Mustafi was in the Everton defence, albeit with a scoreline made slightly less notable by the fact Shkodran Mustafi was in the Everton defence.
Five years ago Browning was on the bench next to Harry Kane as a Gareth Southgate England Under-21 team played Wales in a Euro qualifier. Fast forward another three and he could yet end up marking Kane at the Qatar World Cup. It is a possibility that has moved closer with the upsurge in China’s fortunes since the decision to redefine what being a Chinese footballer actually means.
Facebook Twitter Pinterest Tyias Browning in action for Guangzhou Evergrande against Melbourne Victory in April. Photograph: Daniel Pockett/EPA-EFE
It should be said Yennaris and Browning have a Chinese family link: Browning through his grandfather; and Yennaris, who was born in Hackney, London, through his mother. But they also appear to be the exceptions in this vanguard.
Elkeson, a 30-year-old Brazilian from Maranhão, also played for China as they thrashed the island of Guam 7-0. Rumour has it Ricardo Goulart, another journeyman Brazilian, could soon be naturalised. Even Alex Teixeira, perpetually Premier League-linked, could be considered for naturalisation from 2021, just in time for Qatar.
The obvious question is: does any of this matter? Football careers are an adventure, journeys without maps. Yennaris and Browning have family ties. Elkeson wrapped himself in the Chinese flag and wept in front of his parents in the stands after his debut against the Maldives last month. Good luck to them all – enjoy the ride.
But it does raise some interesting questions. Questions such as, what is international sport for? This is not a test of genes. It’s not supposed to be about soft power or reflecting glory on political egomaniacs. The only logical purpose is a test of systems, a way of seeing how well, how efficiently, each country has arranged its resources, of learning from one another for the wider public good, working out what works, what doesn’t work, refining the system.
Gareth Southgate’s misfiring England lose control in haunting defeat | Barney Ronay Read more
When other forces start to blur these boundaries it can skew the picture. Under this logic Owen Hargreaves was not really an English footballer because he didn’t learn any of his football there. Whereas Tammy Abraham, for example, is English, his sporting skill-set forged in English football, a reflection of good choices made somewhere along the way.
China seemed to get this, to see its huge investment in football as a chance also to improve the lives of its citizens, albeit in slightly mind-boggling, group-think fashion. Xi wants China to win the World Cup. He also wants to transform its population, with billions poured into football facilities in every school, academy programmes for all, and additional taxes on overseas players filling the professional leagues.
Communism! But take a step back, these are all brilliant ideas, not least when compared with the UK’s lack of public facilities, the abandonment of the population to ill-health and obesity. Bring it on. Bring on the centrally funded means of football production.
Except it hasn’t quite worked out. China failed to qualify for Russia 2018 and something seemed to shift. The employment of Marcello Lippi as national team manager on $28m a year was a bit of an eyeroll-emoji moment. And yet in a way the pragmatism and fudged principles are much more authentically football, closer to the real world, the hunger for victory at any cost that so often leads to defeat and frustration at any cost.
Stockpile your Brazilians. Thrash Guam and wildly overcelebrate before your inevitable elimination some time next year. This is all a part of football’s brilliance, its refusal to bend, the sense of something untamed and doggedly defiant that still lies beneath the corporate layers. Welcome on board, China. Just remember it doesn’t get any easier from here.

Story 43
Phil Taylor is a contributing writer for The Athletic. He is a former Sports Illustrated senior writer and columnist. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his own.
It is not exactly news that in order to tap into certain international markets, US businesses often choose to turn a blind eye to the policies of foreign governments that are not in line with American values. US companies tend to choose profits over ideals.
The National Basketball Association was doing exactly that in China, where it has profited from the burgeoning Asian interest in professional basketball to the tune of $4 billion while ignoring the Communist government's human rights issues. But the dynamics of the NBA-China business partnership changed last Sunday, when Houston Rockets general manager Daryl Morey tweeted support for Hong Kong protestors
"Fight for freedom. Stand with Hong Kong," Morey tweeted, triggering backlash from the Chinese government.
Within hours Morey's boss, Rockets owner Tilman Fertitta, responded:
Listen.... @dmorey does NOT speak for the @HoustonRockets . Our presence in Tokyo is all about the promotion of the @NBA internationally and we are NOT a political organization. @espn https://t.co/yNyQFtwTTi
That didn't stop Tencent, which has a five-year streaming deal with the NBA in China worth $1.5 billion , from announcing that it would not air Rockets games until further notice. Chinese online stores pulled Rockets merchandise from their websites, and the Chinese Basketball Association, headed by national icon and former Rockets star Yao Ming, announced it was suspending cooperation with the team.
Other American businesses with foreign interests are undoubtedly watching the NBA's difficulties with interest, realizing that doing business with an authoritative regime can be like walking through a minefield. Taking issue with the policies of such a government, even in a relatively innocuous way like Morey's tweet, can have severe financial repercussions. The Rockets' GM, after all, is hardly an internationally well-known figure, and his stance on the Hong Kong protests would not have done any real damage to the Chinese government. If China reacted so strongly to Morey's comment, imagine the wrath LeBron James or one of the NBA's other world-famous players would have received if they had expressed support for the protestors.
The NBA isn't the first company to run afoul of China. Versace and Gap have also apologized in recent months over products that inadvertently questioned Chinese sovereignty. But other companies haven't fostered as much of a reputation for speaking out on social issues and standing up for human rights as the NBA has.
This is a league that forced Los Angeles Clippers owner Donald Sterling to sell his team five years ago after several of his racist comments came to light. James and other NBA stars have spoken out about criminal injustice reform and the NFL's treatment of Colin Kaepernick. Coaches Steve Kerr and Gregg Popovich have made their feelings known about US immigration policy and gun regulation. The league has been praised for its willingness to allow players and coaches to take political stances without fear of being silenced by NBA commissioner Adam Silver or team owners.
It's that reputation that has made the China situation more complicated for the NBA. How does the league walk the fine line between not offending a major partner and allowing its employees the freedom to express themselves publicly? The answer so far has been -- awkwardly.
After the Rockets distanced themselves from Morey's tweet, he deleted it and apologized. Silver released what amounted to an apology, but specified that the league would not discipline Morey. After media criticism alleged Silver was capitulating to China, he issued a statement on Tuesday that defended Morey more strongly.
Other companies who do business in China may have to bend over backwards to avoid offending the Chinese, but they don't have to then twist themselves into a pretzel trying to reconcile that position with their public stance on freedom of expression and social justice. Tapping into the Chinese market requires a certain selling of the corporate soul, but other US businesses are surely grateful that their decision to do so isn't quite as glaring as the NBA's.

Story 44
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 45
The US flag flies over a container ship unloading it's cargo from Asia, at the Port of Long Beach, California on August 1, 2019. - President Donald Trump announced August 1 that he will hit China with punitive tariffs on another $300 billion in AFP/Getty Images
In the trade negotiations with China, America doesn’t seem to have a clear direction of what it wants to accomplish in the end.
“A big part of the problem with the U.S. China trade negotiations is that there are multiple agendas inside the Trump administration,” says Ted Bauman, senior analyst and economist at Banyan Hill Publishing. “The hawkish groups want to try to isolate China and force it to change its political and economic systems. The pragmatists just want to eliminate barriers to free trade and to get the Chinese to stop stealing intellectual property and subsidizing their exporters.”
What about Main Street America? “More broadly, I don't think “America” is all that interested in changing the Chinese system — simply because there are different interest groups involved,” Bauman says.
But America wants to remind China who is “number one,” according to Deric Scott, senior analyst and Vice President of Metals.com.
“The US has the advantage of being the global reserve currency with the most gold reserves and the most formidable military,” he says. “As China seeks to bill itself as the next great superpower, the US seems determined to remind them that they are still number two, which to many respects, points to this trade war not coming to a full resolution regardless of who is in the White House in 2020.”
What is it that Americans want to see change in the relations between the two countries?
“Many individual Americans are unhappy with China and would like to see a change,” he says. “But our economic relationship with China has been very profitable to certain sectors of the U.S. economy, especially Wall Street. As we've seen with the craven behavior of the NBA and the U.S. entertainment industry, much of American business is perfectly happy to jettison the foundational ideals of the United States itself as long as they can keep profiting from the China trade.”
The lack of clear direction of what the American side wants from China gives Beijing an upper hand in trade negotiations.
And that could explain why they are winning the game thus far, as evidenced by the most recent reports coming out from Washington. “Reports that the White House is prepared to sign on to a limited trade deal suggest that the Chinese have achieved a comprehensive victory in the trade war,” says Bauman.
Why is this deal a win for China? Because it’s the “limited” deal Beijing wanted all along. A tariff relief in exchange of some agriculture exports, without addressing any broader issues.
“All this deal is going to achieve is some agricultural import concessions in exchange for tariff relief from the U.S. side,” he says. “That doesn't achieve any of the goals that the U.S. set when it started this conflict in the first place. It just takes us back to an earlier status quo.”

Story 46
The U.S. and China took an initial step to cement a trade agreement that had been derailed, with Washington saying on Friday it would shelve a planned increase in tariffs on goods imported from China, while Beijing would increase purchases of U.S. agricultural products.
The two sides left many details to be worked out in the weeks or months ahead on tough issues including China’s enforcement of intellectual property rules, U.S. access to Chinese markets, Chinese government support for state-owned enterprises, and the fate...

Story 47
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Protests calling for Uighur freedom have been happening all year
The US has said it will impose visa restrictions on Chinese officials accused of involvement in repression of Muslim populations.
It follows the decision on Monday to blacklist 28 Chinese organisations linked by the US to allegations of abuse in the Xinjiang region.
US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said the Chinese government had instituted "a highly repressive campaign".
China has dismissed the allegations as groundless.
In a statement, Mr Pompeo accused the Chinese government of a string of abuses against Uighurs, ethnic Kazakhs, Kyrgyz Muslims and other minority Muslim groups.
These included "mass detentions in internment camps; pervasive, high-tech surveillance; draconian controls on expressions of cultural and religious identities; and coercion of individuals to return from abroad to an often perilous fate in China".
China has rebuffed the US moves.
"There is no such thing as these so-called 'human rights issues' as claimed by the United States," foreign ministry spokesman Geng Shuang said on Monday.
"These accusations are nothing more than an excuse for the United States to deliberately interfere in China's internal affairs."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The BBC visits the camps where China’s Muslims have their "thoughts transformed"
Visa restrictions are to be imposed on Chinese government and Communist Party officials, as well as their family members.
"The United States calls on the People's Republic of China to immediately end its campaign of repression in Xinjiang, release all those arbitrarily detained, and cease efforts to coerce members of Chinese Muslim minority groups residing abroad to return to China to face an uncertain fate," the US statement said.
The US and China are currently embroiled in a trade war, and have sent delegations to Washington for a meeting about the tensions later this week.
What is the situation in Xinjiang?
China has been carrying out a massive security operation in Xinjiang, in its far west, in recent years.
Human rights groups and the UN say China has rounded up and detained more than a million Uighurs and other ethnic minorities in vast detention camps, where they are forced to renounce Islam, speak only in Mandarin Chinese and learn obedience to the communist government.
But China says they are attending "vocational training centres" which are giving them jobs and helping them integrate into Chinese society, in the name of preventing terrorism.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The BBC's John Sudworth meets Uighur parents in Turkey who say their children are missing in China
There have been increasingly vocal denunciations from the US and other countries about China's actions in Xinjiang.
Last week, Mr Pompeo alleged that China "demands its citizens worship government, not God" in a press conference in the Vatican.
And in July more than 20 countries at the UN Human Rights Council signed a joint letter criticising China's treatment of the Uighurs and other Muslims.
Who are the Uighurs?
Uighurs are ethnically Turkic Muslims. They make up about 45% of the Xinjiang region's population; 40% are Han Chinese.
China re-established control in 1949 after crushing short-lived state of East Turkestan.
Since then, there has been large-scale immigration of Han Chinese and Uighurs fear erosion of their culture.
Xinjiang is officially designated an autonomous region within China, like Tibet to its south.

Story 48
Early this month, President Trump sent an SOS to China, asking its government to help him find dirt on his political opponents at home. “China should start an investigation” of the Biden family, he said on the White House lawn. China’s ruling Communist Party has for decades denigrated democracy, lest its attractions overwhelm the benefits doled out by the Chinese system, so Trump’s request could have seemed enticing. Beijing might have momentarily enjoyed the prospect of destabilizing the U.S. election and, at the same time, discrediting the American political system more broadly. The Chinese watched with curiosity and admiration as Moscow sowed chaos in Washington with its interference in the 2016 presidential election and its other online efforts. (One Chinese official told me in a moment of candor that Russia’s success prompted them to take a fresh look at what tools they could use to infiltrate politics in places like the Philippines and Taiwan, either to tip the scale in favor of a preferred candidate or to undermine and discredit the democratic process.)
But President Xi Jinping has learned the hard way about the dangers of dealing with Trump and seems to have quickly concluded that helping him would be a risk not worth taking. “China will not interfere in the internal affairs of the U.S., and we trust that the American people will be able to sort out their own problems,” Wang Yi, the foreign minister, said in response to Trump’s request. Based on a range of factors — China’s long-standing principle of noninterference in foreign countries and its repeated frustrations with Trump — Wang seemed to be telling the truth. Faced with a choice between helping to undermine American democracy or angering Trump by rejecting his request, the Chinese chose the latter.
It is hard to pinpoint the moment when the relationship between Trump and Xi soured. Mostly likely it was in May, when a nationalistic debate inside the top Chinese leadership prompted Xi to tear up a draft trade agreement with the United States that had been painstakingly mapped out by his handpicked negotiator. (The White House on Friday announced a partial trade deal that could lead to tariff relief, but it’s less comprehensive than the proposed May agreement, and it doesn’t solve Washington’s core complaints about China.)
There were many stops en route to the U.S.-China rupture: Trump’s tweetstorms attacking China as a currency manipulator and a thief of “Hundreds of Billions of Dollars a year” in intellectual property; his bans, and occasional reversals, on Chinese tech companies such as Huawei; and of course the mutually destructive trade war, which punishes both countries without yet yielding the United States any meaningful edge. Beijing does not believe that it can do business with the U.S. president, let alone strike a permanent, far-reaching trade deal that might restore trust between the two superpowers.
[This trade war will get out of control]
Trump and Xi are, politically speaking, polar opposites. Trump wears his sentiments and desires on his Twitter account, a form of radical transparency, even by the standards of U.S. democracy. Xi, by contrast, rules a party-state that is opaque even by Chinese standards, speaking only in highly controlled settings and delivering barely digestible policy tracts in official media outlets. Trump is a minute-by-minute proposition. Xi leads a country that, while opportunistic, is following a deliberative strategy to acquire greater wealth and reach technological parity with the West.
Joe Biden is the kind of mainstream, professional politician the Chinese are used to dealing with. Xi knows him well. In 2011, a year before Xi’s elevation to head of the Communist Party, Biden traveled to China for extensive talks as part of an effort by the Obama administration to understand the incoming Chinese leader. Even if that mutual history played little role in Beijing’s calculations, the principle of noninterference has traditionally held a totemic status in China. The “Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence,” which have ostensibly guided Chinese foreign policy since the early 1950s, include a stricture against meddling in other countries’ “internal affairs.” State media outlets have maintained a near-blackout, imposed by the propaganda authorities, on Trump’s request to investigate Hunter Biden’s involvement in a local investment fund, another sign that Beijing wants nothing to do with the American president’s antics.
[I employ hundreds of Americans. I’d hire more if not for Trump’s tariffs.]
Trump’s unpredictable methods and blithe willingness to dispense with long-standing taboos (such as those against phoning the president of Taiwan) initially worked well in laying the groundwork for trade negotiations. His tactics threw Beijing off balance. The Chinese liked the old way of doing business, when the two sides mixed public diplomacy with discreet back channels to reach understandings on difficult issues, out of the glare of the media. Henry Kissinger traveled in secret to Beijing in 1971 to set up rapprochement and clear the way for President Richard Nixon to visit. George H.W. Bush sent national security adviser Brent Scowcroft to China on an unannounced trip to try to reopen dialogue with Beijing after the violent 1989 crackdown on demonstrators in Tiananmen Square . More recently, Barack Obama dispatched Tom Donilon, then deputy national security adviser, and Larry Summers, director of the National Economic Council, on a low-key visit to Beijing in 2010 to try to reset relations.
Trump has no interest in back channels; he blasts his Twitter foghorn, no matter what the issue or its sensitivity. He has also been tougher on China than any other president in the modern era. In China, for a while, many scholars extolled Trump as a master strategist for his ability to shape the agenda and bully the Chinese leadership. For Xi, this was especially disruptive. Xi is his nation’s most powerful, ambitious and assertive leader in a generation, someone who is used to riding roughshod over critics in his unapologetic embrace of a bigger role for China in the world.
[Trump has the right strategy on Beijing. As a Chinese dissident, I’d know.]
Like any leader, Xi also has to manage domestic politics. He is the most ideological Chinese leader since Mao Zedong, placing the Communist Party, and himself as its head, at the center of governance and power while sidelining all his rivals. Trump has presented a challenge to his vision of an ever more powerful China. Many senior officials portrayed the U.S. draft trade deal in May as humiliating, a lethal charge in a country with a history of capitulation to foreigners. Faced with mounting condemnation in the Politiburo, Xi abruptly abandoned his chief negotiator, Vice Premier Liu He, and led the nationalist charge against the agreement himself. (Liu also led the tentative deal announced Friday; it’s unclear whether this one will stick.) Xi has also faced heavy internal criticism for his assertive foreign policy, which many Chinese scholars blame for triggering a backlash against Beijing in much of the West.
The reason Chinese leaders decided they see little value in engaging seriously with Trump is that they don’t believe a trade deal would solve their problems with the United States. The two sides might be able to finalize the mini-deal in coming weeks, but Chinese scholars and officials I have spoken to over the past year recognize that any accord will just be a stopover on the way to the next fight.
There are plenty of Chinese hard-liners who don’t want a deal at all. “I hope that the negotiations will break down,” said one of the best-known hard-liners, Dai Xu, a colonel in the People’s Liberation Army, before the May rupture. Hu Xijin, the hawkish editor of the Global Times, the tabloid mouthpiece of the Chinese Communist Party, tweeted that “a trade deal, even if reached, will be limited in actual meaning and could be broken constantly.” As a result, he added, many Chinese “support being tough on the US, giving up any illusion.”
Beijing knows that if Trump loses, the next president might be a more stable interlocutor, though it’s not expecting sudden and miraculous relief. Democratic presidential candidates have broadly criticized Trump’s trade war tactics as counterproductive but have sided with the overall strategy of constraining and punishing China. But even if the Chinese consensus is right — that the two countries’ broad, systemic rivalry is here to stay — Beijing is not that interested in sitting across the table from Trump. Not because officials fear he’ll out-negotiate them. They believe that the United States is not interested in negotiating at all. Instead, Xi is returning the party-state to its communist roots, telling his colleagues that they should be prepared for a decades-long “struggle” with their enemies in the West.
Read more from Outlook:
Follow our updates on Facebook and Twitter.

Story 49
Bloomberg A customer leaves a branch of the BBVA bank in Madrid.
European stocks took a step backward on Monday as traders took more skeptical assessments on the prospect of a U.S.-China trade pact and a deal for Britain to leave the European Union.
After a strong 3% gain last week, the Stoxx Europe 600 SXXP, -0.79% slumped 1.05% to 387.49, with banks including Banco Santander SAN, +3.80% and BBVA BBVA, -2.57% losing ground.
The German DAX DAX, -0.53% declined 0.81% to 12410.88, the French CAC 40 PX1, -0.68% declined 0.94% to 5612.47 and the U.K. FTSE 100 UKX, -0.42% dropped 0.61% to 7202.81.
U.S. stock futures ES00, -0.14% also were lower, after a 320-point surge in the Dow industrials on Friday.
On Friday, U.S. President Donald Trump announced what he called a Phase I agreement that will delay an increase in tariffs, increase Chinese agricultural purchases and address foreign currency levels. Even that agreement is only in principle and not set out in writing.
China characterized what had been agreed to as progress rather than a deal.
“While the partial deal points to possible progress in more challenging elements of U.S.–China trade and commercial relations, we think the risks of a breakdown will rise once talks move on to highly contentious issues,” said analysts at BNP Paribas.
U.K. banks also cooled off after Friday’s rally after European Union negotiators said they would ”intensify” discussions on a mutually agreed pact for Britain to exit from the bloc. After surges of roughly 12% each on Friday, Lloyds Banking Group LLOY, -2.79% fell 3.5% and the Royal Bank of Scotland RBS, -1.79% fell 3.6%.

Story 50
The NBA, which has rarely hesitated to speak out on U.S. political matters in recent years, showed "no spine" this week when faced with an opportunity to denounce China's alleged human rights abuses, Fox Sports Radio host Clay Travis said Friday.
"They have no spine when it comes to what's going on in China," Travis told Fox News host Laura Ingraham on "The Ingraham Angle."
"This is, I believe, the worst week that any pro sports league has had in my life," he added.
LAWMAKERS DUNK ON NBA FOR 'SHAMEFULLY RETREATING' AFTER ROCKETS GM'S CHINA CRITICISM
What started last weekend with a tweet from the Houston Rockets general manager, praising pro-democracy demonstrators in Hong Kong, devolved into a series of what critics viewed as mealy-mouthed statements from several NBA figures as they seemingly looked to avoid angering the communist government in Beijing.
The flap came while two of the league's teams -- the Los Angeles Lakers and Brooklyn Nets -- were in Shanghai for two preseason games and other scheduled events, several of which were ultimately canceled because of the controversy.
On Friday, Travis told Ingraham the NBA has not been afraid to support domestic political movements in the past but has been reticent to criticize China.
He pointed to the NBA having relocated an All-Star Game out of Charlotte, N.C., over the Tarheel State's transgender bathroom law, and liberal-minded coaches like Gregg Popovich of the San Antonio Spurs and Steve Kerr of the Golden State Warriors frequently criticizing President Trump.
Travis claimed Kerr's comments in wake of the China controversy gave the impression that the governments in Washington and Beijing were "basically the same thing."
Speaking to reporters, Kerr was asked about China's alleged abuses and responded that America's own "record" has not come up in China.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
"People in China didn't ask me about people owning AR-15s and mowing each other down in a mall," Kerr said. "The world is a complex place."
Late Friday, President Trump tweeted his reaction to Kerr's recent comments.
"So funny to watch Steve Kerr grovel and pander when asked a simple question about China," the president wrote. "He chocked [sic], and looks weak and pathetic. Don't want him at the White House."
For several days, the NBA's stars and coaches have appeared uncomfortable, unwilling or unable to discuss the pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong and China's mainland human rights abuses. The league's solution seemed to be shutting down discussion altogether.
The league announced Friday it would not hold any media availability events for the rest of its Chinese jaunt, a day after Beijing prohibited any kind of news conference before or after Thursday's preseason game between the Lakers and Nets.
The teams were scheduled to play again in China on Saturday morning, U.S. time, before returning to the U.S.
Fox News' Ryan Gaydos contributed to this report.

Story 51
‘There’s no hope for the rest of us.’ Uyghur scientists swept up in China’s massive detentions
No one outside the Chinese government knows where Tashpolat Tiyip is. No one knows exactly what charges have been filed against him. The only thing that anyone really knows is that in April 2017, as the geographer and former president of Xinjiang University in Ürümqi prepared to fly from Beijing to Berlin for a scientific conference and the launch of a research center, he disappeared without even a phone call to colleagues or family.
Six months later, a Chinese propaganda video emerged saying Tiyip was one of 88 scholars who had “deeply poisoned the minds” of students by approving textbooks with too much content from Uyghur sources—the ethnic group that makes up about half of Xinjiang province’s 24 million people. The video calls Tiyip and three other Uyghurs “two-faced” separatists before announcing their sentence: death, with a 2-year reprieve.
“It just doesn’t make any sense to anybody,” says Gary Langham, executive director of the American Association of Geographers (AAG), which last week sent Chinese president Xi Jinping a letter asking him to halt the execution and release Tiyip unless there is evidence he committed actual crimes. It was signed by more than 1300 researchers from 50 countries. (AAG took action after Amnesty International warned that Tiyip’s execution could be imminent.)
China’s crackdown on mostly-Muslim minorities in the far western province of Xinjiang, which include the Turkic-speaking Uyghurs, Kazakhs, and Kyrgyz, has swept up as many as 1 million people. But Tiyip is one of its best-known victims. Scientific organizations outside of China are trying to help him and other internationally known researchers who have disappeared. But many are moving cautiously, worried about making things worse. And it’s unclear whether, in China’s current political climate, such support from abroad makes any difference.
Since late 2016, China has detained as many as one in 11 Uyghurs in Xinjiang, most in grim re-education camps with barbed wire fences and guard towers. There, they learn party slogans and songs, and study the Chinese language. Government officials say the camps are necessary to crack down on 20 years of “violent terrorism” in the region. But human rights groups say the operation is an attempt to erase Uyghur culture and traditions; some call it “cultural genocide.”
A spokesperson for the Chinese embassy in Washington, D.C., wrote in an email to Science that Tiyip was actually arrested in May 2018 on suspicions of “taking bribes and corruption involving a huge amount of money.” The spokesperson neither confirmed nor denied that Tiyip has been sentenced, but said: “At present, the case is going through the court proceedings.”
Tiyip’s detention came as a surprise to many colleagues because he was an official in the Chinese Communist Party and a “red person,” someone known for carefully following party rules, says a Uyghur social scientist who knows Tiyip and asked not to be identified. Tiyip studied in Japan after getting a bachelor’s degree at Xinjiang University, but in 1992, he returned to his alma mater to teach and study desertification and soil salinization using remote sensing technology. His work on arid ecosystems ecology led to an honorary degree from the École Pratique des Hautes Études, part of the Sorbonne in Paris, in 2008. By 2010, he was the university’s president as well as its deputy party secretary.
“They interviewed him on TV a thousand times,” the social scientist says, usually to showcase Tiyip’s rise from a humble farming background to his prominent position in Uyghur—and Chinese—society. “[They would say] he’s a president, a selfmade man with party support.” Yet that did not protect him, the scientist adds: “If they took [him] … there’s no hope for the rest of us.”
Tiyip was apparently replaced as university president in late March, just a few weeks before his arrest. He disappeared en route to Germany, where he was supposed to attend the launch of a joint center to study underground coal fires, a collaboration between Xinjiang University and the Leibniz Institute for Applied Geophysics in Hanover. Tiyip had championed the center as university president.
Other internationally known researchers have been arrested in the crackdown, including Rahile Dawut, an anthropologist at Xinjiang University who studied regional literature and Uyghur oral traditions; Halmurat Ghopur, an official at the Xinjiang Food and Drug Administration and past president of the Xinjiang Medical College Hospital, who has also been sentenced to death for separatism; and Ilham Tohti, an economist sentenced to life in prison in 2014 on charges of separatism who last month won the Václav Havel Human Rights Prize, an annual award from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe.
The detentions have put international scientific societies in a difficult position, says Clare Robinson, director of advocacy for the New York City–based group Scholars at Risk, which has repeatedly called for Tiyip’s release. AAG is one of several societies that have publicly supported colleagues in Xinjiang. But Robinson says speaking out risks disrupting academic collaborations with China and could lead to visa bans for foreign academics—or put their Chinese colleagues at risk. “You need to pick your public voice carefully,” Robinson says. The private diplomacy of Nobel laureates and university presidents is often more effective, she says. Such behind-the-scenes work is ongoing in Tiyip’s case and others.
Robinson says the mass detentions in Xinjiang province are unconscionable, regardless of who’s affected. But by targeting academics and intellectuals, authorities are robbing Uyghur—and Chinese—society of an important part of its future, she says. “If you remove from your functioning society all of the future scholars, the current scholars, the scientists,” Robinson says, “you’re losing an entire generation of individuals who could contribute to the production of knowledge.”

Story 52
By now, you’ve probably heard about the tweet heard ‘round the world, or at least, the part of the world where Mandarin is spoken. The GM of the Houston Rockets basketball franchise wrote a tweet — since deleted — supporting the democracy protesters that have lit up Hong Kong these past few weeks.
As Eben Novy-Williams of Bloomberg wrote, “Through decades of painstaking deal-making, the NBA created a multibillion-dollar opportunity in China, the world’s second-largest economy. Now a single swiftly deleted tweet has put all that time and money in jeopardy.”
It’s a situation that’s becoming increasingly typical for American companies, technology or not. Apple pulled the Taiwanese flag emoji from keyboards in Hong Kong and Macau this weekend, lest it lose its lucrative, mostly-iPhone market that accounted for $10 billion in revenues in its last quarter. US-headquartered airliners had to change the pulldown options in their checkout flows to avoid mentioning Taiwan last year, lest they lose access to Chinese airspace.
One wonders what kind of a business empire can collapse with a single dropdown menu item?
Or a single emoji?
Or a single tweet?
Businesses are not supposed to be this brittle, but American companies continue to approach the mirage of the Chinese economy as if it is open for the taking, and that the American consumer (and their representatives in Washington) are going to continue to ignore the “authoritarian straddle” these companies have to undertake to appease Beijing while trying to not displease Washington.
Despite all evidence to the contrary that such a straddle is impossible though, they keep on coming.
Just this past week, PayPal announced that it was entering mainland China through its acquisition of GoPay, becoming the first foreign payments provider in the highly-digitalized economy. Over the past year, MSCI, the creator of some of the most important stock indices in the world, has increasingly shifted weight to Chinese stocks, sending billions of dollars to mainland companies.
What is surprising is that this whole rise-and-fall, can-we-get-in-and-stay-in story was already written by Google almost exactly a decade ago. Google worked hard for years to cement itself on the mainland, but following a series of hacks that targeted political dissidents using its Gmail service, Google announced that it was leaving the country in 2010, redirecting users to its Hong Kong search engine.
Since that decision, Google has had very little access to mainland China, nor have any other prominent American tech companies. The one notable exception has been LinkedIn, which has engaged in aggressive censoring of speech in China in order to keep the lights on (although, given the speech I read on LinkedIn, one wonders whether a complete blackout in America wouldn’t do us all a favor).
As much as Google’s executives (and its shareholders) may have wanted to re-enter China though, it seems obvious that the enforced lack of access has ultimately been a godsend for the company’s policy decisions. For a decade, it barely had to handle the authoritarian straddle, and could center itself on individual choice, open access to the internet, and freedom of speech with minor reservations.
Sure, the economic mirage of China continued, and even Google couldn’t maintain its patience, attempting to launch its Project Dragonfly censored Chinese search engine to much outcry, ultimately to shelve it, giving its leadership a bit of a black eye. But Google is now out of the authoritarian straddle once again — and out of harms way. That ultimately is the solution that the NBA needs.
Beijing has its rules. Google, United Airlines, the NBA, and even Apple has no sway over them. Not even tens of billions of dollars of threatened tariffs from the Trump administration have made a dent in any of the CCP’s policies.
Maybe it’s time to take the hint, pack the balls up, and walk home.

Story 53
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 54
Foreign companies will be required to hand over to Beijing more data for scrutiny. Illustration: Lau Ka-kuen

Story 55
China’s state media has accused Apple of endorsing and protecting “rioters” in Hong Kong’s increasingly violent protests by listing an app on its app store that tracks the movement of police in the city.
The condemnation, by the People’s Daily, a Chinese Communist party mouthpiece, appears to be China’s latest move to pressure foreign companies to toe the line after its state TV and Chinese companies cancelled collaboration with the US National Basketball Association over comments by a team official in support of Hong Kong’s protests.
The app HKmap.live, which crowdsources the location of police and anti-government protesters, was approved by Apple on 4 October and went on its App Store a day later, after the company reversed an earlier decision to reject the submission, according to an anonymous developer cited in the South China Morning Post. The app displays hotspots on a map of the city that is continuously updated as users report incidents, hence allowing protesters to avoid police.
The headline of the People’s Daily commentary carried by its official microblog on Wednesday said: “Protecting rioters – Has Apple thought clearly about this?”
It went on to say: “Allowing the ‘poisonous’ app to flourish is a betrayal of the Chinese people’s feelings.”
Silver defends NBA employees' right to free speech as China cancels broadcasts Read more
The HKmap.live is reportedly the most downloaded app under the travel category in the iOS App Store for Hong Kong.
Without specifically naming the app, the People’s Daily commentary said it allowed “Hong Kong rioters to openly commit crime while openly escaping arrests”. It said Apple’s approval of the app made it an “accomplice” in the protests because it “blatantly protects and endorses the rioters”. It questioned what the company’s intentions were.
It also criticised Apple for allowing Glory to Hong Kong – an unofficial anthem frequently sung by protesters during the ongoing anti-government movement – to be available for download in the Apple music store.
In what appears to be a threat to its access to the vast market in China, the commentary said Apple’s “mixing of political, commercial and illegal activities” is “unwise” and “imprudent” and would only “draw more turbulence” for the company.
Apple is the latest foreign company to get into trouble with China over the anti-government protests in Hong Kong, now in their 18th week.
Hong Kong professional gamer banned from tournament over pro-democracy comments Read more
Apart from NBA’s Houston Rockets general manager Daryl Morey’s tweet showing support for protesters, Tiffany & Co has removed a tweet of an advertisement showing a model covering one eye, believed to be a deliberate gesture of solidarity with injured demonstrators. The company said the image was actually created in May, before the protests started.
Apple has not immediately responded to a request for a comment.

Story 56
On Tuesday, the American video game company Blizzard suspended a Hong Kong player and rescinded his prize money after he donned goggles and a respirator — items that have come to symbolize the protests — and called for the liberation of the city in a post-match interview. Blizzard is a subsidiary of Activision Blizzard, which is partly owned by the Chinese com pany Tencen t .
In a statement on Tuesday, Blizzard said the player had violated a competition rule barring any act that “brings you into public disrepute, offends a portion or group of the public, or otherwise damages Blizzard image.”
“While we stand by one’s right to express individual thoughts and opinions, players and other participants that elect to participate in our e-sports competitions must abide by the official competition rules,” the company said.
The political land mines aren’t always easy to see.
The upscale jeweler Tiffany found itself at the center of a social media firestorm on Monday after posting an image of a model covering her eye with her right hand. To many Chinese internet users, the gesture evoked another symbol of the Hong Kong protests: a woman shot in the eye with what protesters say was a police beanbag round, whose image later appeared in countless posters and memes.
The photo posted by Tiffany had been taken in May, before the protests started. But it was a no-win situation for the company, which had already warned investors that it would be hurt by the drop in tourism amid the protests in Hong Kong, its fourth-largest market by sales. Mainland China is a much larger market, and the company has been rapidly expanding its presence there.
The photo “was in no way intended to be a political statement of any kind,” a spokesman for Tiffany said in an emailed statement, after the offending tweet was deleted. “We regret that it may be perceived as such, and in turn have removed the image from our digital and social media channels and will discontinue its use effective immediately.”

Story 57
Key point: America has a range problem.
Last year, Chinese state media reported that a new brigade of Beijing’s most advanced intermediate-range ballistic missile (IRBM) has been “activated.”
The newly commissioned brigade is armed with the Dong Feng-26 (DF-26) IRBM. According to the Diplomat, “Video footage carried in Chinese state media showed at least 22 integrated six-axle DF-26 transporter-erector-launchers along with their crews.” What do we know about this missile?
First, the basics. The Center for Strategic and International Studies’ Missile Threat Project notes that the DF-26 is a road-mobile, two-stage solid-fueled IRBM. The Missie Threat Project cites Chinese sources as saying that the “missile measures 14 m in length, 1.4 m in diameter, and has a launch weight of 20,000 kg.” Notably, the DF-26 is believed to have a range between three and four thousand kilometers. This means it can hold Guam—a major hub of U.S. military operations in the western Pacific—at risk. In fact, as the Missile Threat Project points out, this is China’s first conventionally armed ballistic missile capable of threatening Guam.
China first unveiled the DF-26 during a military parade in September 2015. The missile subsequently participated in a massive strike simulation last year as part of a larger barrage of missiles. The Diplomat reported, citing an unnamed U.S. government source, that the People’s Liberation Army Rocket Force (PLARF) shot off “four DF-26C intermediate-range ballistic missiles (IRBM), ten DF-16A medium-range ballistic missiles, and six CJ-10 land attack cruise missiles in the live fire portion of the exercise.” The drill was a simulation of attacks on U.S. missile-defense systems as well as aircraft on the ground.
Read the original article.

Story 58
WASHINGTON—U.S.-China trade talks kicked off amid expectations that Beijing’s emissaries are ready to offer compromises aimed at getting President Trump to hold off on tariff increases set to take effect next week and in December.
Financial markets rose on prospects of any headway after five months of stalemate, and on the news Mr. Trump would meet on Friday with Chinese Vice Premier Liu He at the White House. Speaking to reporters Thursday evening, the president said, “We had a very, very good negotiation.”
...

Story 59
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 60
SHENZHEN, China -- Saturday's game between the Los Angeles Lakers and Brooklyn Nets is still scheduled to be played to conclude the 2019 China Games. However, the teams involved won't be talking about it.
The Nets' 114-111 victory over the Lakers in Shanghai on Thursday was able to happen only with a stipulation by the Chinese government, mandating that no media availability of any kind be held at the game and that NBA commissioner Adam Silver cancel his pregame news conference.
The league is adopting the same temporary policy for Saturday's game in Shenzhen.
"We have decided not to hold media availability for our teams for the remainder of our trip in China," the NBA announced in a statement Friday. "They have been placed into a complicated and unprecedented situation while abroad and we believe it would be unfair to ask them to address these matters in real time."
The league is making this decision independent of Chinese authorities, sources told ESPN.
The game will not be televised by ESPN2.
"Unfortunately, it was not confirmed that the world feed would be available in time for us to integrate the telecast and implement the contractually required local market blackout," ESPN said in a statement.
Nets and Lakers players are free to comment on the circumstances without NBA retribution, according to a league spokesman. However, this media policy was already discussed with players and representatives from the players' association, according to a league source, so the motivation to operate outside of the league's guidelines is negligible.
Saturday's game will be played approximately 20 miles from Hong Kong, which could cause tensions to rise in relations between the NBA and China, considering that Houston Rockets general manager Daryl Morey's since-deleted tweet supporting Hong Kong protesters sparked the unrest that exists between the sides.

Story 61
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 62
China has financed dozens of major infrastructure projects across Africa, like the Benguela Railway in Angola. Photo: Xinhua

Story 63
Ask Google or Siri: "What is Taiwan?"
"A state", they will answer, "in East Asia".
But earlier in September, it would have been a "province in the People's Republic of China".
For questions of fact, many search engines, digital assistants and phones all point to one place: Wikipedia. And Wikipedia had suddenly changed.
The edit was reversed, but soon made again. And again. It became an editorial tug of war that - as far as the encyclopedia was concerned - caused the state of Taiwan to constantly blink in and out of existence over the course of a single day.
"This year is a very crazy year," sighed Jamie Lin, a board member of Wikimedia Taiwan.
"A lot of Taiwanese Wikipedians have been attacked."
Edit wars
Wikipedia is a movement as much as a website.
Anyone can write or edit entries on Wikipedia, and in almost every country on Earth, communities of "Wikipedians" exist to protect and contribute to it. The largest collection of human knowledge ever amassed, available to everyone online for free, it is arguably the greatest achievement of the digital age. But in the eyes of Lin and her colleagues, it is now under attack.
Image caption Jamie Lin - seen on the left - is one of many Taiwanese Wikipedians concerned about changes being made to the online encylopedia
The edit war over Taiwan was only one of a number that had broken out across Wikipedia's vast, multi-lingual expanse of entries. The Hong Kong protests page had seen 65 changes in the space of a day - largely over questions of language. Were they protesters? Or rioters?
The English entry for the Senkaku islands said they were "islands in East Asia", but earlier this year the Mandarin equivalent had been changed to add "China's inherent territory".
The 1989 Tiananmen Square protests were changed in Mandarin to describe them as "the June 4th incident" to "quell the counter-revolutionary riots". On the English version, the Dalai Lama is a Tibetan refugee. In Mandarin, he is a Chinese exile.
Angry differences of opinion happen all the time on Wikipedia. But to Ms Lin, this was different.
"It's control by the [Chinese] Government" she continued. "That's very terrible."
'Socialist values'
BBC Click's investigation has found almost 1,600 tendentious edits across 22 politically sensitive articles. We cannot verify who made each of these edits, why, or whether they reflect a more widespread practice. However, there are indications that they are not all necessarily organic, nor random.
Both an official and academics from within China have begun to call for both their government and citizens to systematically correct what they argue are serious anti-Chinese biases endemic across Wikipedia. One paper is called Opportunities And Challenges Of China's Foreign Communication in the Wikipedia, and was published in the Journal of Social Sciences this year.
In it, the academics Li-hao Gan and Bin-Ting Weng argue that "due to the influence by foreign media, Wikipedia entries have a large number of prejudiced words against the Chinese government".
They continue: "We must develop a targeted external communication strategy, which includes not only rebuilding a set of external communication discourse systems, but also cultivating influential editors on the wiki platform."
They end with a call to action.
"China urgently needs to encourage and train Chinese netizens to become Wikipedia platform opinion leaders and administrators… [who] can adhere to socialist values and form some core editorial teams."
Shifting perceptions
Another is written by Jie Ding, an official from the China International Publishing Group, an organisation controlled by the Chinese Communist Party. It argues that "there is a lack of systematic ordering and maintenance of contents about China's major political discourse on Wikipedia".
It too urges the importance to "reflect our voices and opinions in the entry, so as to objectively and truly reflect the influence of Chinese path and Chinese thoughts on other countries and history".
"'Telling China's story' is a concept that has gained huge traction over the past couple of years," Lokman Tsui, an assistant professor at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, told BBC Click. "They think that a lot of the perceptions people have of China abroad are really misunderstandings."
To Tsui, an important shift is now happening as China mobilises its system of domestic online control to now extend beyond its borders to confront the perceived misconceptions that exist there. Wikipedia has confronted the problem of vandalism since its beginning. You can see all the edits that are made, vandalism can be rolled back in a second, pages can be locked, and the site is patrolled by a combination of bots and editors.
People have tried to manipulate Wikipedia from the very beginning, and others have worked to stop them for just as long.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Hong Kong's protests are one topic where there has been a back-and-forth over edits to descriptive words
However, much of the activity that Lin described isn't quite vandalism. Some - such as Taiwan's sovereignty - is about asserting one disputed claim above others. Others, subtler still, are about the pruning of language, especially in Mandarin, to make a political point.
Should the Hong Kong protests be considered "against" China? Should you call a community "Taiwanese people of Han descent", or "a subgroup of Han Chinese, native to Taiwan"?
It is over this kind of linguistic territory that many of the fiercest battles rage.
Coordinated strategy?
The attacks are often not to Wikipedia's content, but rather its community of Wikipedians.
"Some have told us that their personal information has been sprayed [released], because they have different thoughts," Lin said.
There have also been death threats directed at Taiwanese Wikipedians. One, on the related public Wikimedia Telegram Channel, read "the policemen will enjoy your mother's forensic report". And elections to administrator positions on Wikipedia, who hold greater powers, have similarly become starkly divided down geopolitical lines.
Attributing online activity to states is often impossible, and there is also no direct, proven link between any of these edits and the Chinese government.
"It's absolutely conceivable," Tsui continued, "that people from the diaspora, patriotic Chinese, are editing these Wikipedia entries. "But to say that is to ignore the larger structural coordinated strategy the government has to manipulate these platforms."
Image caption It has been argued that minor changes to Wikipedia entries can change readers' perceptions
Whilst unattributed, the edits do happen against the backdrop where a number of states, including China, have intensified attempts to systematically manipulate online platforms. They have done so on Twitter and Facebook, and researchers around the world have warned of state-backed online propaganda targeting a range of others.
Compared with almost any other online platform, Wikipedia makes for a tempting, even obvious, target.
"I'm absolutely not surprised," said Heather Ford, a senior lecturer in digital cultures at the University of New South Wales, whose research has focused on the political editing of Wikipedia. I'm surprised it's taken this long actually… It is a prioritised source of facts and knowledge about the world."
Of course, every state cares about its reputation.
"China is the second largest economy in the world and is doing what any other country in this status would seek," said Shirley Ze Yu, a visiting senior fellow at the LSE. "Today China does owe the world a China story told by itself and from a Chinese perspective. I think it's not only Chinese privilege, it's really a responsibility".
Taiwan is itself locked in a messaging war with China, with its own geopolitical points to make and many of the misconceptions may be genuine ones, at least in the eyes of the people who edit them.
So does this amount to telling China's story, or online propaganda?
At least on Wikipedia, the answer depends on where you fall on two very different ideas about what the internet is for. There is the philosophy of open knowledge, open source, volunteer-led communities.
But it may now be confronted by another force: the growing online power of states whose geopolitical struggles to define the truth now extend onto places like Wikipedia that have grown too large, too important, for them to ignore.
* The Chinese Embassy was approached for a comment but we did not receive a reply.

Story 64
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 65
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 66
Has The Trade War Taken A Bite Out Of China's Economy? Yes — But It's Complicated
Enlarge this image toggle caption Jolie Myers/NPR Jolie Myers/NPR
In the industrial city of Dongguan, China, the effects of the trade war on the Chinese economy are measured in idled machinery and empty bar stools.
"One year ago, you probably couldn't even get through the crowd because it would be so busy. But right now, even the smallest vendors can't survive," says Song Guanghui, the owner of Crowdbar, a tricked-out food stall in an open-air market in Dongguan.
The market is across the street from an enormous factory complex that specializes in making shoes. Crowdbar's flashy electric sign, cold beer and bombastic owner used to draw crowds of workers at shift change.
But shoes are among the thousands of products that the Trump administration has slapped double-digit tariffs on since the trade war began in early 2018. Trade talks between the U.S. and China resumed Thursday. But a deal is far from done.
Meanwhile, 70% of footwear sold in America is imported from China. And with tariffs cutting into their bottom lines, many manufacturers have already relocated operations to countries like Vietnam and Indonesia.
That has left Song and Crowdbar short of workers to buy his barbecue skewers and beer. "I'm probably going to pick up and move elsewhere. If I stay here for much longer, I'm not going to be able to make it," says Song.
There are clues like this about the Chinese economy's health nearly everywhere in Dongguan. It's a sprawling manufacturing hub of more than 8 million people in southern China, nicknamed the "workshop of the world." Cities like Dongguan are among the hardest hit in a trade war that targets goods manufactured on razor-sharp margins.
Enlarge this image toggle caption Jolie Myers/NPR Jolie Myers/NPR
"I think there's a pretty major impact if you just look at the numbers," says Victor Shih, a political economist at the University of California, San Diego, who studies the Chinese economy. China exports more goods to the U.S. than to any other country in the world, and those exports have dropped by more than 12% this year alone, he says.
That drop has clearly hit the Chinese manufacturing sector. Industrial output growth in China fell to its lowest level in 17 years this summer.
On top of the trade war, China's economic growth has been slowing down for years. It's difficult to pinpoint exactly how many of China's current economic troubles are due to the trade war or the existing slump. But tariffs have undoubtedly contributed to slower growth since the early months of 2018, when the economic standoff began, experts on the Chinese economy say.
Enlarge this image toggle caption Jolie Myers/NPR Jolie Myers/NPR
President Trump's trade war has hit the U.S. as well. Economist Arthur Kroeber, head of research at Gavekal Dragonomics, says that tariffs have made products imported from China more expensive. "The brunt of the burden of tariffs is being borne by U.S. consumers," Kroeber says.
American farmers who've had retaliatory tariffs placed on the goods they export to China have also suffered, despite aid packages supplied by the U.S. government.
The Chinese government has many more tools at its disposal to alleviate some of the trade war's pressures. The central government recently slashed taxes on businesses and corporations to help cushion the blow. The government also devalued its currency so that Chinese goods were cheaper, and thus would be more attractive, to trade partners around the world.
Another tool available to the central government, experts say, is massaging official data coming out of Beijing. The official unemployment rate in China, for instance, has hovered between 4.3% and 3.6% for nearly 20 years. A lack of fluctuation beyond a percentage point for such a period of time is highly unusual. And the government even shut down the release of regional manufacturing statistics out of Guangdong province, where Dongguan is located, that cast doubt on rosy national numbers.
Enlarge this image toggle caption Jolie Myers/NPR Jolie Myers/NPR
But if some of the data is not to be trusted, anecdotal evidence on the ground in Dongguan paints a somewhat clearer picture.
On the dusty outskirts of the city, a dog of indeterminate heritage lazes in front of the entrance to the Dongguan Fangjie Printing and Packaging Company. The mood inside the plastic bag factory, however, is one of brisk efficiency. Workers in green polo shirts and blue caps monitor machines spitting out brightly colored plastic bags — bags for detergent, candy and dog poop.
"We make about 15 different kinds of doggie doo-dah bags," says Christopher Devereux, the managing director of Omnidex, a company that connects foreign companies from all over the world with Chinese factories like Fangjie that can manufacture their products.
Enlarge this image toggle caption Jolie Myers/NPR Jolie Myers/NPR
Until the trade war, Devereux's business was called ChinaSavvy. But earlier this year, he changed the name because, increasingly, he's working with factories outside China. In fact, he recently pulled most of his clients out of the Fangjie factory and moved their business to factories in Vietnam, "because of the tariffs, [because of] the trade war."
And new business has evaporated, he says: "My inquiries from American customers about coming to China have dropped off considerably."
But Devereux concedes that he had already been considering a move to Vietnam when the opening shots of the trade war were fired.
"Wages have been going up steadily over the years, which happens when you get a more educated populace," says U.C. San Diego's Shih.
A more educated population means fewer low-skilled workers for production lines in factories like Fangjie Printing and Packaging Company. Factories have to offer higher wages to attract the best workers. And those wages eat into the bottom lines of the companies that Devereux places in Chinese factories.
"If you look at Vietnam now, you've got wages being roughly one-third of what they are here in China," says Devereux. And so the trade war merely sped up his move out of China and into Vietnam. "Two or three of our American customers, knowing we were looking in Vietnam, asked us to accelerate that" when the trade war began, he says.
"Even in the absence of a trade war, China's growth rate would have come down. The trade war makes it worse, but the trade war is not the primary reason," says Shang-Jin Wei, an expert on the Chinese economy at Columbia University and a former International Monetary Fund official.
Enlarge this image toggle caption Jolie Myers/NPR Jolie Myers/NPR
The real challenges to the Chinese economy, Wei says, are structural issues like a lack of low-skilled workers to populate factories, an over-reliance on the manufacturing sector and an aging workforce.
Those factors, Wei says, pre-date the trade war. In fact, China's GDP growth has dropped by 3 percentage points in the past decade, from a growth rate of 9.6% in 2008 to 6.6% in 2018.

Still, at the plastic bag factory in Dongguan, a cluster of brand-new machines sits idle. "These four machines they bought especially especially for us," says Devereux, sweeping an arm toward the shiny machines on the factory floor. "And now we're saying bye-bye."

Story 67
Does the NBA need China more than China needs the NBA?
That issue of leverage in a rapidly escalating standoff is likely to shape the next moves in this unlikely geopolitical clash between Beijing and its most popular American sports league. The crisis will come to a head with NBA commissioner Adam Silver’s scheduled visit to Shanghai on Wednesday.
It...

Story 68
A Chinese soldier salutes in front of a drone during the parade to celebrate the 70th Anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China at Tiananmen Square in Beijing, China, on Oct. 1.
Kevin Frayer / Getty Images

Story 69
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 70
NBA Commissioner Adam Silver issued the following statement regarding the NBA and China:
I recognize our initial statement left people angered, confused or unclear on who we are or what the NBA stands for. Let me be more clear.
Over the last three decades, the NBA has developed a great affinity for the people of China. We have seen how basketball can be an important form of people-to-people exchange that deepens ties between the United States and China.
At the same time, we recognize that our two countries have different political systems and beliefs. And like many global brands, we bring our business to places with different political systems around the world.
But for those who question our motivation, this is about far more than growing our business.
Values of equality, respect and freedom of expression have long defined the NBA -- and will continue to do so. As an American-based basketball league operating globally, among our greatest contributions are these values of the game.
In fact, one of the enduring strengths of the NBA is our diversity -- of views, backgrounds, ethnicities, genders and religions. Twenty-five percent of NBA players were born outside of the United States and our colleagues work in league offices around the world, including in Beijing, Hong Kong, Shanghai and Taipei.
With that diversity comes the belief that whatever our differences, we respect and value each other; and, what we have in common, including a belief in the power of sports to make a difference, remains our bedrock principle.
It is inevitable that people around the world -- including from America and China -- will have different viewpoints over different issues. It is not the role of the NBA to adjudicate those differences.
However, the NBA will not put itself in a position of regulating what players, employees and team owners say or will not say on these issues. We simply could not operate that way.
Basketball runs deep in the hearts and minds of our two peoples. At a time when divides between nations grow deeper and wider, we believe sports can be a unifying force that focuses on what we have in common as human beings rather than our differences.

Story 71
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 72
Much of Chinaâs chapters over the past seven decades can seem very remote and disconnected from todayâs economic powerhouse â black-and-white images of grinding poverty where there are now food delivery apps; the groundbreaking visit of President Richard M. Nixon in 1972 to Beijing, which is now home to many Western brands. But not everything has changed.

Story 73
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 74
[Read live updates to China’s National Day parade and Hong Kong protests.]
President Xi Jinping on Tuesday presided over a large military parade and pageant involving 100,000 performers as China commemorated the 70th anniversary of Communist rule and its rapid emergence as a global power.
National Day is an important holiday in China’s political calendar and the authorities in Beijing have left little to chance: For weeks they have imposed an extensive security crackdown around the country and across the internet.
But as much as China wants to project a vision of itself as prosperous, powerful and unified, anti-government protests in Hong Kong threaten to overshadow the festivities.
Mr. Xi used his speech Tuesday to say that China would “maintain the lasting prosperity and stability” of Hong Kong, but he did not address the protests convulsing the city.

Story 75
Hong Kong (CNN Business) Just a few years ago, one in every five smartphones sold in China was made by Samsung. How times have changed.
The smartphone maker said this week it was shutting down its last phone factory in the country in the southern city of Huizhou. Its share of the vast Chinese market has collapsed and labor costs have risen. The world's largest smartphone maker is now setting its sights on more promising markets.
"As part of ongoing efforts to enhance efficiency in our production facility, Samsung Electronics has arrived at the difficult decision to cease operations of Samsung Electronics Huizhou," it said in a statement on Thursday. The South Korean firm declined to share more details, including when exactly it was shuttering its operations and how many employees worked at the plant.
At its peak, the plant was Samsung's biggest in China , producing a fifth of all smartphones sold in the country, according to the South China Morning Post.
Speculation had been mounting that the facility would close. Last month, the factory posted recruitment notices for 13 other companies on its official WeChat account, suggesting followers should look at other job postings.
Read More

Story 76
Explore the new agenda
We live in a time of disruption but where others see difficulty, we see opportunity - not just to survive but to thrive. Subscribe to the new agenda and lead the way in business and beyond.

Story 77
Image copyright EPA Image caption About 15,000 Chinese military personnel featured in the parade
Deep-sea drones and an intercontinental ballistic missile were among the advanced weapons on public display for the first time at a parade marking 70 years of communist rule in China.
According to the Ministry of National Defence, about 15,000 military personnel, 580 pieces of military equipment and 160 aircraft featured.
Military march-pasts on a grand scale have a long history in the country.
But experts say this year's display showed China's ambitions to modernise.
"It was Russian and Ukrainian equipment at these parades 20 years ago - now everything is made in China," Jon Grevatt of Jane's Defence Weekly told the BBC.
"The technological advancement that China has achieved is almost unprecedented."
Warfare has become increasingly information-driven in recent years - about networks rather than just systems.
This is reflected in the variety of unmanned systems on display in Tuesday's parade in Beijing, says BBC defence correspondent Jonathan Marcus, "in many ways the 'poster weapon' of new-age warfare".
Image copyright AFP Image caption Huge floats bore emblems including that of the Chinese People's Liberation Army (R)
For China, experts say today's parade is also a show of strength to the US.
"We have to remember that China's claims to territory are driving this - and many of these places happen to be claimed by US allies like Japan, and nations in the South China Sea," says Mr Grevatt.
At its heart is a strategy known as known as "anti-access area denial".
Our correspondent says it is exemplified by the DF-26 ballistic missile which, fired from land bases, is believed to have the accuracy to strike at the key element of US power projection, the US Navy's aircraft carriers.
This latest parade also saw the first public display of a newer model - the DF-41 road mobile intercontinental ballistic missile - which Chinese analysts say is able to target any part of the globe.
Image copyright EPA Image caption China's military displayed new intercontinental ballistic missiles in public for the first time
Weapons expert Alex Neill of International Institute for Strategic Studies says the DF-41 can reportedly carry "a warhead payload of 10 multiple, independently targetable re-entry vehicles (MIRV)".
He adds: "A MIRV warhead can be guided towards a specific target, so one could potentially hit 10 different targets over a wide area."
China knows that its forces are now very much the benchmark against which the US is re-building its capabilities, says our correspondent, after decades of focusing on counter-insurgency operations in places like Afghanistan and Iraq.
China is responding by developing its own forces, extending their reach and sophistication.
Image copyright ©2019 Maxar Technologies Image caption Satellite images of the parade moving through Beijing's streets gave an idea of its vast scale
Image copyright Getty Images
Image copyright AFP
Image copyright EPA
Image copyright Reuters Image caption HSU-001 underwater drones were on show for the first time
Image copyright Getty Images
Image copyright Getty Images
Image copyright AFP Image caption Relatives of revolutionary martyrs carried their portraits in the procession
Image copyright AFP Image caption One float featured a giant portrait of Chinese President Xi Jinping
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Non-military performers also took part in the parade
All photos subject to copyright.

Story 78
AT LAST, the Trump administration has placed sanctions on some of the most significant government and business organizations enabling and executing China’s campaign to eradicate the culture and language of more than 1 million Uighurs and other Turkic Muslims in Xinjiang province. The administration says it has also blocked some Chinese officials who are carrying out the repression from gaining visas to the United States. These measures were necessary, overdue and must be sustained as long as China puts the Uighurs and other Muslims in concentration camps.
Xinjiang’s Public Security Bureau as well as its subsidiaries and eight companies were sanctioned by the Commerce Department for involvement in “China’s campaign of repression, mass arbitrary detention, and high-technology surveillance.” The targets included Hikvision and Dahua Technology, global leaders in video surveillance products; voice recognition software maker iFlytek; artificial intelligence firms SenseTime, Yitu Technologies and Megvii Technology; Xiamen Meiya Pico Information Co., which specializes in forensic data analysis; and nanotechnology company Yixin Science and Technology, according to Radio Free Asia. The measures will undoubtedly crimp some of these companies involved in facial recognition and artificial intelligence that depend on business relationships and material from the West. The names of those individuals subject to visa bans were not made public but hopefully include Chen Quanguo, the Communist Party secretary for the region who has overseen the effort to coerce the Uighurs and other Muslims into an archipelago of indoctrination camps aimed at eradicating their ethnic traditions and language. Mr. Chen earlier led the effort to crush dissent in Tibet. The technology companies are on the list because China has used Xinjiang as a kind of test bed for massive, intrusive electronic surveillance of the Uighur people.
Do such sanctions work? Judging by the Chinese reaction, they matter. China’s foreign ministry spokesman, Geng Shuang, responded tartly that “Xinjiang does not have the so-called human rights issue claimed by the U.S. The accusations by the U.S. side are merely made-up pretexts for its interference.” China has claimed the camps are vocational education facilities, but eyewitnesses have described them as prison-like concrete and barbed-wire gulags with endless loops of propaganda videos and little or no contact with the outside. China has steadfastly rebuffed any criticism from abroad that it is destroying the ethnic fabric of the Uighur people.
For the sanctions to represent real bite, they must now stick. Not long ago, President Trump, in the middle of a trade war with China, rather carelessly told President Xi Jinping that the United States would remain silent about any crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators in Hong Kong. That was an unfortunate mistake and must not be repeated in Xinjiang. This is not about leverage. China cannot be permitted to wipe out a people’s heritage — to erase it from their memory banks — with impunity.

Story 79
AT LAST, the Trump administration has placed sanctions on some of the most significant government and business organizations enabling and executing China’s campaign to eradicate the culture and language of more than 1 million Uighurs and other Turkic Muslims in Xinjiang province. The administration says it has also blocked some Chinese officials who are carrying out the repression from gaining visas to the United States. These measures were necessary, overdue and must be sustained as long as China puts the Uighurs and other Muslims in concentration camps.
Xinjiang’s Public Security Bureau as well as its subsidiaries and eight companies were sanctioned by the Commerce Department for involvement in “China’s campaign of repression, mass arbitrary detention, and high-technology surveillance.” The targets included Hikvision and Dahua Technology, global leaders in video surveillance products; voice recognition software maker iFlytek; artificial intelligence firms SenseTime, Yitu Technologies and Megvii Technology; Xiamen Meiya Pico Information Co., which specializes in forensic data analysis; and nanotechnology company Yixin Science and Technology, according to Radio Free Asia. The measures will undoubtedly crimp some of these companies involved in facial recognition and artificial intelligence that depend on business relationships and material from the West. The names of those individuals subject to visa bans were not made public but hopefully include Chen Quanguo, the Communist Party secretary for the region who has overseen the effort to coerce the Uighurs and other Muslims into an archipelago of indoctrination camps aimed at eradicating their ethnic traditions and language. Mr. Chen earlier led the effort to crush dissent in Tibet. The technology companies are on the list because China has used Xinjiang as a kind of test bed for massive, intrusive electronic surveillance of the Uighur people.
Do such sanctions work? Judging by the Chinese reaction, they matter. China’s foreign ministry spokesman, Geng Shuang, responded tartly that “Xinjiang does not have the so-called human rights issue claimed by the U.S. The accusations by the U.S. side are merely made-up pretexts for its interference.” China has claimed the camps are vocational education facilities, but eyewitnesses have described them as prison-like concrete and barbed-wire gulags with endless loops of propaganda videos and little or no contact with the outside. China has steadfastly rebuffed any criticism from abroad that it is destroying the ethnic fabric of the Uighur people.
For the sanctions to represent real bite, they must now stick. Not long ago, President Trump, in the middle of a trade war with China, rather carelessly told President Xi Jinping that the United States would remain silent about any crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators in Hong Kong. That was an unfortunate mistake and must not be repeated in Xinjiang. This is not about leverage. China cannot be permitted to wipe out a people’s heritage — to erase it from their memory banks — with impunity.

Story 80
Russian president Vladimir Putin has said that Moscow is helping China build a system to warn of ballistic missile launches.
Since the cold war, only the United States and Russia have had such systems, which involve an array of ground-based radars and space satellites. The systems allow for early spotting of intercontinental ballistic missiles.
China celebrates 70th anniversary as Xi warns ‘no force can shake great nation’ Read more
Speaking at an international affairs conference in Moscow on Thursday, Putin said Russia had been helping China develop such a system. He added that “this is a very serious thing that will radically enhance China’s defence capability”.
His statement signalled a new degree of defence cooperation between the two former Communist rivals that have developed increasingly close political and military ties while Beijing and Washington have sunk into a trade war.
In June, Chinese president Xi Jinping called Putin his “best and bosom friend,” adding he cherished their “deep friendship.”
There was no immediate comment from Beijing, but Putin’s claim got a mixed reaction online. On China’s Twitter-like social media platform Weibo, some users cheered “new heights in strategic cooperation”, but others questioned whether Beijing needed Russia’s help with military hardware.
“Once again, Russian bragging! Maybe its linked to their national culture,” said one user. “Chinese wouldn’t brag like that”.
Earlier this week China debuted new military hardware including a “hypersonic” missile experts believe could be difficult for the US to counter. The missile, known as the DF-17, can in theory manoeuvre sharply at many times the speed of sound, making it extremely difficult to defend against.
In August China and Russia accused the United States of stoking a new arms race by testing a cruise missile, just weeks after Washington withdrew from a cold-war era missile control treaty that would have barred the test launch.
Now that Putin is Xi’s ‘best and bosom friend’, where does that leave the west? Read more
The ground-launched missile, a conventionally-configured version of the nuclear-capable Tomahawk cruise missile, hit its target after over 500 kilometres of flight during the test, the Pentagon said in a statement.
Ground-launched versions of the missile had been removed from service decades ago, after the intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty was signed by Ronald Reagan and Mikhail Gorbachev in 1987.
The treaty’s ban on missiles with ranges between 500km and 5,500km aimed to reduce the ability of both countries to launch a nuclear strike at short notice.
Russia’s deputy foreign minister, Sergei Ryabkov, condemned the launch, but said Moscow was not looking to start a new arms race, and would not deploy any new missiles unless the US did first.
Beijing also attacked the US, warning that the missile test could lead to “another round of the arms race”, and have a “serious negative impact” on international and regional security.”
Additional reporting by Lillian Yang. With Associated Press and Reuters.

Story 81
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption China's version of its past is a story of prosperity, progress and sacrifice for the common good
China's extraordinary rise was a defining story of the 20th Century, but as it prepares to mark its 70th anniversary, the BBC's John Sudworth in Beijing asks who has really won under the Communist Party's rule.
Sitting at his desk in the Chinese city of Tianjin, Zhao Jingjia's knife is tracing the contours of a face.
Cut by delicate cut, the form emerges - the unmistakable image of Mao Zedong, founder of modern China.
The retired oil engineer discovered his skill with a blade only in later life and now spends his days using the ancient art of paper cutting to glorify leaders and events from China's communist history.
"I'm the same age as the People's Republic of China (PRC)," he says. "I have deep feelings for my motherland, my people and my party."
Image caption For people like Zhao Jingjia, China's success outweighs the "mistakes" of its leaders
Born a few days before 1 October 1949 - the day the PRC was declared by Mao - Mr Zhao's life has followed the dramatic contours of China's development, through poverty, repression and the rise to prosperity.
Now, in his modest but comfortable apartment, his art is helping him make sense of one of the most tumultuous periods of human history.
"Wasn't Mao a monster," I ask, "responsible for the deaths of tens of millions of his countrymen?"
"I lived through it," he replies. "I can tell you that Chairman Mao did make some mistakes but they weren't his alone.
"I respect him from my heart. He achieved our nation's liberation. Ordinary people cannot do such things."
On Tuesday, China will present a similar, glorious rendering of its record to the world.
The country is staging one of its biggest ever military parades, a celebration of 70 years of Communist Party rule as pure, political triumph.
Beijing will tremble to the thunder of tanks, missile launchers and 15,000 marching soldiers, a projection of national power, wealth and status watched over by the current Communist Party leader, President Xi Jinping, in Tiananmen Square.
An incomplete narrative of progress
Like Mr Zhao's paper-cut portraits, we're not meant to focus on the many individual scars made in the course of China's modern history.
It is the end result that matters.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption 'I was so proud and excited to join the parade'
And, on face value, the transformation has been extraordinary.
On 1 October 1949, Chairman Mao stood in Tiananmen Square urging a war-ravaged, semi-feudal state into a new era with a founding speech and a somewhat plodding parade that could muster only 17 planes for the flyby.
This week's parade, in contrast, will reportedly feature the world's longest range intercontinental nuclear missile and a supersonic spy-drone - the trophies of a prosperous, rising authoritarian superpower with a 400 million strong middle class.
It is a narrative of political and economic success that - while in large part true - is incomplete.
New visitors to China are often, rightly, awe-struck by the skyscraper-festooned, hi-tech megacities connected by brand new highways and the world's largest high-speed rail network.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Those in China's glittering cities may accept the trade-off of political freedom for economic growth
They see a rampant consumer society with the inhabitants enjoying the freedom and free time to shop for designer goods, to dine out and to surf the internet.
"How bad can it really be?" the onlookers ask, reflecting on the negative headlines they've read about China back home.
The answer, as in all societies, is that it depends very much on who you are.
Many of those in China's major cities, for example, who have benefited from this explosion of material wealth and opportunity, are genuinely grateful and loyal.
In exchange for stability and growth, they may well accept - or at least tolerate - the lack of political freedom and the censorship that feature so often in the foreign media.
For them the parade could be viewed as a fitting tribute to a national success story that mirrors their own.
But in the carving out of a new China, the knife has cut long and deep.
The dead, the jailed and the marginalised
Mao's man-made famine - a result of radical changes to agricultural systems - claimed tens of millions of lives and his Cultural Revolution killed hundreds of thousands more in a decade-long frenzy of violence and persecution, truths that are notably absent from Chinese textbooks.
Image copyright Getty/Topical Image caption Tens of millions starved to death under Mao, as China radically restructured agriculture and society
After his death, the demographically calamitous One Child Policy brutalised millions over a 40-year period.
Still today, with its new Two Child Policy, the Party insists on violating that most intimate of rights - an individual's choice over her fertility.
The list is long, with each category adding many thousands, at least, to the toll of those damaged or destroyed by one-party rule.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Beijing still regulates how many children families can have
There are the victims of religious repression, of local government land-grabs and of corruption.
There are the tens of millions of migrant workers, the backbone of China's industrial success, who have long been shut out of the benefits of citizenship.
A strict residential permit system continues to deny them and their families the right to education or healthcare where they work.
And in recent years, there are the estimated one and a half million Muslims in China's western region of Xinjiang - Uighurs, Kazakhs and others - who have been placed in mass incarceration camps on the basis of their faith and ethnicity.
China continues to insist they are vocational schools, and that it is pioneering a new way of preventing domestic terrorism.
The stories of the dead, the jailed and the marginalised are always much more hidden than the stories of the assimilated and the successful.
Viewed from their perspective, the censorship of large parts of China's recent history is not simply part of a grand bargain to be exchanged for stability and prosperity.
Getty Timeline of modern China 1949 Mao declares the founding of the People's Republic of China
1966-76 Cultural Revolution brings social and political upheaval
1977 Deng Xiaoping initiates major reforms of China's economy
1989 Army crushes Tiananmen Square pro-democracy protests
2010 China becomes the world's second-largest economy
2018Xi Jinping is cleared to be president for life
It is something that makes the silence of their suffering all the more difficult to penetrate.
It is the job of foreign journalists, of course, to try.
'Falsified, faked and glorified'
But while censorship can shut people up, it cannot stop them remembering.
Prof Guo Yuhua, a sociologist at Beijing's Tsinghua University, is one of the few scholars left trying to record, via oral histories, some of the huge changes that have affected Chinese society over the past seven decades.
Her books are banned, her communications monitored and her social media accounts are regularly deleted.
"For several generations people have received a history that has been falsified, faked, glorified and whitewashed," she tells me, despite having been warned not to talk to the foreign media ahead of the parade.
"I think it requires the entire nation to re-study and to reflect on history. Only if we do that can we ensure that these tragedies won't be repeated."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Can progress really be attributed to the leadership?
A parade, she believes, that puts the Communist Party at the front and centre of the story, misses the real lesson, that China's progress only began after Mao, when the party loosened its grip a bit.
"People are born to strive for a better, happier and more respectful life, aren't they?" she asks me.
"If they are provided with a tiny little space, they'll try to make a fortune and solve their survival problems. This shouldn't be attributed to the leadership."
'Our happiness comes from hard work'
As if to prove the point about how the unsettled, censored pasts of authoritarian states continue to impact the present, the parade is for invited guests only.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Mao's portrait will, as it always is, be watching over the events in Tiananmen Square
Another anniversary, of which Tiananmen Square is the centrepiece, is also being measured in multiples of 10 - it is 30 years since the bloody suppression of the pro-democracy protests that shook the foundations of Communist Party rule.
The troops will be marching - as they always do on these occasions - down the same avenue on which the students were gunned down.
The risk of even a lone protester using the parade to mark a piece of history that has largely been wiped from the record is just too great.
With central Beijing sealed off, ordinary people in whose honour it is supposedly being held, can only watch it on TV.
Back in his Tianjin apartment, Zhao Jingjia shows me the intricate detail of a series of scenes, each cut from a single piece of paper, depicting the "Long March", a time of hardship and setback for the Communist Party long before it eventually swept to power.
"Our happiness nowadays comes from hard work," he tells me.
It is a view that echoes that of the Chinese government which, like him, has at least acknowledged that Mao made mistakes while insisting they shouldn't be dwelt on.
"As for the 70 years of China, it's extraordinary," he says. "It can be seen by all. Yesterday we sent two navigation satellites into space - all citizens can enjoy the convenience that these things bring us."

Story 82
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 83
BEIJING — As Presid ent Xi Jinping watched from a rostrum above the iconic portrait of Mao, the weapons came one after the other down the Avenue of Eternal Peace, a propaganda-filled show of force to celebrate the 70th anniversary of Commun ist rule in China. Intercontinental ballistic missiles capable of delivering multiple nuclear warheads. Drones built for precision strikes. Tanks and armored personnel carriers bearing soldiers in green uniforms.
In an era when China plays a dominant role on the global stage, foreign officials, whether in Washington or Moscow or Hanoi, use such events to discern the intentions of Mr. Xi and determine whether the economic juggernaut of China is a political and milit ary threat. And the festivities on Tuesday sent a clear message at a complicated time for China’s diplomacy.
With the parade and policies like the militarization of the South China Sea, Mr. Xi and other Communist Party leaders want to tell the world: We are ready to fight and to seize or protect what we deem is ours. They want to show that China is not the same nation they say was humiliated by European powers and Japan from the 19th to 20th centuries.

Story 84
WASHINGTON — President Trump’s latest broadside against former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and his son Hunter appears to center on a joint venture that involved the younger Mr. Biden and some of China’s leading state-owned financial companies.
But the president’s claims bear little if any relation to the known facts.
Without presenting any evidence, Mr. Trump suggested on Thursday that China showered $1.5 billion on Hunter Biden in order to influence his father and win favorable trade deals with the United States.
“That’s probably why China for so many years has had a sweetheart deal where China rips off the U.S.A.” because they deal with people like “Biden where they give the son a billion and a half dollars,” Mr. Trump told reporters on the South Lawn of the White House. He added: “You know what they call that? They call that a payoff.”
Companies associated with Hunter Biden or his business partners have struck several deals involving China over the past decade. So, in fact, have Mr. Trump’s own relatives — a point that Mr. Trump does not mention in his now almost-daily accusations against the former vice president, a leading Democratic presidential candidate, and his son.

Story 85
The big picture: U.S. companies are increasingly weighing in on social and political issues at home. But when it comes to China — in particular to Hong Kong or to mass detentions of Muslims in Xinjiang — they’re silent.
"When it has to do with market access in China and profits ... they will bend over backwards to apologize," says Bonnie Glaser, an expert on China at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.
The latest: An image that Houston Rockets' general manager Daryl Morey tweeted — then quickly deleted — that backed Hong Kong's pro-democracy protests kicked off a firestorm in China.
Both Morey and the NBA backtracked after offending Chinese fans. But the Chinese government, the Chinese Basketball Association and multiple Chinese businesses have severed ties with the Rockets, reports Axios' Kendall Baker.
Hanging in the balance is an NBA-Tencent streaming deal worth billions, the support of millions of Chinese fans and Morey's job.
This isn't the first time Beijing has squeezed an apology out of — or even changed the behavior of — an American entity.
Marriott apologized to China after Beijing shut down the hotel chain's website because it listed Hong Kong, Taiwan, Tibet and Macau as separate countries. "We don’t support separatist groups that subvert the sovereignty and territorial integrity of China,” the company said in a statement.
All three big U.S. airlines — American, United and Delta — bent to China's will last summer and scrubbed references to Taiwan as its own country.
The Gap — under threat of getting cut out of China — apologized for selling T-shirts with a map of China that didn't include Tibet or Taiwan. The company said its map was "incorrect."
Beijing, which is Hollywood's biggest international market, has also pushed American studios to alter content in order to get into Chinese theaters.
What to watch: NBA commissioner Adam Silver released a statement on the situation this morning.
"It is inevitable that people around the world — including from America and China — will have different viewpoints over different issues. It is not the role of the NBA to adjudicate those differences."
that people around the world — including from America and China — will have different viewpoints over different issues. It is not the role of the NBA to adjudicate those differences." "However, the NBA will not put itself in a position of regulating what players, employees and team owners say or will not say on these issues. We simply could not operate that way."
The bottom line: Leveraging foreign access to its 1.5 billion consumers is one of China’s most potent weapons against the U.S.

Story 86
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 87
Become an FT subscriber to read:
Leverage our market expertise
Expert insights, analysis and smart data help you cut through the noise to spot trends, risks and opportunities.
Join over 300,000 Finance professionals who already subscribe to the FT.

Story 88
Beijing may be still struggling to influence the outside world more effectively, but at home it has learned how to compete with short videos, Hollywood movies and mobile games for the public’s attention span. While imposing tight censorship, the Communist Party has also learned to lean on the most popular artists and the most experienced internet companies to help it instill Chinese with patriotic zeal.
It’s propaganda for the Instagram age, if Instagram were allowed in China.
So many people rushed to add a national flag logo to their profile photos on the WeChat social media platform that the webpage crashed. On Douyin, the Chinese version of the short-video platform TikTok, China’s biggest entertainment stars and ordinary people alike posted videos of themselves cupping their hands into a heart shape over their chests. The “My People, My Country” music video has been played 73 million times on Tencent Video, one of three big video sites.
“Even discounting some people who hide their negative opinions of the regime, the level of support for the party state is still very high, compared with other countries,” said Dali Yang, a professor of political science at the University of Chicago.
There are a number of other factors, including the unrest in Hong Kong. Angry demonstrators showing their dislike of the Chinese government have left many people in China feeling both defensive and proud of their country’s accomplishments.
And broadly speaking, Chinese people have reason to be proud of their accomplishments. In 40 years, they have lifted their country out of poverty while avoiding the wars and unrest that have plagued much of the developing world. Modern China has its problems, but most Chinese believe it is still vibrant and full of opportunity.
The Communist Party has tapped into that sentiment, and has been successfully blurring the line between love for the country and love for the party. For the first time, the flags of the Communist Party and the People’s Liberation Army appeared in the military parade along with the national flag. In fact, the party’s flag marched ahead of the national flag.

Story 89
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 90
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 91
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 92
A deadly virus has wiped out as much as half of China’s pig population. That’s a big problem for a country whose default meat is pork. As prices soar, the government is trying to induce farmers to raise more swine.
But one enterprising farmer has a better—or at least bigger—idea: breed gargantuan pigs.
A farm owner in southern China is raising a pig that tips the scale at 500 kilograms (around 1,100 pounds)—about what a black rhinoceros weighs—reports Bloomberg. That compares with an average weight at slaughter of somewhere between 110 and 125 kilos, according to the report. And the farmer in question isn’t the only one with this strategy: As Bloomberg details, a slew of major pig farms are bulking up the size of the pigs they’re breeding.
Heftier pigs translate to heftier profits, of course. But thanks to African swine fever, which first began wiping out pigs in Aug. 2018, even svelte pigs are a good business at the moment.
Pork prices have surged 47% since last year, and they’re set to climb further. “Since China produces and consumes over half the world’s pork, it can’t rely on overseas supply,” said Capital Economics analysts in a recent email to Quartz. By early 2020, prices could be 80% higher than they were in early 2019, they add.
More worryingly still, initiatives to boost production could well exacerbate the crisis, explains Ernan Cui, analyst at Gavekal Dragonomics, a Beijing-based research firm.
By setting recent subsidies for virus-hit farms below market prices, the government encourages farmers to keep outbreaks mum and slaughter their herds instead, said Cui in an email last month. The policy sticks local officials with the subsidy bill, discouraging disclosure even more. That will make the spread harder to contain and grossly understate the scale of epidemic—problems that even Brobdingnagian hogs can’t fix.

Story 93
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 94
China is taking every measure it can to verify the identities of its over 850 million mobile internet users.
From Dec. 1, people applying for new mobile and data services will have to have their faces scanned by telecom providers, the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology said in a Sept. 27 statement (link in Chinese).
MIIT said the step was part of its efforts to “safeguard the legitimate rights and interests of citizens in the cyberspace” and to control phone and internet fraud. In addition to the facial-recognition test, phone users are also banned from passing their mobile phone numbers to others, and encouraged to check if numbers are registered under their name without their consent.
Most countries require some form of ID to sign up for mobile phone contracts—versus for prepaid services—but the facial-recognition requirement seems to be a first. In China, it’s only the latest example of the technology’s embrace by a government that is using it for everything from catching jaywalkers to nabbing criminals at concerts to social profiling, even as other countries go slow due to concerns over privacy and human rights. The new decree is an upgrade of China’s real-name registration system for mobile phone users launched in 2013, which requires people to have their national IDs checked and photos taken by carriers to get a new number. The facial-recognition step will match the image against the person’s stored ID.
Earlier rules also said people who apply online via operators’ websites have to submit a short video (link in Chinese) of themselves to prove they are the same person as in the ID. Currently, almost all mobile phone users in China have been registered under people’s real names, according to MIIT.
The new regulation comes as Beijing tightens its control over the internet, which most people in China access on their mobiles, seeing it as a vital tool of social control. Chinese president Xi Jinping has promoted the idea of “cyber sovereignty,” asking other countries to respect China’s internet governance practices, which have seen major international sites like Facebook and Twitter blocked, and even personal messaging communications censored.
While the technology ministry said enhancing protection for ordinary phone users was one of the aims of the new order, that reason didn’t appear to convince Chinese internet users, who say it could contribute to more personal information leakage, and is just downright invasive.
“How many years passed since the real-name registration system has been implemented? Scam and sales phone calls still have not been stopped! Gathering citizen’s information excessively like this is a violation of people’s civic rights,” one user said under the news, with this comment being liked over 1,000 times.
In March, a Chinese database containing hundreds of millions of private chat logs on six Chinese messaging apps including WeChat and QQ, both operated by Tencent, was leaked online and could be accessed by anyone who searched for the IP address of the database, according to Victor Gevers, a researcher working for nonprofit cyber security firm GDI Foundation. More recently, the terms and conditions of use of popular face-swapping Chinese app Zaobao sparked concerns about privacy, and eventually led to an order from MIIT for the app to enhance its protection of user data.

Story 95
A grimacing figure wearing an elaborate feathered headdress is riding on the back of a frightening monster. He must be powerful, perhaps even supernatural, because he effortlessly subdues this sharp-clawed beast with bulging eyes. But who, exactly, is he? A shaman? A god? And why is he forcing historians to tear up the conventionally accepted timeline of Chinese history?
More like this:
- How Spiritualism inspired modern art
- Is Bouquet of Tulips’ the year’s most controversial artwork?
- Dürer: The painter with a magical touch
Earlier this year, while filming China’s Greatest Treasures, a new six-part television documentary series for BBC World News, I encountered this mysterious character incised on a spectacular ancient jade carving that now belongs to the Zhejiang Provincial Museum in the city of Hangzhou. Known as a ‘cong’ (pronounced ‘ts-ong’) – essentially, a jade cylinder, squared on the outside, with a circular tube within – this squat column was recovered by archaeologists from a cemetery for elite members of a complex late Neolithic society that flourished at the site of Liangzhu, around 100 miles (160km) southwest of Shanghai, in the 3rd millennium BC. Traditionally, historians have taught that China’s earliest recorded dynasty was the Shang, who ruled during the Bronze Age, in the 2nd millennium BC.
Intricate bronze artefacts – ritual food and wine vessels; ceremonial axes embellished with bloodcurdling, grinning faces – have been excavated from Shang cities in modern-day Henan province, along the Yellow River. Many are decorated with the mask-like face of a monster with bulging eyes and curling horns known as a ‘taotie’, the precise meaning of which is still debated. Recent discoveries at Liangzhu, however, which is situated in the lower Yangtze River Basin, more than 600 miles (965km) southeast of the last Shang capital of Anyang, have upended the standard chronology of Chinese history. This is because, according to archaeologists, the impressive ancient settlement at Liangzhu was home to a sophisticated civilisation that was already prospering 1,700 years before the establishment of the Shang. Contemporaneous with the ancient Cycladic civilisation of the Aegean Sea in the West, it was possibly the earliest state society in East Asia.
Freed from the daily, hand-to-mouth struggle for survival, the Liangzhu elite became besotted with art
Some scholars even suggest that the origins of the famous Shang ‘taotie’ motif may be the gargoyle-like, frog-eyed monster that decorates artefacts from Liangzhu, including the ‘cong’ – which is known as the ‘king of cong’, because of its impressive heft of 6.5kg (14.33lbs) – that I saw at Zhejiang Provincial Museum.
Earlier this year, the archaeological ruins at Liangzhu were designated a Unesco World Heritage site. Today, visitors can marvel at extraordinary artefacts from the city at the beautiful Liangzhu Museum, designed by British architect David Chipperfield. On display are many more jade grave goods, including ceremonial axe-heads, ornamental combs, and circular discs with a central hole, which look like oversized Polo mints and are known as ‘bi’. Located at the foot of Mount Tianmu, the principal settlement of Liangzhu was a fortified town encompassing a rectangular area of approximately 740 acres (299 hectares), protected by a system of moats and rammed-earth walls at least 65ft (19.8m) wide. Visitors could enter via one of eight water gates – suggesting that, in the words of archaeologists Colin Renfrew and Bin Liu, “this was a town of canals as much as of roads”.
A civic emblem?
The sophistication of the civilisation that flourished at Liangzhu from approximately 3300-2300 BC is evident not only in the precious finds from the town’s high-status cemetery, but also from a remarkable network of monumental earthen dams, amounting to an extensive system of hydraulic works, and carefully managed rice paddy fields, arranged across the surrounding area. These ensured a regular supply of food for the city’s inhabitants. Within the settlement, archaeologists discovered a massive pit of charred rice – “perhaps burnt in a granary located in the palace nearby and subsequently discarded,” say Renfrew and Liu.
Clearly, then, thanks to their social organisation and mastery of irrigation techniques, the Liangzhu people had a hefty surplus of food – and this bought them an important stimulant to civilisation: the luxury of time. Freed from the daily, hand-to-mouth struggle for survival, the Liangzhu elite became besotted with art. Just look at their obsession with jade, an obstinate, almost impossibly tough mineral, which their craftsmen painstakingly worked into spectacularly fine grave goods.
In the past, Chinese scholars believed that the earliest dynasty to value jade was the long-lasting Zhou, which followed the Shang in the 1st millennium BC. The evidence from Liangzhu, though, suggests otherwise. And the ‘king of cong’ that I saw – carved from a pure, creamy-coloured type of jade called nephrite – is arguably the most spectacular of all the Liangzhu jades. What struck me was how sleek and crisp and gracefully minimal it was – if you weren’t familiar with it and were told that it had been carved by, say, the 20th Century modern sculptor Constantin Brancusi, you wouldn’t bat an eyelid.
And the precise significance of that ‘man/beast motif’, as some art historians describe it? Well, in the absence of written records from the site of Liangzhu, scholars can only speculate. For now, we can’t be sure if the figure is a deity or a member of the Liangzhu elite – some of whom wore feathered headdresses – such as a shaman or priest. Or maybe, as Renfrew and Liu propose, the motif could be interpreted “in social terms, as representing the corporate community of Liangzhu town”. In other words, perhaps the solution to the riddle of this puzzling design is that it is a kind of civic emblem, akin to a Western coat of arms.
China’s Greatest Treasures is on BBC World News on Sat 12 Oct at 03:30 and 16:30 and on Sun 13 Oct at 01:30; 10:30 and 22:30 GMT.
Alastair Sooke is The Telegraph’s Chief Art Critic.
If you would like to comment on this story or anything else you have seen on BBC Culture, head over to our Facebook page or message us on Twitter.
And if you liked this story, sign up for the weekly bbc.com features newsletter, called The Essential List. A handpicked selection of stories from BBC Future, Culture, Worklife and Travel, delivered to your inbox every Friday.

Story 96
Hitler’s Third Reich was obliterated by massive military force in 1945. It lasted just 12 years. Stalin’s Soviet Union bore the brunt of beating Hitler, but later succumbed to economic sclerosis. It fell apart in 1991, after 68 years. The mystery of the People’s Republic of China is that it is still with us.
The 70th anniversary of the People’s Republic of China was not a birthday I felt like celebrating. As Dutch historian Frank Dikötter has shown in his searing three-volume history of the Mao Zedong era, the Communist regime claimed the lives of tens of millions of people: 2 million in the revolution between 1949 and 1951, another 3 million by the end of the 1950s, up to 45 million in the man-made famine known as the “Great Leap Forward,” and yet more in the mayhem of the Cultural Revolution, Mao’s campaign against the intelligentsia, which escalated into a civil war.
Advertisement
Two weeks ago, I bet the Chinese economist Justin Yifu Lin 20,000 yuan that China’s economy — defined as gross domestic product in current US dollars—will never overtake that of the United States. Most informed people would expect me to lose that bet.
Now, I could give you a rather boring explanation of why I think China’s bid to “catch up and surpass” (ganchao) the United States will fail. But maybe a more interesting answer can be found in Liu Cixin’s astonishing 2008 novel, “The Three-Body Problem,” which I read for the first time last week.
The problem of the title is introduced to the reader — and to the nanotechnology scientist Wang Miao, one of the central characters — as a virtual reality game, set in a strange, distant world with three suns rather than the familiar one. The mutually perturbing gravitational attractions of the three suns prevent this planet from ever settling into a predictable orbit with regular days, nights, and seasons. It has occasional “stable eras,” during which civilization can advance, but with minimal warning, these give way to “chaotic eras” of intense heat or cold that render the planet uninhabitable.
Advertisement
The central conceit of Liu’s novel is that China’s history has the same pattern as the three-body problem: periods of stability always end with periods of chaos — what the Chinese call dong luan. The other key character in the book is Ye Wenjie, who sees her father, a professor at Tsinghua University, beaten to death by a gang of teenage Red Guards during the Cultural Revolution.
Banished from Beijing to a labor camp in benighted rural backwater, Ye is rescued when she is given a lowly job in a mysterious observatory known as Red Coast. But nothing can undo the emotional damage of witnessing her father’s murder. Nor can she escape the chaos of Communism. She watches in horror as the entire area around the observatory is deforested. Everything — even astrophysics — is subordinated to Mao’s warped ideology.
Disillusioned completely by the madness of mankind — a sentiment reinforced by a chance meeting with an American environmentalist — Ye stumbles on a way of beaming a message from Earth deep into space by bouncing it off the sun. When, after years of empty noise, a clear message is received in reply, she does not hesitate. Even though the message is a warning not to communicate with Trisolaris — the name of a real planet with three suns — Ye sends another message, ensuring that the Trisolarians can locate Earth, and initiate their long-planned relocation.
Advertisement
Rehabilitated in the political thaw that follows Mao’s death, Ye Wenjie returns to Beijing, following in her father’s footsteps as a physics professor. But she leads a double life, for she also becomes the Commander of the Earth-Trisolaris Movement, a radically misanthropic organization dedicated to helping the Trisolarians conquer earth. Acute readers will notice that this group’s ideology is a subtle parody of Maoism.
“Start a global rebellion!” they shout. “Long live the spirit of Trisolaris! We shall persevere like the stubborn grass that resprouts after every wildfire! . . . Eliminate human tyranny!”
Little do they know that the Trisolarians are even worse than humans. As one of the aliens points out to their leader, because of their world’s utter unpredictability, “Everything is devoted to survival. To permit the survival of the civilization as a whole, there is almost no respect for the individual. Someone who can no longer work is put to death. Trisolarian society exists under a state of extreme authoritarianism.” Life for the individual consists of “monotony and desiccation.” That sounds a lot like Mao’s China.
There is one scene in “The Three-Body Problem” that sticks in the mind. An adult and a child stand looking at the grave of a Red Guard killed during the factional battles that raged during the Cultural Revolution. “Are they heroes?” asks the child. The adult says no. “Are they enemies?” The adult again says no. “Then who are they?” The adult replies: “History.”
Advertisement
True, the hero of the story is the foul-mouthed, chain-smoking Beijing cop Shi Qiang. Chinese readers doubtless relish the scene when he lectures a pompous American general about how best to save the world.
But the deeper meaning of the book is surely that Trisolaris is China. The three bodies in contention are not suns but classes: rulers, intellectuals, masses. Right now, China is in one of its stable phases. But, as the contending forces shift, chaos will sooner or later return. Perhaps it already has, in Hong Kong.
If it spreads, I — and history — will win that bet.
Niall Ferguson is the Milbank Family Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University.

Story 97
Analysts of China's political economy tend to fall into two camps, with one side describing it as a genuine meritocracy, and the other arguing that the regime is corrupt to the core. In fact, neither view is correct: in a land of paradoxes, cronyism and strong economic performance go hand in hand.
ANN ARBOR – Since Chinese President Xi Jinping launched his sweeping anti-corruption campaign in 2012, more than 1.5 million officials, including some of the Communist Party of China’s (CPC) top leaders, have been disciplined. Among them is Ji Jianye, the former leader of Nanjing and Yangzhou, in Jiangsu Province. Disgraced, Ji is now remembered only for his bribes and scandals. Yet, prior to his downfall, he was famous for his iron-fisted competence. “In Yangzhou,” reads one local media report in Southern Weekend, “most people agree that Ji is the leader who has made the greatest contributions to the city since 1949.”
Portrayals of China’s political system are sharply divided. One camp describes China as a Confucian-style meritocracy where officials are selected, as Daniel A. Bell of Shandong University puts it, “in accordance with ability and virtue” through a top-down process, rather than by elections. According to Bell, meritocracy presents an alternative – even a challenge – to democracy. He recommends that the Chinese government export this model abroad.
The second camp comprises naysayers such as Minxin Pei of Claremont McKenna College and author Gordon G. Chang, who have insisted for decades that the CPC is decaying from corruption and will soon collapse. In dire terms, Pei describes the regime as filled with “looting, debauchery, and utter lawlessness.”
In fact, neither view is correct. Corruption and competence do not just coexist within China’s political system; they can be mutually reinforcing. Ji is a case in point. Through massive demolition and urban-renewal projects, he rapidly transformed Yangzhou into an award-winning tourist destination, and over the course of his career has earned the nickname “Mayor Bulldozer.” Under his leadership, the city’s GDP surpassed the provincial average for the first time ever.
Meanwhile, Ji’s long-time cronies made a fortune during his tenure. In exchange for lavish gifts, bribes, and company shares, Ji awarded their businesses near-monopoly access to government construction and renovation projects. One of these companies, Gold Mantis, saw its profits grow fifteenfold in just six years. The more Ji pushed for growth, the more spoils he produced.
This paradox is not limited to Ji. In a forthcoming book, China’s Gilded Age, my study of 331 CPC city-level secretaries’ careers, I find that 40% of those who have fallen to corruption charges were promoted within five years, or even just a few months prior to, their downfall.
Subscribe now Subscribe now Subscribe today and get a free copy of our new magazine, Sustainability Comes of Age, along with unlimited access to OnPoint, the Big Picture, the entire PS archive of more than 14,000 commentaries, and our annual magazine, for less than $2 a week. SUBSCRIBE
To be sure, champions of Chinese meritocracy, like venture capitalist Eric X. Li, acknowledge the existence of patronage and corruption, but argue that “merit remains the fundamental driver.” Yet corruption is more of a feature of the system than a bug. This should come as no surprise. The CPC controls valuable resources – from land and financing to procurement contracts – and individual CPC leaders can and do command immense personal power. Hence, CPC leaders find themselves constantly inundated with requests for favors, many of which are accompanied by graft.
Moreover, any political meritocracy faces the problem of who should guard the guardians. Li describes the Party’s appointment-making body, the Organization Department, as a “human resources engine that would be the envy of some of the most successful corporations.” Yet, if anything, this office is even more corruptible than others, precisely because it controls appointments and promotions. Lo and behold, in 2018, 68 officials at the Central Organization Department were punished for corruption.
Naysayers, meanwhile, err in the opposite direction, magnifying stories of Chinese corruption while ignoring corrupt officials’ effectiveness in promoting growth and delivering social welfare. Bo Xilai, the former Party boss of Chongqing who was dramatically ousted in 2012, is the most striking example. Although he flagrantly abused his power, Bo turned around his landlocked municipality’s fortunes, and delivered public goods and affordable housing to tens of millions of poor residents.
What both camps fail to grasp is the symbiotic relationship between corruption and performance in China’s fiercely competitive political system. For political elites whose formal pay is low, cronyism not only finances lavish consumption but also helps advance their careers. Wealthy cronies donate to public works, mobilize business networks to invest in state construction schemes, and help politicians complete their signature projects, which improve both a city’s physical image and the leader’s track record.
Like a supersized game of Whac-A-Mole, Xi’s crusade against corruption has netted a staggering number of officials, and is still ongoing. But the campaign ignores a crucial reality: politicians’ performance is dependent on sponsorships from corporate cronies and political patronage. Nor has the spate of arrests reduced the power of the state over the economy, which is the root cause of corruption. On the contrary, Xi has ratcheted up state intervention to a level not seen in years.
Paradoxes define China’s political economy. China is ruled by a communist party yet it is capitalist. The regime has a meritocracy yet it is also corrupt. Understanding China requires that we grasp such seeming contradictions, which will persist well into the next decade.

Story 98
BEIJING — When Turkey’s leader, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, visited Beijing this summer, he hailed a new Silk Road bridging Asia and Europe. He welcomed big Chinese investments for his beleaguered economy. He gushed about China’s sovereignty.
But Mr. Erdogan, who has stridently promoted Islamic values in his overwhelmingly Muslim country, was largely silent on the incarceration of more than one million Turkic Muslims in China’s western region of Xinjiang, and the forced assimilation of millions more. It was an about-face from a decade ago, when he said the Uighurs there suffered from, “simply put, genocide” at the hands of the Chinese government.
Like Mr. Erdogan, the world has been noticeably quiet about Xinjiang, where China has built a vast network of detention camps and systematic surveillance over the past two years in a state-led operation to convert Uighurs into loyal, secular supporters of the Communist Party. Even when diplomats have witnessed the problems firsthand and privately condemned them, they have been reluctant to go public, unable to garner broad support or unwilling to risk financial ties with China.
Backed by its diplomatic and economic might, China has largely succeeded in quashing criticism. Chinese officials have convinced countries to support Beijing publicly on the issue, most notably Muslim ones in Africa, Asia and the Middle East. They have played to the discord within the West over China. And they have waged an aggressive campaign to prevent discussion of Xinjiang at the United Nations.

Story 99
In August, groups of Chinese patriots, ranging from dozens to thousands of people, held a string of rallies in the United States, Canada, Britain, Australia, France, and Japan to voice support for the Chinese government. On paper, this sounds somewhat innocent.
Following months of pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong that have drawn international sympathy, many mainlanders, mostly students abroad, staged their own demonstrations to offer the world their perspective.
But that perspective isn’t pretty. And it’s one sanctioned by officialdom.
In Toronto, young nationalists drove Ferraris draped with Chinese flags and ridiculed Hong Kongers for being “poor cunts.” In London, a sign at a rally demanded that Hong Kongers “lick [their] master’s ass.” In several separate incidents in Australia, Chinese protesters attacked a journalist, assaulted Hong Kong sympathizers, and lambasted anyone who doesn’t love China with chants of “get the fuck out.” In response to “Hong Kong stay strong” on one university campus, young Chinese students shouted in unison, “Fuck your mother!”
The romantic idea has long persisted that the hundreds of thousands of Chinese students who enroll in Western universities each year are secret rebels who will change the country for the better. Except most are not. Even when Chinese nationalists go abroad, it is difficult for them to change their minds. Many effectively stay inside the Great Firewall for the comfort and convenience it offers. Others, like me, are shocked and outraged when exposed to ideas that are unspeakable and unthinkable back in mainland China. Encouraged by Chinese authorities and the state media, some take it to the streets in foreign countries, rallying against others’ freedom of speech and undermining democracies. Indoctrinated but violent, they are as complicit as they are powerless.
Since I reported on a Sydney pro-China rally marred by aggression and violence, I have become a national enemy on the Chinese internet. Articles and social media posts calling me a traitor have spread from Australia to the United States and even my hometown. These accounts have been read by almost every fellow Chinese person I’ve ever crossed paths with. A bare handful of Chinese friends have reached out and voiced support for my work. Dozens, meanwhile, who were once friends or at least friendly, have violently condemned my treacherous behavior.
Let me spell it out: This is the Chinese version of the alt-right, except it isn’t fringe. Instead of “Make America Great Again,” the Chinese students were chanting “Long Live China.” Instead of blasting racist speeches against the ethnic minorities clearly visible in the West, this time the discrimination was political and regional—targeting Hong Kongers and their supporters. But the rage, the aggression, and the pride on the streets are all too similar. And they have largely flown under the radar as abusive speeches get lost in translation and go unchecked.
These rallies attract large turnouts. An estimated 1,500 participants attended the pro-China rally in Sydney on Aug. 17, which is a bigger number than most far-right rallies in Australia or the United States—that speaks volumes, given mainland Chinese migrants are only a tiny fraction of the local population. Some of this is performative, aimed at bolstering eventual careers back home—and embassies have been involved in organizing and promoting these rallies. But much of it is sincere.
The Chinese people have every right to feel proud of their country’s achievements. Countless social and cultural contributions were born in the land that is now mainland China. However, the only truly sanctioned form of pride today is a pride in the Chinese Communist Party and its claimed role as the owner of these achievements. That’s the same party currently holding a million Uighurs and other Turkic Muslim minorities in detention camps. That doesn’t seem something to be proud of for me.
Chinese nationalism today has been hijacked by the state to indoctrinate its citizens and the diaspora, bolster the state’s legitimacy, and consolidate international support. It’s centered on the narrative that China has been a victim of colonization and the current world order and that the Communist Party is the only savior. The imagined enemy, the West, is perpetually looking for an opportunity to prevent China from rising to superpower status. To be a model Chinese citizen is to be ready to fight—in the case of Hong Kong, the CIA was blamed for inciting protests, and Chinese students overseas were enlisted to amplify party propaganda. Meanwhile, domestic issues are always forced to the back burner because the priority is to fight foreign forces from all sides.
These narratives are fed to schoolchildren and the general public alike in their every waking moment. It’s impossible to escape—I should know, because I spent the first 19 years of my life living and studying in China. On the first day of primary school, we were given a student handbook in which the first rule was to love the country and the party. Growing up, “Taiwan is a sacred, inseparable part of China” was taught to us as a fact just like “the Earth is round.” The most common wish for an idealist Chinese teenager is to “serve the motherland”—while in the West, perhaps, it’s to “make the world a better place.”
I remember the horror when I encountered my first Hong Kong separatist abroad. I felt shock and rage—surely they shouldn’t be allowed to have such thoughts? And that’s how your mind works when your own thoughts have been controlled for too long. I remember typing out an aggressive message to the separatist but deciding against sending it. I remember seeing Free Tibet protests on the street and wanting to yell at them. I even remember fantasizing about sabotaging Ai Weiwei’s art exhibit when he toured in my city. Anything for that red-hot nationalism. In my mind, I was prepared to serve my country—and that meant violence and shouting down others.
It’s hard to escape state-led nationalistic doctrines that demand not only Chinese citizens but anyone of Chinese heritage around the world follow and promote the Chinese government’s expansionism and imperialism. Examples abound: the continuous erosion of freedom in Hong Kong, military adventurism in the South China Sea, and, most prominently right now, attempts to extinguish the Uighur culture.
To be a modern-day Chinese nationalist is to unknowingly agree to all of that and to become a de facto Han supremacist. On these issues, which all boil down to territorial disputes, it is extremely difficult for a Chinese person living in the mainland to hear arguments against the government’s claims. An argument against any is an argument against the whole. The domestic media and internet are flush with material that accuses the West of meddling in Hong Kong and Uighurs of being extremists yearning for their own reeducation—and alternative voices are ruthlessly crushed.
In a global environment where Han supremacy is being aggressively promoted by the Chinese state, it’s difficult for any dissenter to exist.
Many have tried to argue that young students from China hold diverse views but that the moderate voices are not as loud. Those moderate voices are there, but it’s not just an issue of volume but one of quantity. Journalists sometimes go on to interview a handful of Chinese students who are open-minded enough to speak to Western media, but these voices are fringe and unrepresentative of the community.
It is human nature to want to see the best in people, but the party doesn’t bring out the best in the Chinese people. Some of the most obscene comments I have seen have been from perfectly normal and gentle people to be around—after a lifetime of patriotic education and state media incitement, their minds short-circuit on contentious issues.
Nationalists are the majority—and likely to stay that way. In a global environment where Han supremacy is being aggressively promoted by the Chinese state, and where Western governments are often indifferent at best to alternatives, it’s difficult for any dissenter to exist.
It is midnight in Australia, and after explaining toxic Chinese nationalism, I must go back to finding out the office addresses of Chinese media outlets that have called me a traitor, a whore, and a West-worshiping dog so my lawyer can send them a letter in the morning.
And on the other side of the sea, the country I once dearly loved descends into nationalist fervor as the rest of the world marvels at the spectacle.

Story 100
Hong Kong (CNN) Powerful, domestically-built and in the People's Liberation Army arsenal right now -- China is expected to show off some of the most advanced weaponry the world has ever seen during a special National Day military parade in Beijing on Tuesday, October 1.
About 15,000 personnel, more than 160 aircraft and 580 pieces of weaponry and equipment will be part of the 80-minute procession through the Chinese capital, which will highlight the country's military advances in the 70 years since the founding of the People's Republic of China.
Key among those is drone technology -- of which Beijing boasts some of the world's best -- and advanced missile systems.
Maj. Gen. Tan Min, executive deputy director of the Military Parade Joint Command Office and deputy chief of staff of the Central Theater Command of the People's Liberation Army (PLA), said at a press briefing this week that all weapons to be on display were in service and made in China, highlighting the country's ability to innovate in defense research and development.
Here are some of the key items to look out for Tuesday.
DF-41 missile
A Chinese military vehicle carrying a ballistic missile participates in rehearsals for the October 1 military parade.
Much of the parade hype has focused on this powerful intercontinental-range ballistic missile, thought to be the mainstay of the People's Liberation Army Rocket Forces (PLARF) arsenal for years to come -- and, by some estimations, the most powerful missile on the planet.
Under development since 1997, the DF-41 was rumored to appear in parades in 2015 and 2017, but instead was kept under wraps.
Rumors that it will get a showing this around were sent into overdrive following reports in China's state media that the missile was spotted during parade rehearsals in Beijing earlier this month.
The Missile Defense Project at the Center for Strategic and International Studies says the DF-41 will have a range of up to 9,320 miles (15,000 kilometers), more than any missile on Earth, and will be capable of carrying 10 independently targeted nuclear warheads. From launch in China, it could theoretically hit the continental United States in 30 minutes, the Missile Defense Project says.
Mobile-launched DF-41s can be carried by trucks and trains. Satellite photos taken earlier this year showed DF-41 mobile launchers in the PLARF Jilintal training area in Inner Mongolia, according to the Federation of American Scientists (FAS), which monitors world nuclear arms developments.
Those satellite photos also show what "strongly resembles" a silo, according to Hans Kristensen, director of the Nuclear Information Project at the FAS, who analyzed the images.
JUST WATCHED China releases video of 'Guam killer' missile Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH China releases video of 'Guam killer' missile 01:01
Kristensen wrote the possible missile silos appeared to bear more of a resemblance to Russian ICBM versions than existing silos for older, liquid-fueled Chinese ICBMs. The DF-41 is solid-fueled, like the Russian missiles. Solid-fueled missiles are easier to deploy and quicker to launch than liquid versions.
The backbone of the United States nuclear arsenal, the Minuteman III missile, is a solid-fueled, silo-based weapon. However, it carries only one warhead, as its original three-warhead design was limited by nuclear treaties with Russia.
China may be ready to deploy the DF-41 in numbers. At least 18 of them appeared to be at the Inner Mongolia training ground in satellite photos earlier this year.
Though capable of carrying 10 warheads, it is likely only three would be on each missile, with the rest being dummy or decoy warheads, according to the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists (BAS).
Part of that has to do with warhead availability. China's nuclear warhead inventory is estimated at 290 for use on ballistic missiles and bomber aircraft, the Bulletin said in its 2019 report on Beijing's nuclear forces
JL-2 submarine-launched ballistic missile (SLBM)
A nuclear-powered submarine of the People's Liberation Army Navy's North Sea Fleet prepares to dive into the sea.
This is the main weapon aboard China's Jin-class fleet of nuclear-powered ballistic missile submarines. Four of the subs are in service, with two more under construction.
Each sub can carry 12 of the single-warhead JL-2 missiles. With an estimated range of 4,473 miles (7,200 kilometers), it is regarded as more of a regional than global weapon.
That range puts targets from India to Alaska in range from coastal Chinese waters, the BAS report says. But for it to threaten the continental US, for instance, the subs would have to get past formidable US anti-submarine choke-points around Japan and deep into the Pacific.
A longer-range SLBM, the JL-3, was reportedly tested in late 2018 and again in June this year, according to Jane's Defence Weekly , but that missile remains in development and it would be a surprise to see it on October 1.
Still, the Chinese SLBM force falls short of the US. The US Navy's Ohio-class ballistic submarine fleet numbers 14, with each of those subs capable of carrying 20 Trident missiles. Each of those missiles can carry up to 10 warheads.
DL-17
This is an example of a hypersonic glide vehicle, or HGV. It is launched via a standard missile rocket -- but after reaching the desired altitude, the booster rocket is jettisoned and the HGV carries the missile payload to target.
HGVs can fly low and fast -- at least five times the speed of sound, or 3,800 mph (6,115 kph), according to the Missile Defense Advocacy Alliance -- with maneuverability to avoid enemy radar detection and air defenses.
China has been testing HGV technology since 2014 and is expected to deploy it in 2020, according to the Missile Defense Project . The DF-17 will be capable of carrying both nuclear and conventional warheads, it added.
A Congressional Research Service report from September 17 notes that the US trails China -- and Russia -- in hypersonic development and is not expected to have an operational weapon before 2022.
The US is also not expected to have a an HGV with nuclear capability, the CRS says. "As a result, US hypersonic weapons will likely require greater accuracy and will be more technically challenging to develop than nuclear-armed Chinese and Russian systems," the report adds.
H-6N bomber
The H-6 has been Beijing's core long-range bomber for years, but images taken during flyover rehearsals for Tuesday's parade show what could be a significant upgrade.
Photos posted on social media sites in China -- which have been popping up on Western sites -- show what appear to be points to mount large missiles.
And so there is a fourth H-6N ...

(Image via Huitong's CMA-Blog) pic.twitter.com/pv94vxtgVF — @Rupprecht_A (@RupprechtDeino) September 23, 2019
These could be DF-21 anti-ship ballistic missiles, according to Joseph Trevethick, writing on the War Zone blog
The ability to carry the DF-21 would give the bomber "an impressive stand-off capability against large enemy warships, especially aircraft carriers," Trevethick said.
Jane's Defense Weekly noted another update on the H-6N over its predecessor, the H-6K -- a nose-mounted probe for aerial refueling. That gives the bomber the ability to fly deeper into the Pacific from the Chinese mainland.
Combined, the two developments mean US aircraft carriers would need to stay further out to sea during conflict and their aircraft, predominantly F/A-18 jets, would have more difficulty reaching targets.
DR-8 drone
This stealthy drone is drawing lots of attention leading up to the parade, much of that due to its sleek shape and supersonic speed.
China unveils DR-8 supersonic spy drone during National Day military parade rehearsal https://t.co/DqM3THztOj pic.twitter.com/iskIlfcjzZ — China Daily Mail (@ChinaDailyMail) September 17, 2019
Thought to be able to fly up to five times the speed of sound , the main mission of the DR-8 could be to get close to foreign aircraft carriers during conflict and send targeting information back to missile launchers, reports say.
The 1960s-designed Lockheed D-21B drone at the National Museum of the United States Air Force.
Some analysts note that satellite images of what is believed to be the DR-8, as well as tarp-covered objects seen in parade rehearsals, resemble the US military's D-21 supersonic reconnaissance drone , which was introduced in the 1960s.
The D-21 would self-destruct after dropping its high-resolution camera payload into friendly hands. The program was canceled in 1971 after four of the aircraft were lost in missions over ... China.
Sharp Sword drone
Chinese paramilitary policemen stand guard as a Chinese military vehicle possibly carrying a drone participates in an October 1 parade rehearsal.
China military watchers have been tweeting images of what they speculate is the Sharp Sword, a bat wing-shaped drone designed for use from aircraft carriers.
Inconnu, mais quoi qu'il soit cela ferait à priori partie des choses qui vont défiler au 1er Octobre. pic.twitter.com/80OUiDmCvp — East Pendulum (@HenriKenhmann) September 14, 2019
The drone is thought to have two internal bomb bays and its stealthy design indicates it's built for a new type of drone warfare, says analyst Sam Roggeveen, writing on the Lowy Institute's Interpreter blog
"What makes Sharp Sword different ... is that it is stealthy, which means it is built not for Afghanistan-type scenarios, where the enemy is equipped with little more than rifles, but for situations where it might have to evade sophisticated air defenses," Roggeven says.
The Sharp Sword was first tested in 2013, and an appearance in the October 1 parade could signal that it's close to deployment.
Other countries, including the US, have been developing drones to use off carriers. The US Navy's MQ-25 Stingray has just started flight tests with an eye to deployment in 2024 as an aerial tanker.
Drone submarine
Images have appeared online of what looks like a large torpedo on the flat bed of a truck.
The state-sanctioned Global Times noted its appearance in rehearsals, adding: "More mysterious was an image of a large autonomous underwater vehicle. Its mission remains unknown."
This could be one of China's first undersea drones. A 2015 report from the Rand Corp. think tank said the Beijing government, relying mainly on military funding, had set up at least 15 research teams at universities and institutes to develop technology for unmanned underwater vehicles (UUVs).
Tanks
A soldier mounted on an army tank in Beijing on September 21 during rehearsals for the October 1 military parade.
Images have surfaced of Type 99 main battle tanks and Type 15 light tanks during parade rehearsals.
Rehearsal from the ground in Beijing for the upcoming military parade marking the 70th anniversary of the People's Republic of China on October 1--Type 99 main battle tank, Type 15 light tank, Type 04 infantry fighting vehicle (IFV), Type 05 amphibious IFV for Chinese Marine Corps pic.twitter.com/5FmjY5YkC8 — Simon Chen, MD (@simonbchen) September 15, 2019
It also noted a change in the Type 99s, desert camouflage, which was "delighting enthusiasts who recalled the jungle look of previous parades."
There was no indication as to why the camouflage scheme was changed, but it prompted speculation about whether China sees a new mission for its ground forces.

Story 101
Chinese first began settling Taiwan in the early 1600s, and in 1683 the Qing put Chinese colonists and indigenous Taiwanese under two distinct kinds of administration. The Qing conquered Xinjiang , to the west, in 1759, the culmination of a long-running struggle with the Zunghar Mongols for dominance in Central Asia. The imperial court ran Xinjiang under loose military rule, allowing indigenous elites to manage local affairs. Chinese settlers followed, colonizing parts of northern Xinjiang. Tibet, too, fell under Qing control during the Zunghar wars, thanks to a combination of military intervention and religious diplomacy. The Tibetan lamas and Qing emperors agreed in principle to split spiritual and secular realms of authority between them, in a formula known as the “priest-patron relationship.”
Hong Kong is a different case, but it is also linked to the Qing imperial era and, perhaps surprisingly, to Xinjiang. The city was ceded by the Qing to Britain in the 1842 Treaty of Nanking that ended the first Opium War — the same treaty that opened treaty ports elsewhere on the Chinese coast to western commerce. This infamous agreement, widely known as an “unequal treaty,” is unquestionably a case of British imperialist aggression. But the idea of letting foreigners manage frontier trade enclaves like Hong Kong and the other treaty ports was a standard element of the Qing imperial repertoire. Indeed, Russians had traded in just such an enclave in Kiakhta, in Qing Mongolia, since 1727.
Before the first Opium War, the Qing faced a challenge off Xinjiang’s western border similar to the one they later faced from the British. Merchants from the Khanate of Kokand attacked Kashgar repeatedly to press for trade privileges. After years of instability, the Qing and Kokand reached a deal to open a trade enclave, let Kokandi officials apply their own laws and levy customs tariffs in return for governing the Kashgar marketplace, and granted most-favored-nation status to merchants from other lands. Many of the same Qing officials who negotiated the Treaty of Kokand in 1835 subsequently dealt with the British, and key articles of the treaties that settled the first Opium War in the 1840s mirrored those in the Kokand agreement. Trade enclaves may have been a foreign imposition, but they were also a tool of the Qing state.
When the C.C.P. first came to power in 1949, it tacitly recognized this imperial past. Like the Soviet Union — another socialist state that denounced Western imperialism while itself assuming power in a former empire — the P.R.C. did not want to look like an evil colonialist. So it acknowledged the ethnic diversity of the peoples living in the territory it controlled by recognizing 55 nationalities besides the majority Han. And it established titular “autonomous” administrations in non-majority-Han areas, in many of the same places where the Qing had ruled through local non-Han elites, including Xinjiang and Tibet.
The special economic zones that Deng Xiaoping established in the late 1970s in Shenzhen and other Chinese cities revived a Qing precedent. Those zones look a lot like the traditional trade enclaves in Kiakhta, Kashgar, Hong Kong and the treaty ports. And like the Qing trade enclaves, they facilitate commerce by granting legal and tax privileges to foreign businesses. Similarly, the promise of “One Country, Two Systems” — the principle that is supposed to guarantee Hong Kong a high degree of autonomy and serve, Beijing hopes, as a model for the future reunification of Taiwan with the mainland — is another echo of Qing policy.

Story 102
New Research: China Is Winning Some Health-Care Battles — And Losing Others
Ten years into China's multi-billion dollar investment in health-care reform, the country has made "spectacular" progress on some top public health challenges — including insurance coverage and deaths of children. But it's facing an uphill battle on others, including second-hand smoke and cancer, according to a special China-themed issue on September 28 of the journal The Lancet.
In the collection of nine peer-reviewed studies, commentaries, editorials and reviews of literature, researchers from academic institutions in Beijing and other areas of China, as well as the U.S. and Germany, found the country is making headway in reducing the incidence of infectious diseases like diarrhea and respiratory illnesses among its 1.3 billion citizens. They also found that China has dramatically increased the share of its population receiving insurance coverage for basic health care, up to 96%.
But they also show that the country has a long way to go in encouraging healthy lifestyles and cleaning up pollution to help people avoid cancers and chronic illnesses like heart disease and diabetes. Deaths from these ailments are on the rise.
Loading...
Don't see the graphic above? Click here.
"China is beginning to look very much like the U.S.," says Dr. Christopher Murray, director of the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation at the University of Washington, Seattle.
Still, the country has done well in saving the lives of children, Murray says.
"China is a spectacular success story in reducing child mortality at one of the fastest rates of decline in history," he says. "Their death rate among children under five went down by 9% a year for the past 20 years. That's extraordinary." Murray was an author on one of the Lancet China-themed papers examining causes of illness and death in China since 1990.
A lot of the efforts to reduce infectious disease rates began as early as the 1980s, Murray says. But beginning in 2008, Chinese officials added significant money to their efforts — because, according to Murray, health care was getting increasingly costly, and the government recognized it would need to do something or face a public backlash. China quadrupled health expenditures from 359 billion yuan ($50.2 billion) in 2008 to 1.52 trillion yuan ($212.6 billion) in 2017, says Winnie Yip, professor of international health policy and economics at the Harvard's T.H. Chan School of Public Health.
And they homed in on programs aimed at saving the lives of mothers and children. "They were very deliberate in focusing on reducing maternal and child mortality," says Murray. "They focused on reaching rural areas and ethnic minorities."
The Chinese efforts at saving children and reducing infectious diseases show up in a couple of examples. In a ranking of the number of deaths per 100,000 people, neonatal disorders was the fifth-most common cause in 1990; by 2017, it was down to 27th. And diarrheal diseases dropped from the 20th highest number of deaths per 100,000 in 1990 to the 78th highest cause of deaths in 2017, according to the Lancet study on causes of death and disease.
Worldwide, diarrhea is the second leading cause of death among children under five — responsible for the deaths of more than 2,000 children every day, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Getting the population covered by some level of insurance and tackling infectious diseases are impressive achievements. But China hasn't been as successful at helping its citizens avoid cancer, heart disease, stroke, obesity and diabetes, all of which are increasing.
Those chronic diseases often relate to lifestyle choices. And, says Murray, the government so far doesn't seem to want to get involved in people's personal decisions, like whether to smoke, drink or eat unhealthy foods.
"In the case of tobacco, the government itself is a producer of tobacco, and it's a tremendous source of revenue," he says. Cigarettes are relatively cheap in China — a pack costs the equivalent of about $1.40, according to one of the Lancet papers. In China, 26.6% of adults smoke, compared to 19% around the world, and 14% in the U.S.
At least when they get sick, almost all Chinese citizens have health insurance. "China has two kinds of insurance. One is for the employed population, and the other for everyone else," Yip says. In 2003, only 22% of the population had insurance, and all insurance came through employment. That's when the government began rolling out subsidized insurance for those who didn't get insurance through their workplace. By 2008, 87% of Chinese people were insured. And now, almost everyone is covered.
"They were able to do that in a very short time. It's pretty impressive," Yip says.
But there's a significant hiccup to the high rate of insurance coverage. "The government's principle is to cover basic health care," says Yip. "But in practice there's no explicit list of what is basic care. About the only thing people agree on is that cosmetic surgery is not basic health care."
As in many countries, the escalating cost of health care in China is hard to control, says Yip. China has a very entrepreneurial, unregulated health-care system. For example, the government used to allow hospitals to mark up drug prices without limit. As a result, drug costs in hospitals were out of control, and hospitals were prescribing unusually high amounts of prescription drugs.
Then the government initiated a zero-profit drug policy. "They have to sell the drug at the price they bought it for. It's working in that it has reduced prescriptions in hospitals," she says. But to make up for the lost revenue from drugs, she says, hospitals are now ordering more diagnostic tests than they did before the zero-profit drug policy. To bring in revenue, "rather than giving them drugs, physicians are now sending patients off for lab tests," she says.
Two of the biggest threats to the health of Chinese people are tobacco and environmental pollution. "Smoking is a complicated policy in China because many regions in China rely on the tobacco industry," says Yip.
Rates of exposure to secondhand smoke have gone down from 2010 to 2018, but remain high, according to one article in the China-themed Lancet. For example, 63% of workplaces allowed smoking in 2010, and 51% still did in 2018. In 2010, 39% of China's hospitals and health centers allowed smoking; in 2018, it was 24%. For restaurants, the number dropped from 89% to 73%.
"Recently, in a major government restructuring, tobacco has moved from the Department of Commerce to the Department of Health," Yip says. "It will take time, but I think the health interest will eventually take priority."
And pollution? For decades, China was keen on economic development without much thought of the environment or the effects of pollution on health. One 2015 study by the independent research group Berkeley Earth found that air pollution contributes to 1.6 million deaths per year in China. But now, health is part of the equation when considering future economic development, Yip says.
"It's not easy," she says. "With the magnitude of pollution — air, water soil --that, too, will take time."
Susan Brink is a freelance writer who covers health and medicine. She is the author of The Fourth Trimester and co-author of A Change of Heart.

Story 103
Alphaville is completely free.
All you have to do is register.
Ready to subscribe, View our subscription options

Story 104
The People’s Bank of China has approved PayPal’s acquisition of a 70% equity state in GoPay (Guofubao Information Technology Co. [GoPay], Ltd.), which will make PayPal the first foreign payment platform to provide online payment services in China. GoPay has licenses for online and mobile transactions, and mainly provides payment products for industries including e-commerce, cross-border commerce, aviation tourism and others.
According to a statement from Guofubao, PayPal acquired the controlling stake through the Shanghai-based subsidiary Yinbaobao Information Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.
The companies did not disclose deal terms.
The news of PayPal’s entry into China comes at a time when there’s increased tension between the U.S. and China, with The White House reportedly now considering curbing some U.S. investments in China amid the trade dispute between the countries.
Though China’s payments market today is led by local players, including eWallet providers like AliPay and WeChat Pay on the mobile side, there’s still plenty of room for it to grow — which would benefit PayPal.
On the mobile payments side alone, the market is expected to grow 21.8%, from 2017 to $96.73 trillion in 2023, driven partly by increasing demand for e-commerce, a report from Frost & Sullivan found. The market has also seen an increase in cross-border transactions, particularly in sectors like e-commerce, travel and overseas education. These reached $6.66 trillion in 2016.
The report additionally said the total number of active mobile payment customers is expected to reach 956 million by 2023, up from 562 million in 2017.
Last year, China’s central bank said it would open up further to foreign payment companies.
U.S. firms in the financial services market have for a long time struggled to enter China. Notably, American Express became the first U.S. card network to gain permission to set up card-clearing services in China last November, and Mastercard this year said it would try to set up a joint venture with another local player to gain entry.
PayPal said the transaction is expected to close in Q4 2019 and is subject to customary closing conditions.
The company’s full statement on the acquisition is below:

Story 105
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 106
China began to detail its ambitions for the social credit system six years ago, saying it could be a reality by 2020. While some critics saw it as a form of total social control, it was primarily envisioned as a tool for a country where people often break the law in big and little ways without consequences. The Chinese authorities typically exert social control through the police, who are setting up separate, more draconian systems that include biometric data, like face scans and DNA records.
In any case, social credit has proved difficult to use on individuals. China’s central bank canceled plans to include data from the popular electronic payment systems run by Alibaba and Tencent, two Chinese internet giants. Pilot programs have been started in only a few places.
Even there, the programs have had little impact. During a visit to Rongcheng, a social credit pilot city in eastern China, officials said that a good score would get you a speedier check-in at the hospital and easier access to loans. But hospital workers and teachers said social credit had not affected how they do their jobs. Many residents said they were unaware it existed.
“I might have heard about it somewhere but I think it’s none of my business and not relevant to our lives in the village,” said Liang Xiaoli, a store owner. Besides, she added, “I don’t really care. I mean, why should I?”
Residents were rewarded based on factors like whether they helped to keep the city clean. Officials with clipboards collected data and handed out self-assessment forms. They posted photos of citizens with top scores on bulletin boards. In many cases the standouts were related to local Communist Party leaders. Liang Huaying, a Rongcheng official, said they got points because they most often showed up at official events.
The system has proved more adaptable to ensuring good conduct for business.
The social credit system brings together various blacklists long run by different ministries and local governments, allowing the authorities to broadly and consistently punish wrongdoers. But while China is assembling a nationwide social credit system, it still has dozens of city-level systems that use different scoring methods.
Ms. Fei, the daughter of the silk factory owner, found out she was in the system during a work trip in late 2017, when she could not buy a train ticket home. Then her bank accounts were frozen. She was eventually fired from her job as a financial analyst.

Story 107
Zhao Jiaxin and Howey Ou are trying to convince Beijing to take radical carbon-cutting action
One is a student engineer who became obsessed after watching an incendiary film about air pollution. The other is a 16-year-old who went on China’s first climate strike.
Zhao Jiaxin and Howey Ou are part of a small but growing minority of young Chinese determined to press their country towards more radical carbon-cutting action. The pair are also China’s sole winners of carbon neutral “green tickets” the UN is providing to 100 young people around the world.
China is the world’s leading carbon emitter. It generates 60% of its electricity from coal-fired power and coal consumption and carbon emissions have risen for two years in a row after a plateau between 2014 and 2016. Emissions are expected to rise again in the figures for this year.
Yet within the country, the positive half of the picture is more likely to be heard: how devoted the nation is to Xi Jinping’s goal of constructing an “ecological civilisation”, how China is a climate change leader compared with the US, and how much record-breaking renewable energy capacity it continues to install.
Howey does not think this is enough. She conducted a public climate strike in front of government offices in Guilin in southern China for several days in late May – Greta Thunberg called her a “true hero” – before the authorities said she had to stop because she did not have a permit.
The 16-year-old, who spends her spare time planting trees around her hometown, was nominated to travel to this week’s United Nations climate summit in New York by the youth activist group Earth Uprising and nearly had to back out of attending because her chaperone was worried she would not stick to the Chinese government script.
“People in China don’t know the situation and think the Chinese government is doing a lot and is great,” she said.
“The point is that people here can’t petition to protest and do something about the climate. Even if people want to change [things] they think activism in China will fail and the cost is too [high].”
In a country where the party line controls the climate debate to the extent that a general apathy infuses the broader public, Howey and Zhao are the sudden, fresh young faces of environmental activism.
There are some signs they are not alone. Young people and women living in cities are increasingly aware of global climate issues and China’s place at the centre of them, according to a recent study in the journal The China Quarterly.
“In China, the good news is that compared to the population, younger Chinese tend to be more concerned about climate change,” said Liu Xinsheng, the lead author of the report from Texas A&M University. “The bad news is that overall, average Chinese climate change concern is low relative to many countries around the world.”
Zhao’s passion for climate issues was triggered by the documentary Under the Dome, which he watched four years ago while studying engineering at Shanghai Jiao Tong University.
Facebook Twitter Pinterest Zhao Jiaxin: ‘I found something I could do for society.’ Photograph: Supplied
The film inspired him to set up an NGO to raise awareness of the climate crisis on campus and create a platform disseminating information on the social media app WeChat.
“I found something I could do for society,” Zhao said of his awakening after seeing the film. “In my last year [at university] I felt that if I did not communicate, did not advocate about what I thought was true, then powerful [other ideas] would dominate society.”
Under the Dome, an examination of the policy failures and personal effects of air pollution in China, appeared online for several days in February and was viewed by as many as 300 million people before being banned.
It is unlikely there will be climate strikes in China on Friday like those being staged in the west. The country passed a law after the Tiananmen crackdown in 1989 that imposed strict conditions on public gatherings and forced groups to register with the police if they want to stage a protest.
Organisations connected to the government such as the China Youth Climate Action Network, founded in 2007, are one of the official routes young people can take to raise climate awareness. The group holds events and educational training to help raise awareness of climate issues among China’s young people.
Zheng Xiaowen, CYCAN’s executive director, said: “I don’t think student protests are a helpful solution to the problem in China. Because of the unique cultural and political circumstances, Chinese people tend to resort to more moderate ways to voice their concerns.
Howey Ou (@howey_ou) #FridaysForFuture I don’t have to stuck in the way of striking,I must do what I could do right now.If I keep‘preparing’,the time will lose.While the time is the most gracious thing to survive from climate crisis.Planted 6 trees in 13th,Sep.Starting #PlantforSurvive,This is WEEK1. pic.twitter.com/IFvFW0ypN8
“We need to advocate actions against climate change in ways that best suit China. For us, the best way is to work with the government and help come up with plans to tackle those issues together.”
While small steps are being made, the lack of awareness of climate change in the country is alarming, Liu said, because China is the world’s leading greenhouse gas emitter and one of the countries that could be badly affected by extreme weather events and rising sea levels, with knock-on effects for the economy and health.
“China has top-down policymaking,” Liu said. “It is hard to imagine without public awareness and concern for climate issues that the government policies will be successful.”
No Chinese media outlets have signed up to a global pledge to increase coverage of the climate crisis in the week leading up to the UN summit on Friday, a pledge 250 media groups have agreed to including the Guardian and Bloomberg.
The inertia bothers Howey, but she believes there is hope: “It is frustrating to me, but I’m still alive and have the passion for change.”

Additional research contributions from Zhong Yunfan

Story 108
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 109
YINCHUAN, China — In China’s northwest, the government is stripping the most overt expressions of the Islamic faith from a picturesque valley where most residents are devout Muslims. The authorities have destroyed domes and minarets on mosques, including one in a small village near Linxia, a city known as “Little Mecca.”
Similar demolitions have been carried out in Inner Mongolia, Henan and Ningxia, the homeland of China’s largest Muslim ethnic minority, the Hui. In the southern province of Yunnan, three mosques were closed. From Beijing to Ningxia, officials have banned the public use of Arabic script.
This campaign represents the newest front in the Chinese Communist Party’s sweeping rollback of individual religious freedoms, after decades of relative openness that allowed more moderate forms of Islam to blossom. The harsh crackdown on Muslims that began with the Uighurs in Xinjiang is spreading to more regions and more groups.

Story 110
Video shows what appear to be Uighur or other minority prisoners led away by police
Drone footage has emerged showing police leading hundreds of blindfolded and shackled men from a train in what is believed to be a transfer of inmates in Xinjiang.
The video, posted anonymously on YouTube last week, shows what appear to be Uighur or other minorities wearing blue and yellow uniforms, with cleanly shaven heads, their eyes covered, sitting in rows on the ground and later being led away by police. Prisoners in China are often transferred with handcuffs and masks covering their faces.
Nathan Ruser, a researcher with the Australian Strategic Policy Institute’s international cyber policy centre, used clues in the footage, including landmarks and the position of the sun, to verify the video, which he believes was shot at a train station west of Korla in south-east Xinjiang in August last year.
Much of the focus of international criticism of China’s far-reaching anti-terrorism campaign in Xinjiang has centred on the extrajudicial detentions of more than 1 million ethnic Uighurs and other Muslim minorities in internment and political re-education camps.
Q&A Who are the Uighurs? Show Hide The Uighurs are a predominantly Muslim Turkic-speaking ethnic group, primarily from China’s northwestern region of Xinjiang. They have been subject to religious and ethnic persecution by Chinese authorities, with rights groups claiming that in recent years more than 1 million people have been held in detention camps. Having initially denied the existence of the camps, China has described them as “vocational education centres” in the face of mounting evidence in the form of government documents, satellite imagery and testimonies from escaped detainees. Satellite images have also suggested that more than two dozen Islamic religious sites have been partly or completely demolished since 2016. In July 2019 China claimed that most of the people sent to the mass detention centres have “returned to society”, but this has been disputed by relatives of those detained. Around 1-1.5m Uighur are estimated to live overseas as a diaspora, many of whom have campaigned against the treatment of their families. Martin Belam
The number of formal arrests and prison sentences has also increased. According to analysis by the New York Times, local courts sentenced 230,000 people to prison or other punishments in 2017 and 2018, as the campaign got under way. Xinjiang accounts for less than 2% of the country’s population but about 21% of all arrests in 2017.
Ruser said the detainees were most likely being transferred to prisons in Korla from Kashgar, where the crackdown has been particularly severe. The area is believed to be home to several re-education camps but fewer detention centres.
“It counters the propaganda offensive China is trying to show,” he said, underlining the treatment of those within the penal system.
China has been taking diplomats and select groups of journalists on carefully orchestrated tours of Xinjiang and has defended its anti-extremism methods, describing them as a model for other countries to follow.
On Sunday, Australia’s foreign minister, Marise Payne, described the video as “deeply disturbing”.
The video was posted on YouTube by an account named War on Fear, whose stated goal is to fight fear inspired by hi-tech surveillance.

Story 111
Become an FT subscriber to read:
Leverage our market expertise
Expert insights, analysis and smart data help you cut through the noise to spot trends, risks and opportunities.
Join over 300,000 Finance professionals who already subscribe to the FT.

Story 112
As the People’s Republic of China celebrates the 70th anniversary of its founding on Oct. 1, it gets mixed reviews from people around the world, according to Pew Research Center’s latest Global Attitudes Survey. A median of 41% across the 32 countries surveyed have a favorable opinion of China, compared with a median of 37% who have an unfavorable opinion.
And, while majorities in most countries agree China’s influence on the world stage has grown markedly, this has not necessarily translated into favorable views of the country, according to the survey of 34,904 people conducted May 13 to Aug. 29, 2019.
Opinion of China across most of Western Europe is, on balance, negative. While 51% in Greece have a positive view of China, pluralities or majorities in Western European countries have an unfavorable view, ranging from 53% in Spain to 70% in Sweden. The share of people who evaluate China positively has also dropped since 2018 by double-digits in nearly half of the Western European countries surveyed, including Sweden (down 17 percentage points), the Netherlands (-11 points) and the UK (-11). Only in Greece and Italy has opinion improved.
Central and Eastern Europeans are somewhat more divided in their assessments. More Bulgarians, Poles and Lithuanians have favorable than unfavorable views of China, and Hungarians are nearly evenly divided. Conversely, a plurality of Slovaks and a majority of Czechs have unfavorable views of China.
Negative views of China predominate in both the United States and Canada, where 60% and 67% respectively see the country unfavorably. In both countries, this is the highest unfavorable opinion of China recorded in the Center’s polling history. (For more on U.S. opinion, see “U.S. Views of China Turn Sharply Negative Amid Trade Tensions.”) It also reflects the largest year-on-year change in either country. For example, in Canada, unfavorable opinion increased 22 points in the wake of the high-profile arrest of technology company Huawei’s chief financial officer and the ensuing Canadian-Chinese trade conflict.
China also receives unfavorable marks from most of its neighbors in the Asia-Pacific region. In Japan, 85% say they have an unfavorable opinion of China – the most negative among all countries surveyed. More than half in South Korea (63%), Australia (57%) and the Philippines (54%) share this sentiment. Opinion of China has also fallen across the region over the course of Pew Research Center’s polling and is now hovering at or near historic lows in each of the countries surveyed. In Indonesia, the change over the past year has been particularly stark, falling 17 percentage points.
Russians stand out for having the most positive view of China across all countries surveyed (71% favorable). A majority in Ukraine, too, share these views (57%).
Majorities or pluralities in each of the Middle Eastern, Latin American and sub-Saharan African countries surveyed have a favorable view of China – ranging from a low of 46% in South Africa to a high of 70% in Nigeria.
Younger people tend to have a more positive stance on China across most of the countries surveyed. In 20 countries, adults ages 18 to 29 have more favorable views than those ages 50 and older. In Brazil, for example, two-thirds (67%) of younger adults have a favorable view of China, while just 40% of older adults share that opinion. Large age gaps also exist in Lithuania (where younger adults’ views are 25 points more favorable), Mexico (+23 points), Indonesia (+21), Australia (+21), Poland (+21) and Ukraine (+20).
However, in many countries, those 50 and older are also less likely to offer any opinion of China. About a third or more of older adults in Indonesia, Ukraine, Argentina, Mexico, Tunisia and Brazil give no opinion when it comes to China.
Note: See full topline results and methodology.

Story 113
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 114
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 115
Explore the new agenda
We live in a time of disruption but where others see difficulty, we see opportunity - not just to survive but to thrive. Subscribe to the new agenda and lead the way in business and beyond.

Story 116
The massive military parade marking the 70th anniversary of the founding of the Chinese state was crafted to attract international attention. ASSOCIATED PRESS
On the first of October, China held an enormous National Day military parade in Beijing, jam-packed with missiles, tanks and other new gear. To drum up international interest, China ran previews–complete with “accidental” reveals–before the big show, holding mysterious, canvas-shrouded “rehearsals” under cover of darkness, pushing Western observers into a rapture of existential hand-wringing over the revelations to come. And it worked. The fearful message got through, and the news of China’s hypersonic glide vehicles and other new gear were met with alarming headlines.
Excessive Western pearl-clutching over new Chinese military technology is exactly what the Chinese regime wanted.
China’s hope is that reflexive Western fear mongering will drive poor policy decisions all over the globe. Yes, the Chinese military is certainly strong and getting stronger, but America’s chronic over-hyping of China’s military prowess only serves to make the Chinese military look stronger than it is. China reaps great geopolitical benefits from maintaining that perception.
This gear-driven defense hysteria is not good for the United States. Threat inflation incentivizes over-reaction and short-term American responses, while de-emphasizing efforts to build comprehensive strategic approaches able to better manage a rising and powerful China. Unfounded fear of China’s new gear fosters U.S. defeatism, and encourages potential regional partners to hedge their bets.
But stoking Western hysteria is not good for China, either. Perceptions of Western timidity feeds China’s already aggressive and often arrogant approach to geopolitical challenges, raising the risk of a catastrophic miscalculation.
The challenge for the West is to respect these public shows of martial force while keeping our wits about us. Fear may be an easy motivator that gets media eyeballs and unlocks Congressional appropriations, but it far is too dangerous to rely upon as a strategy.
To bend Winston Churchill’s old adage, the world has nothing to fear from China’s big parade but fear itself.
China even held "previews" to build excitement at the eventual unboxing of new tech. ASSOCIATED PRESS
Take Content-Free Unboxings With A Grain Of Salt:
China’s National Day Parade offered a smoggy smorgasbord of new tanks, missile systems, electronic warfare gear and deterrence tools—all helpfully labeled for the benefit of Western observers. Again and again, the parade hammered home the message that China’s military, with the backing of China’s manufacturing and emergent high-tech research capabilities, is a professional force that few can match.
That’s fine. American media audiences have an insatiable apatite for the mystery of “unboxing” new things, and certainly China has made enormous strides since the backward excesses of the Cultural Revolution.
But Western observers don’t need to help burnish China’s reputation. In the absence of detailed information at these high-profile “unboxings” of new Chinese weaponry, America’s public-sector China-watchers can only report what they see in stage-managed “reveals.” But, far too often, observers presume the revealed equipment is effective on the battlefield. In the absence of that contextual information on performance—which is difficult to come by—the default assumption is that each new system is perfectly ready to threaten. Again, it is a habit that endows China’s military-industrial complex with far too much unearned competence.
Take shipbuilding. China may be quite good at naval shipbuilding. But aside from raw shipbuilding capacity–which barely beats shipbuilding superpower South Korea–China’s naval vessels suffer several of the same design oversights that bedevil American naval ships. But the way the story is told is very different. For China observers, a design change on a Chinese destroyer is more likely to be interpreted as fearsome new development, while a similar design change on a U.S. ship is probably set to be criticized as a design oversight.
Even the expressions of China’s raw industrial capability, while daunting, are not necessarily so fearsome when presented with a little extra context. Certainly, it sounds frightening to note, as one observer did, that, as of mid-May, China has launched sixty Type 056 Corvettes and twenty Type 052D Destroyers in seven years.
That’s scary.
But we forget that America has already demonstrated that capability. Between 1975 and 1980, the United States commissioned thirty Spruance class Destroyers. America still has that capacity; the shipyard that built them, now owned by Huntington Ingalls, exists today, building Coast Guard Cutters, Destroyers and Amphibious Assault Vessels. And what about China’s sixty 1,500-ton Type 056 Corvettes? Well, they are puny vessels that the U.S. Navy doesn’t even build anymore. But the U.S. could. In fact, the U.S. Coast Guard is building almost sixty 350-ton Fast Response Cutters in one of Bollinger’s Louisiana shipyards—commissioning thirty-five of the vessels in about seven years. Both the design and operational tempo could be scaled up to something matching the Type 056.
In shaping narratives, context is quite important. The commissioning of the first of China’s seven Type 071 Yuzhao class landing platform docks (LPDs) occurred in 2007, and the others have either entered service or are preparing to be commissioned in the next year. The new Chinese LPDs have been hailed as great successes, introducing China to blue water amphibious operations. In the same time period though, America has quietly commissioned ten far more capable San Antonio class (LPD 17) class amphibious transports. And while the LPD 17 was a terrible shipbuilding story at the start, Huntington Ingalls’ ultimate success with the project has been under-appreciated.
When Western observers present Chinese gear, alone and without context, there are few checks on the public’s imagination. Currently, China is receiving accolades for launching their first flat-deck Type 075 amphibious helicopter carrier. That’s great—it was built quickly. (Though recent alarming reports that the ship went from keel to launch in about six months overlook Chinese reports that construction of the vessel was reportedly underway in early 2017, which would generally match the three-year U.S. pacing for laying the keel and launching flat-decks of similar size.) But, yard efficiency aside, these big platforms are relatively simple to build–even France could lay the keel and launch their Mistral class helicopter carriers in little more than a year. Even though these types of vessels have been in service all over the world and China has been talking about a flat-deck helicopter carrier (which was previously called the Type 081) for years now, China’s helicopter carriers were delayed and delayed again. At some point, might all that exhaustive pre-planning have become interpreted as, in essence, a delay? Or evidence of a design problem? Similar performance in the United States would be roundly criticized.
Even the autonomous HSU-001 submersibles that were revealed at the parade yesterday would have benefited from a discussion of American capabilities. Defense giant Boeing has been operating larger prototypes for years now, chalking up over 2,500 hours on Echo Voyager, a 51 foot long autonomous submarine with a range of 6,500 nautical miles and an endurance measured in months. Boeing’s self-funded investment paid off, and the U.S. Navy ordered four of these Extra-Large Unmanned Underwater Vehicles earlier this year. And that’s not all. The U.S. Navy is racing ahead with additional contracts for many other autonomous undersea vehicles.
Alarmist observers are always quick to say that they are merely trying to raise awareness to the coming challenge from China. That, in itself, is a noble goal. But, without context, fear-driven hyperbole or overblown efforts to leverage the public’s apatite for mystery is backfiring for everyone but the alarmists.
It would be wise to heed the warnings from the Pentagon’s latest Annual Report to Congress on Military and Security Developments Involving the People’s Republic of China that detail China’s efforts to conduct influence operations and to engage in public opinion warfare. This–in helping raise awareness of media manipulation– might be where American agencies and entities involved in the observation and assessment of China can do more to raise public awareness. They can also do much more to shape the public dissemination of an informed narrative that warns of the challenges ahead without reliance upon overt appeals to fear.
China wants the U.S. public to fear the Chinese military. The last thing China wants is for international observers to put aside their fears and begin realizing that China’s big military and industrial complex and its “Made In China” aspirations are just an imperfect cover for creeping authoritarianism and a Communist bureaucracy that is afraid of its own people.

Story 117
President Donald Trump meets with China's President Xi Jinping at the start of their bilateral meeting at the G20 leaders summit in Osaka, Japan, June 29, 2019. Kevin Lemarque | Reuters
China is closing in on the U.S. in some areas of technology and could soon even overtake America in certain respects, experts told CNBC. The world's second-largest economy is already showing some good progress in its push on homegrown industries such as artificial intelligence and chips. "China is closing the technological gap with the United States, and though it may not match U.S. capabilities across the board, it will soon be one of the leading powers in technologies such as artificial intelligence (AI), robotics, energy storage, fifth-generation cellular networks (5G), quantum information systems, and possibly biotechnology," U.S.-based think tank the Council on Foreign Relations (CFR) said in a recent report. It comes as Beijing gears up to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China on October 1. With much fanfare expected, the event will see the Asian giant flaunt its military prowess in a parade in Beijing and President Xi Jinping talk up the nation's progress
China's digital footprint
A big part of the nation's development has been technological. China's digital economy accounts for over 34% of the country's gross domestic product. It's also home to some of the largest technology companies in the world, including e-commerce giant Alibaba and tech conglomerate Tencent. That's thanks to an internet boom over the years. The number of internet users in China at the end of 2008 totaled 298 million — or just over 22% of the population at that time, according to official statistics from the China Internet Network Information Center (CNNIC). That number rose to 854 million at the end of June this year — or over 60% of the population.
We have a technology grip from the U.S. that is actually being torn apart by China at this point. Eoin Murray head of investment at Hermes Investment Management
Just over 99% of Chinese web-users access the internet on their mobile devices, according to official government statistics. In the U.S. just over 92% of internet users access it on mobile, separate statistics from eMarketer show. That mobile focus in China has helped companies roll out products quickly and on a large scale. And China's rise is threatening America's historically strong position in technology. "We have a technology grip from the U.S. that is actually being torn apart by China at this point," Eoin Murray, head of investment at Hermes Investment Management told CNBC's "Squawk Box Europe" last week.
Copycat image changing
But the rise of China's tech industry has been tarnished by allegations of intellectual property theft and claims that the country's technology companies have been copycats. Whether it is Chinese-designed phones that look similar to Apple's iPhone, or Chinese search or e-commerce companies being compared to Silicon Valley's Google or Amazon, China has for a long time carried the image of a tech follower. But that image is changing. "For years, Silicon Valley looked down on China tech and believed it was only copying. But today, there is awareness that China is innovating and getting ahead in certain tech arenas," Rebecca Fannin, author of "Tech Titans of China," told CNBC.
There are even signs that some of America's biggest tech firms have been imitating some Chinese companies now. Facebook released a short video app called Lasso last year to fend off competition from TikTok, an app owned by Chinese firm Bytedance. TikTok has made major inroads with U.S consumers.
China threat to US tech
Over the past few years, Beijing has publicly stated its ambitions to develop critical future technology, such as artificial intelligence and the next-generation of super-fast mobile networks known as 5G. Even before the U.S.-China trade war started, Beijing said in 2017 that it wanted to become a world leader in AI by 2030. Some of China's biggest companies including Alibaba, Huawei, Tencent and Baidu, are all investing heavily in AI. Just last week, Alibaba followed Huawei's footsteps and released its own AI chip.
The US-China trade war is hurting both sides. China's ambition is unstoppable to become a global leader in tech, trade war or not. Rebecca Fannin author of "Tech Titans of China"
Beijing has also said semiconductors will be a key area of the Made in China 2025 plan, a government initiative that aims to boost the production of higher-value products. China wants to make more of the chips it uses. Meanwhile, Huawei, the world's largest telecommunications equipment-maker, has secured more commercial 5G contracts than its rivals Nokia and Ericsson. 5G promises super-fast data speeds and the ability to support new technologies like autonomous vehicles.
US response
Technology has been a key part of the ongoing U.S-China trade war with one company in particular, Huawei, being caught in the crosshairs. The Chinese technology giant has been put on a U.S. blacklist known as the Entity List which restricts its access to American technology. But this has only sharpened its focus on trying to make more of the components and software it needs. The company has been releasing its own processors for smartphones and recently unveiled its own operating system, in a bid to become less reliant on the U.S.
Washington's response to the rise of China's tech industry has been about containment rather than trying to stay ahead, according to one expert. "So far it has been primarily focused on slowing China down and preventing critical technologies from flowing to Beijing," Adam Segal, one of the authors of CFR's report, told CNBC. "While there is a growing recognition in Congress and in the White House that the U.S. needs to do more to accelerate innovation at home, the response so far has fallen short." Segal suggested the U.S. should restore federal funding for research and development to its historical average. This would mean increasing funding from 0.7% to 1.1% of gross domestic product (GDP) annually, or from $146 billion to about $230 billion at the 2018 exchange rate, according to Segal. Fannin echoed some of Segal's comments and said the U.S. needs a "national agenda" in key technology areas. She added that the current trade war won't stop China's rise. "The US-China trade war is hurting both sides. China's ambition is unstoppable to become a global leader in tech, trade war or not," Fannin told CNBC.

Story 118
Shuping Wang, a Chinese doctor who braved the loss of her job as well as ostracism, assault and the destruction of her first marriage to expose the spread of AIDS in rural China, died on Sept. 21 in Salt Lake City. She was 59.
She died while hiking in a canyon with her husband, Gary Christensen. A preliminary autopsy indicated that the cause was a heart attack, he said. She had lived in Salt Lake City in recent years after settling in the United States.
Her death came just over two weeks after a stage play based on her experience as a whistle-blower opened in London.
Dr. Wang worked for nearly two decades in relative quiet as a medical researcher in her adopted homeland, most recently at the University of Utah. Colleagues, she said, sometimes did not know of her dramatic past.

Story 119
Hong Kong (CNN Business) China's economic slowdown keeps getting worse. That could give the country incentive to repair its trading relationship with the United States and take more steps to stimulate its economy.
The country released data Monday that showed industrial production — an important indicator for China's economy — increased by just 4.4% in August compared to a year earlier. That's worse than the sector's performance in July, when it grew by 4.8%, its weakest growth in 17 years.
Industrial production is important because it measures the output of key businesses in China's manufacturing, mining and utilities sectors. The latest figure was also worse than the 5.2% growth that analysts polled by Reuters expected.
Other data released Monday by China's National Bureau of Statistics was also poor. Retail sales growth slowed to 7.5% in August, down from July's 7.6% year-on-year uptick.
The world's second biggest economy has been struggling because of its trade war with the United States. It's also facing domestic challenges as it tries to rely less on debt to fuel growth.
Read More

Story 120
Few countries commemorate historical milestones with the zeal of the People’s Republic of China (PRC), and 2019 offers a bonanza of celebratory opportunities: 40 years since Deng Xiaoping launched the economic reforms that opened China to the rest of the world; 40 years since China and the United States established diplomatic relations; and, on October 1, 70 years since the founding of the PRC. These events provide the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) opportunities to laud past achievements, legitimize the course it has set for the country, and rally support for challenges yet to come. And as Chinese President Xi Jinping surveys the country’s progress, he can point to any number of extraordinary economic, social, and geopolitical achievements.
Outside observers tend to credit the Deng-era reforms for China’s meteoric rise. But Xi and the rest of the Chinese leadership are more focused on the earliest years of the PRC—when Mao Zedong sat at the helm of the Communist Party. Like Mao, Xi has prioritized strengthening the party, inculcating collective socialist values, and rooting out nonbelievers. Like Mao, who invoked “domestic and foreign reactionaries” to build nationalist sentiment and solidify the party’s legitimacy, Xi has adopted a consistent refrain of unspecified but “ubiquitous” internal and external threats. And like Mao, Xi has encouraged the creation of a cult of personality around himself.
Yet Xi has revived the methods and symbols of Maoism not in service of a return to the past but in order to advance his own transformative agenda, one that seeks to ensure that all political, social, and economic activity within, and increasingly outside of, China serves the interests of the CCP. He is creating a model that reasserts the power of the Communist Party; progressively erases the distinction between public and private in both the political and economic spheres; and seeks to integrate foreign actors, including private businesses, more deeply into a system of CCP values and institutions. Xi also aspires to accomplish what Mao and his successors could not:

Story 121
WASHINGTON — President Trump, already facing impeachment for pressuring Ukraine to investigate his political rivals, publicly called on China on Thursday to examine former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. as well, an extraordinary request for help from a foreign power that could benefit him in next year’s election.
“ China should start an investigation into the Bidens , because what happened in China is just about as bad as what happened with Ukraine,” Mr. Trump told reporters as he left the White House to travel to Florida. His request came just moments after he discussed upcoming trade talks with China and said that “if they don’t do what we want, we have tremendous power.”
The president’s call for Chinese intervention means that Mr. Trump and his attorney general have now solicited assistance in discrediting the president’s political opponents from Ukraine, Australia, Italy and, according to one report, Britain. In speaking so publicly on Thursday, a defiant Mr. Trump pushed back against critics who have called such requests an abuse of power, essentially arguing that there was nothing wrong with seeking foreign help to fight corruption.
Throughout his presidency, Mr. Trump has made little effort to hide actions or statements that critics called outrageous violations of norms and standards. And yet because he does them in public, they seem to stir less blowback than if they had been done behind closed doors. Among other things, he repeatedly called on his own Justice Department to investigate his Democratic foes and eventually fired his first attorney general for not protecting him from the Russia investigation.

Story 122
Since BRI was launched, in 2013, China has sunk hundreds of billions of dollars into ports, railways, and energy projects across Asia, Africa, and Europe. The goal is to not only expand infrastructure, including in many developing countries, but also win over local populations and governments by funneling investment, jobs, and economic growth in their direction. The path forward has been bumpy, though. Questions regarding the commercial value of certain projects and concerns over the initiative being a backdoor for more sinister geopolitical ambitions have undercut Beijing’s official rhetoric of “win-win” cooperation and illustrated the uncertainty surrounding its plans.
As Beijing marks the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People’s Republic of China, questions over the implementation of BRI are among several facing the country regarding the limits of its power—from protests in Hong Kong to the escalating trade war with the United States.
“There is a reason that lots of these gaps in global infrastructure that China is trying to fill exist in the first place,” Andrew Cainey, a China expert and an associate fellow at Chatham House, a London-based think tank, told me. “It’s because they are not so commercially appealing.”
Read: China is quietly reshaping the world
This tension—between the expectations surrounding BRI and the challenges of fulfilling them—is on display here in Khorgos.
The project has posted impressive overall growth numbers, and Kazakh officials are keen to talk up plans to develop the area. The dry port processed 44 percent more cargo, as measured by so-called 20-foot-equivalent units, in 2018 compared with the previous year, according to data provided by the authorities here. Kazakh officials were also keen to point to the area’s potential for growth. A 2017 study commissioned by the International Union of Railways estimated that trade volume between China and Europe via rail would increase sharply over the next decade, with Kazakhstan becoming the key crossroads. Similarly, officials mentioned new investments from Chinese companies to build facilities and factories in the special economic zone on the Kazakh side as a sign of the area’s growth.
“Khorgos is about turning Kazakhstan into Central Asia’s transit hub,” Nurlan Toganbayev, the director of the commercial department at the Khorgos Gateway, told me. “We know this is no easy task, but we’re growing, and we take great pride in that.”
Yet even these touted successes point to future problems for the project. Rail transport is still only a small percentage of global trade; sea and air routes, which are cheaper and faster, respectively, form the bulk of goods moved between China and Europe. The land route has also been criticized for waste and fraud. Many of the cargo containers returning by rail from Europe to China through Kazakhstan are empty, officials admit, due to a trade imbalance, but the problem may run even deeper. The Chinese government provides significant subsidies to encourage use of the rail links, and a recent report by the Chinese Business Journal found that many exporters transported empty containers from China to Europe just to receive those subsidies. China Railway, the government operator of the rail line, admitted to the state-run Global Times that the problem existed, but said that it has been eradicated. Not only does the episode illustrate the commercial limits of large-scale shipping by train, but it calls into question the viability of the Khorgos project.

Story 123
Since BRI was launched, in 2013, China has sunk hundreds of billions of dollars into ports, railways, and energy projects across Asia, Africa, and Europe. The goal is to not only expand infrastructure, including in many developing countries, but also win over local populations and governments by funneling investment, jobs, and economic growth in their direction. The path forward has been bumpy, though. Questions regarding the commercial value of certain projects and concerns over the initiative being a backdoor for more sinister geopolitical ambitions have undercut Beijing’s official rhetoric of “win-win” cooperation and illustrated the uncertainty surrounding its plans.
As Beijing marks the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People’s Republic of China, questions over the implementation of BRI are among several facing the country regarding the limits of its power—from protests in Hong Kong to the escalating trade war with the United States.
“There is a reason that lots of these gaps in global infrastructure that China is trying to fill exist in the first place,” Andrew Cainey, a China expert and an associate fellow at Chatham House, a London-based think tank, told me. “It’s because they are not so commercially appealing.”
Read: China is quietly reshaping the world
This tension—between the expectations surrounding BRI and the challenges of fulfilling them—is on display here in Khorgos.
The project has posted impressive overall growth numbers, and Kazakh officials are keen to talk up plans to develop the area. The dry port processed 44 percent more cargo, as measured by so-called 20-foot-equivalent units, in 2018 compared with the previous year, according to data provided by the authorities here. Kazakh officials were also keen to point to the area’s potential for growth. A 2017 study commissioned by the International Union of Railways estimated that trade volume between China and Europe via rail would increase sharply over the next decade, with Kazakhstan becoming the key crossroads. Similarly, officials mentioned new investments from Chinese companies to build facilities and factories in the special economic zone on the Kazakh side as a sign of the area’s growth.
“Khorgos is about turning Kazakhstan into Central Asia’s transit hub,” Nurlan Toganbayev, the director of the commercial department at the Khorgos Gateway, told me. “We know this is no easy task, but we’re growing, and we take great pride in that.”
Yet even these touted successes point to future problems for the project. Rail transport is still only a small percentage of global trade; sea and air routes, which are cheaper and faster, respectively, form the bulk of goods moved between China and Europe. The land route has also been criticized for waste and fraud. Many of the cargo containers returning by rail from Europe to China through Kazakhstan are empty, officials admit, due to a trade imbalance, but the problem may run even deeper. The Chinese government provides significant subsidies to encourage use of the rail links, and a recent report by the Chinese Business Journal found that many exporters transported empty containers from China to Europe just to receive those subsidies. China Railway, the government operator of the rail line, admitted to the state-run Global Times that the problem existed, but said that it has been eradicated. Not only does the episode illustrate the commercial limits of large-scale shipping by train, but it calls into question the viability of the Khorgos project.

Story 124
While military might and mass pageantry were on display in Beijing to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People’s Republic of China, violent clashes erupted across Hong Kong as thousands of black-clad pro-democracy protesters took to the streets. Police shot a protester with live ammunition for the first time in four months of demonstrations, marking a major escalation

Story 125
For fans of pro tennis, European soccer and British tabloids, the mysterious Twitter account had a lot to offer.
Beginning last year, it retweeted news, most of it in English, about Roger Federer and the Premier League, and it shared juicy clickbait on Zsa Zsa, an English bulldog that won the 2018 World’s Ugliest Dog contest.
Tweets from @HKpoliticalnew June 2018 @HKpoliticalnew Now Andy Murray’s out of Wimbledon, cheer on these young British hopefuls https://t.co/ct2kgTuEgU @HKpoliticalnew Hong Kong independence is a dead end. But there are always people who are vying to go into the fire pit. Pathetic! 2019 Dots are sized by number of retweets. @HKpoliticalnew The United States is funding ‘Hong Kong independence’ and brainwashing deadbeat kids #spieseverywhere #colorrevolution #hongkong Tweets from @HKpoliticalnew @HKpoliticalnew Now Andy Murray’s out of Wimbledon, cheer on these young British hopefuls https://t.co/ct2kgTuEgU June 2018 @HKpoliticalnew Hong Kong independence is a dead end. But there are always people who are vying to go into the fire pit. Pathetic! Dots are sized by number of retweets. 2019 @HKpoliticalnew The United States is funding ‘Hong Kong independence’ and brainwashing deadbeat kids #spieseverywhere #colorrevolution #hongkong @HKpoliticalnew Now Andy Murray’s out of Wimbledon, cheer on these young British hopefuls https://t.co/ct2kgTuEgU Tweets from @HKpoliticalnew June 2018 @HKpoliticalnew Hong Kong independence is a dead end. But there are always people who are vying to go into the fire pit. Pathetic! Dots are sized by number of retweets. 2019 @HKpoliticalnew The United States is funding ‘Hong Kong independence’ and brainwashing deadbeat kids #spieseverywhere #colorrevolution #hongkong Tweets from @HKpoliticalnew June 2018 @HKpoliticalnew Now Andy Murray’s out of Wimbledon, cheer on these young British hopefuls https://t.co/ct2kgTuEgU July Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov. Dots are sized by number of retweets. Dec. @HKpoliticalnew Hong Kong independence is a dead end. But there are always people who are vying to go into the fire pit. Pathetic! 2019 Feb. Mar. Apr. @HKpoliticalnew The United States is funding ‘Hong Kong independence’ and brainwashing deadbeat kids #spieseverywhere #colorrevolution #hongkong May June Tweets from @HKpoliticalnew June 2018 @HKpoliticalnew Now Andy Murray’s out of Wimbledon, cheer on these young British hopefuls https://t.co/ct2kgTuEgU July Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov. Dots are sized by number of retweets. Dec. @HKpoliticalnew Hong Kong independence is a dead end. But there are always people who are vying to go into the fire pit. Pathetic! 2019 Feb. Mar. Apr. @HKpoliticalnew The United States is funding ‘Hong Kong independence’ and brainwashing deadbeat kids #spieseverywhere #colorrevolution #hongkong May June Then, suddenly, the account began posting, in Chinese, about a different obsession: politics in Hong Kong and mainland China. By this summer, it had become a foot soldier in a covert campaign to shape people’s views about one of the world’s biggest political crises.
The account, @HKpoliticalnew, and more than 200,000 other Twitter accounts were part of a sprawling Russian-style disinformation offensive from China, Twitter now says, the first time an American technology giant has attributed such a campaign to the Chinese government.
China has long deployed propaganda and censorship to subject its citizens to government-approved narratives. As the nation’s place in the world grows, Beijing has increasingly turned to internet platforms that it blocks within the country — including Twitter and Facebook — to advance its agenda across the rest of the planet.
It has done so in part by setting up accounts on the platforms for its state-run news outlets, such as China Daily, to make a public case for its views. But that is quite different from using fake accounts to manipulate opinions surreptitiously or simply to sow confusion.
“The end goal is to control the conversation,” said Matt Schrader, a China analyst with the Alliance for Securing Democracy at the German Marshall Fund in Washington.
Twitter last month took down nearly 1,000 accounts that it said were part of a state-directed effort to undermine the antigovernment protests in Hong Kong. It also suspended 200,000 other accounts that it said were connected to the Chinese operation but not yet very active. Facebook and YouTube quickly followed suit. All three platforms are blocked in mainland China but not in Hong Kong.
The 3.6 million tweets that the accounts sent represented a campaign that was less sophisticated and more hastily assembled than the one Russia carried out during the 2016 United States presidential election, researchers at the Australian Strategic Policy Institute said in a report published this month.
Instead of taking the time to cultivate plausible yet fake online personalities, the campaign’s operators appear to have simply bought accounts in the shadowy global marketplace for social media influence, where followers and retweets can be had for cheap.
The accounts posted in Indonesian, Arabic, Portuguese and other languages. They promoted hookup services, posted about Korean boy bands and retweeted messages about pop-punk music.
How the languages of the tweets shifted The accounts tweeted in more than 55 languages aside from English and Chinese. Then a wave of English tweets kicked in. But in mid-2017, many of the accounts started spreading propaganda in Chinese. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 The accounts tweeted in more than 55 languages aside from English and Chinese. Then a wave of English tweets kicked in. But in mid-2017, many of the accounts started spreading propaganda in Chinese. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 The accounts tweeted in more than 55 languages aside from English and Chinese. Then a wave of English tweets kicked in. But in mid-2017, many of the accounts started spreading propaganda in Chinese. 2016 2017 2018 2019 The accounts tweeted in more than 55 languages aside from English and Chinese. Then a wave of English tweets kicked in. But in mid-2017, many of the accounts started spreading propaganda in Chinese. 2016 2017 2018 2019
“As a Hong Kong person who loves Hong Kong, I really miss the Hong Kong of before, which was developed and ruled by law,” @derrickmcnabbx wrote in Chinese on June 15. The account’s location was described as “Georgia, USA.” Before this year, nearly all of its tweets were links to pornography.
The “blunt-force” approach, the authors of the Australian report wrote, suggested that the operation was likely to have been a “rapid response to the unanticipated size and power of the Hong Kong protests rather than a campaign planned well in advance.”
A spokesman for China’s foreign ministry said he had no knowledge of the matter when asked last month whether the government was behind the accounts that Twitter and Facebook took down.
In its announcement, Twitter said little about how it determined that the accounts it removed were state directed. The company said it routinely monitored for such campaigns but declined to comment further.
The Chinese government blocks Twitter’s service in mainland China, and yet some of the accounts were operated from unblocked Chinese internet addresses, the company said. Some of the activity was traced to addresses in Beijing, according to a person familiar with Twitter’s investigation who feared retaliation from the government and requested anonymity.
There are already some signs that Twitter has not halted the Chinese campaign entirely. Nick Monaco of Institute for the Future, a think tank in Palo Alto, Calif., identified 17 accounts that had strong similarities to those that Twitter took down but which remained active.
Some of the accounts tweeted messages that matched, word for word, ones that Twitter had deleted. They used the same third-party software as many of the accounts Twitter had removed to post messages with similar themes, in what seemed to be a coordinated manner.
After The New York Times presented Mr. Monaco’s findings to Twitter last week, the company shut the accounts down but declined to say conclusively whether they had been part of the same state-backed network.
Many of the accounts originally identified by Twitter had spread pro-government messages during other public-relations crises for Beijing. Large numbers of such messages began appearing in 2017, after the exiled businessman Guo Wengui began accusing senior Chinese leaders of graft, which raises the question of why Twitter did not remove the accounts sooner.
The closed accounts also targeted Chinese dissidents Before the accounts focused on the Hong Kong protests, they smeared critics of the Chinese government, according to analyses by The Times and the Australian Strategic Policy Institute. Tweets about the Hong Kong protests and the extradition bill exploded after June 9, the day of the first big demonstration. Yang Jianli, an outspoken critic of the Chinese government, was accused of being a fraud. The favorite target was Guo Wengui, a businessman who accused top Chinese officials of corruption. The accounts attacked him continuously for more than two years. Gui Minhai, a Hong Kong bookseller who disappeared then resurfaced in police custody in China, was also targeted. Jan. 2018 April July Oct. 2019 April July @Sawyer19Carole So Yang Jianli spreads rumors everywhere, disguising himself as a victim, when in fact he is the one who wants to persecute others. @ksiushalapina73 Gui Minhai was taken off a train by Chinese police on Jan. 20, various foreign media outlets made a big fuss about it. Chinese law does not tolerate such criticism from the foreign media @valentinax5w1sw Guo Wengui, as a wanted criminal, you have evaded taxes in China, forcibly taken your female employees as mistresses, used recordings to threaten business partners, wooed and corrupted government officials. Tweets about the Hong Kong protests and the extradition bill exploded after June 9, the day of the first big demonstration. The favorite target was Guo Wengui, a businessman who accused top Chinese officials of corruption. The accounts attacked him continuously for more than two years. Yang Jianli, an outspoken critic of the Chinese government, was accused of being a fraud. Gui Minhai, a Hong Kong bookseller who disappeared then resurfaced in police custody in China, was also targeted. Jan. 2018 April July Oct. 2019 April July @ksiushalapina73 Gui Minhai was taken off a train by Chinese police on Jan. 20, various foreign media outlets made a big fuss about it. Chinese law does not tolerate such criticism from the foreign media @valentinax5w1sw Guo Wengui, as a wanted criminal, you have evaded taxes in China, forcibly taken your female employees as mistresses, used recordings to threaten business partners, wooed and corrupted government officials. @Sawyer19Carole So Yang Jianli spreads rumors everywhere, disguising himself as a victim, when in fact he is the one who wants to persecute others. Yang Jianli, an outspoken critic of the Chinese government, was accused of being a fraud. @Sawyer19Carole So Yang Jianli spreads rumors everywhere, disguising himself as a victim, when in fact he is the one who wants to persecute others. Jan. 2018 Gui Minhai, a Hong Kong bookseller who disappeared then resurfaced in police custody in China, was also targeted. @ksiushalapina73 Gui Minhai was taken off a train by Chinese police on Jan. 20, various foreign media outlets made a big fuss about it. Chinese law does not tolerate such criticism from the foreign media April July The favorite target was Guo Wengui, a businessman who accused top Chinese officials of corruption. The accounts attacked him continuously for more than two years. @valentinax5w1sw Guo Wengui, as a wanted criminal, you have evaded taxes in China, forcibly taken your female employees as mistresses, used recordings to threaten business partners, wooed and corrupted government officials. Oct. 2019 April Tweets about the Hong Kong protests and the extradition bill exploded after June 9, the day of the first big demonstration. July Yang Jianli, an outspoken critic of the Chinese government, was accused of being a fraud. @Sawyer19Carole So Yang Jianli spreads rumors everywhere, disguising himself as a victim, when in fact he is the one who wants to persecute others. Jan. 2018 Gui Minhai, a Hong Kong bookseller who disappeared then resurfaced in police custody in China, was also targeted. @ksiushalapina73 Gui Minhai was taken off a train by Chinese police on Jan. 20, various foreign media outlets made a big fuss about it. Chinese law does not tolerate such criticism from the foreign media April July The favorite target was Guo Wengui, a businessman who accused top Chinese officials of corruption. The accounts attacked him continuously for more than two years. @valentinax5w1sw Guo Wengui, as a wanted criminal, you have evaded taxes in China, forcibly taken your female employees as mistresses, used recordings to threaten business partners, wooed and corrupted government officials. Oct. 2019 April Tweets about the Hong Kong protests and the extradition bill exploded after June 9, the day of the first big demonstration. July The favorite target was Guo Wengui, a real estate developer who fled to the United States and accused top Chinese officials of corruption. Yang Jianli, an outspoken critic of the Chinese government, was accused of being a fraud. Jan. 2018 Gui Minhai, a Hong Kong bookseller who disappeared then resurfaced in police custody in China, was also targeted. April July The campaign targeting Guo Wengui extended into 2018 and 2019, before the focus shifted to Hong Kong. Oct. 2019 Early tweets related to the ongoing Hong Kong crisis appeared in February, when the government proposed the extradition bill. April Tweets about the Hong Kong protests and the extradition bill exploded after June 9, the day of the first big demonstration. July
During some of their tweet campaigns, the accounts posted primarily during the workweek, a sign that the accounts were run by employees working on the clock. For months, one account posted messages smearing Mr. Guo at 12 and 42 minutes past the hour, suggesting that the activity was automated.
Some of the accounts appear to have been started by genuine users but were later hijacked.
The first four years of posts on one account, @emiliya_naum, read like those of an ordinary American teenager.
She tweeted longingly at @justinbieber and said she twerked in her room to celebrate Barack Obama’s 2012 election victory. She cataloged her moods and mused about her crushes.
“The guy I like and my best friend hate each other … #ThisIsntGood,” she wrote in 2012.
Then, like many Twitter users, she let her account fall silent — until this summer, when she re-emerged as a cheerleader for Hong Kong law enforcement.
“Hong Kong police, way to go, we support you!” she tweeted, in Chinese. “We understand your hardships!”
It could not be determined whether @emiliya_naum was originally operated by a real person. No accounts with that name were found on Facebook, Instagram or other major social platforms.
By and large, the accounts that Twitter took down struggled to go viral with their pro-Beijing messages. Many of their most retweeted posts were links to pornography and animal videos.
Elise Thomas, one of the authors of the Australian report, said that the low level of professionalism suggested that the campaign was not the work of the People’s Liberation Army or the Ministry of State Security, which have previously been linked to Chinese cyberespionage and information campaigns.
“I would be surprised if the P.L.A. was responsible because I would expect they would be more competent than this,” Ms. Thomas said.
Russia’s social media efforts ahead of the 2016 presidential election were cannier about finding and influencing audiences in the United States. The Internet Research Agency, a St. Petersburg company with Kremlin ties, tailored its trolling operations to sow maximum discord.
Titus C. Chen, a professor who studies Chinese social media at the National Sun Yat-sen University in Taiwan, said he believed that China had created its own analogues to the Internet Research Agency, though they operated far less openly.
Turning spam bots into propaganda mouthpieces would represent a natural evolution of techniques that Beijing has long used at home.
For years, China has used armies of pseudonymous keyboard warriors to flood domestic social platforms and news sites with pro-government comments.
In 2013, the head of China’s propaganda department said that in Beijing alone, there were more than two million people working to “strengthen guidance of online opinion,” including by posting comments on Weibo, China’s Twitter-like social media platform.
Samm Sacks, a China expert at New America, a Washington-based think tank, said the clumsiness of the Twitter operations showed that China was still “out of its depth in trying to shape the international narrative.”
“What works inside China doesn’t work internationally,” she said. “I think China is probably working through that now.”

Story 126
BEIJING--An official gauge of China's factory activity rebounded in September but continued to indicate a contraction, reflecting the headwinds faced by Chinese economy amid its protracted trade dispute with the U.S.
The manufacturing purchasing managers index rose to 49.8 in September from 49.5 in August, the National Bureau of Statistics said Monday. September's reading was above the median forecast of 49.6 from a Wall Street Journal poll of 11 economists.
But the index has stayed below the 50 mark for five straight months, which indicates the activity was still cooling despite its improvement. A reading above 50 indicates an expansion in manufacturing activity, while a reading below 50 indicates a contraction.
A subindex measuring total new orders received by manufacturers in China rebounded to 50.5 in September from 49.7 in August. It was the first time the new order subindex showed an expansion since May.
New export orders, an indicator of external demand for Chinese goods, rose to 48.2 from 47.2 in August, while import orders recovered to 47.1 from 46.7 a month earlier.
Production also rebounded to 52.3 in September, compared with 51.9 in August.
Zhao Qinghe, an economist with the statistics bureau, said production in food processing, textiles and equipment rebounded sharply in September. China's large manufacturing companies, which typically benefit the most from the government efforts to support the economy, were the major force behind the rise in the index this month, he said.
Beijing has released billions of dollars in liquidity into the banking system to encourage more lending to business as economic growth slips to a nearly three-decade low.
The official PMI data are based on the replies to monthly questionnaires sent to purchasing executives at 3,000 companies in 31 manufacturing sectors.
China 's official nonmanufacturing PMI, also released Monday, edged down to 53.7 from 53.8 in August.
-- Grace Zhu

Story 127
In 2012, Chinese President Xi Jinping promised that the Communist Party would deliver great successes in advance of two upcoming centennials, in 2021 and 2049. But no amount of nationalist posturing can change the fact that the fall of the CPC appears closer than at any time since the end of the Mao era.
CLAREMONT – On October 1, to mark the 70th anniversary of the People’s Republic, Chinese President Xi Jinping will deliver a speech that unreservedly celebrates the Communist Party of China’s record since 1949. But, despite Xi’s apparent confidence and optimism, the CPC’s rank and file are increasingly concerned about the regime’s future prospects – with good reason.
In 2012, when Xi took the reins of the CPC, he promised that the Party would strive to deliver great successes in advance of two upcoming centennials, marking the founding of the CPC in 1921 and the People’s Republic. But a persistent economic slowdown and rising tensions with the United States will likely sour the CPC’s mood during the 2021 celebrations. And the one-party regime may not even survive until 2049.
While there is technically no time limit on dictatorship, the CPC is approaching the longevity frontier for one-party regimes. Mexico’s Institutional Revolutionary Party retained power for 71 years (1929-2000); the Communist Party of the Soviet Union ruled for 74 years (1917-1991); and Taiwan’s Kuomintang held on for 73 years (from 1927 to 1949 on the mainland and from 1949 to 2000 in Taiwan). The North Korean regime, a Stalinist family dynasty that has ruled for 71 years, is China’s only contemporary competition.
But historical patterns are not the only reason the CPC has to be worried. The conditions that enabled the regime to recover from the self-inflicted disasters of Maoism and to prosper over the last four decades have largely been replaced by a less favorable – and in some senses more hostile – environment.
The greatest threat to the Party’s long-term survival lies in the unfolding cold war with the US. During most of the post-Mao era, China’s leaders kept a low profile on the international stage, painstakingly avoiding conflict while building strength at home. But by 2010, China had become an economic powerhouse, pursuing an increasingly muscular foreign policy. This drew the ire of the US, which began gradually to shift from a policy of engagement toward the confrontational approach evident today.
With its superior military capabilities, technology, economic efficiency, and alliance networks (which remain robust, despite President Donald Trump’s destructive leadership), the US is far more likely to prevail in the Sino-American cold war than China. Though an American victory could be Pyrrhic, it would more than likely seal the CPC’s fate.
Subscribe now Subscribe now Subscribe today and get a free copy of our new magazine, Sustainability Comes of Age, along with unlimited access to OnPoint, the Big Picture, the entire PS archive of more than 14,000 commentaries, and our annual magazine, for less than $2 a week. SUBSCRIBE
The CPC also faces strong economic headwinds. The so-called Chinese miracle was fueled by a large and youthful labor force, rapid urbanization, large-scale infrastructure investment, market liberalization, and globalization – all factors that have either diminished or disappeared.
Radical reforms – in particular, the privatization of inefficient state-owned enterprises (SOEs) and the end of neo-mercantilist trading practices – could sustain growth. But, despite paying lip service to further market reforms, the CPC has been reluctant to implement them, instead clinging to policies that favor SOEs at the expense of private entrepreneurs. Because the state-owned sector forms the economic foundation of one-party rule, the prospect that CPC leaders will suddenly embrace radical economic reform is dim.
Domestic political trends are similarly worrying. Under Xi, the CPC has abandoned the pragmatism, ideological flexibility, and collective leadership that served it so well in the past. With the Party’s neo-Maoist turn – including strict ideological conformity, rigid organizational discipline, and fear-based strongman rule – the risks of catastrophic policy mistakes are rising.
To be sure, the CPC will not go down without a fight. As its grip on power weakens, it will probably attempt to stoke nationalism among its supporters, while intensifying repression of its opponents.
But this strategy cannot save China’s one-party regime. While nationalism may boost support for the CPC in the short term, its energy will eventually dissipate, especially if the Party fails to deliver continued improvement in living standards. And a regime that is dependent on coercion and violence will pay dearly in the form of depressed economic activity, rising popular resistance, escalating security costs, and international isolation.
This is hardly the uplifting picture Xi will present to the Chinese people on October 1. But no amount of nationalist posturing can change the fact that the unraveling of the CPC’s rule appears closer than at any time since the end of the Mao era.

Story 128
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption China's new mega-airport is the size of 98 football fields
China's new $11bn (£8.8bn) mega airport has opened its doors, days before the country's 70th anniversary celebrations.
The Daxing International Airport in the capital Beijing was formally opened by President Xi Jinping on Wednesday.
The airport spans 700,000 square metres, or 98 football fields, says state media outlet China Daily.
Beijing's existing airport is the world's second busiest behind Atlanta, according to the Airport Council.
But officials say a new airport was needed to take the pressure off the overcrowded Beijing Capital International Airport.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption What does the world's largest single-building airport terminal look like?
The Daxing airport - said to be the world's largest terminal in a single building - is expected to receive a large amount of the 170m passengers the city expects to welcome by 2025.
According to state agency the Global Times, seven domestic airlines were expected to begin operations out of the new airport on Wednesday. The first flight - a China Southern Airlines A380 - took off at 16:23 local time.
And international carriers including British Airways, Cathay Pacific and Finnair have already announced routes to Daxing.
The new airport, which is located around 46km (29 mi) south of Tiananmen Square, was designed by famed architect Zaha Hadid.
With the opening of the airport, Beijing has joined a group of cities, including New York and London, that have two-long haul international airports.
More than 100 million passengers have used Beijing Capital, which opened in 1958.
Image copyright AFP Image caption Daxing Aiport in June 2019

Story 129
Beijing (CNN) — As Beijing's new, multibillion-dollar airport opened with great fanfare last Wednesday, a piece of China's history quietly closed its doors on the other side of the city.
The country's very first airport, Nanyuan Airport, shut its doors for good on September 25, the same date that Beijing's new $11.5 billion Daxing Airport was opened by President Xi Jinping.
The last flight, China United Airlines KN5830, left at just after 10 p.m., state media said. By Saturday, its doors were firmly shut and the car park mostly deserted.
The few remaining dusty cars had a polite notice taped to their side window. "Hello! This airport has officially moved to Daxing International Airport on September 25 ... I want to thank you again for putting your trust in Nanyuan Airport," said the notice.
Nanyuan first opened in 1910, 109 years ago, when China was still ruled by the Qing Dynasty. It has seen two world wars, China's civil war and finally the founding of the People's Republic of China in 1949.
l e v a r t
According to state-run China Daily, Nanyuan will become an aviation museum, while its practical functions will all be transferred to Daxing Airport.
Superficially the two could not be more different.
Daxing, designed by the late architect Zaha Hadid, is sleek and high-tech. Nanyuan is far more run down, with a brutally practical square shape and traces of rust showing.
Nevertheless, even days after its closure, Beijing citizens were still flocking to the old terminal to pay their tributes to a slice of the city's history.
Xiang Wang, 33, visited the airport with his children and partner on Saturday, the first weekend after it closed, taking photos next to the historic displays put up by the government.
"The Chinese dream took off from here," he said.
Related content Your guide to China's most impressive urban centers
Wang Xiang and his young daughter pose in front of a sign commemorating the closure of Beijing's Nanyuan Airport on September 29. CNN/Ben Westcott
Wang, a PhD student at Tsinghua University, said that he deeply regretted not getting a ticket to fly out of Nanyuan one last time and was jealous of his classmates who got to work here.
"We have feelings for this place," he said. "It's sad that Nanyuan is gone ... I brought my 1-year-old son here. He probably won't understand what I say to him about it, but he will have the memories."
Nanyuan has witnessed some pivotal moments in Chinese history. After the founding of the People's Republic of China in 1949, the first squadron of the Communist air force to fly over Tiananmen departed from Nanyuan.
In 1971, when then-US Secretary of State Henry Kissinger was flying into China in secret to arrange President Richard Nixon's historic visit, he touched down at Nanyuan Airport.
An abandoned guard post at Beijing's Nanyuan Airport which closed its doors this week. CNN/Ben Westcott
Chunqian Yin, a 34-year-old accountant, brought her son out to the airport so he could be part of the historic moment.
"I will miss this airport very much. I used to see aircraft flying around here before, but now I won't be able to anymore," she said.
Outside the museum there was a display with a countdown to the airport's closure, which Yin said she'd visited regularly.
But Yin said she also takes a philosophical approach to the airport's closure. After all, she said, now the area might see a boom in construction as a result.

Story 130
“There’s political pressure for this to be done,” said one of the people, adding that Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), who is emerging as a front-runner among Democratic presidential candidates, “could take this and run with it.”
Top U.S. officials are scheduled to hold a high-level meeting with their Chinese counterparts in early October.
China has made moves to build goodwill by agreeing to purchase U.S. agriculture goods again. But it’s still unclear if China is willing to meet U.S. demands on core concerns related to intellectual property, forced technology transfer, subsidies and other state-directed policies accused of ripping off U.S. innovation.
POLITICO NEWSLETTERS Morning Trade A speed read on global trade news — weekday mornings, in your inbox. Sign Up Loading By signing up you agree to receive email newsletters or alerts from POLITICO. You can unsubscribe at any time.
After numerous, bruising rounds of tariffs, the U.S. could have duties in place by the end of the year on almost all of the roughly $500 billion worth of goods it imports from China. Now, the administration now seems to be considering new ways to pressure China beyond tariffs.
The news that the administration is now considering capital measures was reported by Bloomberg on Friday, but people close to the administration have hinted for weeks that such actions were under consideration.
“We’re at very low levels of pressure compared to what could be done,” Michael Pillsbury, an outside adviser to Trump on China and senior fellow at the Hudson Institute, told POLITICO earlier this month.
Pillsbury described a measure the administration could take to eliminate waivers that allow Chinese companies listed on U.S. stock exchanges to bypass auditing and financial disclosure requirements required for American firms. This could force major Chinese companies like Alibaba and Tencent off U.S. stock exchanges, he said.
“Steps that would inflict pain on China’s national champion companies might bring them around to a binding deal,” Pillsbury said.
There are 159 Chinese firms listed on U.S. stock exchanges, representing a total market capitalization of $1.1 trillion, according to the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission.
Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) introduced legislation in June that would force Chinese companies to disclose financial information the Chinese government blocks U.S. regulators from reviewing.
Rubio and Sen. Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.) also sent a letter in late August to Michael Kennedy, the chairman of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board, to reverse a decision that exposed $50 billion worth of U.S. government workers’ retirement assets to investments in Chinese firms.
The lawmakers said the decision exposed U.S. pension funds to Chinese companies involved in espionage, human rights abuses and Chinese industrial policies, like the “Made in China 2025" initiative, that have been the target of the U.S. tariff actions.
“There are obvious problems that need to be urgently corrected given China’s policies, its use of all companies to achieve them regardless of ownership structure, and its lack of transparency around all such efforts,” said one of the people familiar with the discussions. “Folks have had blinders on for far too long, particularly Wall Street.”
The move could cause major disruptions as portfolio managers try to adjust to a possible ban and new regulations, said Jim Paulsen, chief investment strategist at the Leuthold Group.
“My own guess is this is just a negotiating tactic from the White House aimed at ratcheting up the pressure on China and giving a tangible show of U.S. leverage ahead of the upcoming meeting in October,” he said.
Capital controls and restrictions could also make it more difficult for the two sides to reach a true deal.
“We don’t have confidence in China honoring a deal. China has no confidence in Trump; he appears to them as an unreliable moving target,” said David Kotok, chairman and chief investment officer at Cumberland Advisors. “My best guess is no real trade deal is possible for at least two years.“
Meanwhile, Beijing recently repeated its warning that a further decoupling of the U.S. and Chinese economies would be counterproductive.
During a speech this week to U.S. business executives on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi said China will continue efforts to open up its economy.
“Given the size of our economies and the level of interdependence, the so-called ‘decoupling‘ or ‘shutting the door to each other‘ is just like an attempt to build castles in the air,” he said. “It is neither sensible nor realistic.“
Ben White contributed to this report.

Story 131
A worker on the production line at a truck factory in Hefei, China, in 2014. (Reuters)
It’s running short of workers, which surprises no one but its central planners — and the American Left.
China has a problem: not enough people.
If you didn’t see that one coming, you haven’t been paying attention.
More precisely, China’s problem is its shrinking work force.
According to Beijing’s official numbers, China’s work force has declined by 25 million workers — about the combined work forces of California and Ohio — since topping out in 2011. Everywhere in China’s industrial belt, help-wanted signs hang outside the factories.
Advertisement
Advertisement
After years of officially restricting couples to one child, the cabal that rules China — never forget that this is a one-party police state — relaxed that policy a few years ago. But Chinese people did not start having more children. They’re having fewer, for the same reasons many Western societies have seen declining birth rates: Would-be parents dread the expense of children, and women delay motherhood as they pursue professional goals rather than maternal ones. The Communist bosses want Chinese couples to have more children, but Chinese couples are not obliging.
Advertisement
Some Chinese officials blame the declining work force for the country’s declining economic growth. The Chinese economy is still growing, and growing quickly by many standards — its 6.6 percent growth last year is more than twice what President Trump dreams of, with his unfulfilled promise of sustained 3 percent growth — but, long-term, the Chinese forecast is normalcy, at least as far as economic growth is concerned.
For a regime that has based its legitimacy on dramatic economic growth, normalcy is a crisis. And a national crisis in China is a serious thing. The future is unknowable, but the wise man would not bet very much on Xi Jinping’s career coming to an end because of an election. A Chinese recession might very well end in a Chinese revolution.
Advertisement
Governments always operate in ignorance, and authoritarian governments suffer from this more than the governments of liberal societies. That is because in liberal societies, the spontaneous orders of markets, civil society, and open intellectual life help to organize and deploy useful knowledge in ways that centralized bureaucracies cannot.
Advertisement
(Of course that applies to corporate bureaucracies as well; that’s why an intelligent society allows businesses to die quickly, with as little disruption as possible. That’s a lesson we Americans keep failing to learn with our “too big to fail” superstitions.)
You might expect that state of ignorance to produce some kind of random distribution of errors, which could in theory be partly self-correcting in the same way that big crowds are, on average, pretty good at guessing how many jelly beans are in a jar. But that isn’t how things actually work.
Advertisement
Political actors — not only elected officials but also career bureaucrats and expert managers — do not err randomly or in ways that are entirely unpredictable. That is because political actors, even the most intelligent and well-meaning of them, are not the dispassionate philosopher-kings of the progressive imagination. Political actors have incentives, and they act in accordance with those incentives. This produces biases that are mostly predictable: bias toward bigger budgets and bigger staffs, bias toward settlements and procedures that minimize institutional accountability, bias toward relying on metrics of progress that are easy to measure and likely to obscure or minimize ongoing problems (you can tell a great deal about an institution by what questions its managers choose not to ask and which metrics they choose not to measure), etc. Among central governments, the bias tends to be toward centralization. Among local governments, the bias tends to be toward localizing power and delocalizing funding. Police departments are predictably biased against civilian-review boards. Public-school teachers’ organizations are biased against measuring performance rather than relying on criteria such as seniority in decisions relating to compensation and advancement.
The Communist bosses in Beijing have certain ideological biases that have evolved over the years. Unsurprisingly for an authoritarian ideology with its roots in agrarian and pre-industrial social arrangements, the Chinese long regarded themselves as having a population problem. The peasants may have been lionized as the vanguard of the revolution, but there were countless millions of them, and the Communist planners regarded them as liabilities rather than as assets — mouths to be fed rather than a productive work force. Central planners are reliably unable to cope with the organic pace of change as it happens in the real world — which does not operate on a series of five-year plans — and, among their other errors, the authorities in Beijing continued believing that they had a population problem long after it was plain that they did not.
Advertisement
The Chinese are not alone in this. In the West, progressives have been for many years hostage to the deathless superstition of “overpopulation” and all of the predictable Malthusian errors that go along with it. Paul Ehrlich, the wrongest man in the history of modern American thought, captivated a generation with his Population Bomb and his predictions that the world would soon run out of . . . everything, really: food, energy, industrial metals, etc. In 1970, he predicted that “in ten years, all important animal life in the sea will be extinct.” He predicted that the United Kingdom would cease to exist, that hundreds of millions would die in inevitable famines, etc. Subsequent prophets from Al Gore to Greta Thunberg have offered variations on the same theme. Thank goodness we were not persuaded by their forebears back when they were insisting that we were on the verge of a “new ice age” and drawing up plans to cover the polar ice caps in coal soot in order to warm up the planet and thereby prevent . . . climate change.
Advertisement
This kind of thinking exercises powerful influence over the thinking of progressives, from Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg’s enthusiasm for abortion as a means of reducing “populations that we don’t want to have too many of” to Senator Bernie Sanders’s recent invocation of taking steps to “curb population growth” — where? — “especially in poor countries.” The “Planned” in Planned Parenthood is very much like the “planned” in “planned economy.” Remember that many so-called liberals in the Western world celebrated China’s one-child policy as the height of wisdom even as they shed a few tears, some of them possibly sincere, over the brutality of its implementation.
Advertisement
Central planners are always fighting the last war. Even as the world’s population is projected to peak and then decline in the not-so-distant future (only 20 or 30 years) “population control” remains a going concern among progressives. It isn’t about population: It is about control. The same is true of gun control and “putting the economy under some measure of democratic control,” as Jamelle Bouie recently put it in the New York Times. In the progressive imagination, the perfection of society — and the perfection of man — is only a matter of control, and choosing the right controllers. This is how you end up with a callow young bartender with no relevant experience or knowledge drawing up grand plans to reorganize the entire world economy, which is understood to be a fundamentally moral question — ask young Miss Thunberg or Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez — with the technical details to be addressed by a bureaucracy to be organized later.
Moral imperatives are attractive in that they do not rely on any particular verifiable expertise or measurable outcome. Millions were starved to death in the Holodomor by those who were whitewashed as being nothing more than “liberals in a hurry.” That, too, was an economy under some measure of political control by people who said they were acting in the interests of the majority of the people.
Advertisement
The American Left is at the moment engaged in a peculiar assault on American liberalism, especially its protections of individual rights and the interests and rights of minorities. The First and Second Amendments both are under attack, as are the Senate and the Electoral College, and other counter-majoritarian institutions that form an important part of the American constitutional architecture. The everything-is-racist campaign of the past few years is intended largely to discredit these institutions. Representative Ocasio-Cortez has judged the Electoral College both “racist” and a “scam,” a common view among progressives. Paul Krugman and Will Wilkinson, both writing in the New York Times, have insisted that projects ranging from liberalizing regulations to defending the Bill of Rights are, somehow, racist enterprises. Michelle Goldberg, also writing in the New York Times, dreams of “an end of the GOP” for the crime that Democratic pollster Stanley Greenberg describes as conspiring “to stop the New America from governing.” Greenberg dreams of an unchallengeable Democratic monopoly on power “liberated from the nation’s suffocating polarization to use government to advance the public good.”
Polarization is what happens when there are two opinions about something. What happens when there is one opinion — one permitted opinion — about something is: China, roughly.
The main reason the modern United States has not, for all its errors and failures, pursued something as destructive as China’s one-child policy is that no one actually has the power to do so. Those dusty old terms from the long-forgotten civics textbooks — separation of powers, federalism, unalienable rights — have saved us many times from the worst kinds of tyranny. And, as our founders knew, the worst forms of tyranny very much include majoritarian tyranny. One might think that the Trump presidency would cause progressives to think twice about what William F. Buckley Jr. dismissed as “the authority of political truths arrived at yesterday at the voting booth.” But they cannot endure such a thought. That is why they remain unable to intellectually progress from November 2016 without convincing themselves that the election was somehow illegitimate.
Advertisement
To face the facts would be to understand themselves to be devotees of another god that failed. They may believe that they are not followers of the same god that has failed in China, but that is only a matter of comparing Zeus to Jupiter. They are slowly beginning to understand what’s happening in Beijing, if only because the bosses there have no other choice but to accept reality or risk a fate a good deal worse and more bloody than mere electoral defeat.
But Beijing’s errors are not so different from our errors, which will become more apparent the farther down the same road we go.

Story 132
U.S. stocks advanced Thursday for a second straight day after President Donald Trump said he would meet China’s chief trade negotiator at the White House, again raising hopes for progress from two days of talks in Washington in an effort to resolve the two-year-old trade war.
How did the benchmarks perform?
The Dow Jones Industrial Average DJIA, +1.21% rose 150.66 points, or 0.6%, to 26,496.67. The S&P 500 index SPX, +1.09% climbed 0.6%, or 18.73 points, to 2,938.13. The Nasdaq Composite Index COMP, +1.34% picked up 47.04 points, or 0.6%, to finish at 7,950.78.
At session highs, the Dow was up 257.30 points, the S&P 500 had risen 28.98 points and the Nasdaq had gained 79.1 points, all of which amounted to advances of about 1%.
Despite two days of gains, the Dow has lost 0.3% week-to-date, while the S&P 500 and Nasdaq are on pace to post 0.5% and 0.4% weekly losses, respectively.
What drove the stock market?
Trump tweeted that he would meet Chinese Vice Premier Liu He on Friday to advance a trade deal, bolstering hopes that the U.S. was looking to strike a resolution soon.
Liu is meeting with U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin in Washington, with the hope that the parties can resolve, at least partially, tensions over trade that have stoked anxieties on Wall Street, though it is unclear if a substantive agreement can be achieved.
If Trump’s meeting with Liu takes place, it could assuage concerns among market participants who were whipsawed by conflicting overnight headlines on Thursday, including reports from the South China Morning Post suggesting that the China delegation would leave Washington on Thursday, a day earlier than had been planned. However, a White House spokesperson later told CNBC that no change of plans had occurred with Beijing’s representatives.
Bloomberg News reported that the White House may implement a previously agreed upon currency deal with China ahead of schedule, and suspend tariff hikes to 30% from 25% scheduled to take effect Oct. 15 on some $250 billion in Chinese products. Those moves would be part of a first-phase agreement with China, the report said, with negotiations on critical issues such as intellectual-property rights and forced technology transfers coming at a later time.
Separately, the New York Times reported Wednesday night that Trump had approved issuing licenses to some U.S. companies to conduct business with Chinese telecom giant Huawei Technologies. The U.S. blacklisted Huawei earlier this year, and allowing sales of non-sensitive products could help defuse trade tensions.
“If Trump and Liu He do meet, it’s clearly a positive to the market,” said Quincy Krosby, chief market strategist at Prudential Financial. “At this point, the market would be satisfied with the continuation of talks as long as tariffs do not increase next week. But we’ve had dress rehearsals for this where the meetings don’t take place.”
“Last night’s headlines was reminiscent of the chaos around the Chinese delegation canceling their visit to farms in the heartland. Like then, we had different explanations for that,” said Krosby.
In economic data, U.S. consumer price inflation was little changed in September, giving the Federal Reserve room to cut interest rates in late October. Weekly jobless claims fell in early October.
Investors also saw some comfort in commentary from Dallas Fed President Robert Kaplan, who said he’s open-minded on the outlook for further rate cuts. The central bank has already cut its benchmark interest rate by a half percentage point this year.
Which stocks were in focus?
PG&E Corp.’s stock PCG, +2.95% plunged 29.1% after a judge ruled to allow for a competitive bankruptcy plan, opening up the path for Elliott Management Group and other bondholders to push for their own chapter 11 plan. Their proposal would involve raising new money and using most of PG&E’s equity to pay off the utility firm’s debts. The utility also faced intense criticism over pre-emptive power cuts in Northern California, where more than 1.5 million people were without power Thursday.
Delta Air Lines Inc. ’s DAL, -0.28% shares fell 1.5% after profit forecasts for the fourth quarter were less upbeat than expected. Still, the airline’s third-quarter results beat earnings expectations.
Shares for Ra Pharmaceuticals Inc. RARX, +1.97% surged 101.1% after Belgian biopharma company UCB agreed to acquire the Massachusetts-based biopharma company for $2.5 billion.
Kroger Co.’s stock KR, +1.72% retreated 2.8% after a Jefferies analyst called the grocer’s tech investment into Ocado a “misstep,” downgrading the company to hold from buy.
Shares of Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. BBBY, +7.36% rallied 21.6% after it announced that former Target Corp. TGT, +1.14% head of merchandise Mark Tritton will take over as chief executive officer.
How did other assets trade?
The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note TMUBMUSD10Y, +0.00% climbed 6.4 basis points to 1.649%.
Gold futures fell after posting small gains on Wednesday. December gold GCZ19, +0.79% was down $11.90, or 0.8% to settle at $1,501.20 an ounce.
West Texas Intermediate crude for November delivery CLX19, -2.18% rose 96 cents, or 1.8%, to settle at $53.55 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
In Asia overnight Thursday, trade was mixed, as Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index HSI, +0.81% added 0.1% to 25,707.93, the China CSI 300 000300, +1.06% rose 0.8% to reach 3,874.64, and Japan’s Nikkei 225 NIK, +1.15% gained 0.5% to 21,551.98. The Stoxx Europe 600 SXXP, -0.87%, meanwhile, closed 0.7% higher to 382.76.

Story 133
Tech from Silicon Valley to Shenzhen
A dedicated team of journalists follow the trillions made and lost in tech, serving crisp analysis, expert opinions and two weekly newsletters to be your guide to global tech trends and their economic impact.

Story 134
Hong Kong (CNN Business) The Chinese smartphone company that's taken Africa by storm had a gangbusters stock market debut.
Transsion, which dominates Africa's phone market with its Tecno brand, soared as much as 96% on its first day of trading on China's Nasdaq-style stock market , briefly pushing its valuation to $7.7 billion.
The stock later gave up some of those gains but still closed up 64%, valuing Transsion at 46.24 billion yuan ($6.48 billion).
Zhu Zhaojiang, founder and chairman of Transsion, controls nearly 14% of the company after the listing, according to the IPO prospectus. His stake is worth 6.41 billion yuan ($898 million) based on Monday's closing share price.
Transsion raised $400 million in its IPO on the Star Market, China's answer to the Nasdaq. Its listing triggered a rush among investors — only one in 20 online bidders were allocated shares, while only three in 1,000 offline bidders were successful.
Read More

Story 135
“When Biden’s son walks out of China with $1.5 billion in a fund, and the biggest funds in the world can’t get money out of China, and he’s there for one quick meeting and he flies in on Air Force Two, I think that’s a horrible thing. I think it’s a horrible thing.”
— President Trump, remarks with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, Sept. 25, 2019
“Ask how his son made millions of dollars from Ukraine, made millions of dollars from China, even though he had no expertise whatsoever.”
— Trump, in remarks to reporters with British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, Sept. 24
“The son took money from China — a lot of money from China.”
— Trump, remarks to reporters at the United Nations, Sept. 23
We’ve been writing a lot about Trump’s false claims concerning Ukraine, Joe Biden and Biden’s son, Hunter. Now let’s turn our attention to Trump’s repeated suggestions that Hunter struck it rich with a sketchy deal in China.
We had fact-checked this back in May, but as the Ukraine controversy has heated up, it’s also become a regular staple of Trump’s attacks on Biden. So here’s an expanded look that takes into account new information and an updated Pinocchio rating.
The Facts
First, we will stipulate that any child of a prominent politician needs to be wary of even the appearance of a conflict of interest between his or her business interests and their parent’s political position. Hunter Biden, as detailed in a New Yorker profile published in July, has had a checkered life and yet has managed to score business deals in countries — in particular Ukraine and China — that might not have materialized without the prominence of his father.
Similarly, Ivanka Trump was granted Chinese trademarks days before and after President Trump vowed to save jobs at ZTE, a major Chinese telecom, in 2018. She also was granted Chinese trademarks in 2017, on the same day she sat next to Chinese President Xi Jinping at a dinner.
Trump, of course, chose to focus on Biden’s son, not his own daughter. He has claimed that Hunter Biden “made millions of dollars from China” and “took money from China — a lot of money.” He also said that Hunter Biden walked out of China with “$1.5 billion in a fund … after one quick meeting and he flies in on Air Force Two.”
So let’s back up a bit. Hunter Biden launched a consulting firm in 2008. Then, in 2009, he co-founded another company, Rosemont Seneca Partners, with Christopher Heinz, stepson of then-Sen. John F. Kerry (D-Mass.), and Devon Archer, a Yale classmate of Heinz’s. At times, Hunter Biden and Archer did deals that did not include Heinz, who apparently was more wary of business arrangements that might attract public attention.
Archer and Hunter Biden, for instance, connected with Jonathan Li, who ran a Chinese private-equity fund. In June 2013, according to the New Yorker, Li, Archer and other partners (including Chinese entities) signed a memorandum of understanding to create a fund called BHR Partners. Hunter Biden originally was on an advisory board for BHR and was not an equity owner in the fund while Joe Biden was vice president. He later acquired a 10 percent interest in the entity overseeing the fund.
The supposed size of the China fund — $1.5 billion — comes courtesy of “Secret Empires,” a 2018 book by conservative author Peter Schweizer, who earlier had targeted Hillary Clinton in the book “Clinton Cash.” The Fact Checker spent a lot of time in the 2016 campaign chasing down dubious claims touted by Schweizer, such as about the Uranium One deal.
Affiliates of the advisory firm had said they planned to raise $1.5 billion, but it appears the fundraising fell far short of that.
In December 2013, Hunter Biden and one of his daughters flew from Japan to China with Joe Biden on Air Force Two. (This is what Trump referred to when he said: “He’s there for one quick meeting and he flies in on Air Force Two, I think that’s a horrible thing.”)
The vice president had diplomacy on his agenda. Hunter Biden was not spotted much, though Schweizer makes a big deal about Hunter following his father into a shop as the vice president buys an ice cream bar.
“The vice president raised his Magnum ice cream bar to show the world’s press how personable Joe Biden could be,” Schweizer wrote. “Intentionally or not, Hunter Biden was showing the Chinese that he had guanxi [connections].”
The New Yorker detailed that Schweizer’s claims about the China deal are disputed by the Biden camp.
Schweizer asserts that “Rosemont Seneca Partners had been negotiating an exclusive deal with Chinese officials, which they signed approximately ten days after Hunter visited China with his father.” In fact, the deal had been signed before the trip—according to the BHR representative, it was a business license that came through shortly afterward—and Hunter was not a signatory. Hunter and Archer said that they never met with any Chinese officials about the fund. And the deal wasn’t with Rosemont Seneca Partners but with a new holding company, established solely by Archer; Christopher Heinz was not part of the BHR transaction. Schweizer also asserts that the Chinese fund was “lucrative” for Hunter, but Hunter and his business partners told me that he has yet to receive a payment from the company.
In May, the Fact Checker also reported that Hunter Biden had not received any payments from the deal.
Still, the New Yorker said that Hunter Biden’s behavior at one point raised questions among the vice president’s staff about whether he was leveraging access for his benefit.
According to a Beijing-based BHR representative, Hunter, shortly after arriving in Beijing, on December 4th, helped arrange for Li to shake hands with his father in the lobby of the American delegation’s hotel. Afterward, Hunter and Li had what both parties described as a social meeting. Hunter told me that he didn’t understand why anyone would have been concerned about this. “How do I go to Beijing, halfway around the world, and not see them for a cup of coffee?” he said.
Twelve days after he flew to Beijing, Hunter Biden joined the board of BHR. George Mesires, a lawyer for Hunter Biden, said in a July interview with The Washington Post’s Michael Kranish that his client’s role has been misconstrued. He said Hunter Biden was on the board of the advisory firm that did not directly invest, but instead advised those who did.
“To date, Mr. Biden has not received any return or compensation on account of this investment or his position on the board of directors,” Mesires told The Fact Checker after Trump’s remarks with Zelensky. “The characterization of Mr. Biden as owning a $1.5 billion private equity firm funded by the Chinese, or suggesting that Mr. Biden has earned millions of dollars from the firm is a gross misrepresentation of Mr. Biden’s role with BHR.”
Mesires said that the investment management company “was capitalized from various sources with a total of 30 million RMB [Chinese Renminbi], or about $4.2 million, not $1.5 billion.” Because Biden acquired a 10 percent minority interest, his “capital commitment is approximately $420,000,” Mesires said.
The Pinocchio Test
The president says Hunter Biden “walked out of China with $1.5 billion in a fund” and earned “millions” of dollars from the deal. There is no evidence to support those claims.
One could argue Hunter Biden has been trading off his father’s name, and certainly arranging a handshake between a business partner and the vice president in China raises eyebrows. But Hunter Biden did not raise money for the fund; instead, he was on a board that advised potential investors. He did not obtain an equity stake until after his father was no longer vice president — and that investment of less than half a million dollars has not yet yielded a payoff for Hunter Biden, according to his attorney.
Trump earns Four Pinocchios.
Four Pinocchios
(About our rating scale)
Send us facts to check by filling out this form
Sign up for The Fact Checker weekly newsletter
The Fact Checker is a verified signatory to the International Fact-Checking Network code of principles

Story 136
BEIJING (Reuters) - The slowdown in China’s economy deepened in August, with growth in industrial production at its weakest 17-1/2 years amid spreading pain from a trade war with the United States and softening domestic demand.
FILE PHOTO: A worker looks on in front of a blast furnace at the Chongqing Iron and Steel plant in Changshou, Chongqing, China August 6, 2018. REUTERS/Damir Sagolj/File Photo
Retail sales and investment gauges worsened too, data released on Monday showed, reinforcing views that China is likely to cut some key interest rates this week for the first time in over three years to prevent a sharper slump in activity.
Despite a slew of growth-boosting measures since last year, the world’s second-largest economy has yet to stabilize, and analysts say Beijing needs to roll out more stimulus to ward off a sharper slowdown.
Industrial output growth unexpectedly weakened to 4.4% in August from the same period a year earlier, the slowest pace since February 2002 and receding from 4.8% in July. Analysts polled by Reuters had forecast a pick-up to 5.2%.
In particular, the value of delivered industrial exports fell 4.3% on-year, the first monthly decline since at least two years, Reuters records showed, reflecting the toll that the escalating Sino-U.S. trade war is taking on Chinese manufacturers.
The protracted trade war escalated dramatically last month, with President Donald Trump announcing new tariffs on Chinese goods from Sept. 1, and China letting its yuan currency sharply weaken days later.
After Beijing hit back with retaliatory tariffs, Trump said existing levies would also be raised in coming months, in October and December.
While the two sides are set to resume face-to-face negotiations in early October, most analysts do not expect a durable trade deal, or even a significant de-escalation, any time soon.
Premier Li Keqiang said in an interview published ahead of the data on Monday that it was “very difficult” for the economy to grow at 6% or more and that it faced “downward pressure”.
Traders expect a cut in the central bank’s medium-term loan facility rate (MLF) as early as Tuesday, which would open the way for a reduction in the new loan prime benchmark rate (LPR) later in the week.
Several analysts said in recent weeks that China’s economic growth was already testing the lower end of Beijing’s full-year target of around 6-6.5%, which is likely to spur more policy easing. Second-quarter growth cooled to 6.2%, the weakest in nearly 30 years.
“The key downside risk is the authorities not stepping up policy support sufficiently,” said Louis Kuijs, Head of Asia Economics at Oxford Economics.
Room for stimulus is believed to be limited by worries about rising debt risks, with policy easing by the People’s Bank of China (PBOC) expected to be more restrained than the U.S. Federal Reserve or European Central Bank.
Ting Lu, Chief China Economist at Nomura wrote in a note after the data release that a cut in the MLF rate by around 10 basis points on Tuesday had become more likely.
OTHER DATA ALSO MISSES EXPECTATIONS
Nomura’s Lu expected September’s industrial output to be further hampered by an anti-pollution campaign ahead of and during a key anniversary of the founding of the People’s Republic of China on Oct. 1.
The gloomy August activity data added to signs of broad-based economic weakness, following soft trade and credit reports last week.
Retail sales missed expectations, with growth easing to 7.5%, from 7.6% in July. Analysts had forecast a slight rebound to 7.9%.
Auto sales have slumped all year, prompting the statistics bureau to recently start reporting a new reading on consumption. Stripping out vehicles, retail sales rose 9.3% on-year.
Fixed-asset investment also disappointed. It rose 5.5% for the first eight months of the year from the same period in 2018, down from Jan-July’s 5.7%. Analysts had expected 5.6%.
Industrial investment appeared to be the main drag as investment growth in the mining and the manufacturing sectors eased off in the first eight months. But infrastructure investment - a key driver of growth - picked up to 4.2% in the first eight months this year, from 3.8% in January-July period.
The real estate sector also held up in August to remain one of the few bright spots, with property investment growing at its fastest pace in four months as sales accelerated to the highest in over a year.
Analysts have been puzzled by slow construction growth earlier in the year, with some citing deteriorating local government finances. China’s state planner last month announced it will ease capital requirements for infrastructure projects in the second half this year.
Data out last week showed producer prices falling at their fastest pace in three years.
A worker welds a bicycle steel rim at a factory manufacturing sports equipment in Hangzhou, Zhejiang province, China September 2, 2019. Picture taken September 2, 2019. China Daily via REUTERS ATTENTION EDITORS - THIS IMAGE WAS PROVIDED BY A THIRD PARTY. CHINA OUT. TPX IMAGES OF THE DAY
That followed a factory survey that showed activity shrank for the fourth straight month as the trade war wore on.
Earlier this month, the PBOC cut the amount of cash banks are required to hold in reserve for the seventh time since early last year in order to increase funds available for lending.
“The PBOC’s RRR cuts alone are insufficient to secure growth above 6.0% this year,” said analysts at ANZ. “In order to guide financing costs lower, the People’s Bank of China will need to cut the open market operation (OMO) rate or medium term lending facility (MLF) rate in the fourth quarter, in our view.”

Story 137
SYDNEY (Reuters) - Australian intelligence determined China was responsible for a cyber-attack on its national parliament and three largest political parties before the general election in May, five people with direct knowledge of the matter told Reuters.
FILE PHOTO: A man holds a laptop computer as cyber code is projected on him in this illustration picture taken on May 13, 2017. REUTERS/Kacper Pempel/Illustration/File Photo
Australia’s cyber intelligence agency - the Australian Signals Directorate (ASD) - concluded in March that China’s Ministry of State Security was responsible for the attack, the five people with direct knowledge of the findings of the investigation told Reuters.
The five sources declined to be identified due to the sensitivity of the issue. Reuters has not reviewed the classified report.
The report, which also included input from the Department of Foreign Affairs, recommended keeping the findings secret in order to avoid disrupting trade relations with Beijing, two of the people said. The Australian government has not disclosed who it believes was behind the attack or any details of the report.
In response to questions posed by Reuters, Prime Minister Scott Morrison’s office declined to comment on the attack, the report’s findings or whether Australia had privately raised the hack with China. The ASD also declined to comment.
China’s Foreign Ministry denied involvement in any sort of hacking attacks and said the internet was full of theories that were hard to trace.
“When investigating and determining the nature of online incidents there must be full proof of the facts, otherwise it’s just creating rumors and smearing others, pinning labels on people indiscriminately. We would like to stress that China is also a victim of internet attacks,” the Ministry said in a statement sent to Reuters.
“China hopes that Australia can meet China halfway, and do more to benefit mutual trust and cooperation between the two countries.”
China is Australia’s largest trading partner, dominating the purchase of Australian iron ore, coal and agricultural goods, buying more than one-third of the country’s total exports and sending more than a million tourists and students there each year.
Australian authorities felt there was a “very real prospect of damaging the economy” if it were to publicly accuse China over the attack, one of the people said.
UNHINDERED ACCESS
Australia in February revealed hackers had breached the network of the Australian national parliament. Morrison said at the time that the attack was “sophisticated” and probably carried out by a foreign government. He did not name any government suspected of being involved.
When the hack was discovered, Australian lawmakers and their staff were told by the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President of the Senate to urgently change their passwords, according to a parliamentary statement at the time.
The ASD investigation quickly established that the hackers had also accessed the networks of the ruling Liberal party, its coalition partner the rural-based Nationals, and the opposition Labor party, two of the sources said.
The Labor Party did not respond to a request for comment. One person close to the party said it was informed of the findings, without providing details.
The timing of the attack, three months ahead of Australia’s election, and coming after the cyber-attack on the U.S. Democratic Party ahead of the 2016 U.S. election, had raised concerns of election interference, but there was no indication that information gathered by the hackers was used in any way, one of the sources said.
Morrison and his Liberal-National coalition defied polls to narrowly win the May election, a result Morrison described as a “miracle”.
The attack on the political parties gave the perpetrators access to policy papers on topics such as tax and foreign policy, and private email correspondence between lawmakers, their staff and other citizens, two sources said.
Independent members of parliament and other political parties were not affected, one of those sources said.
Australian investigators found the attacker used code and techniques known to have been used by China in the past, according to the two sources.
Australian intelligence also determined that the country’s political parties were a target of Beijing spying, they added, without specifying any other incidents.
The people declined to specify how the attackers breached network security and said it was unclear when the attack had begun or how long the hackers had access to the networks.
The attackers used sophisticated techniques to try to conceal their access and their identity, one of the people said, without providing details.
The findings were also shared with at least two allies, the United States and the United Kingdom, said four people familiar with the investigation.
The UK sent a small team of cyber experts to Canberra to help investigate the attack, three of those people said.
The United States and the United Kingdom both declined to comment.
CHINA TIES
Australia has in recent years intensified efforts to address China’s growing influence in Australia, policies that have seen trade with China suffer.
For instance, in 2017, Canberra banned political donations from overseas and required lobbyists to register any links to foreign governments. A year later, the ASD led Australia’s risk assessment of new 5G technology, which prompted Canberra to effectively ban Chinese telecoms firm Huawei from its nascent 5G network.
While some U.S. officials and diplomats have welcomed such steps by Australia and praise the countries’ strong intelligence relationship, others have been frustrated by Australia’s reluctance to more publicly confront China, according to two U.S. diplomatic sources.
On a visit to Sydney last month, U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo delivered thinly veiled criticism of Australia’s approach after Foreign Minister Marise Payne said Canberra would make decisions toward China in based on “our national interest”.
Pompeo said countries could not separate trade and economic issues from national security.
“You can sell your soul for a pile of soybeans, or you can protect your people,” he told reporters at a joint appearance with Payne in Sydney.
Morrison’s office declined to comment on whether the United States had expressed any frustration at Australia for not publicly challenging China over the attack. The U.S. State Department did not immediately respond to requests for comment.

Story 138
Judy Woodruff:
Tonight, we continue our series "China: Power & Prosperity" with what the U.S. calls one of the worst human rights crises of our time.
Uighurs are Muslims who trace their roots back through thousands of years to Central Asia. Today, most of them, about 11 million, live in the Chinese province Xinjiang. They represent less than 1 percent of the population in a country that is more than 92 percent Han Chinese, the ethnicity that China traces back to an ancient Chinese empire.
Communist China has long persecuted people based on their religion. But the U.S., international groups, and Uighurs say this is different. They accuse China of throwing Uighurs into camps and targeting their religion and entire culture.
With the support of the Pulitzer Center, Nick Schifrin reports from a city many Uighurs have fled to, Istanbul.

Story 139
Trade talks between the U.S. and China are set to resume Oct. 10-11 in Washington, three people close to the talks told CNBC on Thursday.
Chinese Vice Premier Liu He will be representing the delegation from Beijing, one of the people told CNBC.
Liu visited Washington this spring sporting the title "special envoy," empowering him to negotiate on behalf of President Xi Jinping and pledge in the Oval Office with President Donald Trump to buy American soybeans.
But Liu was stripped of that title on a subsequent trip, after Communist Party hardliners balked at some of the concessions to which he had agreed.
The White House, the Treasury Department and Office of the U.S. Trade Representative did not respond to CNBC's requests for comment about the date for the resumption of talks.
Trump administration officials have said they expected the stalled talks with Beijing to resume next month.

Story 140
Mining TikTok for the sole purpose of seeing inside a police state is an unorthodox use of the app. TikTok, which did not respond to requests for comment for this article, shot to the top of Apple’s most downloaded list last year, and stayed there—hitting an estimated one billion installs in February. Most people know it as an app popular with teenagers in the US, Europe, and China for its user-generated, snappy, gimmicky short videos cut to pop music. But soon, the app was co-opted by people who understood its potential.
Earlier this year, I reported on the story of Kalbinur Tursun, a woman who managed to flee Xinjiang but was forced to leave her children behind. While casually browsing social media from her home in Istanbul, Tursun saw a TikTok video of her 6-year-old daughter, Aisha, filmed in what appears to be a Chinese orphanage for Uyghur children. It was the first time in years she had seen her daughter’s face.
Though Tursun’s story seems an astonishing coincidence, she’s not the only Uyghur to have discovered news of her missing family by chance through TikTok. In February, Business Insider reported on the story of Abdurahman Tohti, who lives in Turkey and had not heard from his family since they left for Xinjiang on vacation in 2016. “While scrolling through Douyin ... he saw a familiar sight: big, black eyes, and round, rosy cheeks,” reporter Alexandra Ma wrote. “It was his 4-year-old son, Abduleziz.” In the video, an off-camera voice asks: “What’s the name of the Fatherland?” “The People’s Republic of China!” the little boy yells.
Tohti’s story was a turning point for Alip Erkin, the Uyghur activist in Australia. “I realized Douyin was one of the few platforms that people overseas can get some valuable information from,” he said.
The Uyghurs who do this work need to use special tactics to access Chinese TikTok, which is behind China’s firewall, and must be accessed with a Chinese phone.
China’s firewall—originally designed to keep Chinese people from accessing foreign websites—now appears to be also stopping foreigners from seeing in. “It looks like they’re creating a reverse great firewall, and Douyin is a perfect example. They want to keep TikTok outside and Douyin inside; there’s an intentionality there that has an element of censorship about it,” says James Leibold, associate professor in politics and Asian studies at Australia's La Trobe University. Day by day, he says, it’s becoming more difficult to access online content from Xinjiang. The solution, he believes, is to be ever more innovative and methodical.
Once they’ve got around the firewall and accessed TikTok, the international Uyghur activists then have to “teach” the app’s algorithm to show them the videos they want to see. “You have to train it in a certain way,” Yasin said. “You can’t really search, because they cleaned up all the location-based search results. Anything that uses Xinjiang keywords is censored.” TikTok uses algorithms to “serve” users the content it thinks they will like, based on their reactions and responses to each video.
“To make my feed more relevant, I don’t ‘like’ or comment on content other than that about Uyghurs or East Turkestan [the preferred Uyghur name for Xinjiang],” Erkin says. “I only like what I want to see.” That way, he’ll see more videos like it.
It’s a strangely satisfying process, Yasin says. “That’s the beauty of it. Sometimes the algorithm will recommend me something recently posted, not super popular—and it’s what I’m looking for.”
Two months ago, a Uyghur exile escaped Xinjiang and arrived in the United States. She brought her Chinese phone with her—a precious commodity. Using her old phone and Chinese sim card, she now works alongside a group of Uyghur students to mine TikTok. Mehmet Jan, a student in the US, helps run the project. “I categorize the videos into four groups,” he says, sorting them according to whether they show testimonials, surveillance, destruction of mosques, or cultural annihilation.
SIGN UP TODAY Sign up for our Longreads newsletter for the best features and investigations on WIRED.
The group of students are intent on collecting proof of Xinjiang’s gradual reprogramming into a state built in Beijing’s image.“This is no targeted response to violent extremism, but a concerted campaign to hollow out a whole culture,” scholar Rachel Harris wrote in an article for The Guardian in April.

Story 141
The White House is weighing some curbs on U.S. investments in China, a source familiar with the matter told CNBC. This discussion includes possibly blocking all U.S. financial investments in Chinese companies, the source said.
It's in the preliminary stages and nothing has been decided, the source said. There's also no time frame for their implementation, the source added.
Restricting financial investments in Chinese entities would be meant to protect U.S. investors from excessive risk due to lack of regulatory supervision, the source said.
The deliberations come as the U.S. looks for additional levers of influence in trade talks, which resume on Oct. 10 in Washington. Both countries slapped tariffs on billions of dollars worth of each other's goods. The discussions also come as the Chinese government is taking steps to increase foreign access to its markets.

Story 142
Rising from the hills of Dao County in Hunan Province, China, beyond the city of Yongzhou, a dramatic sight appears on the horizon. Here, the massive blades of wind turbines from the Concord Jing Tang and Concord Shen Zhang Tang wind farms turn rhythmically in the sky. Developed by the Concord New Energy Group Limited, each farm generates 48 megawatts (MW) of clean energy. Along with a 38 MW farm in bordering Hubei province developed by Fenghua Energy Investment Group Co., Ltd., these three clean energy projects are the first investments of the China Clean Energy Fund.
Launched in 2018, the China Clean Energy Fund is a new, first-of-its-kind investment fund in China that connects suppliers with renewable energy projects. Apple and 10 of its suppliers in China will invest nearly $300 million by 2022 to develop projects totaling 1 gigawatt of renewable energy. The three wind farms in Hunan and Hubei will generate approximately one-tenth of the anticipated overall project total.
“To see these projects completed and already supplying clean energy to the grid is really exciting,” said Lisa Jackson, Apple’s vice president of Environment, Policy and Social Initiatives. “We are proud that suppliers participating in the fund share our commitment to supporting innovative energy solutions, cutting emissions and fighting climate change.”

Story 143
Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan’s foreign-policy agenda carries a contradiction at its heart. Mr. Khan seeks to project himself as a global defender of Islam, but he won’t utter a peep about one of the most egregious persecutions of Muslims: China’s repression of Xinjiang’s Uighurs and its project to Sinicize Islam.
In New York last week, Mr. Khan laid out his vision in a rambling 50-minute address to the United Nations General Assembly. He defended the right of Muslim women in the West to don the hijab. “A woman can take...

Story 144
Soldiers stand beside armored vehicles in Beijing during a rehearsal Saturday for a military parade Oct. 1 to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the People’s Republic of China. (Wu Hong/EPA-EFE/Shutterstock)
The Sharp Sword stealth drones and the intercontinental ballistic missiles and the truck-borne monuments to the Communist struggle are ready. Flowers have been planted and red lanterns hung along all the major thoroughfares of Beijing. Almost 100,000 people have been practicing their formations in Tiananmen Square.
The Communist Party is ready to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People’s Republic of China on Oct. 1 with the kind of military extravaganza that only Stalinist states can pull off.
It ought to be a particularly sweet anniversary for China’s leaders: Their Communist state has now lasted longer than the Soviet Union, which endured for 69 years.
But it is not. The months-long standoff between the party and the millions who have been protesting in Hong Kong is set to come to a head on Oct. 1, when the demonstrators plan to stage a counter-rally.
“A confrontation of monumental proportions is coming up,” said Orville Schell, a China specialist at the Asia Society. “Clearly, something will happen on Oct. 1.”
Chinese officials have been ­going to great lengths to ensure “stability” in Beijing on the day of the parade. Homing pigeons and kite-flying have been banned. Airports and train stations are planning extra security checks.

Military aircraft fly over a trail of colored smoke in Beijing on Sunday. (Andy Wong/AP)
Local journalists have been told to report only good news, and foreign ones have been told to stay off their office balconies to avoid being shot by snipers. The skies have been ordered to be blue.
But the protests in semiautonomous Hong Kong — and the sympathies they are generating in Taiwan, which Beijing views as a breakaway state — show that not everyone shares President Xi Jinping’s “Chinese Dream.”
[‘I couldn’t breathe’: Hong Kong protesters allege beatings and torture by city’s police ]
Xi, who is presiding over his first of the Communist Party’s decennial anniversaries — but maybe not his last, because he removed term limits on leadership — has laid out a vision to revive the Chinese nation and restore it to its rightful place at the center of the world.
Part of this vision involves the reunification of greater China, incorporating Taiwan, which exists as a democratic, pluralistic flip side to the one-party state of the People’s Republic.

Streets were shut down for the parade rehearsal. (Jason Lee/Reuters)
Another part involves overcoming the “century of humiliation,” in which Hong Kong played a significant role. Britain invaded Hong Kong in 1841 at the beginning of the First Opium War, when it forcibly redressed its trade imbalance with China by getting people addicted to the narcotic.
These factors make the expression of a different kind of Chinese dream in Hong Kong and Taiwan inconvenient, to say the least, for the Communist Party.
“There’s a kind of counter-dream, one with a more cosmopolitan view of Chinese-ness and a more inclusive view of Chinese-ness that’s separate from the Chinese Communist Party but linked up to things that really fit in with the Chinese tradition,” said Jeffrey Wasserstrom, a historian of modern China at the University of California at Irvine.
[Unidentified flinching object: In Hong Kong protests, police wage assault on facts]
Indeed, the “Chinese Dream” has almost zero appeal in Hong Kong, said Jean-Pierre Cabestan, a political scientist at Hong Kong Baptist University.
“In the past, the Hong Kong and Chinese identities had always been distinct, but they have been diverging since 2012,” Cabestan said. That was the year mainland Chinese patriotic education, including a book titled “The China Model,” extolling the Communist Party, was introduced into Hong Kong schools.
“More and more Chinese young people think that they can’t be both,” Cabestan said. “They might feel Chinese, but they don’t feel PRC. That’s why the Chinese Communist Party feels threatened.”
A survey conducted by the University of Hong Kong in June found that the percentage of people who identified as Chinese had fallen to a record low.
Only 11 percent of the 1,015 respondents said they were Chinese. More than half — 53 percent — described themselves as Hong Kongers. Twenty-three percent said they were “Hongkongers in China.” When asked whether they were proud of being a Chinese national, 71 percent said no. That rose to 90 percent for respondents ages 18 to 29.
[Hong Kong activists press U.S. to counter China’s erosion of city’s freedoms ]
While Hong Kongers say they have felt more distance from the mainland, they say they also have begun to feel closer to Taiwan.
In 2014, Hong Kong and Taiwan saw large-scale demonstrations bristling against Beijing’s influence.
Hong Kongers took to the streets in their Umbrella Movement to protest Beijing’s increasing intervention in their governance. Young people in Taiwan launched the Sunflower Movement to oppose greater integration with China.
“Since 2014, since the Sunflower and the Umbrella movements, they have felt that they share the same values,” Cabestan said.
This poses an existential challenge to Xi, whose top priority is the perpetuation of Communist Party rule over a rejuvenated greater China.
In the years since Hong Kong’s return from British control in 1997, Beijing had held up the territory as an example of what the future could hold for Taiwan: a vibrant Chinese territory with a degree of autonomy.
Hong Kong held the promise of how the “one country, two systems” framework could work for Taiwan.
But since 2014, that promise has begun to look more like a threat.
“With the Umbrella Movement, the protesters in Hong Kong began to say: ‘Look Taiwan, Hong Kong today could be Taiwan tomorrow,’ but in a warning sense,” Wasserstrom said.
Now, five years on from those protests — and five years of increasingly authoritarian leadership under Xi — young people in Hong Kong and Taiwan are finding more concerns in common.
After the Hong Kong protests began in June, demonstrators in Taiwan took to the streets chanting “Taiwan cheng Hong Kong,” using the Mandarin word for “support.”
Then musicians from Taiwan and Hong Kong joined forces to release a song called “Cheng.” “The dark night is falling, but I will keep you company. The rain pours down heavy and hard, but cannot drown our dream,” the lyrics go. “Let us hold up the umbrella, never give in, never back down.”
The situation is clearly uncomfortable for Beijing.
[Protesters scatter after Hong Kong police deploy tear gas, water cannon ]
As if to show that “one country, two systems” can work, the party plastered photos of Xi and the next chief executive of Macao, a Chinese special administrative region like Hong Kong, over the front page of its mouthpiece, the People’s Daily.
When Ho Iat Seng visited Beijing this month, Xi said Macao, which was handed back to China by Portugal two years after Hong Kong, showed that the principle of “one country, two systems” was “completely feasible, and can be achieved and well received with people.”
For his part, Ho emphasized the “one country” part of the formulation and said he would work to make sure the casino state became further integrated “into the nation’s development.” He encouraged young Macanese to work on the mainland.
Communist Party leaders have condemned the violence of some of the protests and accused Western countries of fomenting the unrest. But they have stopped short of direct action.
They have publicized military training on Hong Kong’s borders and at the Hong Kong garrison of the People’s Liberation Army, which reports to the party. But apparently conscious of the international criticism that would follow military action and the effect on Hong Kong as a financial center, they have shown restraint.
The big question now is whether, after the spectacle of Oct. 1, Beijing will be less worried about the optics of action.
Read more
Paramount and paranoid: China’s Xi faces a crisis of confidence
With threats and propaganda, China tries to silence support for Hong Kong protests
Will China crush Hong Kong protests? For Beijing, there are no good options.
Today’s coverage from Post correspondents around the world
Like Washington Post World on Facebook and stay updated on foreign news

Story 145
The UN Human Rights Council heard on Tuesday that China is engaged in widespread harvesting of human organs from persecuted religious and ethnic minorities.
The China Tribunal made the accusation at the council's meeting in Geneva, Switzerland. It said Uighur Muslims and the Falun Gong religious group were affected.
The China Tribunal is a group backed by an Australian human rights charity that's investigating the issue.
A lawyer for the group said China was "cutting out the hearts and other organs from living, blameless, harmless, peaceable people," describing the situation as an atrocity.
China has denied large-scale harvesting of organs. It has acknowledged using executed prisoners' organs in the past but says it stopped in 2015, according to Reuters.
Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.
China was accused on Tuesday of harvesting human organs from persecuted groups in the country.
The China Tribunal, a group that's investigating the organ harvesting, said at a tense meeting of the United Nations Human Rights Council that the Chinese government was taking hearts, kidneys, lungs, and skin from groups including Uighur Muslims and members of the Falun Gong religious group.
The China Tribunal describes itself as an "independent, international people's tribunal, and was backed by the International Coalition to End Transplant Abuse in China, an Australian human rights charity made up of lawyers, academics, and medical professionals.
China has denied carrying out mass harvesting of organs in any circumstance.
Addressing UN representatives, a lawyer for the China Tribunal, Hamid Sabi, said the group had proof of the organ harvesting.
Sabi said the group had found that China was committing "crimes against humanity" by harvesting organs from religious minorities like the Uighurs and members of Falun Gong, which has been banned and widely persecuted by the Chinese government.
Read more: A wave of Islamic countries started to stand up to China over its persecution of its Muslim minority. But then they all got spooked.
"Forced organ harvesting from prisoners of conscience, including the religious minorities of Falun Gong and Uighurs, has been committed for years throughout China on a significant scale," Sabi said in a video published on the China Tribunal website.
Members of Falun Gong spiritual movement. Jewel Samad / AFP / Getty
Sabi was presenting evidence from the tribunal's final report, published in June, which found that a "very substantial number" of prisoners were "killed to order" by the Chinese government.
They were "cut open while still alive for their kidneys, livers, hearts, lungs, cornea and skin to be removed and turned into commodities for sale," the report said.
The body parts were then used for medical purposes, it said, citing extremely short wait times for organ transplants in Chinese hospitals as evidence of the practice.
The report was led by Sir Geoffrey Nice, a British lawyer who was the lead prosecutor in the trial of Slobodan Milosevic, the former Yugoslavian president.
Read more: Chilling undercover footage taken inside China's most oppressive region shows it's virtually impossible to escape the paranoid police state
Hamid Sabi, a lawyer for the China Tribunal. Screenshot/The Independent
Sabi told the UN council on Tuesday that China's efforts involved "hundreds of thousands of victims," describing it as "one of the worst mass atrocities of this century."
He did not specify how many organs the China Tribunal believes had been harvested, or the number taken from Uighurs and from Falun Gong members.
"Victim for victim and death for death, cutting out the hearts and other organs from living, blameless, harmless, peaceable people constitutes one of the worst mass atrocities of this century," he said.
"Organ transplantation to save life is a scientific and social triumph, but killing the donor is criminal."
Reuters said China has insisted that it "stopped using organs from executed prisoners in 2015."
The Chinese government did not immediately respond to Business Insider's request for comment on Sabi's testimony.
Sabi concluded by saying that it is the duty of international bodies like the UN to investigate the tribunal's findings "not only in regard to the possible charge of genocide, but also in regard to crimes against humanity."

Story 146
SEOUL (Reuters) - Samsung Electronics Co Ltd (005930.KS) has ended mobile telephone production in China, it said on Wednesday, hurt by intensifying competition from domestic rivals in the world’s biggest smartphone market.
The shutdown of Samsung’s last China phone factory comes after it cut production at the plant in the southern city of Huizhou in June and suspended another factory late last year, underscoring stiff competition in the country.
The South Korean tech giant’s ceased phone production in China follows other manufacturers shifting production from China due to rising labor costs and the economic slowdown.
Sony also said it was closing its Beijing smartphone plant and would only make smartphones in Thailand.
But Apple (AAPL.O) still makes major products in China.
Samsung’s share of the Chinese market shrank to 1% in the first quarter from around 15% in mid-2013, as it lost out to fast-growing homegrown brands such as Huawei Technologies and Xiaomi Corp (1810.HK), according to market research firm Counterpoint.
“In China, people buy low-priced smartphones from domestic brands and high-end phones from Apple or Huawei. Samsung has little hope there to revive its share,” said Park Sung-soon, an analyst at Cape Investment & Securities.
Samsung, the world’s top smartphone maker, said it had taken the difficult decision in a bid to boost efficiency. It added it would however continue sales in China
“The production equipment will be re-allocated to other global manufacturing sites, depending on our global production strategy based on market needs,” it said in a statement, without elaborating.
Samsung declined to specify the Huizhou plant’s capacity or its numbers of staff. The factory was built in 1992, according to the company.
FILE PHOTO: The logo of Samsung Electronics is seen at its office building in Seoul, South Korea January 7, 2019. REUTERS/Kim Hong-Ji/File Photo
South Korean media said it employed 6,000 workers and produced 63 million units in 2017.
That year, Samsung manufactured 394 million handsets around the world, according to its annual report.
The company has expanded smartphone production in lower-cost countries, such as India and Vietnam, in recent years.

Story 147
China's new 'super camera' can instantly pinpoint specific targets among tens of thousands of people
Posted
Scientists have unveiled a 500 megapixel cloud camera system in China that they say is capable of capturing the facial details of each individual in a crowd of tens of thousands of people, raising fears facial recognition monitoring could soon reach a new level.
Key points: The super camera can instantly detect specific targets in a crowd of thousands
It has the capacity to take both still images and record video
The abilities of such a camera raise serious concerns about privacy
The camera, which was revealed at China's International Industry Fair last week, was designed by Fudan University and Changchun Institute of Optics, Fine Mechanics and Physics of the Chinese Academy of Sciences.
The camera's resolution is five times more detailed than the human eye, and it is also equipped with artificial intelligence (AI), facial recognition, real-time monitoring and cloud computing technology, designers say.
All this means it can detect and identify human faces or other objects and instantly find specific targets even in a crowded stadium, Xiaoyang Zeng, one of the scientists who worked on the new technology, explained to reporters at the exhibition display.
He said this device — dubbed the "super camera" by local media — can capture both still images and record video.
Australian freelance technology journalist Alex Kidman said the camera was technically feasible but there were potential difficulties.
"The challenge for a camera of this scope, especially in a cloud-led AI environment is the quantity of data that's needed to shuffle around for identification; as you raise the detail level of each image as the Fudan University scientists have done, you seriously raise the size of the files — especially for video — a substantial amount," Kidman said.
"The serious technical challenge — leaving privacy concerns aside for a second — is in uploading that data and parsing it in a sensible timeframe for the kinds of applications they're talking about, especially wirelessly."
The capacity of such a camera has also raised concerns about privacy in a country already criticised for heavily monitoring its citizens.
"The Party-state has massive databases of people's images and the capability to connect them to their identity, so it isn't inconceivable that technology like this is possible if not now then in the future," Samantha Hoffman, an analyst at the Australian Strategic Policy Institute, told the ABC.
Local media reported that the camera has received a mixed response from Chinese experts with some lauding the invention for its military and national security applications, while others voiced privacy concerns.
China's social credit system
For the past few years, China has been developing a Social Credit System intended to be rolled out nationwide which assesses citizens and businesses by economic and social reputation.
Social credit is like a scorecard for each of China's 1.4 billion citizens and millions of businesses.
Just this month, China announced plans to push ahead with a corporate ranking system that will affect 33 million companies.
The system for citizens is designed to value and engineer better individual behaviour by awarding the trustworthy and punishing the disobedient.
Top "citizen scores" can earn VIP treatment at hotels and airports, cheap loans and a fast track to the best universities and jobs.
Those with lower scores can be banned from travel, or barred from getting credit or government jobs.
The system is enforced by surveillance cameras equipped with facial recognition, body scanning and geo-tracking to cast a constant gaze over citizens.
The new 500 megapixel camera could make that process much more efficient.
At the expo, Mr Zeng explained that while other cameras were capable of filming thousands of people at once in a wide frame, each face is represented by only a few pixels, which means "you couldn't clearly see your targeted person at all".
With 500 megapixels, or 500 million pixels, each face is easily identifiable, and the AI technology can scan and identify a target within seconds.
Ms Hoffman said data generated from surveillance video can be "fed into a pool of data that, combined with AI processing, can generate tools for social control, including tools linked to the Social Credit System".
"I think it is important to note that third-party data like surveillance video — [or any information] in addition to data like government records, legal records or economic records — does not feed into something that generates a score automatically moving up and down in real time," Ms Hoffman said.
"Of course, there are separate but linked public security bureau databases that images like this are more likely to directly feed into."
The China News Service reported that Mr Zeng had called for laws and regulations to standardise the application of the camera.
The developers of the camera did not respond to the ABC's requests for comment.
Topics: community-and-society, computers-and-technology, science-and-technology, information-and-communication, information-technology, government-and-politics, china, asia

Story 148
'Afraid We Will Become The Next Xinjiang': China's Hui Muslims Face Crackdown
Enlarge this image toggle caption Emily Feng/NPR Emily Feng/NPR
Gold-domed mosques and gleaming minarets once broke the monotony of the Ningxia region's vast scrubland every few miles. This countryside here is home to some of China's 10.5 million Hui Muslims, who have practiced Sunni or Sufi forms of Islam within tight-knit communities for centuries, mainly in the northwest and central plains. Concentrated in the Ningxia region, the Hui are China's third-largest ethnic minority.
Now, though, virtually every mosque in Ningxia's countryside has been denuded of its domes, part of a sweeping crackdown on China's Muslim minorities that has reached Hui strongholds in Ningxia, in central China, and as far inland as Henan province in the east. (Up to now, Gansu province in central China has been able to keep most of its mosques intact.)
The crackdown on Muslims has been most extreme in the northwestern region of Xinjiang, where scholars estimate that up to 1.5 million Muslim Uighurs, a Turkic-speaking group, and other ethnic minorities have been detained since 2016, in one of the most sophisticated surveillance states in the world.
The same restrictions that preceded the Xinjiang crackdown on Uighur Muslims are now appearing in Hui-dominated regions. NPR has learned that since April 2018, Hui mosques have been forcibly renovated or shuttered, schools demolished, and religious community leaders imprisoned. Hui who have traveled internationally are increasingly detained or sent to reeducation facilities in Xinjiang.
In August 2018, in Ningxia's Tongxin county, authorities attempted to demolish the Weizhou Grand Mosque, claiming it lacked the right building permits. Hundreds of furious residents staged a sit-in, sharing videos of their protest through popular Chinese social media platforms like WeChat and Kuaishou, a livestreaming app, faster than censors could take them down.
Taken aback, officials called off the demolition. But the victory was short-lived. In November, local government work units began visiting every household in Weizhou, pressuring residents to sign letters stating their acquiescence to "renovate" the mosque by removing its main dome and domed minarets. In some cases, Weizhou officials threatened to fire state employees if they did not sign the letter, according to multiple residents.
This month, an NPR reporter drove through Weizhou, which is now guarded by checkpoints on the only road leading in and out of town. The mosque is closed, its main dome and minarets replaced with tiled Buddhist-style pagodas, and its entrances blocked by scaffolding.
Enlarge this image toggle caption Emily Feng/NPR Emily Feng/NPR
"Of course we are afraid we will become the next Xinjiang," one Hui man told NPR. He did not provide his name for fear that authorities in Xinjiang would find him. Three years ago, he abandoned his family's property in Xinjiang in order to transfer his residency to Tongxin county. "But what can an individual do? We can only take it year by year."
"We say what we have to say"
Descendants of Arab traders who entered China some 1,500 years ago, the Hui pride themselves on having thoroughly assimilated into Chinese society. Unlike the Uighurs, the Hui have no distinct language, speaking Mandarin and often some Arabic. Save for the occasional white cap customarily worn by Hui men or hair coverings among women, they are often visually indistinguishable from China's ethnic majority, the Han.
Their exemption from the harshest of religious restrictions changed in April 2018, when the Chinese Communist Party's United Front Work Department formally took control of the State Bureau of Religious Affairs — meaning that the party now directly oversees policy for religious affairs, not the government.
"The day-to-day responsibility for managing religious activities and organizations shifted to the UFWD, and its atheist party apparatchiks, whose overarching mission is the protection of party power," James Leibold, an associate professor at Australia's La Trobe University and an expert on China's ethnic minority policy, tells NPR via email.
That same April, a mass dome-removal campaign began in Zhengzhou, the capital of Henan province, and resumed in Ningxia as part of the official effort known as chu shahua, fan ahua, to "expel Saudi and Arabic influence."
All Hui-run nursery schools, child care centers and religious schools were forcibly closed in Ningxia and across Yunnan and Henan provinces, which are also home to a large number of Hui Muslims.
Enlarge this image toggle caption Emily Feng/NPR Emily Feng/NPR
The United Front's new control over Chinese ethnic and religious policy marks a substantial change, says Leibold. While the State Bureau of Religious Affairs was sometimes restrictive, it at least "saw the protection, if not promotion, of 'normal religious activities' as part of their mission and mandate, and many of its officials were religious practitioners themselves," he says in his email to NPR.
Abroad, the United Front is the party body that liaises with international nonstate individuals and organizations. Domestically, the United Front has emerged as one of the most aggressive proponents of stripping away foreign influences within religious practices and bringing them under state control — making them more Chinese, a process known as "Sinification."
"Sinification of religion in China is an important discourse of Party General Secretary Xi Jinping on the problem of religion and religious work," Ma Jin, a United Front official, told the Islamic Association of China, a state-backed organization, in January.

The pressure on not just one's religious behavior, but how one lives one's daily life, is unbearable. It weighs on your chest.
"This recent crackdown on the Muslim activities is really a part of a national campaign of China today to correct what they believe are the excesses in permitting Arab-style mosques ... and influence by the Middle East. The Salafi and Wahhabi groups have been pouring money in China," says Dru Gladney, an anthropologist at Pomona College and an expert on Hui Muslims. "These restrictions through UFWD are part and parcel of government efforts to control Islamic practices, to make them more Chinese."
In Xinjiang, Uighur-language books and films have been expunged, Uighur intellectuals imprisoned, and Uighur children sent to state-run schools to be taught Mandarin Chinese and culture.
For the Hui across China, mosques have become the major vehicle for Sinification. In April 2018, authorities began revoking the state-issued licenses given to imams who have residency outside the province in which they practice and from those who have studied abroad. In Ningxia, smaller mosques without licensed imams have been closed outright.
Ningxia sent senior leadership delegations to visit Xinjiang's detention camps last November and signed a counterterrorism cooperation agreement with Xinjiang a month later.
Enlarge this image toggle caption Emily Feng/NPR Emily Feng/NPR
Imams in Henan and Ningxia must now attend monthly training sessions that can last for days. There, imams told NPR, they are taught Communist ideology and state ethnic policy and discuss Xi Jinping's speeches. Imams must then pass an exam testing their ideological knowledge in order to renew their license each year, mirroring how the government issues licenses to imams in the Xinjiang region.
"We go along with it. We say what we have to say, because it is just words and it lets us continue to work in the mosque," said one of the few imams still based in Henan, requesting his name be kept anonymous because of fears of political reprisal.
Fears of Saudi influence
Mosque employees say orders to demolish mosque domes and minarets are transmitted orally from local officials citing the United Front, with no written notice. The demolitions are swiftly executed at night, to avoid protests and video documentation.
"We ourselves do not even have the documents. [The United Front] takes them back at the end of each meeting," a local Henan official says in a recording NPR listened to of a meeting between local officials and employees at a mosque whose domes were removed after the meeting.
"Party organs like the UFWD work outside the state legal system and thus have far greater power than the state bureaucracy and are not required to report back to the State Council," the equivalent of China's cabinet, says Leibold.
Others say officials are looking to avoid the attention that mass mosque demolitions and detentions of Muslims in Xinjiang have attracted.
"Local officials learned from Xinjiang. They know that by aggressively restricting people in obvious ways, like constructing detention centers and leaving written evidence, they might create resistance," Tianfang, the pen name of a prominent blogger critical of China's religious policies, told NPR.
The crackdown on China's Hui Muslims is in part driven by the government's fears that fundamentalist strains of Islam like Salafism and Wahhabism are filtering into China by way of Hui students who study in Saudi Arabia and Pakistan and through private religious foundations on the Arabian Peninsula that have funded some Hui social enterprises and mosques.
Signs of Saudi influence, including Arabic script, are being removed across China. Hui women in Henan and Ningxia provinces say they are no longer allowed to wear the head-to-toe black abaya customary to Saudi women, and Hui shops say they no longer stock Saudi-style clothes for men or women.
Imams suspected of preaching Salafism are also promptly removed. One of them, Han Daoliang, was the imam at Huayuanjie Mosque in Zhengzhou, Henan province's capital, according to mosque attendees. Han raised his hands three times during prayer instead of just once, they said, marking him to Zhengzhou officials as a Salafi adherent.
Enlarge this image toggle caption Emily Feng/NPR Emily Feng/NPR
Forced by local officials to resign this year, Han is now living in Malaysia, according to acquaintances. His former mosque has been given a state-appointed imam. According to a new plaque and mosque employees, the house of worship is now run by a new committee appointed by the state, with a board including two non-Muslim government officials.
"Sweep away the black and root out evil"
The crackdown on Hui Muslims is backed by a national anti-corruption effort launched by the government in 2018 to "sweep away the black and root out evil." Posters exhorting residents to "sweep away the black" are now ubiquitous in Chinese cities and such slogans have been scrawled in graffiti on village walls.
Among the crimes the campaign targets is using "religious connections at villages and townships to form mobs," according to implementation guidelines published late last year. State media reports say 6,885 "black and evil" criminal organizations were taken down under the campaign as of January.
The "sweep away the black" campaign has also decimated power bases outside the Communist Party structure, including among religious communities. Hui communities are now told that unauthorized religious events or proselytizing are considered gatherings of "black" forces or "underworld forces."
Those unauthorized gatherings include Islamic schools run by Hui mosques, nearly all of which have been closed across China, particularly in Henan and Ningxia, according to residents in Henan, Ningxia, Yunnan and Gansu provinces. NPR visited multiple former Islamic schools in September, several of which looked as if they had been cleared in a hurry — with dusty bedding piled on dormitory beds and chipped dishes and other kitchenware stacked haphazardly in corners.
All had taught Arabic language and some Islamic doctrine, but some were run more like vocational schools or social welfare schools for students who might be otherwise ineligible or unable to afford an education.
Enlarge this image toggle caption Emily Feng/NPR Emily Feng/NPR
"We barely taught any Islamic doctrine. It was about making sure these children were educated and would not become criminals or radicalized," said a former teacher surnamed Ma, who did not want her full name used for fear of political reprisal.
She had taught at an Islamic school in China's southwestern Yunnan province, which closed in April 2018. The school had stayed open despite orders in 2014 to expel all non-local students, particularly those having residency status in Xinjiang.
Ma was interrogated by police about the school's curriculum and whether the school was distributing drugs. A common stereotype about ethnic minorities in China is that they sell drugs. One of her colleagues was held incommunicado for three days and subjected to "thought work," or ideological training, Ma says.
Rewards for reporting suspicious behavior
In Ningxia's Tongxin county, a rare female-only Islamic school once renowned across China's north-central and west is being readied for demolition after it was shut down last year to make way for residential development.
"It is the government's policies. Who knows if they will change and when?" one of the school employees told NPR in hushed tones. She withheld her name because of the sensitivity of the matter.
Hui residents of Tongxin say local officials are offering rewards between $700 and $2,820 to those who report suspicious religious behavior, such as proselytizing Islam or secretly teaching Islamic texts. Some male mosque attendees have begun wearing cloth masks covering the lower half of their faces when attending daily prayers to avoid identification.
Hui who have performed the Hajj, the Islamic pilgrimage to Mecca, fall under particular suspicion. Last year, a group of about 20 pilgrims was detained in Saudi Arabia for having the wrong visas before being sent back to China, according to two people with friends in the group. Two Hui pilgrims with residency in Xinjiang were promptly sent to low-security Xinjiang detention facilities, according to the two people with friends in the group.
"Unbearable" pressure
NPR found evidence of significant pushback from Hui seeking to delay or avoid implementing religious restrictions. Hui say they drag out orders to demolish mosque domes, and some students continue to secretly attend religious classes, despite shuttered schools.
In Henan, NPR came across one mosque in the process of "renovating" its dome by building a cover to shield it from view, a compromise between local officials who demanded its removal and nearby Hui residents who refused to do so. Mosque employees were also installing translucent plastic Arabic calligraphic inscriptions on the mosque walls – nearly invisible to all but true believers – to satisfy demands that they remove all Islamic symbols and Arabic script.
Enlarge this image toggle caption Johannes Eisele/AFP/Getty Images Johannes Eisele/AFP/Getty Images
"The Hui people have been through one storm after another, and this is a storm that will pass," the mosque's imam told NPR. "Who knows how the political environment may change? We do not want to spend money to tear our dome down, only to have to pay to build it up again next year."
Fearing the worst, some younger Hui Muslims are looking to leave China and have emigrated to Malaysia and Dubai in the past few years.
"The pressure on not just one's religious behavior, but how one lives one's daily life, is unbearable," said a young Hui man from Ningxia surnamed Tian, who did not want to use his full name for fear of being punished for talking to a foreign journalist. "It weighs on your chest."
Ma Ju, a leader in a Sufi sect of Hui Muslims, left China for the United Arab Emirates in 2009 because of his outspoken criticism of religious restrictions in Xinjiang. This year, he fled to the United States, because the UAE has an extradition agreement with China.
"The oppression I saw inflicted on Tibetans 20 years ago and the Uighurs 10 years ago has finally reached my people," he says.
Ma Ju worries for his community back in China, especially now that technological tools like facial recognition make evading restrictions in China nearly impossible.
"You have legs, but you can't run away," he says. "You have money, but it's of no use. You have a heart, but you cannot lift yourself up. This is a new kind of repression."

Story 149
As a result of African swine fever, China has officially lost 38.7 per cent of its live pig herd as of the end of August, according to the data from the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs. Photo: Reuters

Story 150
China is planting trees to stop deserts expanding.Credit: Wang He/Getty
China has planted billions of trees over the past four decades as part of its fight against expanding deserts, mostly in its north. Each year, the country sows seedlings over an area nearly the size of Ireland. It is even sharing its desert-control methods with others as part of its massive Belt and Road trade initiative.
The trees have held back China′s deserts. But some scientists worry that the planting could worsen water scarcity. Many of the trees are not native to the regions where they have been planted, and they use a lot of water — despite being placed in areas that are experiencing less rainfall due to global warming.
“The idea is nice, but it’s kind of foolish to plant trees in a desert,” says Troy Sternberg, a geographer at the University of Oxford, UK.
Chinese scientists say there are good reasons to plant vegetation in barren areas but that the programme needs to take into account local conditions. They say local and national governments are already planting more shrubs, herbs and other forms of native vegetation that need less water.
Greening China
The Gobi Desert and similarly arid regions in China are expanding as processes such as overgrazing deplete vegetation on their borders, allowing wind and gravity to erode soil. China’s largest tree-planting drive, the Three-North Shelter Forest Program, also called the Great Green Wall, is designed to halt that encroachment. The government says that it has planted more than 66 billion trees across 13 provinces in the country’s north since the programme began in 1978.
Around the year 2000, deserts across the country were expanding by 10,400 square kilometres a year, says the government. But in 2017, the State Forestry Administration reported that China’s deserts were shrinking by more than 2,400 square kilometres a year.
A 2018 study1 analysing satellite data from the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration found there has been an increase in forest cover consistent with government statistics, but suggested that changes in logging policy were more important factors than afforestation — planting forests where none had grown before.
In 1999, the Chinese government began planting millions of trees in its Grain for Green Program, intended to repair damaged farmland in key agricultural in the northern Loess Plateau, which is roughly the size of France. “I was there two years ago, and it is indeed amazing that once bare landscapes are now almost fully covered by plants,” says Philippe Ciais, a climate researcher at the Laboratory of Climate and Environmental Sciences in Gif-sur-Yvette near Paris.
And the afforestation drive is continuing apace: in 2018, the State Forestry Administration announced a target of 30% forest coverage by 2050. At the moment, the coverage is around 22%.
The growth of forests is significant and necessary progress in the fight against desertification, says Jianping Huang, a climate researcher at Lanzhou University.
But it’s still too early to determine whether it has solved the problem, says Congbin Fu, director of the Institute for Climate and Global Change Research at Nanjing University. Land restoration is usually a long-term process — it can take several decades or even 100 years, he says.
Shrubs and herbs are often more suitable than trees for the desert environment.Credit: Wang He/Getty
Water shortages
There are some pitfalls to mass tree planting. In southwestern China, researchers have found that farmers were cutting down native vegetation so they could collect money for sowing non-native plants in government programmes4.
Then there are water shortages. Large parts of China — including some areas where trees are being planted — are becoming drier. A study2 published online in July found that semi-arid areas in the country grew by 33% between 1994 and 2008 compared to between 1948 and 1962. Another paper3, co-authored by Sternberg, found that arid areas in China had increased by roughly 1.6 million square kilometres, about the size of Iran, since 1980 — probably due in large part to anthropogenic climate change.
Many of the plant species introduced to the Loess Plateau use more water than native vegetation. A 2016 study5 co-authored by Ciais found that the revitalized ecosystem is already sucking up rainfall and reducing the amount of water that runs off to rivers; a drier climate could exacerbate the situation and trigger water shortages for humans. A modelling study6 co-authored by Fu and published last month reached similar conclusions, and cautioned against continuing the Grain for Green Program.
Alternative approach
Considering water shortages is important, says Shixiong Cao, an ecologist at Beijing Forestry University. He thinks the national forestry department has recognized the error of planting trees in arid areas, and that in recent years, the department and local governments have moved towards planting shrubs with lower water requirements.
The head of the forestry department, Zhang Jianlong, told Chinese state media in March that efforts should go towards keeping vegetation healthy, rather than simply planting trees. “Also, species should be planted with the right techniques in inhospitable places.”
Cao says planting programmes work best when local governments engage with researchers and communities to find ways to seed less-thirsty plants that create economic value. These include herbs used in traditional Chinese medicine, some of which can grow symbiotically with shrubs, and which farmers can harvest and sell.

Story 151
China's Yutu-2 moon rover captured this image from the edge of the small crater where it found a mysterious, gel-like material. (Image credit: CNSA/CLEP)
China's lunar exploration program has released images that give us a glimpse of the mysterious material discovered on the far side of the moon.
Yutu-2 , the lunar rover for China's Chang'e-4 mission, grabbed attention last month after its drive team spotted something unusual while roving close to a small crater. The Chinese-language science outreach publication Our Space, which announced the findings on Aug. 17, used the term "胶状物" (jiao zhuang wu), which can be translated as "gel-like." This notion sparked wide interest and speculation among lunar scientists.
Scientists have now gotten a look at that curious material, thanks to a post ( Chinese ) released over the weekend by Our Space via its WeChat social media account. Along with new images of the stuff on the moon, the post details how the Yutu-2 team carefully approached the crater in order to analyze the specimen, despite risks.
Related: The Greatest Mysteries of the Moon
The clearest image shows two of the rover's six wheels and the contents of an approximately 7-foot-wide (2 meters) crater.
The compressed, black-and-white shot comes from an obstacle-avoidance camera on the rover. The green, rectangular area and red circle within are suspected to be related to the field of view of the Visible and Near-Infrared Spectrometer (VNIS) instrument, rather than the subject matter itself, according to some lunar scientists.
A cropped image showing the highlighted area with the crater. (Image credit: CNSA/CLEP)
VNIS is one of Yutu-2's four science payloads. It detects light that is scattered or reflected off materials to reveal their chemical makeup. As VNIS has a small field of view, the drive team needed to carefully navigate Yutu-2 to make a detection without falling into the crater.
After obtaining the first set of data that VIRS collected at the crater in July, the Yutu-2 team deemed it to be unsatisfactory due to shadows, so the team members attempted a second approach and measurement during the following lunar day in August. According to Our Space, a satisfactory detection was made — but the results were not released.
An image showing Yutu-2's shadow and tracks from when it approached the crater. (Image credit: CNSA/CLEP)
Clive Neal, a lunar scientist at the University of Notre Dame, told Space.com that while the image is not great, it may still give clues to the nature of the material.
Neal said that the material highlighted in the center of the crater resembles a sample of impact glass found during the Apollo 17 mission in 1972. Sample 70019 was collected by astronaut Harrison Schmitt, a trained geologist, from a fresh crater 10 feet (3 meters) in diameter, similar to that approached by Yutu-2.
The crater containing sample 70019, with the Apollo 17 lunar module in the background. (Image credit: NASA)
Neal describes 70019 as being made of dark, coherent microbreccia — broken fragments of minerals cemented together — and black, shiny glass. "I think we have an example here of what Yutu-2 saw," Neal said.
High-speed impacts on the lunar surface melt and redistribute rock across the craters they make and can create glassy, igneous rocks and crystalline structures.
As for being unusual and "mysterious," as described by the initial Chinese account, "having craters looking like those from Yutu-2 and where 70019 was collected is to be expected," Neal said.
The initial observation that commanded the attention of the drive team was made from an image from Yutu-2's Panoramic Camera (PCAM). The Chang'e-3 mission's Yutu rover , which landed on the near side in 2013, returned impressive, high-resolution color images of the lunar landscape using its PCAM
The Yutu-2 team will have great images to work with, and these may suggest something different. However, images from the Chang'e-4 mission might be released publicly as long as one year after they have been taken.
An image from Mare Imbrium taken by the PCAM on Yutu-1. (Image credit: CNSA/CLEP)
Dan Moriarty, NASA Postdoctoral Program Fellow at the Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Maryland, agrees that it is hard to make a definitive assessment of the substance's chemical composition, given the poor image quality and overlying colored section in the Yutu-2 image.
Moriarty told Space.com that the outlined material appears somewhat brighter than surrounding materials, though the actual brightness is hard to confirm from the photographs. If so, the contrast could be due to the differing origins of the respective materials.
"Chang'e-4 landed in a mare basalt-filled crater, which is typically dark," Moriarty said. "Highlands crustal materials are typically brighter, so that would be a potential candidate."
"It will be very interesting to see what the spectrometer sees, and if any higher-resolution images become available," Moriarty notes.
Chang'e-3's Yutu rover carried an alpha particle X-ray spectrometer for analyzing chemical composition, mounted on a robotic arm, which would be very useful for identifying such specimens. Yutu-2 instead carries the new Advanced Small Analyzer for Neutrals (ASAN), a payload from Sweden for studying how solar winds interact with the lunar surface .
A stitched image from Yutu-2 looking back toward the Chang'e-4 lander during lunar day 7, in late June and early July 2019. (Image credit: CNSA/CLEP)
The Chang'e-4 lander and Yutu-2 completed the ninth lunar day of their mission on Sept. 5, powering down around 24 hours ahead of local sunset. Lunar day 10 will begin around Sept. 22 for Yutu-2 and Sept. 23 for the lander. (On the moon, a day lasts about two weeks.)
Yutu-2 has been heading west of the Chang'e-4 landing site in the Von Kármán crater since the historic Jan. 2 lunar far side landing , covering 934 feet (285 meters) so far.

Story 152
China’s “one-child” policy lasted from 1979 to 2015 (to be replaced by the two-child maximum, still in force) and is revealed in this powerful documentary to be a cruel and tragic experiment in big-government meddling, a colossal and yet intimate abuse of the family by the state whose aftereffects have still to be reckoned with.
Film-makers Zhang Lynn and Nanfu Wang were themselves products of the one-child policy, although Nanfu reveals that her own family benefited – if that is the word – from an early softening of the approach for rural communities, allowing a second child if the first was a girl. This horribly institutionalised sexism naturally bred generations of women encouraged to see themselves as inferior, and created state-sanctioned market forces for infanticide and child-trafficking. Baby girls were routinely abandoned or sold to “orphanages” that would sell them on to customers in the west – a practice horribly comparable to Ireland’s Magdalen laundries but on a more massive scale.
Meanwhile, an entire propaganda culture grew up around this idealised one-child family: on playing cards, stickers, posters and in travelling opera performances. The film shows how China’s contemporary artists have drawn on this strident tradition to create their own bitterly satirical artworks, such as The Thoughts of Chairman Mao, by Peng Wang, which shows individual pages of the little red book, each horribly emblazoned with an aborted foetus. (The film’s most unwatchable section shows photographs of foetuses left in rubbish dumps.)
Nanfu returns to her home town to confront the people from her village who were complicit. And she broods on how, paradoxically, depriving women of choice is still embraced by some in her adopted homeland of the United States. Nanfu’s mother says defiantly that the policy was necessary or China would have turned to “cannibalism”.
I would have liked (in a spirit of devil’s advocacy) to hear from an economist about the measurable benefits or otherwise of this brutal approach, and perhaps to ponder the climbing global population. These reservations hardly diminish the film’s force.
• One Child Nation is released in the UK on 27 September.

Story 153
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 154
A docker works in front of a container ship at Qingdao Port in Qingdao, Shandong Province of China. ChinaFotoPress | Getty Images
BEIJING — The U.S. is temporarily exempting more than 400 types of Chinese products from tariffs that President Donald Trump's administration imposed last year, CNBC has confirmed. That's according to three documents that were published on Friday by the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative. The news was first reported by Politico.
The exclusions include things like Christmas tree lights, plastic straws, dog leashes and printed circuit boards, for a total of 437 types of products. They are part of the $250 billion worth of Chinese goods that the U.S. hit with tariffs last year. It was not immediately clear how large a portion of the overall tariffs is covered by the exclusions. The exemptions stem from more than 1,100 exclusion requests made by companies and other entities in the United States, according to the documents.
This doesn't seem to be an immediate shift in US trade policy ... It's more in consideration of the trade war impact on the domestic U.S. economy than a concession to China. Nick Marro The Economist Intelligence Unit
The world's two largest economies have been locked in an escalating trade dispute for more than a year, in which both sides have levied tariffs on the other's goods. The release of the exemptions comes as mid-level U.S. and Chinese government officials meet in Washington in preparation for high-level talks expected in October. "The latest exemptions are a tacit acknowledgement by the US of the damage being done to domestic interests by the imposition of tariffs," Stephen Olson, research fellow at the Hinrich Foundation, said in an email. "The timing however is interesting," he said. "It suggests that both sides have determined that further escalations are not desirable right now, so they are trying to create positive atmospherics before the October round of negotiations, in the hopes that those talks will at least forestall any further deterioration," said Olson. The documents lay out three sets of exclusions: One set based on the Sept. 24, 2018, implementation of tariffs on $200 billion worth of goods. This exemption will expire on Aug. 7, 2020.
Another based on the Aug. 23, 2018, implementation of tariffs on $16 billion worth of goods. This exemption will expire one year from the publication of the notice, at this time next year.
The other set of exclusions is based on tariffs on $34 billion worth of goods that took effect July 6, 2018. This exemption will also expire this time next year. Last week, China's Ministry of Finance announced it would exempt 16 U.S. product lines from tariffs. Trump subsequently said he would delay increasing tariffs on $250 billion worth of Chinese goods by two weeks, to Oct. 15. China's Ministry of Commerce, Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not immediately respond to CNBC's request for comment.
"This doesn't seem to be an immediate shift in US trade policy, as the US had previously offered some type of tariff exemptions to qualified US goods,“ Nick Marro, global trade lead at The Economist Intelligence Unit, said in an email. "It's more in consideration of the trade war impact on the domestic US economy than a concession to China, but this could still help build some goodwill before the trade talks in October," he said, noting that protests in Hong Kong and tensions around China's Huawei still threaten any sort of agreement. The Trump administration has put Chinese telecommunications giant Huawei on a blacklist that effectively prevents U.S. suppliers from selling to the firm. Beijing, for its part, has threatened the announcement of its own "unreliable entities list." The Trump administration initially focused on reducing the large U.S. trade deficit with China, but the disagreement has expanded to U.S. companies' complaints about limited access to the domestic Chinese market and being forced to hand over proprietary technology to China. Companies in both U.S. and China can apply with the respective governments for exemptions from tariffs. Other items the Trump administration is set to free from tariffs include: A kind of paper filter for single-cup coffee brewing systems
Dog harnesses and retractable dog leashes
A certain kind of laminated wood flooring panel
Steel wire barbecue grills
Printed circuit assemblies for enhancing graphics performance of automatic data processing machines
Refrigerated and heated vending machines for dispensing live bait and fishing tackle
Aluminum radiators for motor vehicles
Miniature lighting sets for Christmas trees
Garden, patio and tabletop wick-burning torches for outdoor use
Plastic drinking straws
Certain electric-powered skateboards and motorcycles
Indoor tabletop water fountains
Pet water drinking fountains
Parts of swimming pool vacuum cleaners
Electronic scales for continuous weighing of quartz, powder and resin on conveyors
Animal feeding machinery
WATCH: How do tariffs work?

Story 155
China’s Belt and Road Initiative is a vast transcontinental development project looking to improve connectivity among nations in Asia, Europe, and Africa. First announced by president Xi Jinping in 2013, dozens of countries have signed onto the scheme seeking to complement their infrastructural gaps, increase foreign investment, expand trade, and ultimately reduce poverty.
These include 40 out of Africa’s 55 states, who—along with the African Union—have signed memoranda of understanding with Beijing to finance and build modern highways, airports, and railways.
Yet six years since the BRI’s introduction, 14 African states are yet to jump on the bandwagon, raising queries about the profiles of these states and why they are holding out against Beijing’s assertive push into Africa. Geographically, these countries are spread across four regions in the continent: in the east (Eritrea, Mauritius), center (DR Congo, Central African Republic), west (Benin, Equatorial Guinea), and south (eSwatini, Botswana). All the countries in North Africa are part of the Belt & Road economic corridor.
While there’s no unifying justification why these countries are yet to sign MOUs with China on the BRI, there are political and economic factors leading them to adopt a wait and see mode. China’s own internal politics particularly play a key role in which nations have signed up and when, says Hannah Ryder, chief executive of Beijing-based consultancy Development Reimagined.
The landlocked monarchy of eSwatini (formerly Swaziland) hasn’t signed onto the BRI with China because it recognizes Taiwan, which Beijing considers an integral part of its territory. Both Sao Tome and Principe and Burkina Faso also resumed relations with China recently after severing ties with Taipei in 2016 and 2018 respectively.
Another factor to consider, Ryder argues, is that 7 out of the 14 nations—including DR Congo, CAR, and Benin—opposed China’s accession to the United Nations in 1971. And while top Chinese leaders continue to make high profile visits to the continent annually, she says none have been to either Comoros and Lesotho in the past decade.
Economics and governance provide some explanation too. Given countries like Mauritius, Botswana, and Equatorial Guinea are middle-income economies, Ryder says “they are waiting to see what the BRI might mean in practice for others before jumping into an MOU, as they are unclear of the implications.” And given the robust and stable political systems in states like Mauritius and Botswana, Chinese projects have come under much more scrutiny there than in other African countries.
Nonetheless, the list still includes poor or least developed states (Guinea Bissau, Malawi), nations under totalitarian rule (Eritrea), countries that receive high levels of private Chinese investment (Mauritius) and some with huge export linkages to China (DR Congo).
The BRI signatories were initially concentrated in East Africa, where Beijing was developing multi-billion-dollar mega infrastructural projects. These included railway lines in Kenya ($) and Ethiopia along with massive port projects in Djibouti.
Yet increasingly, Beijing has tried to market the BRI to more African states and articulate what signing the MOUs would entail in the long run. Ryder says that for China, “the optics of having more countries sign BRI MOUs were obvious: it does not come with a specific commitment but it signals a potentially stronger relationship.”
Yet getting more endorsements doesn’t guarantee the Belt and Road will be successful in Africa. Granted, with 14 fewer signatories, Beijing cannot say the whole African continent is on board with the BRI. But recent research has also shown that global geopolitical tensions, trade wars, and protectionism could shave as much as $800 billion off the scheme, impacting how much Africa benefits in the long run.
Ryder says African countries could leverage the BRI’s potential to their advantage. This could happen if the African Union created a “blueprint” for key cross-country and regional projects China should support. Member states who have signed onto the BRI should also publish a “China strategy” outlining their priorities and what they want to achieve from these partnerships. Countries should also share best practices among themselves so that they can learn from each other’s mistakes.
“Without these three steps,” Ryder concludes, “Africa won’t be able to make the most of BRI, or any other initiative that comes along.”
Sign up to the Quartz Africa Weekly Brief here for news and analysis on African business, tech and innovation in your inbox

Story 156
President Trump resumed his attacks on Sen. Mitt Romney (R-Utah) Saturday morning, calling the 2012 GOP presidential nominee a “pompous ‘ass’ ” and calling for the senator’s impeachment a day after Romney criticized Trump for asking foreign leaders to investigate a political opponent.
“Somebody please wake up Mitt Romney and tell him that my conversation with the Ukrainian President was a congenial and very appropriate one, and my statement on China pertained to corruption, not politics. If Mitt worked this hard on Obama, he could have won. Sadly, he choked!” Trump tweeted.
Trump continued, “Mitt Romney never knew how to win. He is a pompous ‘ass’ who has been fighting me from the beginning, except when he begged me for my endorsement for his Senate run (I gave it to him), and when he begged me to be Secretary of State (I didn’t give it to him). He is so bad for R’s!”
Hours later, Trump suggested, with no evidence, that Utah voters regretted their choice and that Romney should be impeached. Romney was elected with 62.6 percent of the vote in 2018.
“I’m hearing that the Great People of Utah are considering their vote for their Pompous Senator, Mitt Romney, to be a big mistake. I agree! He is a fool who is playing right into the hands of the Do Nothing Democrats! #IMPEACHMITTROMNEY,” Trump tweeted.
A U.S. senator cannot be impeached. Instead, the Constitution gives the House or Senate the power to expel one of its own members by a two-thirds vote.
Trump and his allies have launched similar attacks on other GOP members who’ve criticized the president, part of a broader effort to keep rank-and-file members in line.
[Republican dissidents who speak out become targets of viral disinformation]
After Trump suggested on the White House lawn Thursday that China investigate former vice president Joe Biden and his son Hunter, Romney denounced the president, one of the few Republicans to do so.
“When the only American citizen President Trump singles out for China’s investigation is his political opponent in the midst of the Democratic nomination process, it strains credulity to suggest that it is anything other than politically motivated,” Romney tweeted on Friday. “By all appearances, the President’s brazen and unprecedented appeal to China and to Ukraine to investigate Joe Biden is wrong and appalling.”
Only one other GOP senator has criticized Trump’s behavior, Nebraska Sen. Ben Sasse.
“Hold up: Americans don’t look to Chinese commies for the truth,” Sasse told the Omaha World-Herald. “If the Biden kid broke laws by selling his name to Beijing, that’s a matter for American courts, not communist tyrants running torture camps.”
But Sasse was careful to critique Democrats too. In the same interview, he said House Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam B. Schiff (D-Calif.) was “running a partisan clown show in the House.”
Trump and Romney have a long, complicated history. In 2012, Trump, who pushed a birther conspiracy theory about President Barack Obama, publicly endorsed the former Massachusetts governor for president.
But after Romney’s loss to Obama, Trump derided Romney’s performance.
Romney actually outperformed Trump in the popular vote, winning 47.2 percent of the vote in 2012 to Trump’s 46.1 percent in 2016. But unlike Trump, Romney failed to win enough states to secure an electoral college victory.
Romney was critical of Trump during the 2016 campaign, calling him a “phony.” But Romney broke bread with Trump after he won the presidency. At the time, Trump was considering Romney for secretary of state.
When Romney won his Senate seat in 2018, he promised in an op-ed published the night before his swearing-in that he would stand up to Trump as needed, though until now he has stayed mostly on the sidelines.

Story 157
More than 18,000 largely uninhabited islands lie adrift in the remote waters of the East China Sea. But one rises sharply from the rest: Hua’ao Island. This 66 million-year-old island is home to the region’s last remaining salt flats, and area farmers have been harvesting sea salt here for at least 1,300 years. These salt flats, or seawater evaporation pools, are not mere historical relics, though: China is currently one of the largest sea salt producers in the world, exporting about 66 million tonnes a year.
After the island’s farmers pump seawater into ponds, the water begins to evaporate. Farmers then remove sediments and drain the rest of the water, leaving a fine layer of sea salt that is then filtered, cleaned and shipped. Just 40 of the island’s 1,000 residents harvest salt, with the majority of locals employed in the island’s growing tourism industry, which centres on the Hua’ao Stone Forest: an area of sea-sculpted volcanic rock formations that cover the islet’s craggy shores.
(Video by Runze Yu, text by Emily Cavanagh)
Join more than three million BBC Travel fans by liking us on Facebook, or follow us on Twitter and Instagram.
If you liked this story, sign up for the weekly bbc.com features newsletter called "The Essential List". A handpicked selection of stories from BBC Future, Culture, Worklife and Travel, delivered to your inbox every Friday.

Story 158
Beijing (CNN) — China is poised to open a new mega-airport to the south of Beijing, already home to the world's second-busiest aviation hub, ahead of the 70th anniversary of the People's Republic.
Beijing Daxing International Airport (PKX) will see its first commercial flight take off around September 20, according to Chinese state media, with main tenant China Southern planning to deploy an Airbus A380, the world's biggest airliner, for the maiden journey.
The greatly anticipated airport ushers in a new era for air travel to and from the Chinese capital, which has been in desperate need of a second global gateway.
An aeriel view of the striking new Beijing Daxing International Airport, dubbed "starfish" by Chinese media. STR/AFP/Getty Images
The existing Beijing Capital International Airport (PEK) is hitting full capacity, making it nearly impossible for airlines to add flights at desirable times.
In 2018, more than 100 million travelers passed through its three terminals -- making it only the second airport in the world to cross that passenger traffic milestone, after Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta. China is projected to overtake the United States as the world's biggest air travel market by 2022.
The multibillion-dollar Daxing, designed by the late architect Zaha Hadid and her Chinese partners, is built for the future, boasting four runways and a terminal the size of 97 soccer pitches upon opening of the first phase -- as well as customer-service robots that will provide travelers with flight updates and airport information.
The "modest" initial operational target is to accommodate 72 million passengers and 2 million tons of cargo annually by 2025. The ambitious master plan calls for the building of a total of seven runways, and moving at least 100 million passengers and 4 million tons of cargo a year through the airport.
Construction for the $11.5 billion project began in 2014, with more than 40,000 workers on site at its peak. The terminal bears all the hallmarks of Hadid's signature contour lines, with plenty of natural light shining through its more than 8,000 distinct rooftop windows.
The terminal has more than 8,000 distinct rooftop windows. GREG BAKER/AFP/Getty Images
Nicknamed "starfish" by Chinese media for its shape of five concourses connected to a main hall, Daxing aims to reduce walking for passengers, long a complaint about many new mega-hubs. The airport authority has promised a distance of no more than 600 meters (650 yards) -- about eight minutes of walking -- between security checkpoints and the remotest gates.
Another passenger concern is Daxing's location. It's in the far south of Beijing, a city notorious for traffic jams. The new airport is some 50 kilometers (30 miles) from Tiananmen Square in the city center -- and even farther away from the main business districts in the east and north.
Brushing aside such worries, officials say they have built more than just an airport -- but rather a truly integrated transportation hub that will eventually see high-speed rail, inter-city services and downtown-to-airport express trains all stopping right beneath the terminal. The airport express trains, traveling at a top speed of 160 kilometers an hour (100 mph), promise to whisk arriving passengers to the city in less than 20 minutes.
Yet others say a new mammoth aviation hub will only worsen flight delays in Beijing, already ranked near the bottom of on-time performance lists among airports worldwide.
There is no indication that the Chinese military, which controls most of the country's airspace, will loosen its grip to give airliners more maneuver room. But aviation officials and airline executives predict reduced delays at Daxing thanks to its multi-directional runway design that improves operational efficiency in the air, as well as its location south of Beijing -- eliminating many flight detours aimed at avoiding the city's large "no-fly" zone.
Alliance shakeups, time slot shifts
Main Daxing tenant China Southern plans to deploy an Airbus A380 for its maiden journey from the new airport. STR/AFP/Getty Images
For frequent fliers around the world, though, it may take some time to figure out if Daxing will be their preferred gateway to the Chinese capital.
It was going to be a crown jewel for Skyteam, one of the three global airline alliances, with China-based members China Southern and China Eastern -- each assigned 40% of the new airport's departure and arrival time slots by the government -- moving all their Beijing flights to Daxing to become anchor carriers. Other Skyteam members such as Delta, Korean and Air France-KLM will move to the new airport in phases.
China Southern, however, will now leave Skyteam by the end of this year, having signed agreements with several members of rival Oneworld alliance, including American Airlines and British Airways, for closer cooperation.
Adding another twist to the confusing plot, Air China -- the country's flag carrier and a Star Alliance member -- was supposed to remain at the current Capital Airport along with other Star carriers. But it was recently given 10% of Daxing's time slots after authorities allowed China Eastern to keep its highly profitable Beijing-Shanghai shuttle flights at Capital.
All the tenant intrigue aside, Chinese officials are eager to showcase the country's newest mega-hub to the world upon its grand opening, announcing that flights from Daxing will cover 112 destinations around the globe by next spring.

Story 159
Become an FT subscriber to read:
Leverage our market expertise
Expert insights, analysis and smart data help you cut through the noise to spot trends, risks and opportunities.
Join over 300,000 Finance professionals who already subscribe to the FT.

Story 160
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 161
Office of the Iranian Supreme Leader via AP 2016
Secretary of State Mike Pompeo called violent attacks on Saudi oil infrastructure in Abqaiq and Khurais “an act of war,” as evidence suggests that Iran is the culprit. This marks the most dangerous escalation between the U.S. and Iran since the seizure of the American embassy in Tehran. However, this confrontation has major implications for the growing U.S. – China strategic rivalry.
Amidst historic U.S. – Iran tensions, Beijing is doubling-down on its strategic partnership with Tehran, ignoring U.S. efforts to isolate the Islamic Republic from global markets. Following an August visit by Iran Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif to Beijing, the two countries agreed to update a 25-year program signed in 2016, to include an unprecedented $400 billion of investment in the Iranian economy – sanctions be damned.
The capital injection, which would focus on Iran’s oil and gas sector, would also be distributed across the country’s transportation and manufacturing infrastructure. In return, Chinese firms will maintain the right of the first refusal to participate in any and all petrochemical projects in Iran, including the provision of technology, systems, process ingredients and personnel required to complete such projects. According to an exclusive interview with Petroleum Economist, a senior source in Iran’s petrochemical sector had this to say about the new agreement:
The central pillar of the new deal is that China will invest $280 billion developing Iran's oil, gas and petrochemicals sectors… there will be another $120 billion investment in upgrading Iran's transport and manufacturing infrastructure, which again can be front-loaded into the first five-year period and added to in each subsequent period should both parties agree.
This comes at a time when Washington is exerting its so-called ‘maximum pressure’ strategy against Iran, which aims to change its international behavior by bringing oil exports down to zero.
The Trump policy is a 180 degree U-turn form the sanctions relief granted by the previous administration’s Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). The Obama brainchild intended to temporarily freeze the Iranian nuclear program, but ignored its regional power projection and growing missile arsenal. Under the agreement, Iran’s economy rebounded by over 12% compared to when sanctions were in full force. However, Iran continued to build intermediate and short-range ballistic and cruise missiles and drones, and fund proxies from Lebanon and Syria, to Iraq, to Yemen.
The Trump Administration’s sanctions, however, have cut Iran’s economic growth down to a meager 3.7%. The country’s oil output – the lifeblood of the economy -- dropped from almost 4 million barrels per day (mbd) in 2018 to barely above 2.5 mbd in March of this year, and the exports declined to a trickle.
OPEC
Nowhere To Run But East
Given Iran’s precarious geopolitical and geo-economic position, it has little choice but to forge a closer relationship with China, despite the country’s reputation as a predatory lender. Russia, too, is a major Iranian partner, weapons and nuclear, rocket, and military technology supplier.
Like the other Eurasian economies involved in China’s massive Belt and Road initiative (BRI), mostly imported Chinese labor will be utilized to build factories, designed and managed by large Chinese manufacturers, with identical specifications to those in China. According to the Middle East Monitor, the agreement also confers “the right to delay the payment of these prices for two years in the Chinese national currency (Yuan).”
This presents an extremely favorable situation for the Chinese, as Beijing earns yuan from its projects across Africa and Central Asia – and therefore does not need to make oil trades in USD, diminishing the bite of sanctions. In return, Tehran gains an additional ally on the UN Security Council, and an economic lifeline with a secure oil and petrochemicals market. The deal facilitates Iran’s quest to become a regional and nuclear-armed hegemon, potentially threatening Europe and the U.S.
Debt-Diplomacy and The Changing World Oil Market
At a time when many nations are becoming more wary of Chinese investment – including companies across Europe, Greenland, and the Central Asian Republics – Iran is further embracing China and less savory actors like Russia, and Turkey.
Overall, this may not prove a financially sound endeavor by Beijing, as Chinese companies will come under U.S. sanctions – but it may end up as a shrewd geostrategic play by both parties. Profitability certainly hasn’t been China’s main motivation in many previous investment schemes, nor is it Iran’s. This case is no different. It is a geopolitical anti-American axis. China’s game here is clear: first, increase tensions between the U.S. and Iran by weakening the impact of American sanctions and increase their soft power leverage in the energy-dense Middle East. Then integrate Iran into the Belt-and-Road initiative and into the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, of which Tehran is an observer member.
Beijing’s gambit to cozy up with a terrorism-sponsoring state, however, may backfire. Iranian aggression is likely to end up in Tehran’s defeat. Regardless of how Saudi Arabia and the United States decide to proceed with retaliation for the Abqaiq-Khurais attacks, China may soon have a severe case of buyer’s remorse.
With Assistance From David Pasmanik

Story 162
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 163
Growth of wind and solar in China is slowing as government funding for green energy falters and upgrades to the transmission infrastructure lag. With China’s CO2 emissions again on the rise, experts worry the world’s largest emitter may fall short of key climate goals.
At nearly 10,000 feet, the high deserts of Qinghai Province in northwestern China are an ideal place to tap the sun’s energy. Not much lives out in this moonscape of dust and rock on the Tibetan Plateau, a place so dry that snow evaporates before it hits the ground, only finding a place to rest on the north-facing rocky crags and glaciers that cap the Kunlun Mountains. An occasional Himalayan vulture, with a wingspan greater than 8 feet, can be seen soaring in the blue skies. Down at ground level, workers at a massive solar energy farm recently built here say they sometimes spot Tibetan wolves nosing among the hundreds of solar panels that march row upon row toward the mountains to the south. This new 1,900-acre, 500-megawatt solar farm, known as the Frontrunner Photovoltaic Project, was jointly developed by two Chinese energy companies, Sungrow Power Supply Co. and China Three Gorges New Energy. Thanks to the electricity generated by the installation, only one of the province’s 10 coal-fired power plants needed to be in operation this summer. And for 15 days in June, the rural province of 6 million people derived 100 percent of its electricity from renewable energy. While half of that was from hydropower, the rest came from the wind and solar projects that have been expanding in Qinghai in recent years. By the end of last year, the province was generating more than three-quarters of its electricity from renewable energy. When approved last year, the Frontrunner project not only had the lowest recorded bid price per kilowatt-hour for a solar photovoltaic project in China’s renewable energy history — lower than the price for coal-fired power in Qinghai. But the massive installation also became China’s first large-scale solar project developed without government subsidies. And in a striking example of how China’s mix of a command and capitalist economy can often work with remarkable speed and efficiency, the Frontrunner project was built in only three months, with approval coming in September 2018 and the first solar energy generated on December 29.
Solar installations are expected to drop by about half this year, from a peak of 53 gigawatts in 2017.
If the Frontrunner project bodes well for the future of renewable energy in China, it also illuminates important roadblocks that have recently slowed the nation’s green energy transition and led to an increase in CO2 emissions following several years when emissions had plateaued. Although major solar and wind power installations in China’s more far-flung provinces can produce large amounts of renewable energy, a lack of high-voltage transmission infrastructure means that a sizeable percentage of that green energy still goes unused.
In addition, as renewable energy prices have fallen and the central government has grown increasingly concerned about the impact of the U.S.-China trade war on China’s economy, renewable subsidies are being phased out. Wind and solar facilities must now compete directly at auction with other forms of power generation. China’s green energy sector seems increasingly capable of winning that competition, but solar energy installations are nevertheless expected to drop by about half this year, from a peak of 53 gigawatts in 2017. And while curtailing subsidies for wind and solar power, the central government has sharply increased financial support for what it calls “new energy” extraction, which includes fracking of shale gas and separating methane from coal. Those subsidies are an important reason behind China’s rising CO2 emissions.
Hundreds of wind turbines in China's northwestern Xinjiang Province in July 2016. PATRICK BAZ/AFP/Getty Images
What happens with China’s green energy transition has broader significance in the global climate fight, given that the country is the world’s largest emitter of greenhouse gases. With its renewable energy growth slowing and its fossil fuel use rising, analysts fear that China’s emissions may not level off by 2030, the target set in the Paris Climate Agreement, which would be a significant setback for efforts to slow global warming. Renewable energy proponents are now seeking to avert a continued slowdown in China’s alternative energy sector and spark new green energy growth. “Though China is the largest clean energy market in the world, wind and solar only accounted for 5.2 percent and 2.5 percent of China’s national power generation in 2018,” says Kevin Tu, former China program manager at the International Energy Agency and now a fellow with the Center on Global Energy Policy at Columbia University. “Against the backdrop of an ongoing U.S.-China trade war and a slowing Chinese economy, political priority of climate change in China is unlikely to become very high in the near future, indicating great difficulties for Beijing to further upgrade its climate ambitions.” A major issue, according to Tu and other experts, is the level of “curtailment,” or energy that is generated but not purchased because it cannot be absorbed by the electricity grid. The degree of curtailment has been falling — from 17 percent in 2016 to 7 percent last year — but Tu says that is still too high. Elevated solar curtailment rates in the provinces of Gansu and Xinjiang, as well as in Tibet, led China’s National Energy Agency to halt approvals for new solar projects in those regions for 2019. “Wind and solar curtailments have been a chronic policy challenge in China in recent years, indicating an urgent need for additional power sector reform,” says Tu.
By the end of 2018, the province of Qinghai was generating more than three-quarters of its electricity from renewable energy. Yale Environment 360
People in Golmud, population 200,000, take great pride in the Frontunner solar power installation. Golmud’s workers have a history of building grand projects, including the Qinghai-Tibet highway, which was constructed in the 1950s and is memorialized at a park in Golmud. More recently, workers in Golmud took part in the construction of the world’s highest railway, a 710-mile section running south from the city to Lhasa, Tibet. The line, which crosses Tangula Pass at 16,640 feet, was inaugurated in 2006.
Just like their brethren who built these earlier projects, workers at the Frontunner project had to deal with frequent dust storms, altitude sickness, and weather shifts from extreme cold to blazing sun. “I’m very excited because we managed to build such a big project out in the desert at an altitude like this,” Xu Rugang, project manager at Sungrow’s engineering department says while gazing out across an expanse of PV panels glinting in the sun. “Just imagine the difficulties our workers had to endure to make this happen.” To reduce the country’s CO2 emissions, experts say it is crucial that power produced in provinces like Qinghai be transmitted seamlessly to the industrial and population centers along China’s coast. Many larger renewable projects are located in remote landlocked provinces like Qinghai, Gansu, and Inner Mongolia. Until more transmission lines are built and government reforms are enacted that better enable power to be transferred to other provinces, far-western “battery provinces” like Qinghai will mainly end up generating power for themselves.
After plateauing from 2014 to 2016, China’s CO2 emissions have risen in the last several years.
What’s needed, Tu says, is for the central government to eliminate barriers of inter-provincial power trading and to simultaneously give renewables priority in the transfer and dispatching of electricity. Alvin Lin, an energy and climate expert with the Natural Resources Defense Council who has worked in China for more than a decade, says that an important near-term element in the climate battle is to sustain the momentum of China’s renewable energy drive so that the country’s CO2 emissions peak before 2030. Many experts increasingly argue that the 2030 target date is insufficient. “We and others would like to push for an earlier carbon peaking around 2025,” Lin says. “China would need to stop building new coal plants now and bring coal power capacity and generation down rapidly.” Should China’s emissions not peak until 2030 or even later, experts say that delay could contribute to global temperature increases that hit 3 or 4 degrees Celsius (5.4 to 7.2 degrees Fahrenheit) — far above the consensus international goal of 1.5 to 2 degrees C.
Total CO2 emissions from coal, gas, oil, and concrete production from 2012 to the first half of 2019. Courtesy of Carbon Brief
After plateauing from 2014 to 2016, China’s carbon dioxide emissions have risen in the last several years, with an estimated 4 percent increase in the first half of 2019. While coal consumption and production peaked in 2013, both have increased again since 2017 and are slowly creeping back to 2013 levels. Reliance on gas from fracking in the Sichuan basin, as well as coal-bed methane extraction and increased imports of natural gas (China is the second-largest natural gas importer in the world), are on the rise. Since China counts unconventional gases like shale gas and coal-bed methane as “new energy,” they are eligible for subsidies from the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology [MIIT]. Roughly $830 million — more than 80 percent of an MIIT new energy fund — went to subsidizing such projects in 2018, according to a recent report by the state-run China Energy News. While continuing to fund unconventional gas, China has now largely stopped providing national-level subsidies to wind and solar projects and is implementing reforms to its feed-in-tariff system, moving to replace it with auctions in which wind and solar power must compete directly with fossil fuels.
Some say they think China could install as much as 100 gigawatts of solar power annually, if renewables were given higher priority.
This process has started to slow the overall added capacity for wind and solar. While new solar photovoltaic installations hit an all-time high of 53 gigawatts [GW] in 2017, they slipped to around 41 GW last year and current figures put solar installations at slightly more than 11 GW for the first half of 2019. Projections are for about 25 GW of solar power to be installed this year and in succeeding years through 2025, an amount that would not sharply curtail fossil fuel use. Another problem is that renewable energy projects are facing land-use restrictions that protect agricultural, industrial, and urban land in provinces like Guangdong in South China, the country’s economic powerhouse, says Jonathan Luan Dong, a renewables analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance. While several non-subsidized renewable energy projects had been scheduled to start in Guangdong in 2019, few actually seem to be moving forward. When I attempted to visit renewable energy projects that were said to be in the works, government offices and companies in the Guangdong cities of Jiangmen, Meizhou, and Zhanjiang declined my requests because the projects hadn’t started.
The 1,900-acre, 500-megawatt Frontrunner Photovoltaic Project, located outside of Golmud, Qinghai Province. Courtesy of Zhong Yunfan
Some renewable energy analysts say they think China could install as much as 100 gigawatts of solar power annually — four times the current level — if renewables , including residential solar PV initiatives, were given higher priority. China has so far set a modest 3 GW quota in 2019 for residential solar, which would make subsidies available to about 600,000 households to install solar panels. “Stimulating ….. distributed energy projects in coastal provinces is another way to push renewables in China while bypassing existing barriers,” Tu says. Sungrow and Three Gorges recently won a bid for a new 100-megawatt solar farm in the deserts of Inner Mongolia, beating its own record bid price for the Frontrunner project. Asked how much solar power could expand in China’s desert regions, Sungrow’s Xu Rugang says it will come down to government planners in the end. The space is available, he says. The price is right. The environmental costs of coal-fired power are well-known.

Story 164
NEW YORK -- Chinese electric vehicle maker NIO said it will lay off another 1,000 employees Tuesday, after reporting heavy losses, adding to growing uncertainty around the startup's future.
The New York-listed company's new round of restructuring will be conducted by the end of the third quarter. The Shanghai-based startup had already cut down from a staff of 9,100 in January to around 8,800 in August and shut down an office in Silicon Valley.
The company canceled its scheduled earnings call scheduled for Tuesday. It reported a worse-than-expected net loss of 3.29 billion yuan ($478 million) for the second quarter of 2019, an 83.1% deeper loss on the year and 25.2% deeper than in the first quarter.
NIO shares plunged over 25% Tuesday morning on the New York Stock Exchange.
Amidst the hemorrhage, the automaker said it will raise $200 million in convertible notes from major shareholder Tencent Holdings and NIO Chairman and CEO William Li, though the amount falls short of the company's cash burn rate.
NIO's revenue shrank to 1.51 billion yuan from 1.63 billion yuan in the previous quarter, as total deliveries slipped 10% to 3,553.
"In response to the overall tempered market conditions, we are also working hard to maximize returns on our resources and have implemented comprehensive efficiency and cost-control measures across the organization," Li said in a statement.
The company recalled 4,803 of its ES8 vehicles in July. But NIO's troubles also come amid China's phaseout of subsidies that aided the electric vehicle industry's meteoric rise and sustained its growth.
Subsidies for the ES8 model were cut this year to 11,500 yuan -- about $1,600 -- from 67,500 yuan in 2018. Consumers now pay nearly $8,000 more for the vehicle than they did a year ago.
Beyond its internal challenges, NIO faces tougher competition from American electric vehicle maker Tesla, which is poised to begin production at its Shanghai Gigafactory this year to deliver locally made cars to Chinese customers.
NIO is banking on a further capital injection from state-owned Beijing E-Town Capital, as the automaker incorporated a new entity in the city's economic-technological development area. The company said it would receive up to $1.5 billion in investment from E-Town, according to a framework agreement announced in May.

Story 165
China’s statement to the UN was followed by one from a group of 27 nations calling for a “free, open” cyberspace. Photo: Shutterstock

Story 166
Shuping Wang, center, helped draw international attention to Chinese officials’ coverup of an HIV epidemic in one of the country’s poorest provinces. (Family photo)
Shuping Wang, a medical researcher who defied Chinese authorities in the early 1990s by exposing the burgeoning HIV epidemic in one of her country’s poorest provinces, where an estimated 1 million destitute farmers sold their blood plasma at collection sites and were infected with the deadly disease, died Sept. 21. She was 59.
She was hiking in a canyon in Salt Lake City when she suffered an apparent heart attack, said her husband, Gary Christensen.
Dr. Wang had lived for the past 18 years in the United States, becoming a naturalized U.S. citizen, but continued to contend with the intimidation by Chinese government officials that had helped drive her from her home.
As recently as last month, she had said, Chinese police called on her friends and colleagues in Zhoukou, the city in Henan province that was the site of much of her whistleblowing work, in an effort to pressure Dr. Wang to halt a play about her story on stage at the Hampstead Theatre in London.
“The only thing harder than standing up to the Communists and their security police is not giving in to pressure from friends and relatives who are threatened with their livelihoods all because you are speaking out,” she said in a statement on Sept. 3. “But even after all this time, I will still not be silenced.”
Among AIDS activists and others who followed her work, Dr. Wang was regarded as a heroine who risked her career and safety to expose the rampant spread of hepatitis C and HIV among poor villagers recruited by the government to sell their blood plasma for medical purposes.
“Extend your arm. Expose a vein. Make a fist. And it’s 50 yuan,” or approximately $7.50, went one slogan. For Henan farmers, that sum represented a considerable windfall.
Chinese officials had embarked on the collection campaign in an effort to keep HIV, which they regarded as a foreigner’s disease, out of the Chinese blood supply. Instead of relying on foreign blood products as HIV/AIDS spread across the United States and other countries, China would harvest its own.
But, as Dr. Wang began to discern in the early 1990s, poor collection practices — as well as government efforts to cover up their consequences — fueled the wild spread of the disease. Among other unsafe methods, blood was drawn from multiple donors and combined. After the plasma was extracted, the remaining mixed blood was reinjected into the donors. If any one donor had HIV, all the others might contract it.
A specialist in hepatitis, Dr. Wang was assigned to a plasma collection station in Zhoukou in 1991. After confirming her suspicions that many donors there were infected with hepatitis C, she implored officials at the site to change the collection prac­tices.
“This will increase cost,” she said she was told.
1 of 60 Full Screen Autoplay Close Skip Ad × Notable deaths in 2019: Ric Ocasek, Valerie Harper, Ross Perot, Toni Morrison, and others we have lost this year View Photos Remembering those who have died in 2019. Caption Remembering those who have died in 2019. Mj Kim/AP Buy Photo Wait 1 second to continue.
Undeterred, Dr. Wang took her concerns to the Ministry of Health in Beijing, which began requiring hepatitis C screening for blood plasma donors in 1993, she wrote in an account of her work published on the website China Change in 2012. Officials at the collection site had her removed, but she continued inspecting facilities elsewhere in the region and found similar cross-contamination.
“My own investigation found hepatitis C antibody positive rate to be as high as 84.3%. Being a doctor, I was very anxious,” she wrote. “I knew that hepatitis C and HIV had the same routes of infection. . . . I didn’t want to sit in the office of the Health Bureau waiting for the arrival of an AIDS epidemic. I wanted to directly monitor it and prevent it.”
She was joined in her efforts by Gao Yaojie, an obstetrician-gynecologist from Henan province, also later exiled to the United States, who became one of the country’s most prominent AIDS activists.
“Together the two women started a campaign — Wang behind the scenes with facts and information and Gao out front with a steely resolve and charisma — that shook China’s faith in its health system and government,” Kathleen McLaughlin, a journalist who covered the scandal, wrote in an account published in the London Guardian last year.
Using her own money, Dr. Wang began testing blood samples for HIV and found an infection rate of 13 percent. After she took the samples to Beijing, she found herself frozen out by local and provincial health leaders, who stood to be embarrassed by her revelations. A man she described as a “retired leader of the Health Bureau” came to her testing site and smashed her sign with a baton. When she tried to stop him from destroying her equipment, he struck her.
In 1996, the collection sites were shut down and reopened with HIV testing for donors. “I felt very gratified,” Dr. Wang wrote, “because my work helped to protect the poor.” But she continued to face intimidation. Her clinical testing center was ultimately closed and the utilities cut off, resulting in the loss of all the samples she had collected.
She found work in Beijing before coming to the United States in 2001, the same year that a senior Chinese government official conceded for the first time that the country had a “very serious epidemic of H.I.V.-AIDS” and that coverup efforts by local officials had contributed to its spread. In an interview after Dr. Wang’s death, Wan Yanhai, a prominent Chinese AIDS activist also exiled to the United States, commended her as a health scientist who “took responsibility . . . to tell the truth.”
Zou Shuping was born Oct. 20, 1959, in Fugou County, Henan province. Her mother was a village physician, and her father was a math teacher.
During the Cultural Revolution, Dr. Wang recalled watching her parents be forced to put on dunce caps because her father had been a soldier in the nationalist Kuomintang forces.
She was expelled from school at 8 and was readmitted only after she was adopted by an uncle, who belonged to the Communist Party, and adopted his surname, Wang. She resumed her studies, ultimately earning a medical degree and a PhD, her family said.
Her first marriage, in China to Honghai Geng, ended in divorce amid her whistleblowing campaign. In the United States, she married Christensen in 2005. Besides her husband, of Salt Lake City, survivors include a daughter from her first marriage, Samantha Geng of Tucson; two children from her second marriage, Julie Zou of Bethesda, Md., and David Zou of Salt Lake City; and a brother.
After Dr. Wang’s death, David Cowhig, a retired U.S. Foreign Service officer assigned to the U.S. Embassy in Beijing from 1996 to 2001, wrote on his blog, “Now it can be told: Shuping Wang . . . was also the single most important source” for U.S. officials seeking to understand and curb the HIV epidemic in China.
“She provided rock-solid, highly sensitive internal information about the HIV epidemic and the Chinese leadership’s disappointingly weak response,” he wrote. “That in turn seized the attention of the Clinton White House.”
In the United States, Dr. Wang did medical research in Milwaukee and later at the University of Utah.
“I have since been working over 10 hours every day,” she wrote in her 2012 account of her life. “Hard as it is, I have learned a lot of new technologies and techniques. I am still hoping that, one day, I will be able to apply my experience and skills to serve the Chinese people.”

Story 167
Baotou City: The epicentre of China’s rare earth industry. (Image by Matthew Stinson.
The US government is stepping up efforts to break China’s dominance over supplies of critical minerals for a range of modern life’s aspects, including electric vehicles (EVs), green technologies and military applications by launching a plan to boost lithium, cobalt and rare earths mining across the globe.
The Energy Resource Governance Initiative (ERGI) initiative, announced in June, so far involves Australia, Botswana, Peru, Argentina, Brazil, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Namibia, the Philippines and Zambia.
The scheme seeks to promote responsible mining of 15 minerals expected to be in high demand as the adoption of technologies such as EVs, battery storage and wind turbines continue to rise.
“We want to ensure that these important mineral commodities remain free from international coercion and control,” US secretary of state, Mike Pompeo, said in a meeting held on Thursday at the United Nations General Assembly.
Washington has grown more concerned recently about its dependence on mineral imports after Beijing suggested using them as leverage in the trade war between the world’s two largest economies.
“The work that we’re doing here is absolutely essential – it’s essential to ensuring secure and reliable energy supplies for every nation,” he noted.
Pompeo said the Trump administration will also work on bilateral agreements, such as the one it recently signed with Canada, aimed at strengthening cooperation on critical minerals.
Washington has also gained the support of Australia, which has committed to facilitate potential joint ventures to improve rare earth processing capacity and reduce reliance on Chinese rare earths.
In early September, Canberra identified 15 rare earth and critical mineral projects it aims to champion as part of the joint effort with the US to challenge China’s dominance in the market.
The announcement followed a move by Australia’s Lynas Corp., (ASX: LYC), the world’s largest rare earths miner outside China. In July, the company signed a deal with its partner, Texas-based Blue Line, to build a heavy rare earths separation facility in the US. The facility should begin operations by 2021.
The US has also signed a memorandum of understanding to assist Greenland in the exploration and development of the island’s resources — in particular, its rare earth minerals.
Washington has grown more concerned recently about its dependence on mineral imports after Beijing suggested using them as leverage in the trade war between the world’s two largest economies.
Growing supremacy
China accounts for almost 80% of the global mined supply of rare earths, a group of 17 chemical elements used in everything from hi-tech consumer electronics to military equipment.
The nation has used its rare earths dominance to make a political point in the past. It blocked exports to Japan after a maritime dispute in 2010, though the consequent spike in prices triggered a race to secure supplies elsewhere.
Beijing has also been securing supplies of other critical minerals and battery metals such as lithium, cobalt and nickel, buying up stakes in mining projects in countries from Australia to South America and Greenland.

Story 168
The growing influence of the Chinese military across Southeast Asia and beyond is compelling the Association of Southeast Asian Nations member states, which have traditionally shied away from collective regional security, to look at the issue with a new focus.
The People’s Liberation Army’s regional activities have pushed the ASEAN countries to put their effort on the modernization of their armed forces. The tiny city-state of Singapore, which has always maintained a military well in excess of its relative size to counter possible aggression from Malaysia or Indonesia, is further building up strong armed forces, especially a powerful navy and air force.
Regional defense spending has doubled over the past 15 years, with Thailand and Indonesia’s spending rising at a 10 percent annual clip, according to Felix Heiduk of the German Institute for International and Security Affairs, writing in the East Asia Forum. The region’s militaries, Heiduk writes, “are undergoing a strategic reorientation away from an almost exclusive focus on counter-insurgency and domestic stability towards external defense, power projection and conventional warfare,” a trend linked to growing uncertainty in Southeast Asia over China’s rise as well as the possible impact on regional security of US–China geostrategic competition.
Some member states are separately forming security alliances between/among themselves in order to counter any possible threat from the PLA, by far the region’s largest armed forces.
The bellicosity of Beijing under General Secretary Xi Jinping, who has aggressively pushed the 1947 “nine-dash line,” has in effect turned the South China Sea into a Chinese lake. The PLA has built a flock of islets into military bases and lashed out against both Vietnam and the Philippines. While Vietnam has been more assertive in protecting its claims in the ocean, the Philippines under Rodrigo Duterte has meekly let China do as it pleases within the Philippine exclusive economic zone.
In September, in a major departure from past practice, the US Navy and 10 Southeast Asian countries kicked off five days of maritime drills as part of a joint exercise extending into the South China Sea with eight warships, four aircraft, and more than 1,000 personnel. Co-led by the US and Thai navies, the exercises dipped their toes into “international waters” including the Gulf of Thailand and South China Sea” before concluding in Singapore.
ASEAN has long demurred from such action, limited as it was. The pact was formed by five original member states in 1967 with the intention to develop the regional economy as a whole as well as the economy of each member state. During its formation, the Cold War was a dominant factor in the foreign policy of the Southeast Asian countries and, hence, the fear of communism too helped these countries to seek a bulwark against aggression although security has taken a back seat.
Moreover, the threats to the region from the Soviet Union pushed ASEAN and China to take a similar stance against Moscow as well as against the Southeast Asian countries that were allied with it at the time. With the collapse of the Soviet bloc in 1989, the fear of communism and the threat diminished. Even pro-communist regional countries like Laos, Burma (now Myanmar) and Vietnam joined ASEAN. The association from that time forward has functioned largely as a talking-shop dedicated largely to facilitating trade between the member nations.
Although there has been speculation that the association might gradually evolve into a security alliance, that is a far cry from what it as a bloc intends to achieve. However, security alliances among some of the ASEAN member states and some extra-ASEAN countries like Australia, India and/or Japan cannot be ruled out.
China’s stance on the South China Sea – backed by the PLA’s activities in the sea – has been a major concern. While almost all member states view China’s presence in the sea as a threat to the freedom of movement in the international waters, some of these member states have direct territorial/maritime disputes with China.
China is expanding its grip on the resource-rich sea, but has been careful enough to do this gradually, step by step. This is a total contrast from what many occupying powers did in the past and still do – i.e. direct military operation – to take over a territory/maritime-territory from other entities. This slow approach attracts lesser outcry from the international community. Using time as weapon, China is slowly expanding its grip.
The ASEAN member states currently do not possess enough military capability to challenge the PLA, either separately or even collectively. But all the member states are now concentrating on building up strong armed forces. China is aware of this, and is concerned too. The US, long the guarantor of power in the region, never followed up on the Obama administration’s “pivot to Asia” with substantive action. The Trump administration, preoccupied with other theatres, belatedly authorized the latest exercise.
Although Chinese military leadership knows that the modernization and upgrading plans of each ASEAN member state individually are not significant enough to become a concern, the military leadership understands well that the member states’ armed forces could become lethal collectively.
For instance, the Singaporean navy alone cannot defend the city-state from any threat from a powerful navy like China’s. So the only option is to build a navy that could become lethal when combined with other regional and extra-regional navies, such as those of Australia, India, Indonesia, and the USA. In fact, this is what almost all the ASEAN navies, and other armed forces, are planning to evolve into.
Bahauddin Foizee is a geopolitical analyst and international affairs columnist, focusing on the Asia-Pacific/Indo-Pacific and the Middle East. His works have been published on many think-tank-publications and international newspapers/media-outlets

Story 169
Image copyright Yongshan Police Image caption After 17 years, the fugitive was tracked down by a drone
Chinese police have arrested a fugitive who'd been on the run for 17 years, after they used drones to spot his cave hideout.
The 63-year old, named Song Jiang by the police, had been jailed for trafficking women and children but escaped from a prison camp in 2002.
He had been living in a tiny cave cut off from human interaction for years.
Yongshan police received clues about Song's whereabouts in early September, they said on their WeChat account.
Those clues led them to the mountains behind his hometown in Yunnan province in south-west China.
Image copyright Yongshan Police Image caption Drones spotted the cave on a steep hillside
After regular searches failed to find anything, authorities sent additional drones to help the officers.
The drones eventually spotted a blue-coloured steel tile on a steep cliff as well as traces of household rubbish nearby.
Police then moved in on foot and found Song in a small cave where he'd been hiding for years.
According to the police, the man had been living in seclusion for so long that it was difficult for him to communicate with the officers.
State media said Song had used plastic bottles to get drinking water from a river, and branches of trees to make fire.
He has been sent back to jail.

Story 170

Students take part in an anti-government rally in Hong Kong.(Chris McGrath/Getty Images)
A search for “#hongkong” on Twitter reveals a vast visual patchwork of the city’s unavoidable protests, including pro-China agitprop, sympathetic memes and imagery from the hundreds of thousands of pro-democracy marchers who have braved police crackdowns.
But the same searches for Hong Kong on TikTok, the short-video app from a Beijing-based tech giant that has gone viral in the U.S., reveal a remarkably different — and, for the Chinese government, more politically convenient — version of reality: playful selfies, food photos and singalongs, with barely a hint of unrest in sight.
TikTok has quickly become one of America’s most popular mobile apps, a flashy, frenetic, video playground beloved by teens and downloaded more than 110 million times across the U.S. With its blend of goofy memes, fast-twitch skits and chart-topping earworms like “Old Town Road,” the app has quickly become China’s most successful social-media export abroad and a global phenomenon, installed by 1.3 billion users around the world.
Celebrities are also flocking to the app, including New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady, whose first video post — a season-opener supercut posted Tuesday, set to rapper Young Thug’s “Hot” — coincided with TikTok’s new multiyear marketing deal with the NFL. TikTok has ranked among the world’s most-downloaded apps for the last 18 months, according to data provided by the research firm Sensor Tower. U.S. viewers have spent more than $37 million over the last two years on virtual coins for their favorite creators, TikTok’s primary way of making money.
[“What does it mean when the main information source that we’re looking at is not really the full picture?” Technology reporter Drew Harwell on Post Reports.]
But researchers have grown worried that the app could also prove to be one of China’s most effective weapons in the global information war, bringing Chinese-style censorship to mainstream U.S. audiences and shaping how they understand real-world events. Compounding researchers’ concerns are TikTok’s limited public comments about the content it removes and its purported independence from censors in Beijing.
TikTok’s parent company ByteDance said in a statement that U.S. user data is stored domestically and that the app’s content and moderation policies in the U.S. are led by a U.S.-based team not influenced by the Chinese government. ByteDance repeatedly declined to make executives available for on-the-record interviews.
In its statement, the company defended TikTok as a place for entertainment, not politics, and said its audience gravitates there for positive and joyful content as a possible explanation for why so few videos relate to sensitive topics such as the protests in Hong Kong.
The company declined to provide details of how the app is policed in the U.S. or how the U.S. team shields itself from being influenced by authorities in Beijing, where ByteDance is headquartered. Officials in the Chinese embassy did not respond to requests for comment.
TikTok’s surging popularity spotlights the tension between the Web’s global powers: the United States, where free speech and competing ideologies are held as (sometimes messy) societal bedrocks, and China, where political criticism is forbidden as troublemaking.
TikTok’s Chinese counterpart, researchers say, remains captive to the ruling regime’s ideas of appropriate content and censorship, and they point to the way the nation’s Communist Party has used it as a propaganda vessel for young audiences that might otherwise not seek out state-media news.
[Under Hong Kong’s streets, the subway becomes a battleground for protesters and police]
Yaqiu Wang, a Hong Kong-based researcher for Human Rights Watch, said the Hong Kong protests marked one of the first big tests of how Chinese companies could project the government’s dogmas to a global audience.
“They are making the commercial media repost or reproduce what has been produced by state media. And they are forcing censorship to create a narrative in the sense that this is not what happened,” Wang said. “For Chinese companies, the government has so much control. You have no choice. If it’s politically sensitive, your company is in jeopardy.”
Long seen as a launchpad for viral memes, TikTok in the U.S. is entering a kind of social-media adolescence, expanding into a new public square for young viewers to learn about and riff off current events. Videos with the #trump2020 hashtag, for instance, have accrued more than 70 million views: One clip by user CountryGirl9352, in which she lip-syncs Trump’s complaint about plastic straws, has received more than 500 comments and 10,000 likes.
It’s impossible to know what videos are censored on TikTok: ByteDance’s decisions about the content it surfaces or censors are largely opaque. The company provides no information about the videos it removes for violating its prohibitions against hate speech or extremism, and it does not offer the kinds of tools that would make the platform accessible to outside research. It’s also possible that users in Hong Kong could be self-censoring by not posting politically fraught content onto an app closely scrutinized by Chinese censors.
[The U.S. government fined the app now known as TikTok $5.7 million for illegally collecting children’s data]
But popular hashtags used by Hong Kong protester that have spread widely across other social media barely exist on TikTok.
The #antielab hashtag, a central organizing post named for protesters’ resistance to an extradition bill seen as weakening Hong Kong sovereignty, has more than 34,000 posts on Instagram but only 11 posts on TikTok, totaling about 3,000 views. The hashtags for #HongKongProtests and #HongKongProtestors, some of the biggest rallying points on Twitter, return either a single video or an error message: “Couldn’t find this hashtag: Check out trending videos.” The #HongKongProtest hashtag showed six videos, totaling about 5,000 views.
Searches on the TikTok app in the U.S. using Chinese characters produce similar results. A main protest hashtag (反送中), used to refer to the anti-extradition movement, shows about 100 videos totaling roughly 105,000 views. For comparison, a hashtag for #snails on TikTok has more than 6.6 million views.
TikTok’s parent company has offered limited information about its mix of human and algorithmic censors, which scan videos and remove blacklisted words and images. The company’s chief said last year it would employ 10,000 moderators to flag and remove content following a crackdown from Chinese regulators targeting the app’s “improper content.”
That lack of transparency, alongside the company’s Chinese roots, appears to have become a point of satire for some TikTok users. The #TiananmenSquare hashtag — named for the sprawling Beijing center where military forces in 1989 killed thousands of people following pro-democracy protests, a massacre strictly censored across China — shows about 20 videos, most of which joked that the bloody episode never happened.
Organized online Chinese campaigns to disparage Hong Kong protesters, researchers said, also suggest that ByteDance could be used to influence global perceptions. Facebook, Twitter and YouTube last month said they had removed fake accounts, including some disguised as everyday Americans, that had praised the government and portrayed the protesters as terrorists and cockroaches.
“If they’re willing to do this on Twitter and Facebook, of course they’re going to want to do it on their own platform,” said Elliott Zaagman, a writer and co-host of a popular podcast on the Chinese tech industry.
[In accusing China of disinformation, Twitter and Facebook take on a role they’ve long rejected]
Despite TikTok’s growing popularity in the U.S., the app has barely registered in Washington’s ruling circles. Many lawmakers perhaps first heard of the company when a Facebook executive pointed to its rise at a hearing this year as evidence that Facebook didn’t hold a monopoly on people’s attention spans online.
In February, the Federal Trade Commission fined the company $5.7 million over allegations it violated rules meant to protect kids’ privacy online. FTC watchdogs said that the precursor to TikTok, the karaoke app Musical.ly, illegally collected names, email addresses, pictures and other data from children younger than 13.
ByteDance has since sought to introduce itself to regulators, registering its first lobbyist in June and hiring additional outside consultants a month later, federal ethics filings show.
ByteDance has been named the world’s most valuable start-up thanks to massive investments from tech powerhouses such as Japan’s SoftBank Group that have valued it at more than $75 billion. (Uber, for comparison, is worth less than $60 billion.)
Founded in 2012, ByteDance now owns a stable of news, video and selfie apps, most of which are used almost exclusively in China. But in Silicon Valley, TikTok is regarded as having traced a uniquely enviable rise, becoming the first Chinese app to truly pierce the global Internet mainstream.
[Chinese youth, fed ‘officially sanctioned fake news,’ vilify Hong Kong peers]
TikTok closely resembles its Chinese counterpart, Douyin, which ByteDance makes available only to audiences in mainland China. The app has become one of the most popular conduits of news and entertainment in the world’s second-largest economy, and it has been celebrated in state media as a homegrown success story well-suited to disseminate the government’s ideology.
State-endorsed propaganda is commonplace, said Zaagman, who compared it to the hidden medicine in a dog’s food bowl: a heap of fun videos that make it easier to swallow a dash of nationalism.
ByteDance must comply with China’s “Great Firewall,” which blocks major news sources and censors what the party regards as objectionable facts and ideas. Social-media platforms in China are required by law to purge political dissent, and TikTok’s Chinese counterpart has banned a broad range of supposedly subversive topics, including any content that causes “discomfort.”
Among the censored images, the state-run newspaper Global Times said last year, was the children’s cartoon Peppa Pig, which it said had become associated with “unruly slackers roaming around and the antithesis of the young generation the Party tries to cultivate.” (ByteDance later rebutted that claim, and Peppa Pig lives on in TikTok streams in the U.S.)
Patriotic messages have dominated Douyin in the weeks since the Hong Kong protests began: People’s Daily, the party’s official media outlet, posted a video last week of Hong Kong police taking a break after work, which received 1.1 million “likes” and about 40,000 comments.
[Hong Kong leader fully withdraws extradition bill, but protesters say it’s not enough]
TikTok’s owners have also routinely bent to government demands and intervention. ByteDance last year was forced to dismantle its popular comedy app Neihan Duanzi (roughly translated, “implied jokes”) following a government purge, during which Chinese regulators said the app’s “vulgar and improper content” had violated social morals and “caused strong disgust.”
ByteDance founder Zhang Yiming, one of China’s richest men, issued a public, self-effacing apology for content he called “in deviation of socialist core values” and pledged the company would work to ensure party “voices are broadcast to strength.”
“You cannot post anything on Douyin that contravenes the official party line on anything and expect it to remain up for long,” said Matt Schrader, a China analyst for the Washington advocacy group Alliance for Securing Democracy.
“The imprisonment of more than a million Uighurs, the corruption of upper-level party members, the videos of Hong Kong protesters: none of it stays,” he added. “Anything that’s a news source or a news app must be in line with the version of the world they want people to see."
That stance also carries into TikTok’s other major markets. The company’s head of operations in India, Raj Mishra, has said the platform would not prominently feature criticism of the country’s leaders because, as he told Bloomberg earlier this year, the app is a place “where people come to have fun rather than creating any political strife.”
TikTok today in the U.S. is an eye-catching playground of memes, music and other distractions, with thin connections to mainstream politics and no guarantee of future growth. But app experts believe it could grow into a formidable part of Americans’ online information food chain — much in the same way that Facebook, founded as an app for college students, transformed the arenas of news, politics and misinformation.
“It’s a massively untapped platform that organizations can use to change the perceptions of a massive audience,” said Rohan Midha, the managing director of PMYB, a U.K.-based marketing firm that helps coordinate corporate sponsorship deals with TikTok’s growing corps of influencers. “And most of the users are quite young, so you can reach a young demographic who it might be easier to shape their perceptions outright.”
Timothy McLaughlin in Hong Kong, Yuan Wang in Beijing and Craig Timberg in Washington contributed to this report.
Discover something new:
We’ve curated these stories to inspire your curiosity.
Get smart about how the modern space race affects cities
In the 1960s, this Florida coast line was a boomtown thriving on the race to the moon. Now, private investment in space travel might bring that back.
What your spending habits reveal about your politics
In consumer products, the best predictor of whiteness was whether someone owned a pet — followed closely by whether they owned a flashlight.
Understanding the end of the McMansion boom
Developers are starting to focus on smaller entry-level houses, good news for prospective buyers. But it could also signal a negative outlook on the economy.

Story 171
Earlier this month, on September 13, the U.S. Navy sailed a guided-missile destroyer, the USS Wayne E. Meyer, into the South China Sea near the Paracel Islands. The mission’s objective was to challenge Chinese territorial claims in the region. As Commander Reann Mommsen, spokesperson for the U.S. Navy’s Seventh Fleet explained, the destroyer “challenged the restrictions on innocent passage imposed by China, Taiwan, and Vietnam, and also contested China’s claim to straight baselines enclosing the Paracel Islands.” Why would the United States spend time contesting claims in the Pacific? Mommsen said all three powers have claimed sovereignty over the islands and require permission or notification for a foreign ship to sail through those waters. Such requirements are “not permitted by international law, so the United States challenged these requirements.”
It all sounds pretty familiar; but these days, America’s mission in the Pacific has become far more dangerous as tensions between China and the United States rise in nearly all domains – economic, political, and otherwise. Responding to the recent U.S. operation, the Chinese Ministry of Defense labeled the act “navigational hegemony” and accused the destroyer of “trespass[ing] into waters…without permission of the Chinese government.” Such operations, commonly known as freedom of navigation operations, are designed by the United States to weaken, contest, and challenge China’s dubious maritime and territorial claims, especially as the rising Asian power seeks to militarize islands and expand its naval presence.
The influence of sea power upon Chinese foreign policy should come as no surprise to American foreign policy leaders or the rest of the world. In his final speech as Chairman of the Communist Party, Hu Jintao spent most of the time extolling years of economic growth at the 18th Party Congress. But before handing the reins of power over to his successor, then-Vice President Xi Jinping, Hu articulated potential challenges and their solutions for China in the twenty-first century. For the military to confront and victoriously overwhelm adverse actors, Hu proposed a strategy of active defense and preparedness while noting that China “should enhance our capacity for exploiting maritime rights, resolutely safeguard China’s maritime rights and interests, and build China into a maritime power.” Less than a year later, President Xi Jinping furthered Hu’s vision at a high-profile study session when he argued that China should take more of “an interest in the sea, understand the sea, strategically manage the sea, and continually do more to promote China’s efforts to become a maritime power.” Hu and Xi’s public statements were integral to the creation of China’s 2015 defense white paper, which stressed that “[t]he traditional mentality that land outweighs sea must be abandoned, and great importance has to be attached to managing the seas and oceans and protecting maritime rights and interests.” The white paper further suggested that the construction of a “modern maritime military force” would align with China’s expansive and growing “national security and development interests.”
Seemingly, someone in the CCP has been reading Alfred Thayer Mahan, a famed nineteenth-century American naval strategist. But what does it all mean?
These statements seem to reflect a growing commitment among the Chinese political and military leadership toward amplifying and modernizing their country’s maritime power and exploiting the seas to protect and advance their maritime rights and interests—all under the umbrella of guaranteeing China’s overall economic and geopolitical development, achieving great power status, and actualizing Xi’s “China Dream.” These statements and actions all have serious consequences for the United States as well as China’s regional adversaries who typically double as America’s allies in the Pacific.
Rationale for Chinese Naval Modernization
The maritime aspect of Xi’s “China Dream” has been long in the making. Since the late 1980s, China’s naval strategy has shifted from a limited and defense disposition to one focused on global expansion and diverse geopolitical and geographical objectives. This change in mindset motivated the People’s Liberation Army Navy to mount a formidable presence in the Indo-Pacific region and conduct operations farther from China’s typical territorial reach. Both have these decisions have only been conceivable due to China’s persistent and comprehensive PLAN modernization program.
Most experts contend that the impetus for Chinese naval growth occurred during the 1991 Gulf War when Chinese officials were shocked by their disproportionate naval power compared to the United States and its allies. These same officials soon realized that China needed a vibrant navy to enforce and support China’s ambitious twenty-first century international economic and political interests and prevent other countries like the United States from thwarting those interests, all while maintaining China’s safety and national security. Consequently, an increase in the breadth and depth of Chinese interests was analogous to an increased demand for emphasizing and executing missions beyond China’s immediate periphery. The PLAN’s shift in focus from “offshore waters defense” to “far seas protection” demonstrates their interest in expanding their reach, influence, and control in order to protect their interests and become a superpower. The Chinese, however, realized that fulfilling this ambition could only come to fruition by modernizing, building, and funding their navy at extraordinary levels. And, for the past two decades, they have done exactly that.
In 1995, China had only 52 submarines (one strategic and 50 tactical with limited capabilities) and roughly 50 principal surface combatants (64 percent of which were low-grade frigates). Most of these naval assets were “old diesel-electric Soviet models.” The United States, at the same time, had 100 submarines—most of Los Angeles or Sturgeon class equipped with Tomahawks and Harpoons. The United States also had 137 principal surface combatants, which consisted of 12 aircraft carriers, 32 cruisers, and 46 destroyers—not to mention 49 Oliver Hazard Perry-class frigates with guided missile systems.
While the composition of the U.S. Navy has largely remained unchanged, China’s navy has undergone modernization at a rapid pace—mainly because it has shifted their focus from research to development. An article from The Diplomat argues that China acts as a second-mover in the naval sphere. Instead of researching and coming up with its own models, it simply purchases “foreign naval systems, push[es] licensed production well past contractual limits, and even engag[es] in cyber theft.” By essentially stealing years of research and development (R&D) conducted by the United States and other foreign countries, China can leap over pesky initial “startup” costs and focus on just building the actual ships. This gambit has paid off. In 1995, China had 52 submarines, 18 destroyers, and 32 frigates. Twenty years later, China had 70 submarines, 17 destroyers, 54 frigates, and 1 aircraft carrier.
These numbers can be deceptive. At first glance, the PLAN’s modernization can be confusing to onlookers since it has primarily been focused on improving the quality of its naval platforms and capabilities, not its size. While the number of surface combatants has remained relatively stagnant (and, in the case of destroyers, actually decreased) the aggregate combat capability has skyrocketed because the navy has replaced a larger quantity of older and technologically underdeveloped platform with a smaller, more elite quantity of modern and highly-capable platforms. Now that China has acquired and begun implementing this new technology, however, its navy has already begun increasing the number of ships commissioned each year.
According to Ryan Pickrell at Business Insider, China commissioned 18 and 14 ships in 2016 and 2017, respectively. In that same timeframe, the U.S. Navy only commissioned five and eight ships. By 2018, China had approximately 300 more ships than the U.S. Navy. At this rate, the PLAN could become “the world’s second largest navy by 2020.” More alarming, China could become “a combat fleet that in overall order of battle is quantitatively and even perhaps qualitatively on a part with that of the U.S. Navy by 2030.”
As one looks into the future, this present trend persists, especially when looking at specific warship development. The PLAN’s missiles (e.g. coastal defense cruise, ASBM, SBM, ASCM, submarine-launched torpedoes, and naval mines) allow them to counter an enemy invasion or intrusion with high-intensity attacks. The lethality of these missiles only increases when attacks are closer to China’s coast—essentially securing their anti-area/access-denial (A2/AD) superior capabilities, which prevent any foreign country from operating too close to China’s territorial and maritime borders. The PLAN has also prioritized the modernization and nuclearization of their submarine force. It already has five nuclear-powered attack submarines, four nuclear-powered ballistic missiles, and 54 diesel-power attack submarines. The majority of these platforms were built in the last 16 years and, in the next decade, China will continue to build nuclear-armed submarines that will contribute to PLAN’s ASW capability, nuclear deterrence, and power projection. As of now, China has a new facility that produces one SSN a year and one SSBN every two years—meaning there will be eight more SSNs and about four more SSBNs by 2030. Above water, China has also raced to improve the quantity and quality of its surface combatants, which will aid PLAN’s air defense abilities as it plans for operations beyond the scope of its immediate-range air defense systems and develop its blue-water naval capabilities in order to execute revanchist missions far from China’s shores. From 2010 to 2018, 24 destroyers were commissioned in China compared to the 10 destroyers produced from 1990 to 2010—a twenty-year period. As of now, China is ramping up production of its 055 and 052D class destroyers and will begin producing the 055 class destroyer by the early 2020s. Lastly, China’s first aircraft carrier, Liaoning, will play a dominant role in increasing China’s distant operability and power projection along with engaging more Humanitarian Aid/Disaster Relief (HA/DR) missions, Search and Rescue (SAR), and anti-submarine warfare (ASW) aircraft. And, once again, China is already making more. China’s second aircraft carrier is still undergoing sea trials—but does have some issues. China is also working on its third aircraft carrier, which will allegedly be far more advanced by enabling “additional fighter aircraft, fixed-wing early warning aircraft, and more rapid flight operations.”
Putting Naval Power To Use
China’s naval modernization program seems destined to fulfill the “Chinese Dream.” By building more ships and expanding its resilient A2/AD capabilities, China can transition from a regional and technologically-inadequate navy to one that is global, upgraded, and capable of multiple missions far from China’s ports. As the United States shows signs of wavering when it comes to defending its allied commitments in the Pacific or remain a pivotal power in the Indo-Pacific region, China is waiting to swoop in and fill the power vacuum the United States will inevitably leave open. As Sam Roggeveen at the Australian National University so aptly noted, “China is building a surface fleet not so much to challenge the United States as to inherit its position.” Of course, China may help push the United States to cede such superpower responsibilities over time. As Americans wish to “return home” and not spend so much money and manpower defending the Pacific, China will concurrently bolster its A2/AD system, grab more islands for air bases, and aggregate more power than any other historical power in the region. When the American defense budget and people can no longer match China’s growth and personal ambitions, the United States will slowly, ever so slowly, recede from the region. At a certain point, the Chinese will make a dangerous power play against one of America’s allies in the region. And when the American leadership runs a cost-benefit analysis and finds that their position as the Pacific hegemon is simply not worth getting into a war with China over a menial matter, China will become the superpower of the Pacific. America’s reign will be over.
Yet to achieve and ensure a dominant strategic posture, China needs far more than an A2/AD-oriented military. It requires surface naval assets to do two things: induce the United States not to fight and control the Pacific once the United States leaves. With their technologically-adept and modernized submarines, destroyers, and carriers, China would be able to sway local disputes in its favor, with no foreign power to stop them.
If the Monroe Doctrine proclaimed the Western Hemisphere to be “America’s backyard,” the Xi Doctrine seeks to make the Asia-Pacific region “China’s backyard” and it relies on the PLAN’s ability to deter any rival power from mounting a challenge. Under this doctrine, the South China Sea will no longer be in dispute—it will simply be the South China Sea.
A Pragmatic American Response
As Captain James Fanell (USN) told the U.S. House Intelligence Committee on May 2018, this modernization “position[s] China’s military forces…as the arbiters of a new global order—one that stands opposed to U.S. national interests and values.” Future estimates substantiate this hypothesis. As Stratfor Worldview concluded in 2018, “By 2030, the Chinese will likely be the dominant naval force up to an initial island chain that encircles the Yellow, East China and South China Seas” while also enjoying “significant advantages out to a farther limit running roughly from Japan to Indonesia through islands such as Guam and Palau.” Whether China forces the United States to recede from its superpower status in the Pacific either slowly or quickly, the United States should re-double its commitment and efforts in the region.
As American naval officials monitor the gap between American and Chinese naval capabilities, they have set “an expansion target of 355 combat ships by the end of the 2050s,” but leaders acknowledge that the United States “can’t build ships fast enough right now to keep up with the Chinese.” As the United States tries to come close to achieving parity with Chinese naval assets in terms of capability and capacity, it should work with its allies to keep China’s ambitions at bay.
The best recommendation so far has been Michael Beckley’s proposed “active denial” strategy, where the United States abandons “its efforts to command maritime East Asia” and pivots to “helping China’s neighbors deny China sea and air control in the region.” The strategy works by maintaining deterrence against China by “denying [them] the possibility of a decisive military victory while enhancing crisis stability by reassuring China that it will not suffer a massive attack on its homeland.” While I disagree with Beckley’s assessment that the United States needs to assuage China that it lacks the capabilities to swiftly invade their homeland, given the constraints of American naval modernization and funding, I believe an “active denial” strategy is a realistic solution.
The growth of China’s navy keeps me up at night, but I am most wracked by what the Chinese could do with this new navy. Annex Taiwan once and for all? Control the South China Sea in its entirety? Expand its territorial claims and prevent unfriendly foreign ships from navigating through these waters? I am reassured, however by the notion that if the United States works with its allies in the region, it can expand and utilize its A2/AD forces (just like China) to deter the Chinese from any revanchist behavior. To accomplish such a strategy, the United States should provide its allies “with loans, arms, training and intelligence” as well as create “buffers between U.S. and Chinese forces by stationing most U.S. forces in hardened bases scattered around the East Asian periphery, where they could be called upon in the event of war but otherwise kept beyond the reach of most of China’s forces.” For that to happen, however, the United States must come to terms with the fact that its previous decade of naval laggardness in the Pacific means it can no longer resolutely or effectively defend the East Asian sea close to China’s shores. It must, instead, help defend its closest allies.
The fear of future Chinese naval dominance seems to be a recurring American nightmare—and self-fulfilling prophecy. China is still a long way from challenging the American navy on equal footing. But what China lacks in ships it makes up for in determination and strategy. If the United States wants to remain a global superpower and ensure the safety and security of its allies in the Pacific, it can stop China by reiterating its commitment and acting on it.
Image Credit:”Three Chinese Navy Ships ready to sail” is licensed under CC BY-SA 2.0

Story 172
Image copyright EPA Image caption Ms Merkel calls for dialogue while Mr Li says China can handle its own matters
China's Premier Li Keqiang has said Beijing supports the Hong Kong government "to end the violence and chaos".
He is the most senior Chinese official to comment on the unrest which has rocked Hong Kong for months.
His comments came during a joint press conference with German Chancellor Angela Merkel in Beijing.
Hong Kong has seen months of often-violent protests calling for democracy and less influence from China.
The protests were sparked by changes to a law that would allow extradition to mainland China, but have since widened to include calls for an independent inquiry into police brutality and demands for greater democracy.
Image copyright EPA Image caption Hong Kong activists hope for Western support
On Wednesday, embattled Chief Executive Carrie Lam withdrew the controversial extradition bill but that has failed to appease the activists.
Instead, protests continued on Friday evening, when clashes erupted between police and the demonstrators outside a subway station on the Kowloon peninsula.
Riot police fired both tear gas and rubber bullets at protesters before clearing the nearby streets as the crowd of protesters was forced to retreat.
What did the Chinese premier say?
In August, China had likened to protests to terrorism, warning activists not to "underestimate the firm resolve" of the Beijing government.
Li Keqiang, China's second highest-ranking leader, told reporters on Friday: "The Chinese government unswervingly safeguards 'one country, two systems' and 'Hong Kong people govern Hong Kong people'."
He said China backed Hong Kong "to end the violence and chaos in accordance with the law, to return to order, which is to safeguard Hong Kong's long-term prosperity and stability".
He said the world "needs to believe that the Chinese people have the ability and wisdom to handle their own matters well".
Merkel calls for dialogue
German Chancellor Angela Merkel said a peaceful solution was needed for Hong Kong, urging that "in the current situation, violence must be prevented".
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption How Hong Kong got trapped in a cycle of violence
She said there were signs Ms Lam would invite the necessary dialogue.
"I hope that materialises and that demonstrators have the chance to participate within the frame of citizens' rights."
She also stressed that the "rights and freedoms" for the people of Hong Kong "have to be granted".
A guide to the Hong Kong protests

Story 173
SHANGHAI — In the space of 24 hours, President Trump ordered American businesses to leave China and suggested in a tweet that he has the authority to do so.
Whether he has that power — he pointed to a national security law that has been used mainly to target terrorists and other major threats — is a question for Washington lawmakers and lawyers.
On top of that is the question of whether severing American businesses from China is at all feasible.
In the short term, it’s not. American business is deeply intertwined with China, and untangling it would be messy and potentially destructive for the global economy.

Story 174
When Xi Jinping took power in 2012, he extolled the importance of the state economy at every turn, while all around him watched as China’s high-speed economy was driven by private entrepreneurs. Since then, Xi has engineered an unmistakable shift in policy. At the time he took office, private firms were responsible for about 50% of all investment in China and about 75% of economic output. But as Nicholas Lardy, a US economist who has long studied the Chinese economy, concluded in a recent study, “Since 2012, private, market-driven growth has given way to a resurgence of the role of the state.”
From the Mao era onwards, Chinese state firms have always had a predominant role in the economy, and the Communist party has always maintained direct control over state firms. For more than a decade, the party has also tried to ensure it played a role inside private businesses. But in his first term in office, Xi has overseen a sea change in how the party approaches the economy, dramatically strengthening the party’s role in both government and private businesses.
International governments have noted Xi’s interventionist instincts with alarm. When US officials were pressed in early 2019 to provide evidence that Huawei, the Chinese telecommunications giant, had facilitated spying on the US and its allies, they pointed out that Beijing had already made their case for them: first with the party’s systematic infiltration of private companies, and second with the introduction of a new national intelligence law in 2017. The law states that “any organisation and citizen” shall “support and cooperate in national intelligence work”. The director of the US National Counterintelligence and Security Center, when asked about China’s entrepreneurs, cited these two policies in asserting that “Chinese company relationships with the Chinese government aren’t like private sector company relationships with governments in the west”.
Such shifts, under Xi, have gifted the US and EU an excuse to limit Chinese access to their markets, technology and companies. Australia has cited the same intelligence law to keep Huawei’s 5G technology out of its future mobile networks. Gordon Sondland, Donald Trump’s envoy to the European Union, gave such sentiment a hyperbolic spin to argue that Europe should do the same. “We want to keep critical infrastructure in the western world out of Chinese malign influence,” Sondland said. “Someone from the politburo in Beijing picks up the phone and says, ‘I wanna listen in on the following conversation, I wanna run a certain car off the road that’s on the 5G network and kill the person that’s in it’ – there’s nothing that company legally can do today in China to prevent the Chinese government from making that request successfully.”
Until recently, such a statement would have been laughed out of court. No longer. Nor would Washington have contemplated the policy of “decoupling” the US and Chinese economies – shorthand for the administration’s commitment, through taxes, tariffs and other punitive measures, to disentangle its companies and their technologies from China’s supply chains.
The relationship between the party and private sector companies is, up to a point, flexible – certainly more so than with state companies. The party doesn’t habitually micromanage their day-to-day operations. The firms are largely still in charge of their basic business decisions. But pressure from party committees to have a seat at the table when executives are making big calls on investment and the like means the “lines have been dangerously blurred”, in the words of one analyst. “Chinese domestic laws and administrative guidelines, as well as unspoken regulations and internal party committees, make it quite difficult to distinguish between what is private and what is state-owned.”
The answer to the question “does the party control a company?” is that it is impossible to tell. In the current environment, fewer foreign governments want to give Beijing the benefit of the doubt. If there was any question as to who was in charge of the economy and business, Xi’s local and overseas critics alike only have to take the Chinese leader at his word, that in private enterprises, as with state-owned firms and every institution in China, the party is the ultimate authority.
In the early optimistic glow of Xi’s ascension to the leadership, a number of western commentators talked up his appreciation of markets. After all, from 1985 to 2007, Xi had served in two provinces, Fujian and Zhejiang, which were thriving bastions of private enterprise. Starting in the 1980s, Fujian was an important gateway for investors from nearby Taiwan, while Zhejiang was home to a number of China’s most famous private companies, such as Jack Ma’s Alibaba. The arc of Xi’s father’s career, from revolutionary to reformer, reinforced this optimism about China’s new leader. Lu Guanqiu, a businessman who owned and ran Wanxiang, a private car parts group, told Bloomberg: “When Xi becomes general secretary, he’ll be even more open and will pay even more attention to private enterprise and the people’s livelihood. It is because he was in Zhejiang for five years.”
Yet a deeper dig into Xi’s past statements and writings on the economy reveals an official who has been a dogged supporter of party orthodoxy on the economy at every turn. Xi might have taken big risks in domestic and foreign policy, but on the economy he was not one for ideological experimentation. In the politburo, as vice-president from 2008 to 2013 and as the leader of the party school for most of the same period, there is little evidence of him straying from his core beliefs about the need to strengthen party control inside businesses.
Facebook Twitter Pinterest Workers in Zhejiang watch a live broadcast of the Communist party congress as Xi Jinping prepares to take power, November 2012. Photograph: AFP/Getty Images
When Xi arrived in Zhejiang in 2002, the province was already well on the way up the economic ladder. Xi headed a group of officials, known as the “New Zhijiang Army”, who embraced the use of private investment to spread the risk in funding the province’s signature infrastructure projects. In 2007, in a conversation with Washington’s then ambassador to Beijing, Clark Randt Jr, recorded in US diplomatic cables and later released by WikiLeaks, Xi delivered a sophisticated, self-aware exposition on Zhejiang. He didn’t pretend that there was any secret to the province’s wealth other than local entrepreneurs, although he avoided using the language of the market in describing them. Xi did what every other official with responsibility for the economy did at the time: he simplified registration for private companies and helped them to access finance. When the party debated a law to protect private property, he supported it. “With property protection in place, Chinese can gain even more wealth,” Xi told Randt.
But Xi’s support for mixing private and public ownership structures was purely pragmatic. It had value, he said in another forum, because it would “improve the socialist market economic structure”. Xi’s assessment is echoed by Michael Collins, one of the CIA’s most senior officials for Asia. “The fundamental end of the Communist party of China under Xi Jinping is all the more to control that society politically and economically,” Collins argued earlier this year. “The economy is being viewed, affected and controlled to achieve a political end.”
By 2012, when Xi came to power, the landscape had changed substantially. China was initially knocked sideways by the global financial crisis in 2008, before swiftly navigating its way back to fast growth through a giant fiscal stimulus orchestrated by the government and delivered by the big state banks. The economy was also changing shape. From around 2010, after the fiscal splurge of the financial crisis, Chinese technocrats began to focus more intently on cutting debt and lifting consumption. That meant less focus on investment and exports and, if you listened to the entrepreneurs, a greater reliance on private business to generate growth.
“Chinese consumption is not driven by the government but by entrepreneurship, and the market,” Jack Ma of Alibaba said in September 2015. “In the past 20 years, the government was so strong. Now, they are getting weak. It’s our opportunity; it’s our show time, to see how the market economy, entrepreneurship, can develop real consumption.”
Ma may have thought that the times suited him, and to a degree, they did. His business continued to soar. But Xi was all the time making sure that the party grew in tandem with the economy, in both the state and private sectors. In retrospect, Ma’s comments look dangerously cocky.
Xi spent much of his first term in power reining in the big state firms. Under his predecessor, Hu Jintao, many of the large state enterprises, big enough to be in the top 20 of the global Fortune 500, had grown into powerful empires and breeding grounds for serious corruption. In the words of analyst Wendy Leutert, Xi “faced the aftermath of a decade of rapid expansion and weak internal discipline in the state sector”.
In 2016, Xi chaired a national meeting that cleared the way for a more expansive role for the party in enterprise. In 2017, the measures were further extended, with the body overseeing big state companies directing them to write the party into their articles of association. In 2018, the securities regulator followed up by issuing a new corporate governance code requiring listed firms, at home and abroad, to include in their internal guidelines an expansive role for the party. Many Chinese companies listed in Hong Kong also wrote the party’s role into their articles of association.
In some ways, codifying in public documents the party’s role in managing companies was both an instance of rare transparency and part of an increasing trend of the party openly displaying its power. In the past, Chinese state-owned listed companies had customarily filed misleading prospectuses ahead of their stock exchange listings, omitting the party’s pivotal role in the hiring and firing of senior executives. Similarly, company boards had long been legally and theoretically independent of the party, but not in practice. “The same individual who is chairing a party committee meeting on a Monday might well be chairing a board meeting later in the week,” notes a 2018 report on Chinese corporate governance.
Facebook Twitter Pinterest Xi Jinping at 20th anniversary celebrations of Hong Kong’s handover, June 2017. Photograph: Keith Tsuji/Getty Images
There has always been an awkward fit between western notions of corporate governance and the party state’s insistence on having a role in companies. “It is rather like drawing a tiger with a cat as a model,” said one Chinese commentator. But the direction of policy under Xi has been clear: the power that the party had over business decisions and personnel in state firms, once wielded behind the scenes, would not only be strengthened. The party’s power would also be exercised explicitly.
Xi’s shadow now looms increasingly large over private firms as well. In March 2012, a few months before taking over as general secretary, Xi delivered a speech in which he stressed the need to increase the number of party bodies inside private business. Around the same time, new details for “party building” in enterprises were released, calling “for the party secretary to participate in and attend important executive-level meetings”.
Get the Guardian’s award-winning long reads sent direct to you every Saturday morning
The party’s efforts to place itself inside private companies have been, according to its own figures, very successful. One recent survey by the Central Organisation Department, the party’s personnel body, found that 68% of China’s private companies had party bodies by 2016, and 70% of foreign enterprises. Although these figures sound high, they don’t match the targets the party has set for itself. In Xi’s old stamping ground of Zhejiang, for example, officials set a target in August 2018 to have cells inside 95% of private businesses. There was a need, the survey said, to retain the revolutionary spirit inside the companies as their ownership was handed on to the next generation.
Although the party is becoming more involved in private firms than ever, it wants to be part of business successes, not failures. It wants to sit alongside local and foreign entrepreneurs and share their wealth, not run their companies into the ground. Increasingly, it also wants to do more than supervise companies. It wants to be at the table when commercial decisions are made, not just manage staff. “We should make money together,” Lu Wei, then head of China’s party office for internet security, told Paul Jacobs, CEO of Qualcomm, a US chip maker, in 2014. Lu’s comments to some extent reflected Beijing’s desire to acquire Qualcomm’s technology, a sector in which China was weak. But the message was clear: the fat of the land should be shared with the state.
The party’s overarching aim, though, has remained consistent: to ensure that the private sector, and individual entrepreneurs, do not become rival players in the political system. The party wants economic growth, but not at the expense of tolerating any organised alternative centres of power. During the 1990s, Chinese leaders watched in horror as the Soviet Union disintegrated and its assets were privatised. Having seen business threaten to take over the state in Russia, Beijing has been determined to make sure that the same disaster does not befall China.
For a reliable benchmark about the power of the party in China, you only need to listen to wealthy entrepreneurs hold forth on politics. These otherwise all-powerful CEOs go to abject lengths to praise the party. To take a few companies listed in a single article in the South China Morning Post, Richard Liu of e-commerce group JD.com predicted communism would be realised in his generation and all commercial entities would be nationalised. Xu Jiayin of Evergrande Group, one of China’s largest property developers, said that everything the company possessed was given by the party and he was proud to be the party secretary of his company. Liang Wengen of Sany Heavy Industry, which builds earthmovers, went even further, saying his life belonged to the party. “They act as if they are being chased by a bear,” wrote Zhang Lin, a Beijing political commentator, in response to these comments. “They are powerless to control the bear, so they are competing to outrun each other to escape the animal.”
Jack Ma of Alibaba, the global face of Chinese entrepreneurship, has always managed to strike a quirkier and more independent stance than his fellow billionaires. “Be in love with the government. But don’t marry them,” he memorably said at the World Economic Forum in Davos in 2015. Ma’s pithy aphorisms at home and abroad were mostly a plus for his business, but they had a downside. Ma’s high profile made him vulnerable. Last year, one of Ma’s former business partners told me, only half-joking, that if there was a presidential election in China tomorrow, Ma might win. That, he added, was a dangerous position to be in.
Facebook Twitter Pinterest Jack Ma performing at 18th anniversary celebrations for the Alibaba Group in Hangzhou, China, September 2017. Photograph: VCG via Getty Images
In September 2018, Ma unexpectedly announced that he would step down from a day-to-day role in the company the following year. Ma said he wanted to focus on education and philanthropy. An equally plausible reason for his resignation, the former business partner said, was Ma’s fear that his power and popularity had made him a target of the party. Ma has been in the party since the 1980s, although his membership was not declared until late 2018, after his retirement announcement, in an article in which the People’s Daily newspaper complimented him for his contributions to reform.
Whether or not some entrepreneurs were intent on taking him on, Xi pre-emptively took the fight to them. In 2017, his administration began a campaign to rein in swashbuckling business leaders, starting with some of the corporate chieftains who had become the standard-bearers for aggressive Chinese dealmaking overseas. Some business leaders were forced out of overheated commercial sectors such as real estate. Others were told to pull back from offshore forays, either because their high profile was an embarrassment for Beijing or because the government was trying to stop capital flight. Some, such as Wu Xiaohui, the chairman of Anbang Insurance Group, went the way that communist members who fall foul of the system often do, vanishing without explanation into the party’s detention system. Only months earlier, Wu had been leading negotiations to spend $14bn on hotels in the US, but the deal collapsed. In May 2018, the authorities announced Wu had been sentenced to 18 years in jail for fraud and embezzlement.
Meanwhile, China’s three dominant internet companies, Baidu (a search engine), Alibaba (e-commerce) and Tencent (messaging and gaming), known collectively as the BAT, have all felt the government’s wrath. In 2018, Tencent lost $200bn in its market capitalisation after regulators stopped approving new online games, pushing the company out of the world’s top 10 companies ranked by their share market valuation. The rapid growth of the BAT companies and their dominance of the internet in China has given them an outsized economic status. But their political value is just as important, as they have become indispensable to China’s surveillance state. With the mountain of data they generate, the BAT trinity are in effect turning into a real-time, efficient and privately run intelligence platform. In that respect, they are seen as ideal private companies. They both drive economic growth and also buttress the political system.
Foreign CEOs, too, have come under pressure to give the party a larger role in their firms. Again, this is a trend that began before Xi. Walmart, which famously won’t allow unions in its US stores, has had party cells in its companies in China since at least 2006, and party-controlled unions even earlier. Under Xi, however, emboldened officials have pushed foreign firms harder to accommodate the party and give its representatives a role in business decisions.
Now a wide range of foreign companies in China, from the cosmetics giant L’Oréal to Walt Disney and Dow Chemicals, all have party committees and display the hammer and sickle on their premises. In 2017, Reuters published an article that quoted executives from one European company saying that party representatives had demanded to be brought into the executive committee and have the business pay their expenses. Like Chinese entrepreneurs, foreign businessmen and women are trying to outrun “the bear”, not always with success.
But the party’s persistent efforts to colonise the private sector have stoked a backlash of their own. In late 2017, the EU business chamber in China formally complained about party organisations trying to extend their influence in their member companies, something they said would undermine the authority of their boards.
Yet the chamber’s argument was met with indifference in China, at least in public utterances. “When you are in Rome, do as the Romans do,” said Chen Fengying, an expert at the China Institutes of Contemporary International Relations, a foreign policy thinktank. “Foreign investors should respect local rules and regulations in China.”
On one level, Xi has been untroubled by the backlash over his treatment of entrepreneurs. From his point of view, the idea that the private sector is being overly politicised is upside-down. Business leaders should “strengthen self-study, self-education and self-improvement,” he said in 2016. “They should not feel uncomfortable with this requirement. The Communist party has similar and stricter requirements on its leaders.”
Inside China's audacious global propaganda campaign Read more
Later, in 2018, when the economy started to slow and the trade war was ramping up, Xi was much more pragmatic and solicitous. In November, he invited a select group of entrepreneurs, including Tencent’s Ma Huateng (also known as Pony Ma), for a meeting in the Great Hall of the People. He wanted to reassure them that they were “all part of our family”. At the same time, a surfeit of stories appeared in the official media urging banks to lend private firms more money.
But not all entrepreneurs were buying the new line. One businessman, Chen Tianyong, posted a lengthy rant on social media, which he titled “An Entrepreneur’s Farewell Admonition”, explaining why he had left China. “China’s economy is like a giant ship heading to the precipice,” he wrote in a post that was later taken down. “Without fundamental changes, it’s inevitable that the ship will be wrecked and the passengers will die.”
Adapted from Xi Jinping: The Backlash by Richard McGregor, published by Penguin Books and available at guardianbookshop.co.uk
• Follow the Long Read on Twitter at @gdnlongread, and sign up to the long read weekly email here.

Story 175
Beijing (CNN) China has warned against what it describes as a growing threat from "separatists" in Taiwan, and said it would not rule out using force against the self-governed island Beijing regards as part of its territory.
In a national defense white paper released Wednesday, China took aim at what it considers pro-independence or separatist forces in the far western region of Xinjiang, Tibet and Taiwan, claiming they were a threat to national security and social stability.
In particular, the paper accused Taiwan's democratically-elected government of "pursuing a path of separatism" by pushing for "gradual independence," warning that China "must and will be reunited."
Taiwan has been governed separately from mainland China since the end of the Chinese civil war in 1949, when the defeated Nationalist government fled to the island. Beijing has repeatedly called for "reunification" with Taiwan.
According to the white paper, Taiwan's government under President Tsai Ing-wen is "intensifying hostility and confrontation and borrowing the strength of foreign influence."

Story 176
“It is easy to dismiss such talk as ‘slogan diplomacy,’” wrote David Shambaugh of the George Washington University in 2015. “But Beijing nonetheless attaches great importance to it.”
“We should increase China’s soft power, give a good Chinese narrative and better communicate China’s messages to the world,” Mr. Xi said not long after he became the president in 2013.
In his most important media policy speech in 2016, Mr. Xi instructed the top official media organizations to learn to tell compelling Chinese stories and build flagship foreign-language media outlets with global influences. Xinhua, CCTV, Global Times and the rest have bolstered their presence in the United States and elsewhere and taken to the very same social media outlets like Facebook and Twitter that Beijing blocks at home. Some accounts have amassed followers of over 10 million.
However, the Hong Kong protests have suggested that Beijing still knows hard power much better than soft. Instead of offering a competing narrative of a Hong Kong that could prosper under Chinese rule, it has instead made itself look like a bully.
Though troops haven’t crossed into Hong Kong, images distributed around the world by Chinese media outlets show heavily armed personnel preparing for urban conflict. Beijing is forcing businesses, both global and local, to keep their Hong Kong employees in line or risk getting cut off from the vast Chinese market. On Sunday, Beijing announced a new policy that will buff up the socialist city of Shenzhen just across the border so it can compete head-to-head with capitalist Hong Kong.
Some young mainlanders are so worked up with nationalistic fervor that they are using software to bypass Chinese censors to log into Facebook, Twitter and Instagram to blast and shame those who support Hong Kong. While that may have some effect on Chinese students living abroad, it has otherwise had little impact.
Contrast China’s approach with Russia’s: Moscow-tied groups have used social media to tremendously disruptive effect in the United States, Europe and elsewhere. But China needs to build a positive image for itself, not tear down the reputation of others.

Story 177
For months, Chinese people have been delivered a stream of news about Hong Kong’s protesters being reckless “thugs” who have been led astray by the CIA in order to throw the city into chaos using opposition to an extradition bill as a mere pretext.
Which is why some people in China voiced confusion online after Hong Kong’s chief executive Carrie Lam announced yesterday (Sept. 4) that she will completely withdraw the bill. Lam’s move came after months of mass protests calling for the withdrawal of a piece of legislation that many in Hong Kong saw as a grave threat to the city’s autonomy enshrined as part of its 1997 return to Chinese rule, as it would have allowed people to be sent to the mainland to face trial for the first time.
While protesters responded to the move by vowing to continue to press for their other demands, including an inquiry into police brutality and full voting rights in city elections, it’s a clear sign of the effectiveness of their protests—which may be why Beijing appeared to be trying to dampen discussion of the move.
On Twitter-like social media platform Weibo, people pointed out that China’s state media had disabled comments under posts about the withdrawal, and the topic #Carrie Lam withdraws the extradition bill# was not among Weibo’s trending searches in spite of it being such significant news. Posts under the hashtag had gathered nearly 600,000 views as of writing.
“Why is it taking forever to get #Carrie Lam withdraws the extradition bill” trending on Weibo?” a user wrote last night.
The topic’s failure to trend, many noted, is in stark contrast to the overwhelming response last month to the patriotic hashtag #The five-star red flag has 1.4 billion protectors#, which has garnered some 6.4 billion views as of writing. Hong Kong celebrities were among those who heeded a call for every citizen to be the protector of China’s flag after protesters removed and dumped China’s national flag into Hong Kong’s Victoria Harbour twice.
“[Weibo] puts what it wants you to see on trending topics, and closes your eyes to what it doesn’t want you to see. What if you learn from the [Hong Kong protesters] one day,” a skeptical user noted, while another said, “What Hong Kong fights for today is to avoid being shielded by such a ‘hand’ tomorrow.”
Perhaps most worryingly for Beijing, some are applauding the people of Hong Kong.
“Inside the [Great Fire] wall, Weibo’s trending topic still is about Hong Kong students who got a Chinese idiom wrong more than three times, it still seizes on these unimportant deeds… to push people into sarcasm and cynicism [towards Hong Kong]. While outside the wall people still insist on five demands and won’t give up on the other four only because one has been fulfilled… I don’t support violence, but I believe that the people with good initial intentions deserve to get what they long for. They are clear-minded and progressive,” wrote user Niu Tou Jiao Chu Mo.
Another described Lam’s climbdown as a one-of-a-kind achievement since Xi Jinping came to power, when he became general secretary of the Communist Party at a party summit in 2012. Xi’s time in power has been associated with a crackdown on activists and freedom of expression in the country. “The withdrawal of the bill marks the first victory of democracy since the 18th Party Congress. Well done, Hong Kongers,” the user wrote.
These may not be mainstream ideas judging from their frequency on Weibo—but that result could also be due to the heavy censorship on the social platform, which like other social media, constantly censors themes Beijing deems out-of-step with its official stance on political issues. As Kiki Zhao, a writer noted on China File in late August:

Story 178
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Concerns are growing about Chinese influence on academic campuses around the world
According to China, its Confucius Institute is "a bridge reinforcing friendship" between it and the world.
But to its critics the government-run body - which offers language and cultural programmes overseas - is a way for Beijing to spread propaganda under the guise of teaching, interfere with free speech on campuses and even to spy on students.
In recent weeks, a flurry of universities around the world have shut down programmes operated by the institute. And in Australia, an investigation is even under way into whether agreements between universities and the institute have broken anti-foreign interference laws.
Pushing a 'Confucius revolution'
Open to the general public, Confucius Institutes promote Chinese language but also run classes in culture, from calligraphy and cooking to tai chi. They sponsor educational exchanges and hold public events and lectures.
The first CI opened in 2004 in South Korea, and according to official data there were 548 Confucius Institutes around the world by the end of last year, as well as 1,193 Confucius classrooms based in primary and secondary schools.
Shikha Pandey, a CI teacher at the University of Mumbai in India, tells the BBC they get students from all sorts of backgrounds including the IT industry, business, college students and retirees.
"They only come with a clear motive to learn Chinese language in order to boost their professional skills," she says.
The CIs are joint ventures between the host university or school, a partner university in China, and Hanban, a controversial agency under China's education ministry. It oversees CI operations and provides partial funding, staff and other support.
Backed by significant government funding, China aims to have 1,000 such institutes by 2020 in what it calls a "Confucius revolution" to tap into the growing overseas demand to learn Chinese.
Culture or propaganda?
The Hanban website says all institutes must abide by the CI constitution, and not participate in activities that are inconsistent with their "missions".
Ms Pandey, from the CI in Mumbai, said she had not found any direct propaganda in the curriculum or teaching.
The Queensland University of Technology (QUT) told the BBC the CI on its campus was solely educational and that there was "nothing about this straightforward QUT CI's work that could be identified as Chinese propaganda nor does it threaten academic freedom".
Image copyright Shikha Pandey Image caption Interest in learning Chinese overseas has grown rapidly in recent years
But though both the CI and Chinese government deny it, critics say the CI rules essentially mean topics like Tibet, Taiwan, and Tiananmen are considered off-limits.
Matt Schrader, a China analyst with the Alliance for Securing Democracy at the German Marshall Fund, asserts that the CIs are indeed "propaganda tools".
"They are platforms for an authoritarian party that's fundamentally hostile to liberal ideas like free speech and free inquiry to propagate a state-approved narrative," he said.
"And since the Communist Party of China doesn't have a free press or rule of law to check its use of power, it's no surprise there have been strong indications that CIs are used for inappropriate covert activities like intelligence gathering, and facilitating military research."
Human Rights Watch said in its 2019 report on China: "Confucius Institutes are extensions of the Chinese government that censor certain topics and perspectives in course materials on political grounds, and use hiring practices that take political loyalty into consideration."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption China has criticised the 'politicisation' of its Confucius Institutes
The institutes have been accused of pressuring host universities to silence or censor talks on topics considered controversial by Beijing. For example, at a conference in Portugal in 2014, the head of Hanban, Xu Lin, told her staff to remove references to Taiwan from the conference programme before it was distributed to participants.
In 2018, a keynote speaker at Savannah State University in the US had a reference to Taiwan deleted from her bio at the request of the co-director of the university's CI.
China argues that CIs are no different from the cultural centres operated by other countries, such as the British Council and Spain's Cervantes Institute. Chinese officials have in the past, though, admitted that the CIs "are an important part of China's overseas propaganda apparatus".
Foreign influence in Australia?
In July, Australian media reported that local universities hosting CIs had signed agreements which gave China decision-making authority over teaching at the facilities.
Then in late August, New South Wales announced it was scrapping programmes run by the CI in its schools altogether.
An education department review in the Australian state said that while there was no evidence of "actual political influence", a number of factors "could give rise to the perception that the Confucius Institute is or could be facilitating inappropriate foreign influence in the department".
"Having foreign government appointees based in a government department is one thing, having appointees of a one-party state that exercises censorship in its own country working in a government department in a democratic system is another," the review concluded.
China has said the NSW decision is disrespectful and unfair to local students and urged Australia not to "politicise normal exchange projects".
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Is there Chinese influence in Australia?
Protesters at the University of Queensland (UQ) have also demanded the closure of the CI there, particularly after pro-China students clashed with students rallying in support of the Hong Kong protests. In response, UQ insisted that its "academic freedom and institutional autonomy are not negotiable".
The NSW move comes amid broader concerns about Chinese influence over Australian politics and society.
The Australian government has now formed a task force to curb attempts by foreign governments to meddle in local universities. An investigation is also under way into whether agreements between Australian universities and CIs are in violation of new anti-foreign interference laws.
Growing global concerns
A number of foreign universities - which had embraced the CI with open arms - are rethinking their partnerships amid mounting criticism.
Arizona State and San Diego State are the latest in a string of universities in the US to close down their CIs in recent months. Similar closures have taken place in the UK, France, Sweden, and Denmark. Canada's New Brunswick province has also announced the removal of some Confucius programmes from its public schools.
Meanwhile, the US Defense Department has said it will no longer fund Chinese-language programmes at universities that host CIs.
Alex Joske, an analyst at the Australian Strategic Policy Institute, says the CIs "serve as channels for Beijing to build greater influence over universities as a whole". But completely disengaging with CIs may not be the right approach, he feels.
"Short of shutting down Confucius Institutes, the government should work with universities to ensure they have effective internal mechanisms to resist foreign interference," he says.
"Universities and the government should also seek to increase funding for Chinese-language programmes in order to reduce the appeal of Confucius Institutes and invest in greater expertise on China."

Story 179
Angry Nationalists Don’t Sell China’s Message
China analysts have always hoped that the next generation would bring change, especially as the elite headed overseas. But that’s not looking very likely. On Aug. 17, a group of Chinese students in their patriotic Ferraris, McLarens, Porsches, and Aston Martins adorned with five-starred flags, ran their dragsters alongside a pro-Hong Kong rally in Toronto, calling the Hong Kong protesters “poor garbage.”
The previous day, a shouting match erupted at a pro-Hong Kong rally at the University of South Australia in Adelaide. In response to chants of “Hong Kong, Stay Strong,” mainland Chinese students countered in unison, “Cao ni ma bi”—an obscene Chinese insult that’s made its way into the Urban Dictionary.
In the meantime, though, Hong Kongers are taking to the streets in defense of their rights — and seeing their young leaders arrested as a result. These clashes aren’t just about disparate politics. They’re the battle lines between two entirely different spheres of information, a form of warfare that will define the 21st century. Inside the world of mainland Chinese control, truth and fiction seem reversed. The Chinese students involved in this aggressive political messaging are pushing their country’s narrative—and getting praise for their behavior at home. But that same message is backfiring outside of the mainland, even among some Chinese communities elsewhere in Asia.
These two and other similar incidents were widely celebrated on China’s highly censored Weibo platform. Geng Shuang, a spokesman for the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs, defended the legitimacy of Chinese students’ counterprotests abroad. News about the protests was initially shielded outside China’s all-encompassing information firewall. But lately, China has launched a full-blown smear campaign against the protests, attempting to frame them as a secessionist conspiracy concocted by separatists and foreign “black hands” to overthrow the “one country, two systems” policy in place since the handover of Hong Kong by the British government to China in 1997.
That campaign has used every means possible, including mainland media, state-sponsored “party propagandists, and encouraging Chinese citizens to spread more covert messages. On Aug. 19, Facebook and Twitter, which are both blocked in China, announced removals of accounts linked to a “significant state-backed information operation” originating in China. The Chinese government disputed the two companies’ characterization, claiming that the purges were attempts to sabotage a different account of the Hong Kong debacle and the posts were merely expressing the opinions of Chinese citizens overseas.
Despite the chorus at home on the Hong Kong issues, there are dissenting voices out there. One Shenzhen-based writer using the name Li Wangsheng wrote an article titled “A Chilly Confession from a Mainland Supporter of the Hong Kong Protest” on an overseas Chinese website called BackChina.com.
Li’s opening statement reads:
“I am one of the very few people in mainland China who support the Hong Kong protesters. In mainland China, less than 1 percent of people are like me. Recently, when I looked at the people around me and heard my colleagues talking, they all toed the government line, that is, saying Hong Kong people were ‘thugs.’ They even hoped that all Hong Kong people would be suppressed and killed.”
Of course, it’s hard to know exactly what mainlanders feel in their hearts—especially when expressing support for the Hong Kong protesters is so costly. Yet it’s striking how ardent even those abroad have been in defending the government line.
But here’s the rub. The propaganda that works inside the bubble—and that clings to mainlanders even overseas—is part of what’s turning people off the very idea of Chinese-ness in Hong Kong.
Although the Hong Kong protests have drawn demonstrators from all walks of life and all age groups, a recent study shows that nearly 60 percent are 29 years old or younger. According to a survey conducted by the University of Hong Kong in 2017, only 3.1 percent of young Hong Kongers identified themselves as “Chinese,” the lowest since the handover to China. By mid-June of this year, in the wake of reportedly 2 million people marching on the streets to call for a complete withdrawal of the city’s controversial extradition bill, 71 percent said “No” when asked if they were proud of being a national citizen of China, while 27 percent said “Yes.” Most tellingly, 90 percent in the 18 to 29 age group answered “No.”
This finding is particularly striking in that even as China increasingly flexes its economic and military muscle, and as its propaganda becomes harder, young people of Chinese descent outside of the totalized infosphere of the mainland are turning sharply away from it. That’s not just the case in Hong Kong—in Taiwan, too, the young are far more opposed to Beijing than previous generations. A study released by Taiwan Foundation for Democracy in April 2018 found a significantly higher percentage of Taiwanese younger than 40 opposing reunification with the mainland than those 40 or older. In the age group 20 to 24, the percentage of Taiwanese who support authoritarian systems is lower than that in Europe and the United States.
Conversely, the internet has not made the youth in mainland China more accepting of the outside world. On the contrary, the Chinese government’s control of the internet seems to have made them more nationalist or patriotic, sometimes to the exclusion of the values of freedom.
To explain the bizarre uniformity of the discourse in China today, Li Wangsheng , the Shenzhen writer, explained: “Our news commentaries can only be displayed after filtering. Any opinion departing from the official line will be deleted. So even if someone has a different view and wants to support Hong Kongers, you don’t get to see these messages or posts on the mainland websites.”
This messaging doesn’t have to be the case. Many Hong Kongers and Taiwanese were once able to find reasons to be proud of China, such as their cultural heritage and the vision of people lifting themselves out of poverty. And, importantly, none of the five demands propounded by the Hong Kong protesters actually pertains to independence or challenging China’s sovereignty. It’s not just wrong, but actively counterproductive to try to reduce the entire protest movement to a secessionist conspiracy—even if you deplore the actions of the small number of protesters who have used violence. Rather than painting with a broad brush to demonize the pro-Hong Kong students, if Beijing really wanted to win them over, it would be thinking about how best to make them feel part of the story of a greater China.
Boastful rich kids and abusive students do not represent the best China can offer to the future of the world. A manufactured dichotomy and patriotic indoctrination will not help China to win over Hong Kongers. The free exchange of ideas will.

Story 180
Hong Kong (CNN Business) Costco has built a cult following in the United States — now it's China's turn. The country's first Costco store is so popular that it had to shut down early on its first day because of too many shoppers.
The retailer opened its first physical outlet in Shanghai on Tuesday morning, and it quickly got too crowded to stay open.
"The store has been clogged up with crowds," Costco said in a text message alert to its members in China. "To provide you with better shopping experience, Costco will suspend business in the afternoon. Please don't come."
Costco's first store in Shanghai opened to massive crowds on Tuesday.
Police were deployed to restore order and manage traffic jams around the store, with law enforcement urging people to remain calm.
"For your safety, we hope citizens who want to go to Costco can maintain a rational attitude about consumption and avoid going out during rush hours. Those who have already gone there, you must follow orders," the Shanghai police said in a statement on its verified account on Chinese social network Weibo.
Read More

Story 181
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The BBC's John Sudworth meets Uighur parents in Turkey who say their children are missing in China
China is deliberately separating Muslim children from their families, faith and language in its far western region of Xinjiang, according to new research.
At the same time as hundreds of thousands of adults are being detained in giant camps, a rapid, large-scale campaign to build boarding schools is under way.
Based on publicly available documents, and backed up by dozens of interviews with family members overseas, the BBC has gathered some of the most comprehensive evidence to date about what is happening to children in the region.
Records show that in one township alone more than 400 children have lost not just one but both parents to some form of internment, either in the camps or in prison.
Formal assessments are carried out to determine whether the children are in need of "centralised care".
Alongside the efforts to transform the identity of Xinjiang's adults, the evidence points to a parallel campaign to systematically remove children from their roots.
Image caption The Hotan Kindness Kindergarten, like many others, is a high security facility
China's tight surveillance and control in Xinjiang, where foreign journalists are followed 24 hours a day, make it impossible to gather testimony there. But it can be found in Turkey.
In a large hall in Istanbul, dozens of people queue to tell their stories, many of them clutching photographs of children, all now missing back home in Xinjiang.
"I don't know who is looking after them," one mother says, pointing to a picture of her three young daughters, "there is no contact at all."
Another mother, holding a photo of three sons and a daughter, wipes away her tears. "I heard that they've been taken to an orphanage," she says.
In 60 separate interviews, in wave after wave of anxious, grief-ridden testimony, parents and other relatives give details of the disappearance in Xinjiang of more than 100 children.
They are all Uighurs - members of Xinjiang's largest, predominantly Muslim ethnic group that has long had ties of language and faith to Turkey. Thousands have come to study or to do business, to visit family, or to escape China's birth control limits and the increasing religious repression.
But over the past three years, they have found themselves trapped after China began detaining hundreds of thousands of Uighurs and other minorities in giant camps.
The Chinese authorities say the Uighurs are being educated in "vocational training centres" in order to combat violent religious extremism. But evidence shows that many are being detained for simply expressing their faith - praying or wearing a veil - or for having overseas connections to places like Turkey.
For these Uighurs, going back means almost certain detention. Phone contact has been severed - even speaking to relatives overseas is now too dangerous for those in Xinjiang.
With his wife detained back home, one father tells me he fears some of his eight children may now be in the care of the Chinese state.
"I think they've been taken to child education camps," he says.
New research commissioned by the BBC sheds light on what is really happening to these children and many thousands of others.
Dr Adrian Zenz is a German researcher widely credited with exposing the full extent of China's mass detentions of adult Muslims in Xinjiang. Based on publicly available official documents, his report paints a picture of an unprecedented school expansion drive in Xinjiang.
Campuses have been enlarged, new dormitories built and capacity increased on a massive scale. Significantly, the state has been growing its ability to care full-time for large numbers of children at precisely the same time as it has been building the detention camps.
And it appears to be targeted at precisely the same ethnic groups.
In just one year, 2017, the total number of children enrolled in kindergartens in Xinjiang increased by more than half a million. And Uighur and other Muslim minority children, government figures show, made up more than 90% of that increase.
As a result, Xinjiang's pre-school enrolment level has gone from below the national average to the highest in China by far.
In the south of Xinjiang alone, an area with the highest concentration of Uighur populations, the authorities have spent an eye watering $1.2bn on the building and upgrading of kindergartens.
Mr Zenz's analysis suggests that this construction boom has included the addition of large amounts of dormitory space.
Image caption Xinhe County Youyi Kindergarten has space for 700 children, 80% of whom are from Xinjiang's minority groups
Xinjiang's education expansion is driven, it appears, by the same ethos as underlies the mass incarceration of adults. And it is clearly affecting almost all Uighur and other minority children, whether their parents are in the camps or not.
In 2018 work began on a site for two new boarding schools in Xinjiang's southern city of Yecheng (known as Kargilik in Uighur).
Yecheng County Middle Schools 10 and 11
Dragging the slider reveals the pace of construction - the two middle schools, separated by a shared sports field, are each three times larger than the national average and were built in little more than a year.
In April last year, the county authorities relocated 2,000 children from the surrounding villages into yet another giant boarding middle school, Yecheng County Number 4.
Government propaganda extols the virtues of boarding schools as helping to "maintain social stability and peace" with the "school taking the place of the parents." And Mr Zenz suggests there is a deeper purpose.
"Boarding schools provide the ideal context for a sustained cultural re-engineering of minority societies," he argues.
Just as with the camps, his research shows that there is now a concerted drive to all but eliminate the use of Uighur and other local languages from school premises. Individual school regulations outline strict, points-based punishments for both students and teachers if they speak anything other than Chinese while in school.
And this aligns with other official statements claiming that Xinjiang has already achieved full Chinese language teaching in all of its schools.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The BBC visits the camps where China’s Muslims have their "thoughts transformed"
Speaking to the BBC, Xu Guixiang, a senior official with Xinjiang's Propaganda Department, denies that the state is having to care for large numbers of children left parentless as a result.
"If all family members have been sent to vocational training then that family must have a severe problem," he says, laughing. "I've never seen such a case."
But perhaps the most significant part of Mr Zenz's work is his evidence that shows that the children of detainees are indeed being channelled into the boarding school system in large numbers.
There are the detailed forms used by local authorities to log the situations of children with parents in vocational training or in prison, and to determine whether they need centralised care.
Mr Zenz found one government document that details various subsidies available to "needy groups", including those families where "both a husband and a wife are in vocational training". And a directive issued to education bureaus by the city of Kashgar that mandates them to look after the needs of students with parents in the camps as a matter of urgency.
Schools should "strengthen psychological counselling", the directive says, and "strengthen students' thought education" - a phrase that finds echoes in the camps holding their parents.
It is clear that the effect of the mass internments on children is now viewed as a significant societal issue, and that some effort is going into dealing with it, although it is not something the authorities are keen to publicise.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The BBC has found new evidence of the increasing control and suppression of Islam in China
Some of the relevant government documents appear to have been deliberately hidden from search engines by using obscure symbols in place of the term "vocational training". That said, in some instances the adult detention camps have kindergartens built close by, and, when visiting, Chinese state media reporters have extolled their virtues.
These boarding schools, they say, allow minority children to learn "better life habits" and better personal hygiene than they would at home. Some children have begun referring to their teachers as "mummy".
We telephoned a number of local Education Bureaus in Xinjiang to try to find out about the official policy in such cases. Most refused to speak to us, but some gave brief insights into the system.
We asked one official what happens to the children of those parents who have been taken to the camps.
"They're in boarding schools," she replied. "We provide accommodation, food and clothes… and we've been told by the senior level that we must look after them well."
Image caption Hotan Sunshine Kindergarten, seen through a wire fence
In the hall in Istanbul, as the stories of broken families come tumbling out, there is raw despair and deep resentment too.
"Thousands of innocent children are being separated from their parents and we are giving our testimonies constantly," one mother tells me. "Why does the world keep silent when knowing these facts?"
Back in Xinjiang, the research shows that all children now find themselves in schools that are secured with "hard isolation closed management measures." Many of the schools bristle with full-coverage surveillance systems, perimeter alarms and 10,000 Volt electric fences, with some school security spending surpassing that of the camps.
The policy was issued in early 2017, at a time when the detentions began to be dramatically stepped up. Was the state, Mr Zenz wonders, seeking to pre-empt any possibility on the part of Uighur parents to forcibly recover their children?
"I think the evidence for systematically keeping parents and children apart is a clear indication that Xinjiang's government is attempting to raise a new generation cut off from original roots, religious beliefs and their own language," he tells me.
"I believe the evidence points to what we must call cultural genocide."

