Story 0
Sport is a serious business. Ping-pong diplomacy sped US detente with China; Richard Nixon followed the path of American table tennis players. Now some joke that basketball could yet spell the end for bilateral relations, as Beijing seeks to punish the NBA over comments on the protests in Hong Kong and US politicians hit back at the league’s attempts to appease.
China’s use of economic power for political purposes has rarely been quite so visible. It began when the general manager of the Houston Rockets sent a tweet including the words “Fight for Freedom. Stand with Hong Kong” – where authorities are cracking down harder than ever on the four-month anti-government movement and violence is growing. The team’s Chinese sponsors and partners cut ties. Matters soon spiralled.
China is the NBA’s biggest market outside of its homeland; its business there has been estimated to be worth as much as $4bn. The NBA said it was regrettable that the remarks had deeply offended many people in China. The Chinese version went further, suggesting the league was “extremely disappointed” by an “inappropriate” comment. The commissioner, Adam Silver, then issued a statement insisting the NBA would not regulate what players, employees or team owners said. The league succeeded in satisfying no one.
This is not an independent consumer boycott. The party-state zealously fosters and directs nationalism, and in this case its intervention is not only direct but open. The state broadcaster scrapped its plans to air pre-season games played in China this week. Similarly, Apple’s decision to remove an app tracking the movement of Hong Kong police from its store came after a state-owned Chinese paper accused it of “protecting rioters” with its “poisonous app” (the company, citing officials, says it has been used to ambush police).
Others are acting pre-emptively: Blizzard Entertainment expelled a victorious Hong Kong-based gamer from a tournament after he spoke in support of the protests. Self-censorship by western businesses under pressure is nothing new. China is exporting its controls on speech. Hollywood, car manufacturers, airlines, internet companies and hotel chains have already learned to accept – or pay a hefty price. But giving ground encourages Beijing to demand more. Just how narrowly it sets the parameters of acceptable discussion was spelt out this week by state media, which warned that “any speech that challenges national sovereignty and social stability is not within the scope of freedom of speech”. (In fact, very few in Hong Kong call for independence, and “social stability” is an almost all-encompassing rubric.)
China’s increasingly strident nationalism and confidence, combined with its immense economic clout, make more clashes inevitable. The NBA’s high profile makes it a tempting target; its punishment has a clear chilling effect. But its status also means that the row has highlighted Beijing’s tactics, and spurred a backlash – as well as refocusing international attention on Hong Kong. Ted Cruz and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez found a rare moment of political unity when they co-signed a bipartisan letter urging the league to suspend activities in China until the pressure ceases. Western businesses concluded long ago that they cannot afford to stay out of the Chinese market. But domestic consumers and politicians still have power. They should remind companies that failing to uphold values such as free speech at home also comes at a cost.

Story 1
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Chinese Vice Premier Liu He leaves the trade negotiations.
US President Donald Trump sounded an optimistic note at the end of the first day of US-China trade talks in Washington DC.
"We had a very, very good negotiation with China," Mr Trump told reporters after the talks wrapped up.
Mr Trump will meet directly with Vice Premier Liu He at the White House on Friday.
Earlier reports suggested the Chinese delegation might leave after the first day of talks.
Asian markets followed Wall Street higher after Mr Trump's comments.
Thursday's talks kicked off amid a backdrop of renewed tensions, as the US blacklisted 28 Chinese entities over human rights concerns.
They were the first high-level negotiations in more than two months.
US Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer met Mr Liu and other Chinese officials.
"The Chinese side came with great sincerity, willing to cooperate with the US on the trade balance, market access and investor protection," Mr Liu told the official Xinhua news agency.
Earlier in the week, the US government blacklisted 28 Chinese entities it said were "implicated" in human rights abuses, and imposed additional visa restrictions for Chinese government officials.
The Chinese Embassy in Washington denounced the visa action and said the US accusations on human rights violations were "made-up pretexts" for interfering in China's affairs.
Although many of the blacklisted entities are government security bureaus, the eight companies named include some of China's leaders in artificial intelligence.
The blacklist could restrict the access of those companies to US microchips, which they currently rely on for many of their products and services.
Human rights groups and the UN say China has rounded up and detained more than a million Uighurs and other mostly Muslim minorities in detention camps in Xinjiang province.
China insists they're "vocational training centres" aimed at preventing terrorism, promoting integration into Chinese society and providing employment.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Jay Powell or Xi Jinping: Which chairman is Trump's enemy?
Although officials are speaking positively about the meeting, few expect more than incremental progress.
"I think China's looking for a trade truce," said Einar Tangen, a former economic adviser to the Chinese government.
"At this point, it's not clear that there will ever be any kind of big breakthrough. The idea in Beijing is that they will never allow Chinese policy to be made in Washington DC."
The US and China have been locked in a long-running trade spat over a variety of issues.
Over the past 15 months, the world's two largest economies have imposed tariffs on billions of dollars worth of each other's goods.
The US has been demanding better protection for US intellectual property, and an end to both cyber theft and the forced transfer of technology to Chinese firms.
It also wants China to reduce industrial subsidies and improve access to Chinese markets to US companies.

Story 2
Image copyright EPHE
Until 2017, Tashpolat Tiyip was a model academic, head of Xinjiang University, globally connected, and with an honorary degree from a prestigious Paris university.
But that year, without warning, he disappeared, with no word from officials. His friends believe that after a secret trial, Prof Tiyip was convicted of separatism and sentenced to death.
Prof Tiyip is a Muslim Uighur, and rights groups say he was caught up in a wider persecution of Uighur intellectuals as China tackles what it says is a separatist, terrorist threat.
"There are hundreds of Uighur academics and professionals swept up into this mass internment campaign," Michael Caster, a researcher and author of The People's Republic of the Disappeared, told the BBC.
"This is targeting community, cultural, and intellectual leaders; it is tantamount to cultural genocide."
Fellow academics fear that if he is still alive and detained, Prof Tayip faces imminent execution.
Who is Tashpolat Tiyip?
Until his disappearance, Tashpolat Tiyip was an esteemed professor of geography at Xinjiang University, which like all Chinese universities is an official state institution.
A member of the local Uighur community in Xinjiang, he had studied geography in his home province, and after a stint in Japan, returned home to his alma mater to teach.
He'd been active in international academic circles - receiving a title from France's Ecole Pratique des Hautes Etudes - and was part of a tight-knit international network of scholars in his field.
He was also a member of the Chinese Communist Party and in 2010, he became president of Xinjiang University, a position he held until his disappearance.
How did he disappear?
The proceedings against Prof Tiyip were shrouded in secrecy and there's no official record of what happened to him.
Image copyright Handout Image caption Mr Tiyip (left) with fellow academics Arslan Abdulla and Rahile Dawut who have also disappeared
Friends say that in 2017, he was on his way to Europe for a conference and to launch a co-operation with a German university. But at Beijing airport he was stopped and told he had to return to Xinjiang's capital Urumqi. That's where the trail ends, a former colleague of the professor told the BBC from the US.
He never returned home and his friends and relatives were soon questioned over corruption allegations around him.
Eventually, the family heard news he had been convicted of separatism and had received the death penalty, the former colleague explains - but China has never confirmed anything about his case.
Working as a researcher in the US, she is herself a Uighur originally from Xinjiang and asked to remain anonymous so as not to endanger her own friends and family back home.
China's hidden camps
She says the crackdown has created an atmosphere of horror where "everyone feel like they're being watched all the time".
"There is a huge sense of fear - people tell me they sleep in their clothes because no-one knows whether at night they might be taken away.
"A friend has described it to me as China waging a war of fear. And that friend has also disappeared since then."
Where is Tashpolat Tiyip now?
UN experts and rights groups say China is holding about one million Uighurs and other Muslims and minorities in detention camps.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The BBC meets Uighurs in Turkey who say their children are missing in China
China doesn't deny the massive operation, but says it is preventing terrorism and separatism by providing education to those detained, helping them to better integrate into mainstream Chinese society.
Prof Tiyip's friends say contacting loved ones in Xinjiang is difficult and only possible with code words to avoid alerting the authorities, who monitor communications. There are reports of people being detained for even having WhatsApp on their phone.
"When we talk to them, we can't use his name," the former colleague explains. "For instance we have to ask how the patient is, whether the doctors already gave a diagnosis, or whether he's been released from hospital."
"That's the only way that relatives can tell us anything."
Mr Tiyip's family believe he is still alive. They have also heard that he and other academics convicted of alleged separatism are used as scare examples in propaganda videos shown in detention centres.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The BBC visits the camps where China’s Muslims have their "thoughts transformed"
Mr Caster says the pattern of vanishing into a secret justice system is typical.
"The Chinese State does not want people to know about him and his ongoing incommunicado detention fits the textbook definition of an enforced disappearance."
What's been the reaction?
Since the disappearance of Mr Tiyip, supporters have again and again tried to draw attention to his case.
They believe he was given a two-year suspended death sentence - if so that period would now be ending and amid the uncertainty there are new efforts to rally support.
Image copyright EPHE Image caption In 2008, Professor Tiyip received international accolades at France's EPHE university
Earlier this month, the American Association of Geographers (AAG) called for his release in a letter signed by more than 1,300 academics from around the world.
"Tashpolat Tiyip's arrest, detention and death sentence is a devastating threat to intellectual and scientific freedom in China and around the globe," according to Dr Gary Langham of the AAG.
The French university that had awarded the honorary degree also EPHE also urged for the release of Mr Tiyip, warning that it was part of a "wave of Chinese repression that few people in Europe know about".
Rights group Amnesty International in September described the trial as "secret and grossly unfair" and has called for urgent action to urge China to release them.
Scholars at Risk has also released a statement, urging China to "immediately intervene" to halt the execution and "secure his unconditional release".
The group warns that "in addition to the harm to Dr Tiyip and his family, such incidents have a chilling effect on academic freedom and suggest an attempt to undermine academic communities and limit free expression".
Last year, Pen America condemned the detention of the academic along with several other Uighur writers as "an outrageous abdication of the rule of law, and a clear demonstration of the government's broad-scale attack on Uyghur intellectual life under the guise of preventing 'separatism'".
"The fact that several prominent Uyghur intellectuals have disappeared only to re-emerge months later, sentenced to death or to life imprisonment, tells you all you need to know about the state of free expression in Xinjiang today," Summer Lopez, senior director of Free Expression Programs at Pen America, said.
Is Prof Tiyip the only one?
A wave of academics have vanished in China's Xinjiang province. Among the first high profile arrests was economist Ilham Tohti who was convicted of separatism and sentenced to life in prison in 2014.
Image copyright AFP Image caption Ilham Tohti was awarded the Vaclaw Havel Prize while in prison in China
Mr Tohti had been a moderate critic of Beijing's policies towards Uighurs, questioning the government's role in persistent violent confrontations between Uighurs and the dominant Han Chinese.
Last month, he was awarded the Council of Europe's Vaclaw Havel Prize for human rights.
Another example is anthropologist Rahile Dawut, also of Xinjiang University.
Like Mr Tiyip, she'd long been praised by Chinese authorities as a model academic, applauded for their integration within the Chinese and global academic context.
Ms Dawut disappeared in late 2017 and has not been heard of since. Efforts to understand what happened to her or what she might have been charged with, have been futile.

Story 3
Basketball’s roots in China go way back. Christian missionaries introduced the game in the late 19th century. Mao tolerated it when other Western entertainments were discouraged. In 1979, after Mao’s death led to China’s opening up to the world, the Washington Bullets became the first N.B.A. team to play in China when they went to Beijing for a pair of friendly games with the Chinese Army.
The N.B.A. sensed an opening. In 1985, the Chinese national team toured the United States at the invitation of the N.B.A. commissioner David Stern for what later became known as the N.B.A.-China Friendship Tour. Then in 1990, the league struck its first big revenue-sharing deal with China Central Television, China’s state broadcaster, to air N.B.A. games in China — just in time for Michael Jordan’s first championship run with the Chicago Bulls.
A love affair was born, making the N.B.A. one of the first American brands to win a following across China. A generation of Chinese fans grew up crowding around dusty desktop monitors in college dorm rooms to watch fuzzy streams of N.B.A. games. When Yao Ming was drafted by the Rockets in 2002, it seemed to many in China like the completion, not the beginning, of their hoop dreams.
N.B.A. stars suddenly won millions of new followers — and sometimes awkward nicknames. Mr. James was “The Little Emperor.” Mr. Jordan was the “Gang Boss.” Shaquille O’Neal, the hulking 7-foot-1 center, was “The Giant Shark,” though the historian Nick Kapur noted he became “O’Fat” after he began to put on the pounds.
Rong Qiang, 40, cut school to watch N.B.A. games in the 1980s and remains loyal to Mr. Jordan and the Bulls. “Their moves were just unbelievable,” he recalled nostalgically.
Mr. Rong was one of the few shoppers perusing the normally bustling flagship N.B.A. store in Beijing’s central shopping district, the league’s largest outside North America. Idle workers adjusted displays of jerseys, shoes and memorabilia. At one entrance, life-size bobbleheads of Stephen Curry and Kobe Bryant clutching Chinese flags greeted would-be shoppers.
Despite his decades-long love of the league, Mr. Rong, a clothing merchandiser, said he was prepared to withdraw his support. He was hopeful that the fervor would eventually die down, as it did after previous flare-ups between China and Japan.

Story 4
Apple has been more successful in China than any other consumer tech company. Now that’s a problem for Apple.
On Wednesday, Apple said it removed HKMapLive, an app used by protest organizers in Hong Kong, from its Chinese app store. The app, which lets users track police activity, “violates our guidelines and local laws,” Apple said. The company says it made the decision on its own accord and not because the Chinese state-owned People’s Daily had been publicly criticizing the app.
“Over the past several days we received credible information, from the Hong Kong Cybersecurity and Technology Crime Bureau, as well as from users in Hong Kong, that the app was being used maliciously to target individual officers for violence and to victimize individuals and property where no police are present,” Apple CEO Tim Cook wrote in a company memo on Thursday. “This use put the app in violation of Hong Kong law. Similarly, widespread abuse clearly violates our App Store guidelines barring personal harm.”
That followed Apple’s September 30 removal of the Quartz News app because it “includes content that is illegal in China,” according to a note the news publisher says it received from Apple.
Apple isn’t the only big company making decisions that look like they’re meant to appease China as that country’s standoff with Hong Kong protesters heads toward its eighth month.
This week, the video game studio Activision Blizzard punished a player who had won a tournament for one of its video games after he publicly supported the protests. The NBA has both apologized and unapologized after Houston Rockets executive Daryl Morey tweeted a message on behalf of the protesters. And Google has taken down a game app that lets players take on the role of protesters. (The Wall Street Journal reports that Google did so after Hong Kong police complained; a company representative says it didn’t receive a request from any government agency but took down the app on its own because the app violated its rules about exploiting sensitive news.)
But Apple is in a particularly difficult position, due to the company’s success in China: Unlike several other big consumer tech companies, which either do little business in China or none at all, Apple has thrived in China. The country is Apple’s third-biggest market, which generates some $44 billion a year in sales. And Apple’s supply chain, which lets it produce the hundreds of millions of iPhones it sells around the world each year, is deeply embedded in China.
Meanwhile, Apple has gone out of its way to promote itself as a tech company with deep commitments to social issues like privacy and environmentalism. And CEO Tim Cook has been outspoken about his disagreements with the Trump administration on trade wars, immigration policy, and Trump’s support of neo-Nazis.
So on the one hand, Apple is the woke consumer tech company that cares about you, your privacy, and the rest of the world. On the other, Apple is deeply enmeshed in a country that supports (state-approved) capitalism but not civil liberties.
Meanwhile, many of America’s biggest tech companies don’t have this problem because they’re barely in China or not in China at all. Almost all of Google’s sites and services, for instance, are blocked in mainland China. Twitter, Facebook, and Netflix aren’t there at all. Amazon has a very small presence.
But that’s not due to lack of trying. Google spent years trying to work with China before bailing in 2010. And when news broke last year that Google was trying again and had begun work on a secretive project to build a censored search engine for the country, outcry from the public and its own employees pressured the company to halt the project, at least for now.
Amazon spent more than a decade trying to crack the Chinese market with very little to show for it today. Facebook, which has been blocked in China since 2009, also spent years of courtship to get back in, including multiple visits from CEO Mark Zuckerberg, who also made a public pledge to learn Mandarin. In 2016, Netflix CEO Reed Hastings was hopeful that he could work with Chinese regulators; this year he said that wasn’t going to work — “We will be blocked in China for a long time.”
This week’s news suggests that those guys may be lucky they’ve failed to get in. Aside from ethical concerns about compromising with Chinese authorities to get access to the country’s billions of consumers, working with China could become bad for your brand, as politicians and commentators pile on the companies who do it.
“Dealing With China Isn’t Worth the Moral Cost,” says the New York Times columnist and former tech reporter Farhad Manjoo, who calls the country “a growing and existential threat to human freedom across the world.” Republican Sen. Marco Rubio accused China of “using access to market as leverage to crush free speech globally.”
Just as concerning for big internet companies is that China now looks like it’s willing to punish companies for things that happen outside of the country: Daryl Morey’s supposedly incendiary statement was made on Twitter, a service that’s not available in China. Imagine what would happen if YouTube, which struggles to deal with the millions of problematic videos its users upload each month, had to take responsibility for pro-democracy messages its 2 billion users made, too.
Plenty of US companies work in and with countries that require them to make moral compromises. Facebook, for instance, finds itself frequently pulling down videos and posts because they upset Turkey’s censors; Netflix took down an episode of comedian Hasan Minhaj’s Patriot Act in Saudi Arabia because it was critical of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. The standard argument these companies all make is that those countries are better off when they have access to their products.
This is Apple’s argument, too. “We believe our presence in China helps promote greater openness and facilitates the free flow of ideas and information,” Cook told Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX) and Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-VT) in a December 2017 letter. “We are convinced that Apple can best promote fundamental rights, including the right of free expression, by being engaged even where we may disagree with a particular country’s law.”
Left unsaid in Cook’s letter is that Apple has to do business in China.
Unlike tech companies that haven’t broken into the country or only do minor business in it, Apple is now so deep in China that leaving it could be catastrophic. Even if the company was willing to forgo the $44 billion a year in sales it makes in China, it can’t leave the deep network of suppliers and assemblers that build hundreds of millions of iPhones every year.
Earlier this year, in response to the escalating US-China trade war, Apple floated the idea that it could move some of its production outside of China to hedge its bets. But it was only willing to suggest that it would move a third of production.
So even if Apple decided to make the wrenching decision to get out of China today, it couldn’t. It is stuck there, for better and for worse.

Story 5
Hong Kong (CNN) China and India desperately want to improve their trade relationship. But it seems whenever the countries' leaders meet, the Himalayas get in the way.
When Chinese President Xi Jinping and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi met in the Chinese city of Wuhan in 2018 , it came after a tense, months-long military standoff over Doklam , a disputed region in the "trijunction" between India, China and Bhutan, high in the Himalayas. That standoff at times appeared poised to spill over to outright conflict, a repeat of the brief border war the two countries fought in 1962.
As Xi lands in the coastal city of Chennai Friday for a two-day visit to India, it's the Kashmir Valley at the northwestern tip of the mountain range that's poised to spoil efforts to improve Sino-Indian ties.
At least this time, Beijing isn't directly involved in the conflict. While it claims parts of eastern Kashmir as its territory, tensions were recently raised when New Delhi scrapped the special status of the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir , ending its autonomy and setting the stage for mass Hindu migration to the Muslim-majority area.
Both India and rival Pakistan claim sovereignty over all of Kashmir, and Islamabad swiftly declared the move -- which was followed by a major crackdown by Indian security services -- as illegal.
Beijing is a longtime ally of Islamabad, and New Delhi is keen to keep China out of the dispute. According to the Hindustan Times , Indian officials said the recent change in status for Jammu and Kashmir "won't be up for discussion" when Xi and Modi meet this week, with talks expected to focus on trade issues.
On Wednesday, however, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan threw a spanner into the works with a visit to Beijing, where he met with Xi in an apparent attempt to shore up support ahead of the Modi summit. Following talks, Xi said that "China supports Pakistan to safeguard its own legitimate rights and hopes that the relevant parties can solve their disputes through peaceful dialogue."
In response, Indian foreign affairs spokesman Raveesh Kumar said New Delhi's position "has been consistent and clear that Jammu & Kashmir is an integral part of India. China is well aware of our position. It is not for other countries to comment on the internal affairs of India."
A traffic policeman stands beside a welcoming board for China's President Xi Jinping in Chennai on October 9, 2019, ahead of a summit with his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi held at the World Heritage Site of Mahabalipuram from October 11 to 13 in Tamil Nadu state.
Trading partners
China has close economic, diplomatic and military ties with Pakistan , making it one of the nation's closest allies in the region. Between 2008 and 2017, Islamabad purchased more than $6 billion of Chinese arms, according to think tank CSIS. China has also invested billions in the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor, an integral part of Xi's Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) trade and infrastructure mega-project.
India's economy , however, dwarfs that of its neighbor -- and the country's importance to China has only grown as the trade war between Beijing and Washington has continued. Pakistan may be an "all-weather ally," but it is Indian consumers who can help pull China out of the economic doldrums.
"The common interests of China and India far outweigh their differences," state-run newspaper China Daily said in an editorial ahead of Modi and Xi's 2018 meeting. Since that summit, China's vice foreign minister and former ambassador to India, Luo Zhaohui, said this week that "relations have entered a new stage of steady growth, with cooperation and exchanges being carried out in various fields and differences being properly managed."
India and China together account for 17.6% of the global economy . But although China is India's largest trading partner, their estimated $84 billion bilateral trade in 2017/18 was a mere fraction of the US-China trade volume, which stood at almost $600 billion.
Foreign direct investment into India has risen from less than $25 billion in 2014 -- before Modi took power -- to about $45 billion in the last fiscal year, and China is seeking to be a major player in the growing Indian market.
One big success story has been the smartphone industry, which has helped drive a boom in India's digital economy. China's Xiaomi has tripled the number of smartphone plants it has in India in recent years, and is now on its way to taking top spot in the country's market. Beijing will also be hoping that India could be a big market for telecoms giant Huawei, which is facing increasing pressure and restrictions from the US and its allies.
Difficult relationship
As well as potential political problems caused by its relationship with Pakistan, China has a number of long-running disputes with India, both diplomatic and territorial.
They include New Delhi's sheltering of the Dalai Lama , the exiled Tibetan spiritual leader whom Beijing considers a separatist traitor.
Economic and strategic competition between China, a Communist-ruled one-party state, and India -- the world's largest democracy -- has also intensified in the past few years as Beijing started to expand its influence in India's traditional backyard , especially through Xi's ambitious BRI global trade plan.
And while the Doklam issue appears to be on the back burner, it is one of multiple territorial disputes between New Delhi and Beijing. India held major military exercises in Arunachal Pradesh this month, parts of which China considers to be in South Tibet.
According to the Hindustan Times , Luo -- the Chinese vice foreign minister -- dismissed questions about the exercises this week, saying the claim that they took place in disputed territory "is not true."
"Second, the region you mentioned is a sensitive region and we don't want to hear that reference," Luo added.
His comments are perhaps indicative of China's overall strategy when it comes to its Himalayan issues -- downplay and ignore them in favor of boosting trade.

Story 6
WASHINGTON—U.S.-China trade talks kicked off amid expectations that Beijing’s emissaries are ready to offer compromises aimed at getting President Trump to hold off on tariff increases set to take effect next week and in December.
Financial markets rose on prospects of any headway after five months of stalemate, and on the news Mr. Trump would meet on Friday with Chinese Vice Premier Liu He at the White House. Speaking to reporters Thursday evening, the president said, “We had a very, very good negotiation.”
...

Story 7
This sort of corporate capitulation is hardly surprising. For Western companies, China is simply too big and too rich a market to ignore, let alone to pressure or to police. If the first and most important cost of doing business in China is the surgical extraction of a C.E.O.’s spine, many businesses are only too happy to provide the stretcher and the scalpel.
But it will only get worse from here, and we are fools to play this game. There is a school of thought that says America should not think of China as an enemy. With its far larger population, China’s economy will inevitably come to eclipse ours, but that is hardly a mortal threat. In climate change, the world faces a huge collective-action problem that will require global cooperation. According to this view, treating China like an adversary will only frustrate our own long-term goals.
But this perspective leaves out the threat that greater economic and technological integration with China poses to everyone outside of China. It ignores the ever-steeper capitulation that China requires of its partners. And it overlooks the most important new factor in the Chinese regime’s longevity: the seductive efficiency that technology offers to effect a breathtaking new level of control over its population.
There was a time when Westerners believed that the internet would be the Communist regime’s ruin. In a speech in 2000 urging Congress to normalize trade relations with China, President Bill Clinton famously quipped: “There’s no question China has been trying to crack down on the internet. Good luck! That’s sort of like trying to nail Jell-O to the wall.” The crowd of foreign policy experts erupted in knowing laughter.
China proved them wrong. It didn’t just find a way to nail Jell-O; it became a Jell-O master carpenter. Through online surveillance, facial recognition, artificial intelligence and the propagandistic gold mine of social media, China has mobilized a set of tools that allow it to invisibly, routinely repress its citizens and shape political opinion by manipulating their feelings and grievances on just about any controversy.
This set of skills horrifies me. China may not be exporting its political ideology, but through lavish spending and trade, it is expanding its influence across the planet. There is a risk that China’s success becomes a kind of template for the world. In the coming decades, instead of democracy — which you may have noticed is not having such a hot run on either side of the Atlantic — Chinese-style tech-abetted surveillance authoritarianism could become a template for how much of the world works.
I should say there were a couple of small reasons for optimism regarding the spread of Chinese tyranny. The bipartisan outrage over the N.B.A.’s initial apology to China did suggest American lawmakers aren’t willing to give China a completely free pass. The Trump administration also did something clever, placing eight Chinese surveillance technology companies and several police departments on a blacklist forbidding them from trading with American companies.

Story 8
Columnist Jonah Goldberg called China a "Jim Crow country" while criticizing the NBA and Apple for caving to Beijing over two separate situations involving the Hong Kong protests.
"They've been using the NBA and they're using Apple basically as props in a propaganda campaign to warn other businesses and other governments stay out of this Hong Kong stuff," Goldberg said on "The Story with Martha MacCallum" Thursday.
PRO-HONG KONG PROTESTERS CAUSE DISRUPTIONS IN CROWD DURING WIZARDS GAME
The NBA is facing criticism after Houston Rockets General Manager Daryl Morey sent out a tweet supporting the Hong Kong protesters, prompting China to admonish the NBA, cancel basketball games, events and broadcasts. The commissioner, coaches and players were criticized for apologizing to China and some coaches who have been outspoken in the past on social justice issues were criticized for their silence.
After Apple received criticism from a state-run media company in China for reinstating the HKMap app in the App Store, the tech giant to pulled the app again.
The app was being used by demonstrators to crowdsource information such as street closures and where police are located, using emojis. The app developer has previously denied it is being used for illegal purposes.
Goldberg blasted China and ripped the NBA for supporting what he described as an "apartheid" country.
"If, the Han Chinese who are the dominant ethnic group in China, if they were blond and blue-eyed white people, and everybody else stayed, you know their hue everyone would instantly recognize that China is essentially a Jim Crow country or an apartheid country," Goldberg said. "If you don't come from the right group, if you don't have the right language, you could worship the wrong religion [then] you can't get certain jobs, you're not allowed to travel internally... It is just state institutionalized bigotry.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Goldberg added, "And when the NBA comes out saying we value free speech but we also stand for diversity and all these kinds of things. They don't value diversity in China."

Story 9
Tokyo and Seoul are expected to meet on Friday in Geneva for discussions regarding their ongoing dispute over Japan's tighter export controls for materials critical to South Korea's technology sector.
The Nikkei 225 in Japan rose 1.11% while the Topix index added 0.8%. Shares of Fast Retailing , the company behind apparel giant Uniqlo, surged almost 4% after the firm reported a record profit on Thursday . The stock last traded 2.73% higher.
Mainland Chinese stocks edged up in midday trade, with the Shanghai composite up 0.44% and the Shenzhen composite 0.24% higher. The Shenzhen component also rose 0.19%.
Investors watch for market reaction to overnight developments on U.S.-China trade. American President Donald Trump said in a tweet Thursday that he is set to meet with Chinese Vice Premier Liu He on Friday, raising expectations that progress could be made on the trade front by the two economic powerhouses.
The U.S. and China are currently in the midst of high-level trade negotiations in Washington. The world's two largest economies seek to reach a deal to end their protracted trade war that has seen tariffs slapped on billions of dollars worth of each other's goods and driven worries over the global economic outlook.
"To affirm a temporary trade truce, the second day of trade talks (today) will need US President Donald Trump to suspend or cancel the US tariffs that are scheduled to hit on Chinese goods October 15 and December 15," strategists at Singapore's DBS Group Research wrote in a note.
Still, in the longer term, the strategists said: "The broader China-US trade war remains unresolved."
"The best scenario probably would be just a partial deal, I think," Alex Wong, director of asset management at Ample Capital, told CNBC's "Street SIgns" on Friday.
"I don't think we (will) see a very strong outcome today," Wong said.
Trump's tweet was the latest in a number of conflicting reports that had appeared prior to the start of high-level trade negotiations on Thursday, sending markets into a whirlwind.
A South China Morning Post report on Thursday morning in Asia said the two sides made no progress in deputy-level negotiations this week, and added that Liu would leave Washington earlier than expected. A White House spokesperson later told CNBC's Kayla Tausche: "We are not aware of a change in the Vice Premier's travels plans at this time."
Bloomberg News also reported Thursday morning Asia time that the U.S was considering an agreement to suspend next week's tariff increase in exchange for a currency pact. The U.S. previously announced it will increase duties on $250 billion worth of Chinese goods from 25% to 30% on October 15. A 15% tariff on an additional $160 billion worth of Chinese imports is also expected to kick in on December 15.
Meanwhile, the New York Times reported Wednesday evening stateside that U.S. President Donald Trump's administration is set to grant licenses that would allow American firms to sell nonsensitive supplies to Huawei. Earlier this year, the White House placed a ban on sales to the Chinese telecommunications giant, citing national security concerns.

Story 10
U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer (C) gestures as he chats with Chinese Vice Premier Liu He (R) as U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin (L) looks on after posing for a "family photo" at the Xijiao Conference Centre in Shanghai on July 31, 2019.
With many investors worried about further economic damages from the U.S.-China trade war, even a "pause" in that bilateral fight would be a "big relief" to markets, according to an economist.
"Even if we just get a pause, I think that will be very good. I think it will be a big relief for markets, so I think we will get a risk rally," Robin Brooks, managing director and chief economist at the Institute of International Finance, told CNBC's "Squawk Box Asia" on Friday.
Stocks in the U.S. were taken on wild ride Thursday following several conflicting headlines related to U.S.-China trade talks this week. Officials from both countries met in Washington on Thursday to discuss trade, which U.S. President Donald Trump said were "going really well."
Trump is set to meet with Chinese Vice Premier Liu He on Friday.
Many analysts have low expectations for what the two sides could achieve in this week's talks. Some said the U.S. and China could reach a limited deal for the time being, while others predicted that the next rounds of tariff increases scheduled for Oct. 15 and Dec. 15 would be postponed.

Story 11
Has The Trade War Taken A Bite Out Of China's Economy? Yes — But It's Complicated
Enlarge this image toggle caption Jolie Myers/NPR Jolie Myers/NPR
In the industrial city of Dongguan, China, the effects of the trade war on the Chinese economy are measured in idled machinery and empty bar stools.
"One year ago, you probably couldn't even get through the crowd because it would be so busy. But right now, even the smallest vendors can't survive," says Song Guanghui, the owner of Crowdbar, a tricked-out food stall in an open-air market in Dongguan.
The market is across the street from an enormous factory complex that specializes in making shoes. Crowdbar's flashy electric sign, cold beer and bombastic owner used to draw crowds of workers at shift change.
But shoes are among the thousands of products that the Trump administration has slapped double-digit tariffs on since the trade war began in early 2018. Trade talks between the U.S. and China resumed Thursday. But a deal is far from done.
Meanwhile, 70% of footwear sold in America is imported from China. And with tariffs cutting into their bottom lines, many manufacturers have already relocated operations to countries like Vietnam and Indonesia.
That has left Song and Crowdbar short of workers to buy his barbecue skewers and beer. "I'm probably going to pick up and move elsewhere. If I stay here for much longer, I'm not going to be able to make it," says Song.
There are clues like this about the Chinese economy's health nearly everywhere in Dongguan. It's a sprawling manufacturing hub of more than 8 million people in southern China, nicknamed the "workshop of the world." Cities like Dongguan are among the hardest hit in a trade war that targets goods manufactured on razor-sharp margins.
Enlarge this image toggle caption Jolie Myers/NPR Jolie Myers/NPR
"I think there's a pretty major impact if you just look at the numbers," says Victor Shih, a political economist at the University of California, San Diego, who studies the Chinese economy. China exports more goods to the U.S. than to any other country in the world, and those exports have dropped by more than 12% this year alone, he says.
That drop has clearly hit the Chinese manufacturing sector. Industrial output growth in China fell to its lowest level in 17 years this summer.
On top of the trade war, China's economic growth has been slowing down for years. It's difficult to pinpoint exactly how many of China's current economic troubles are due to the trade war or the existing slump. But tariffs have undoubtedly contributed to slower growth since the early months of 2018, when the economic standoff began, experts on the Chinese economy say.
Enlarge this image toggle caption Jolie Myers/NPR Jolie Myers/NPR
President Trump's trade war has hit the U.S. as well. Economist Arthur Kroeber, head of research at Gavekal Dragonomics, says that tariffs have made products imported from China more expensive. "The brunt of the burden of tariffs is being borne by U.S. consumers," Kroeber says.
American farmers who've had retaliatory tariffs placed on the goods they export to China have also suffered, despite aid packages supplied by the U.S. government.
The Chinese government has many more tools at its disposal to alleviate some of the trade war's pressures. The central government recently slashed taxes on businesses and corporations to help cushion the blow. The government also devalued its currency so that Chinese goods were cheaper, and thus would be more attractive, to trade partners around the world.
Another tool available to the central government, experts say, is massaging official data coming out of Beijing. The official unemployment rate in China, for instance, has hovered between 4.3% and 3.6% for nearly 20 years. A lack of fluctuation beyond a percentage point for such a period of time is highly unusual. And the government even shut down the release of regional manufacturing statistics out of Guangdong province, where Dongguan is located, that cast doubt on rosy national numbers.
Enlarge this image toggle caption Jolie Myers/NPR Jolie Myers/NPR
But if some of the data is not to be trusted, anecdotal evidence on the ground in Dongguan paints a somewhat clearer picture.
On the dusty outskirts of the city, a dog of indeterminate heritage lazes in front of the entrance to the Dongguan Fangjie Printing and Packaging Company. The mood inside the plastic bag factory, however, is one of brisk efficiency. Workers in green polo shirts and blue caps monitor machines spitting out brightly colored plastic bags — bags for detergent, candy and dog poop.
"We make about 15 different kinds of doggie doo-dah bags," says Christopher Devereux, the managing director of Omnidex, a company that connects foreign companies from all over the world with Chinese factories like Fangjie that can manufacture their products.
Enlarge this image toggle caption Jolie Myers/NPR Jolie Myers/NPR
Until the trade war, Devereux's business was called ChinaSavvy. But earlier this year, he changed the name because, increasingly, he's working with factories outside China. In fact, he recently pulled most of his clients out of the Fangjie factory and moved their business to factories in Vietnam, "because of the tariffs, [because of] the trade war."
And new business has evaporated, he says: "My inquiries from American customers about coming to China have dropped off considerably."
But Devereux concedes that he had already been considering a move to Vietnam when the opening shots of the trade war were fired.
"Wages have been going up steadily over the years, which happens when you get a more educated populace," says U.C. San Diego's Shih.
A more educated population means fewer low-skilled workers for production lines in factories like Fangjie Printing and Packaging Company. Factories have to offer higher wages to attract the best workers. And those wages eat into the bottom lines of the companies that Devereux places in Chinese factories.
"If you look at Vietnam now, you've got wages being roughly one-third of what they are here in China," says Devereux. And so the trade war merely sped up his move out of China and into Vietnam. "Two or three of our American customers, knowing we were looking in Vietnam, asked us to accelerate that" when the trade war began, he says.
"Even in the absence of a trade war, China's growth rate would have come down. The trade war makes it worse, but the trade war is not the primary reason," says Shang-Jin Wei, an expert on the Chinese economy at Columbia University and a former International Monetary Fund official.
Enlarge this image toggle caption Jolie Myers/NPR Jolie Myers/NPR
The real challenges to the Chinese economy, Wei says, are structural issues like a lack of low-skilled workers to populate factories, an over-reliance on the manufacturing sector and an aging workforce.
Those factors, Wei says, pre-date the trade war. In fact, China's GDP growth has dropped by 3 percentage points in the past decade, from a growth rate of 9.6% in 2008 to 6.6% in 2018.

Still, at the plastic bag factory in Dongguan, a cluster of brand-new machines sits idle. "These four machines they bought especially especially for us," says Devereux, sweeping an arm toward the shiny machines on the factory floor. "And now we're saying bye-bye."

Story 12
‘There’s no hope for the rest of us.’ Uyghur scientists swept up in China’s massive detentions
No one outside the Chinese government knows where Tashpolat Tiyip is. No one knows exactly what charges have been filed against him. The only thing that anyone really knows is that in April 2017, as the geographer and former president of Xinjiang University in Ürümqi prepared to fly from Beijing to Berlin for a scientific conference and the launch of a research center, he disappeared without even a phone call to colleagues or family.
Six months later, a Chinese propaganda video emerged saying Tiyip was one of 88 scholars who had “deeply poisoned the minds” of students by approving textbooks with too much content from Uyghur sources—the ethnic group that makes up about half of Xinjiang province’s 24 million people. The video calls Tiyip and three other Uyghurs “two-faced” separatists before announcing their sentence: death, with a 2-year reprieve.
“It just doesn’t make any sense to anybody,” says Gary Langham, executive director of the American Association of Geographers (AAG), which last week sent Chinese president Xi Jinping a letter asking him to halt the execution and release Tiyip unless there is evidence he committed actual crimes. It was signed by more than 1300 researchers from 50 countries. (AAG took action after Amnesty International warned that Tiyip’s execution could be imminent.)
China’s crackdown on mostly-Muslim minorities in the far western province of Xinjiang, which include the Turkic-speaking Uyghurs, Kazakhs, and Kyrgyz, has swept up as many as 1 million people. But Tiyip is one of its best-known victims. Scientific organizations outside of China are trying to help him and other internationally known researchers who have disappeared. But many are moving cautiously, worried about making things worse. And it’s unclear whether, in China’s current political climate, such support from abroad makes any difference.
Since late 2016, China has detained as many as one in 11 Uyghurs in Xinjiang, most in grim re-education camps with barbed wire fences and guard towers. There, they learn party slogans and songs, and study the Chinese language. Government officials say the camps are necessary to crack down on 20 years of “violent terrorism” in the region. But human rights groups say the operation is an attempt to erase Uyghur culture and traditions; some call it “cultural genocide.”
A spokesperson for the Chinese embassy in Washington, D.C., wrote in an email to Science that Tiyip was actually arrested in May 2018 on suspicions of “taking bribes and corruption involving a huge amount of money.” The spokesperson neither confirmed nor denied that Tiyip has been sentenced, but said: “At present, the case is going through the court proceedings.”
Tiyip’s detention came as a surprise to many colleagues because he was an official in the Chinese Communist Party and a “red person,” someone known for carefully following party rules, says a Uyghur social scientist who knows Tiyip and asked not to be identified. Tiyip studied in Japan after getting a bachelor’s degree at Xinjiang University, but in 1992, he returned to his alma mater to teach and study desertification and soil salinization using remote sensing technology. His work on arid ecosystems ecology led to an honorary degree from the École Pratique des Hautes Études, part of the Sorbonne in Paris, in 2008. By 2010, he was the university’s president as well as its deputy party secretary.
“They interviewed him on TV a thousand times,” the social scientist says, usually to showcase Tiyip’s rise from a humble farming background to his prominent position in Uyghur—and Chinese—society. “[They would say] he’s a president, a selfmade man with party support.” Yet that did not protect him, the scientist adds: “If they took [him] … there’s no hope for the rest of us.”
Tiyip was apparently replaced as university president in late March, just a few weeks before his arrest. He disappeared en route to Germany, where he was supposed to attend the launch of a joint center to study underground coal fires, a collaboration between Xinjiang University and the Leibniz Institute for Applied Geophysics in Hanover. Tiyip had championed the center as university president.
Other internationally known researchers have been arrested in the crackdown, including Rahile Dawut, an anthropologist at Xinjiang University who studied regional literature and Uyghur oral traditions; Halmurat Ghopur, an official at the Xinjiang Food and Drug Administration and past president of the Xinjiang Medical College Hospital, who has also been sentenced to death for separatism; and Ilham Tohti, an economist sentenced to life in prison in 2014 on charges of separatism who last month won the Václav Havel Human Rights Prize, an annual award from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe.
The detentions have put international scientific societies in a difficult position, says Clare Robinson, director of advocacy for the New York City–based group Scholars at Risk, which has repeatedly called for Tiyip’s release. AAG is one of several societies that have publicly supported colleagues in Xinjiang. But Robinson says speaking out risks disrupting academic collaborations with China and could lead to visa bans for foreign academics—or put their Chinese colleagues at risk. “You need to pick your public voice carefully,” Robinson says. The private diplomacy of Nobel laureates and university presidents is often more effective, she says. Such behind-the-scenes work is ongoing in Tiyip’s case and others.
Robinson says the mass detentions in Xinjiang province are unconscionable, regardless of who’s affected. But by targeting academics and intellectuals, authorities are robbing Uyghur—and Chinese—society of an important part of its future, she says. “If you remove from your functioning society all of the future scholars, the current scholars, the scientists,” Robinson says, “you’re losing an entire generation of individuals who could contribute to the production of knowledge.”

Story 13
New York (CNN Business) A simple image consisting of seven words might be the most troublesome tweet in corporate America this year.
Houston Rockets General Manager Daryl Morey caused substantial damagewith the NBA's growing relationship with China after he voiced his support for Hong Kong's pro-democracy protestors
The league has spent years and many millions of dollars investing in China, helping to build courts, giving broadcasting rights away for free and bringing its stars over for preseason games.
China makes up at least 10% of the league's current revenue, according to one analyst , and the country is expected to contribute even more than that over the next decade, perhaps reaching 20% of the league's revenue by 2030.
Morey's tweet, which couldn't be seen in China because the country has banned Twitter, is still reverberating across the two countries. The controversy is also likely being watched closely by other US companies that do business with China and have to balance that country's laws with US ideals.
Here's how the NBA's crisis unfolded.
Friday, Oct. 4: The tweet heard round the world
Morey set off a firestorm in China last Friday when he posted an image on Twitter that read, "Fight for freedom, stand with Hong Kong." The tweet has since been deleted.
Hours later, Rockets owner Tilman Fertitta, responded:
Listen....@dmorey does NOT speak for the @HoustonRockets. Our presence in Tokyo is all about the promotion of the @NBA internationally and we are NOT a political organization. @espn https://t.co/yNyQFtwTTi — Tilman Fertitta (@TilmanJFertitta) October 5, 2019
Sunday, Oct. 6: The reaction in China
The Chinese Basketball Association said on Sunday that it would suspend all cooperation with the team. China's consulate general in Houston also urged the team to "clarify and immediately correct the mistakes."
CCTV 5, the sports channel of China's top state broadcaster, announced that it would suspend airing Houston Rockets events on television. Last season, more than 600 million people watched NBA games on Chinese television networks.
Tencent TCEHY AndSports said it would suspend live streaming the games, as well as reporting news about the team. Nearly 500 million people in China watched NBA programming on Tencent platforms during the last season, according to the companies.
JUST WATCHED Backlash from China after NBA manager's Hong Kong tweet Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Backlash from China after NBA manager's Hong Kong tweet 02:40
Monday, Oct. 7: NBA's initial response sparks outrage
The NBA said that it recognizes that Morey's views "have deeply offended many of our friends and fans in China, which is regrettable."
"While Daryl has made it clear that his tweet does not represent the Rockets or the NBA, the values of the league support individuals educating themselves and sharing their views on matters important to them," NBA said in a statement, adding: "We have great respect for the history and culture of China and hope that sports and the NBA can be used as a unifying force to bridge cultural divides and bring people together."
The response was been criticized by several US politicians — both Democrats and Republicans.
"It's clear that the NBA is more interested in money than human rights," said Senator Rick Scott, a Republican from Florida, on Twitter. "The NBA is kowtowing to Beijing to protect their bottom line and disavowing those with the temerity to #standwithHongKong. Shameful!"
Beto O'Rourke, a Democrat from Texas who is running for the party's presidential nomination in 2020, called the NBA's response "an embarrassment."
Morey also responded on Twitter, saying he was speaking on his own behalf and not for the NBA:
2/ I have always appreciated the significant support our Chinese fans and sponsors have provided and I would hope that those who are upset will know that offending or misunderstanding them was not my intention. My tweets are my own and in no way represent the Rockets or the NBA. — Daryl Morey (@dmorey) October 7, 2019
Alibaba BABA Joe Tsai, the executive vice chairman of Chinese tech giantand owner of the Brooklyn Nets NBA franchise, sought to defuse the tensions.
"The NBA has been very progressive in allowing players and other constituents a platform to speak out on issues," Tsai wrote in a lengthy Facebook post . He then criticized supporters of Hong Kong's protests, calling them a "separatist movement" in a territory controlled by China.
"Chinese citizens stand united when it comes to the territorial integrity of China and the country's sovereignty over her homeland. This issue is non-negotiable," he said.
Tuesday, Oct. 8: The NBA responds again. Backlash grows
In an attempt at damage control, NBA Commissioner Adam Silver issued another statement Tuesday saying that he won't censor players or team owners over China or other issues, arguing that the league is motivated by much more than money, and freedom of expression must be protected.
"The NBA will not put itself in a position of regulating what players, employees and team owners say or will not say," Silver said in the statement. "We simply could not operate that way."
The league's initial response was criticized by some fans and US politicians for appearing to compromise its principles, and condemned by others in China for offending national sensibilities.
"I do know there are consequences from freedom of speech; we will have to live with those consequences," Silver said. "For those who question our motivation, this is about far more than growing our business," he added.
JUST WATCHED NBA chief: Not going to apologize for Rockets GM's tweet Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH NBA chief: Not going to apologize for Rockets GM's tweet 02:47
In response, CCTV said it has "decided to immediately halt" broadcasts of the basketball league's preseason matches in China after it expressed its "strong dissatisfaction" over Silver's statement on Morey's tweet. The broadcaster is also reviewing its broader relationship with the NBA.
"We express our strong dissatisfaction and opposition to Silver's stated support of Morey's right to free speech. We believe any remarks that challenge national sovereignty and social stability do not belong to the category of free speech," the network said. "We will also immediately examine all other cooperation and exchanges with the NBA."
Tencent also said it would suspend live streaming for two NBA preseason games in China.
Wednesday, Oct. 9: Every one of the NBA's partners in China suspends ties
All 11 of the NBA's official Chinese partners have suspended ties with the league since Monday, according to a review by CNN Business of company statements and social media posts.
CTrip CTRP , China's biggest online travel website, said that it has "dropped all NBA-related tickets and travel products" from its platform. Mengniu Dairy, one of the country's top milk producers, vowed to suspend "all commercial cooperation with the NBA."
Fast-food chain Dicos also said it planned to suspend "all marketing and publicity activities" with the league, while the skin care brand Wzun said it would "terminate all cooperation with the NBA."
Changhong Electric, a major home appliance group listed as a partner on NBA China's website, said that it felt "strong indignation to Morey's indifferent attitude and refusal to apologize," while Chinese sportswear giant Anta declared that it "firmly opposes and resists all acts that harm the interests of the motherland."
The other Chinese firms to distance themselves from their official partnerships include: China Mobile subsidiary Migu; food and beverage brand Master Kong; car rental company eHi Car Services; home appliance manufacturer Meiling; and financial firm Xiaoying Technology.
Luckin LK Coffee, the Shanghai-based beverage chain, said that it would "suspend all cooperation," while smartphone maker Vivo said it condemned "the false remarks" made by Morey, "as well as NBA's attitude indicating that it's indulging such behavior."
What's next
The Los Angeles Lakers and Brooklyn Nets faced off in Shanghai on Thursday, which will be followed by a rematch in Shenzhen on Saturday. Some social media users in China have been calling for boycotts of the NBA events.
But two previous NBA developmental games have already been canceled, as well as a fan appreciation night. The Rockets' and other assorted NBA merchandise have reportedly been pulled from Nike stores in the Chinese cities of Chengdu, Beijing and Shanghai, according to Reuters.
The controversy is happening at the same time that US and China are having trade talks . The US recently put 28 Chinese entities on a blacklist that effectively bars them from importing American technology over the groups' alleged role in facilitating human rights abuses in China's Xinjiang region.
CNN Business' Charles Riley, Michelle Toh, Laura He and Chris Isidore contributed to this report.

Story 14
Hong Kong (CNN Business) China's wealth is becoming increasingly concentrated in the hands of tech entrepreneurs, although some pharmaceutical moguls and pig farmers are breaking into the ranks of the super rich.
There were fewer millionaires and billionaires on the Hurun Report's rich list for a second year in a row, but their average wealth increased as China's shift towards the digital economy saw manufacturing and construction tycoons drop off the bottom.
There has been a "changing of the guard" among China's wealthiest people over the years, said Rupert Hoogewerf, Hurun Report's chairman, commenting on the list that was published Thursday.
"Tech entrepreneurs are replacing those from the traditional powerhouses of manufacturing and real estate," Hoogewerf said. "Wealth is concentrating into the hands of those who are able to adapt to the digital economy," he added.
Alibaba BABA Tencent TCEHY founder Jack Ma held onto his title of China's richest man with a net worth of $39 billion, with Pony Ma ofrising one spot to take second place with $37 billion.
Read More

Story 15
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 16
Taiwan’s president on Thursday delivered a fiery rebuke to China’s offer of a “one country, two systems” formula to unify the self-governing island with the mainland, saying that such a framework has taken Hong Kong to “the brink of disorder.”
President Tsai Ing-wen’s comments, delivered during a National Day speech, came amid a renewed push by China to internationally isolate Taiwan by poaching its few remaining diplomatic allies.
Today, just 15 countries, small and mostly impoverished, recognize Taiwan. Roughly 180 countries recognize China, which as the world's second-largest economy offers generous financial inducements in exchange for formal diplomatic ties, far beyond those Taiwan can offer.
Tsai’s Thursday remarks follow months of anti-government protests in the former British colony of Hong Kong, which reverted in 1997 to Chinese rule under the same "one country, two systems" framework Beijing says it wants for Taiwan.
Speaking from the presidential office building in the center of Taipei, Tsai accused China of using that same program to threaten Taiwan’s “regional peace and stability.”
The framework of “one country, two systems” preserved Hong Kong's independent judiciary, civil liberties, and capitalist economic system, but China's ruling Communist Party under President Xi Jinping has been increasingly accused of encroaching on such freedoms.
China cut off contact with Tsai's government after her inauguration in 2016 because she rejects Beijing's claim to the self-governing island democracy.
"We must stand up in defense," Tsai said. "Rejection of 'one country, two systems' is the biggest consensus among Taiwan's 23 million people across parties and positions."
"Over 70 years, we've endured all sorts of severe challenges and not only do none of these challenges knock us down, they make us stronger and more resolute," Tsai said. "One offensive after another, they've not made Taiwanese people yield."
KIRIBATI CUTS DIPLOMATIC TIES WITH TAIWAN, SECOND PACIFIC ISLAND NATION IN A WEEK
China says the two sides must be eventually reunited, by force if necessary. Beijing has steadily increased diplomatic, military and economic pressure on Taipei over the past two years in a bid to force Tsai to the bargaining table. Beijing also commands a massive military and has hundreds of missiles pointed directly at Taiwan.
Tsai looks largely to the United States for support, including the provision of weapons to defend against China. The Trump administration has approved a flurry of arms packages, including new F-16 fighter jets, and signed a bill that encourages high-level visits.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Tsai, a 63-year-old U.S.-educated law scholar, is ramping up her campaign for reelection before the vote in January. Her chief election opponent espouses friendlier relations with China. About 80 per cent of Taiwanese oppose unification with China, per government surveys in January and March.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.

Story 17
Fenella Sung and her colleagues believe Canadians should be thinking China when they cast their ballots this federal election — but insist that has little to do with foreign policy.
The Chinese government and Chinese Communist Party (CCP) are already so embedded in Canadian society, they argue, it’s very much a domestic issue.
To that end, Sung’s group, Canadian Friends of Hong Kong, launched an online guide for voters Thursday, to help them identify candidates who may be too closely allied with Beijing and raise the topic’s profile with the public and politicians.
The website offers a primer on how China has allegedly tried to influence Canadian society, from its use of the party’s United Front Work Department to the Beijing-run Confucius Institutes located in Canadian colleges and school boards.
They fail to see the infiltration of the CCP in Canada is not Canada-China relations, it affects very much all of our daily lives here in Canada. Because they have already become a part of us
And it provides an array of questions to ask candidates. Those include whether they favour keeping the Chinese company Huawei out of 5G telecommunications networks, and their position on forcing international students from “non-democratic” countries to undergo crash courses on Canadian values.
“We thought people might think Canada-China relations are too remote: ‘We worry about health care, we worry about affordable day care,’ ” said Sung. “But they fail to see the infiltration of the CCP in Canada is not Canada-China relations, it affects very much all of our daily lives here in Canada. Because they have already become a part of us.”
The issue of China’s attempts to mould opinion in Canada has slowly come to the fore since the arrest last December of Huawei CFO Meng Wanzhou on an extradition request from the U.S., and Beijing’s furious response.
Meanwhile, academics have tracked a major expansion of the United Front and its overseas influence under Chinese President Xi Jinping.
That activity has already become a major political issue in New Zealand and Australia, which has instituted a number of laws to combat Beijing’s influence.
Sung said China has long made incursions into Canada, from its influence over some Chinese-Canadian community groups to establishing the Confucius Institutes and quietly cultivating politicians.
Chinese businesses — both state-owned and private firms with connections to the Communist Party — have also invested widely in the Canadian economy, she noted.
The website — “Ask politicians about CCP” — stresses that the People’s Republic — a state founded by the Chinese Communist Party 70 years ago — should not be conflated with Chinese Canadians, who started arriving in this country 250 years ago and have roots in various different countries.
Sung said voters could use the website to pose questions at all-candidates meetings, or quiz candidates individually.
Some of the suggested queries — such as whether a candidate feels Canada is too small to confront a power such as China — explore political attitudes.
Others gauge support for new ideas on changing the relationship with Beijing.
They include whether Canada should follow Australia’s example and pass legislation designed to expose and outlaw inappropriate foreign influence, and closely monitor foreign involvement in university research.
Another asks if Canada ought to institute a national day to commemorate 1989’s Tiananmen Square massacre, as politicians move toward marking the Nanjing massacre by Japanese troops in the Second World War.
Voters are also encouraged to ask candidates if they would support sanctions under Canada’s Magnitsky law against Chinese officials tied to human-rights abuses, or would favour expanding trade with Taiwan “whenever and wherever possible.”
“We’re trying to make it as public as possible,” Sung said about the China-influence issue. “We’re hoping to empower voters and individual candidates.”

Story 18
The U.S. and China could reach a "fragile agreement" when their officials meet to discuss trade in Washington this week, according to an analyst from political risk consultancy Eurasia Group.
Such a deal could involve China purchasing more American farm goods and a delay in raising U.S. tariffs on Chinese goods that are slated for Oct. 15, said Michael Hirson, the consultancy's practice head for China and Northeast Asia.
That strategy can be understood as a "path of least resistance" for U.S. President Donald Trump, Hirson told CNBC's "Squawk Box Asia" on Thursday.
"I think there's still some chance that the two sides could come through this week of talks with a very fragile agreement to avoid further escalation, but it's going to be under pressure almost immediately," said Hirson, who was the U.S. Treasury's chief representative in Beijing.
"What (Trump) would be saying is ... we're supporting U.S. farmers, we're continuing to talk. But I'm not being soft on China, I'm keeping tariffs up. That's kind of the path of least resistance right now for President Trump," Hirson said.
"(Trump) can show that he's being tough, but he doesn't have to take the sacrifices, make the concessions necessary to arrive at a broad trade deal," he added.

Story 19
An informal White House adviser on China is flip-flopping over whether China gave him information about former Vice President Joe Biden's son around the time President Donald Trump called on China to investigate the Bidens.
"I got quite a bit of background on Hunter Biden from the Chinese," the adviser, Michael Pillsbury, first told The Financial Times. Hours later, Pillsbury walked back his statement, saying on C-SPAN that he hadn't spoken to FT in more than a month.
But FT's Washington bureau chief released an email exchange dated October 9 between him and Pillsbury in which Pillsbury wrote, "Actually, I got a quite a bit of background on Hunter Biden from the Chinese."
He changed his story again later, telling The Washington Post, "Most everything I learned was already public or well known."
Trump has publicly urged both China and Ukraine to investigate the Bidens ahead of the 2020 election, an effort that House Democrats say is an impeachable offense.
Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.
An informal White House adviser on China is giving conflicting accounts to media organizations over whether China gave him information about former Vice President Joe Biden's son's activities in China, the same week that President Donald Trump urged the country to probe the Bidens.
First, the adviser, Michael Pillsbury, told The Financial Times he got "quite a bit of background on Hunter Biden from the Chinese."
"I tried to bring up the topic in Beijing," Pillsbury said. "I've never seen them get so secretive in my entire life. They would discuss ICBM warheads sooner than talk about what Hunter Biden was doing in China with Vice President Biden."
Hours later, Pillsbury changed his story, telling C-SPAN he hadn't spoken with FT in over a month.
But FT's Washington bureau chief released an email exchange between him and Pillsbury, in which Pillsbury wrote, "Actually, I got quite a bit of background on Hunter Biden from the Chinese."
Shortly after that, Pillsbury gave another account, telling The Washington Post, "Most everything I learned was already public or well known."
He went on to say he was told that Hunter Biden's firm received a certain sum of money from the Bank of China, but it was unclear how much, adding that the Chinese government is reluctant to talk about Biden.
"They really, really didn't want to talk about it," Pillsbury told The Post.
He also said that, while he spoke with the president before going on a trip to China last month, Trump did not ask him to talk to Chinese officials about the Bidens. "I haven't reported back to him," Pillsbury said.
Pillsbury said during an earlier interview on Fox Business that he had raised the issue of the Bidens with Chinese officials when he visited the country last week.
Pillsbury's disclosure came days after China sought to distance itself from Trump's requests to probe the Bidens.
"China has long pursued the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of other countries," foreign ministry spokesman Geng Shuang said on Tuesday.
Read more: 2 of Rudy Giuliani's associates who prosecutors say helped him dig up dirt on Joe Biden have been charged with campaign-finance violations
Trump has repeatedly called on both China and Ukraine to investigate the Bidens ahead of the 2020 election, even though there is no evidence that the Bidens engaged in any wrongdoing in either country.
"China should start an investigation into the Bidens, because what happened in China is just about as bad as what happened with Ukraine," Trump said last week while speaking to reporters on the White House lawn.
"So I would say that President Zelensky, if it were me, I would recommend that they start an investigation into the Bidens," he added, referring to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky.
Trump and his personal lawyer, Rudy Giuliani, have long been pushing for Ukraine to investigate the Bidens for corruption. He raised the issue during a July 25 phone call with Zelensky, a conversation that's now at the heart of a brewing congressional impeachment inquiry looking at whether the president used his public office for private gain.
A White House summary of the call revealed Trump telling Zelensky the US "does a lot for Ukraine," after which Zelensky brought up that Ukraine wanted to purchase more javelins — a type of missile defense system — from the US.
Trump immediately followed up and told Zelensky he would like Ukraine to "do us a favor, though," and investigate Biden and his son. Days before the call, Trump had also ordered his administration to hold a nearly $400 million military aid package to Ukraine.
Read more: A Fox News poll just found that more than half of American voters want Trump impeached and removed from office
The details of Trump's conversation with Zelensky first came to light in an explosive whistleblower complaint that a US intelligence official filed against the president in August, and which was released to the public last month. The complaint accused Trump of abusing his power to solicit foreign interference in the 2020 election for his own political gain, and possibly dangling hundreds of millions of taxpayer dollars as an incentive for Ukraine.
Trump and his allies have downplayed the conversation and said the only reason he wants the Bidens to be investigated is that he cares about corruption. But House Democrats and national-security officials say the conversation is clear evidence that Trump placed his own interests above the US's by asking Ukraine to dig up dirt on his political opponent.
During a meeting with Trump on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly last month, Zelensky told the president to his face that he didn't want to be involved in the US election.
"I think you read everything. I think you read text. I'm sorry, but I don't want to be involved to democratic, open elections of USA," Zelensky told reporters. "We had, I think, good phone call. It was normal."

Story 20
NBA players may be protecting their brand by choosing to stay silent about the league's controversy with China, former All-Star Jamal Mashburn told CNBC on Thursday.
The basketball players understand the economic consequences of speaking out on political issues, Mashburn said in an interview with "Fast Money." "They don't want to hurt their brand. They're being very careful what they say and how they position themselves."
The NBA controversy began after Houston Rockets general manager Daryl Morey sent a now-deleted tweet over the weekend in support of the anti-government protests in Hong Kong, sparking a backlash from Chinese state media.
The NBA could now lose billions as Chinese partners cut or suspend ties with the league.
CNBC reported earlier Thursday that NBA players' unusual quietness on China may stem from the private advice they are getting from sports agents to tread lightly or avoid discussing the issue entirely.
Mashburn, a former All-Star who retired in 2006, shared similar remarks, speaking on players thinking about life after they leave the basketball court for good.
"They really understand there's a really huge market in China for basketball fans," Mashburn said.
He continued: "At the end of the day, you're going to have to go through China, India and emerging markets in also Africa as well."
Mashburn said players could eventually speak out once they process the political issue a bit or get more direction from Adam Silver, the commissioner of the NBA.
Mashburn has built a sizable business portfolio, with stakes in more than 100 restaurants and car dealerships across the country, according to the Dallas Morning News.
On Thursday Mashburn announced he is becoming an advisor to the board of Revolution Global, a Chicago-based cannabis company, joining a growing list of former professional athletes who have aligned with the burgeoning industry.
— CNBC's Kevin Stankiewicz contributed to this report.

Story 21
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said on Wednesday that China’s treatment of Muslims, including the Uighurs, in western China was an “enormous human rights violation” and Washington will continue to raise the issue.
“This is not only an enormous human rights violation, but we don’t think it’s in the best interests of the world or of China to engage in this kind of behavior,” Pompeo said in a television interview with American broadcaster PBS.
Asked whether Chinese President Xi Jinping was responsible, Pompeo said: “Xi Jinping leads the country just like the leader of a tank platoon, a small business or a country is responsible for the things that happen in your name.”
Punishing Beijing for its treatment of Muslim minorities, the U.S. government this week widened its trade blacklist to include some of China’s top artificial intelligence startups and announced visa restrictions on Chinese government and Communist Party officials it believes responsible for the detention or abuse of Muslim minorities in Xinjiang province.
Pompeo on Sunday called on all countries to resist China’s demands to repatriate ethnic Uighurs, saying Beijing’s campaign in the western Chinese region of Xinjiang was an “attempt to erase its own citizens.”
U.N. experts and activists say at least 1 million Uighurs, and members of other largely Muslim minority groups, have been detained in camps in the remote region.
China has denied any mistreatment of Uighurs, and said Xinjiang was its internal affair.
“Recently, the U.S. side has been attacking and smearing China’s Xinjiang policies on the pretense of religion and human rights, and making baseless and mistaken remarks that are contrary to the facts,” Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Geng Shuang told reporters during a daily briefing in Beijing.
“China expresses strong dissatisfaction and firm opposition to this.
The Chinese Embassy in Washington, in a separate statement issued on Tuesday, denounced the visa action and said the U.S. accusations on human rights violations were “made-up pretexts” for interfering in China’s affairs.
China, which is embroiled in a 15-month-old trade war with the United States, also views U.S. support for pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong as interfering with its sovereignty.
U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo delivers statements at the State Department in Washington, U.S., October 9, 2019.REUTERS/Erin Scott
“We’re going to continue to talk about these human rights violations,” Pompeo said. “As the president has said in another context in Hong Kong, we want to make sure that these issues are handled in a way that is humane.”
Asked about a growing dispute over a tweet by a National Basketball Association (NBA) team official supporting the protests in Hong Kong, Pompeo said American businesses were waking up to the risks of operating in China.
“The reputational cost to these companies, I think, will prove to be higher and higher as Beijing’s long arm reaches out to them and destroys their capacity for them, their employees - in the NBA’s case team members and general managers - to speak freely about their political opinions,” Pompeo said.

Story 22
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 23
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Protests calling for Uighur freedom have been happening all year
The US has said it will impose visa restrictions on Chinese officials accused of involvement in repression of Muslim populations.
It follows the decision on Monday to blacklist 28 Chinese organisations linked by the US to allegations of abuse in the Xinjiang region.
US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said the Chinese government had instituted "a highly repressive campaign".
China has dismissed the allegations as groundless.
In a statement, Mr Pompeo accused the Chinese government of a string of abuses against Uighurs, ethnic Kazakhs, Kyrgyz Muslims and other minority Muslim groups.
These included "mass detentions in internment camps; pervasive, high-tech surveillance; draconian controls on expressions of cultural and religious identities; and coercion of individuals to return from abroad to an often perilous fate in China".
China has rebuffed the US moves.
"There is no such thing as these so-called 'human rights issues' as claimed by the United States," foreign ministry spokesman Geng Shuang said on Monday.
"These accusations are nothing more than an excuse for the United States to deliberately interfere in China's internal affairs."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The BBC visits the camps where China’s Muslims have their "thoughts transformed"
Visa restrictions are to be imposed on Chinese government and Communist Party officials, as well as their family members.
"The United States calls on the People's Republic of China to immediately end its campaign of repression in Xinjiang, release all those arbitrarily detained, and cease efforts to coerce members of Chinese Muslim minority groups residing abroad to return to China to face an uncertain fate," the US statement said.
The US and China are currently embroiled in a trade war, and have sent delegations to Washington for a meeting about the tensions later this week.
What is the situation in Xinjiang?
China has been carrying out a massive security operation in Xinjiang, in its far west, in recent years.
Human rights groups and the UN say China has rounded up and detained more than a million Uighurs and other ethnic minorities in vast detention camps, where they are forced to renounce Islam, speak only in Mandarin Chinese and learn obedience to the communist government.
But China says they are attending "vocational training centres" which are giving them jobs and helping them integrate into Chinese society, in the name of preventing terrorism.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The BBC's John Sudworth meets Uighur parents in Turkey who say their children are missing in China
There have been increasingly vocal denunciations from the US and other countries about China's actions in Xinjiang.
Last week, Mr Pompeo alleged that China "demands its citizens worship government, not God" in a press conference in the Vatican.
And in July more than 20 countries at the UN Human Rights Council signed a joint letter criticising China's treatment of the Uighurs and other Muslims.
Who are the Uighurs?
Uighurs are ethnically Turkic Muslims. They make up about 45% of the Xinjiang region's population; 40% are Han Chinese.
China re-established control in 1949 after crushing short-lived state of East Turkestan.
Since then, there has been large-scale immigration of Han Chinese and Uighurs fear erosion of their culture.
Xinjiang is officially designated an autonomous region within China, like Tibet to its south.

Story 24
U.S. and Chinese national flags fly outside a company building in the China (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone in Shanghai, China, on Oct. 22, 2013.
China is planning tighter visa restrictions for U.S. nationals with ties to anti-China groups, people with knowledge of the proposed curbs said, following similar U.S. restrictions on Chinese nationals, as relations between the countries sour.
China's Ministry of Public Security has for months been working on rules to limit the ability of anyone employed, or sponsored, by U.S. intelligence services and human rights groups to travel to China.
The proposed changes follow the introduction by the United States of tighter rules for visas for Chinese scholars in May.
New U.S. visa restrictions announced on Tuesday, on Chinese government and Communist Party officials the United States believes responsible for the detention or abuse of Muslim minorities, had bolstered the case for the new Chinese restrictions, one of the sources said.
"This is not something we want to do but we don't seem to have any choice," the source said.
The Chinese rules would mandate the drafting of a list of U.S. military and CIA-linked institutions and rights groups, and the addition of their employees to a visa blacklist, according to the sources, who declined to be identified.
The tighter restrictions come amid heightened concern in Beijing that the United States and other governments are using such organizations to incite anti-government protests in both mainland China and Hong Kong, and would also be in retaliation for the U.S. visa restrictions against Chinese researchers and officials, the first source said.
"The plan has been widely discussed by senior police officers over recent months, but made more likely to be implemented after the Hong Kong protests and the U.S. visa ban on Chinese officials," the source said.
China's National Immigration Administration, which operates under the Ministry of Public Security, did not immediately respond to a faxed request for comment.
Rivalry between the United States and China is fueled by a range of issues including commercial competition, human rights and worries about security.
The United States took a major step in confronting China in May when it added Chinese tech giant Huawei Technologies and 70 affiliates to its so-called Entity List, banning the Chinese company from acquiring components and technology from U.S. firms without U.S. government approval.
The United States suspects Huawei's equipment could be used by Beijing for spying, which the Chinese firm has repeatedly denied.

Story 25
Tensions continue to grow over a GitHub contract with Immigration and Customs Enforcement, as employee activists pressure the company to cut ties with the agency.
In a standing-room-only meeting yesterday, executives answered questions from employees on the controversial contract. CEO Nat Friedman fielded questions from employees and attempted to explain why the company would renew a $200,000 contract with the immigration agency. The Verge has obtained a transcript of the conversation.
“This is an important topic not just because we find this issue of US immigration policy so odious, offensive, abhorrent, cruel, evil, such a meaningful topic,” Friedman said, according to the transcript. “I personally feel that. I know many other Hubbers share that thought.”
“I do think we’ll have to evolve our positions there”
During the meeting, employees pressed executives about how the company would work with non-democratic countries, including China. Friedman said he didn’t have a firm answer, but noted that open-source software was available in countries like Iran.
“China’s another one, a non-democratic country, and I do think we’ll have to evolve our positions there,” Friedman told staff. “We’ve seen some US sanctions go into effect against Chinese AI companies around facial recognition just last night. So we’re not the only body that’s trying to ensure there are human rights in all these countries.”
He added that, “on net,” the company’s approach “is that we want to lean towards more access to GitHub for every developer, even in countries that aren’t democratic, even in teams that are doing things that we might disagree with.”
The transcript was also obtained by Motherboard, who first reported the meeting.
“We have a lot of competitors who are also doing business with the federal government”
In the meeting, Friedman also emphasized that he did not believe discontinuing the contract would have an impact on ICE’s enforcement approach. “We don’t believe that unplugging technologies from government agencies will have an effect on policy,” Friedman told employees. “There is no positive impact of [revoking service] on the actual outcomes for migrants or for people who are affected by those policies.”
“These folks have choice, too,” he continued. “We have a lot of competitors who are also doing business with the federal government, and there are open-source alternatives that are out there.”
Executives at GitHub made clear that the decision to maintain the ICE contract was made after extensive consultation with Microsoft’s top executives, specifically naming CEO Satya Nadella, president Brad Smith, and cloud VP Scott Guthrie. However, Friedman denied that the company pressured GitHub to maintain the contract, saying instead that it was important for the two leadership teams to be aligned on contracting policy.
“It would have been very challenging for us to take a position on this [that’s] very different from Microsoft’s position,” Friedman told employees. “This is an area where we would probably prefer to be synchronized more with Microsoft.”
“If we continue to provide those tools to such organizations, we are continuing to take part in the oppression of immigrants.”
The statements come after a week of escalating tensions over GitHub’s work with ICE. In a leaked email earlier this week, Friedman told staff that the company planned to renew a $200,000 contract with ICE for an enterprise server. Friedman said GitHub wouldn’t know how ICE used the product, and that the company would also donate $500,000 to immigration charities. But the answer hasn’t sat well with all employees, many of whom have signed on to a petition calling on GitHub to drop the contract.
In the email, Friedman stressed that the $200,000 contract was “not financially material” for the company. For some, that raised an obvious question: why bother?
Friedman said GitHub didn’t want to be in the business of deciding when to unplug software, and instead would use its “corporate voice” to advocate against policies the company opposes. “Our voice is heard better by policymakers when we have a seat at the table,” Friedman’s email said.
But it’s hard for some workers not to see the direct financial benefit of continuing to work with government agencies. As one GitHub employee pointed out to The Verge, Microsoft also pursues contracts that are potentially much more lucrative. The company is in the running for a massive, $10 billion cloud computing contract with the Pentagon. “$200,000 from ICE, no one cares about,” the GitHub employee said. “But that contract is significant to Microsoft.”
“We are not satisfied with GitHub’s now-public stance on this issue”
Microsoft has itself faced questions from employees about working with ICE. Last year, hundreds of employees signed on to a letter calling for the company to stop providing cloud services to ICE. More recently, a group of Microsoft employees left a message of public support for GitHub activists on a newly made GitHub repo.
“Every single product and service that ICE has available to them makes them more efficient, able to operate at a bigger scale, and more capable of committing widespread human rights abuses,” the workers said. “If we continue to provide those tools to such organizations, we are continuing to take part in the oppression of immigrants.”
So far, Microsoft has yet to heed that call. The company has more than $8 million worth of contracts with ICE for Office 365 and related services, and has repeatedly said that it won’t turn down work with the US government for political reasons. “Do we want to politicize every single aspect of daily life?” Microsoft president and chief legal officer Brad Smith said in an interview with The Verge last year.
But the controversy at GitHub — and across the tech industry — seems likely to continue. “We are not satisfied with GitHub’s now-public stance on this issue,” GitHub employees said in their open letter. “GitHub has held a ‘seat at the table’ for over two years, as these illegal and dehumanizing policies have escalated, with little to show for it.”
The end result has been growing tension between GitHub’s management and its workers, with management increasingly concerned about public perception of the company’s stance.
“One thing I do want to ask of everybody is that we can keep this conversation confidential and have an open and transparent dialogue,” one executive said during the all-hands. “It is unfortunate that somebody leaked Nat’s email before we had a chance to post it to the press.”

Story 26
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 27
Outside the NBA Store in New York City (Brendan McDermid/Reuters)
Making the click-through worthwhile: deeply ominous signs at home and abroad, as NBA teams start taking steps to stifle any expression of criticism against China by fans; and the American abandonment of the Kurds bears its first bitter fruit.
The NBA Starts Enforcing China’s Speech Restrictions on American Soil
You should see the “Google Uighurs” sign that arena security removed from Capitol One arena last night, as the Washington Wizards played a preseason game against the Guangzhou Long-Lions. It’s barely bigger than an 8×11 sheet of paper. The man holding it is not obstructing anyone’s view — it’s an NBA preseason game on a weeknight, there are tons of empty seats — and he’s not being profane, disruptive, or creating any problem for any other fans.
Advertisement
Advertisement
“No political signs,” the security guy says — and to the extent we can read his body language, at least initially he doesn’t appear eager to enforce this edict. But when asked if he knows what the Uighurs are, he responds, “I’m not interested in having a political conversation.”
I presume he has never, as the sign recommended, googled to learn more about the Uighurs. There are anywhere from one million to two million Uighurs in concentration camps in Western China. Human rights organizations have detailed that those camps are rife with torture, abuse, rapes, forced abortions, and sterilizations. The Chinese government is destroying traditional Uighur burial grounds and paving over their graveyards. The Chinese government is attempting to completely erase Uighur culture; what we are witnessing is a slow-motion state-sponsored genocide.
Advertisement
But arena staff, presumably taking their instructions from Wizards owner Ted Leonsis and/or the NBA as a whole, believed “Google Uighurs” is too political a sign to have at the game. The Washington Wizards have welcomed and saluted Joe Biden at their games, but that wasn’t too political. Players wore “I can’t breathe” t-shirts after Eric Garner’s death, but that wasn’t too political. (Apparently the NBA is fine with protesting American police brutality, but not Hong Kong police brutality.) The Miami Heat wore hoodies in warmups “in solidarity with Trayvon Martin” in 2012, and two years earlier, the Phoenix Suns wore “Los Suns” jerseys to protest that controversial Arizona immigration law. So clearly some forms of political protest are not merely tolerated or accepted but endorsed by NBA teams.
Advertisement
But any protest relating to China is unacceptable.
Another pro-Hong Kong sign was taken away by security during the United States National Anthem. It was taken away before the singer got to the lyric “in the land of the free and home of the brave.” Please consult your doctor before consuming such painfully concentrated doses of irony.
Advertisement
Cesar Conda says he saw another fan kicked out for chanting, “free Hong Kong.” (As Conda notes, fans yell exceptionally rude things at the referees or opposing players and no one minds.) Candice Bucker has video footage of security confronting another pair of fans. Patrick Hedger says he got kicked out.
Advertisement
A spokesman for the Wizards contends no one was asked to leave the game. In other news, the Chinese government contends that “most people” have been released from the concentration camps. (Never mind that footage from drones posted last week shows hundreds of people bound and blindfolded being unloaded off a train into camps.)
Meanwhile, up in New York, building security told a man protesting outside NBA headquarters that he couldn’t stand too close to the building.
We are living through a clash of two systems — one free, and one unfree, and the battlefield is right here in our own country. It is not “a time for choosing,” as Ronald Reagan said in his famous speech; the choice has already been made. And many of the biggest, wealthiest, and most powerful institutions in this country have made their choice: They support the unfree side and will voluntarily enforce its edicts.
If you’ve ever wondered what could unite Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Senator Ted Cruz, as well as . . . this is it. They, along with Senator Ben Sasse, Senator Tom Cotton, Senator Ron Wyden, Representative Mike Gallagher, and others have written to NBA Commissioner Adam Silver and urged him to “suspend NBA activities in China until government-controlled broadcasters and government-controlled commercial sponsors end their boycott of NBA activities and the selective treatment of the Houston Rockets, and emphasize that the association will stand unified in the face of future efforts by Chinese government-controlled entities to single out individual teams, players, or associates for boycotts or selective treatment,” and “reevaluate the NBA’s training camp in Xinjiang, where up to a million Chinese citizens are held in concentration camps as part of a massive, government-run campaign of ethno-religious repression.”
Advertisement
Over in Slate, Tom Scocca points out the ugly truth that Silver and the rest of the NBA don’t want to confront: If the Chinese government had this kind of a furious and heavy-handed reaction to a tweet, they’re only going to get worse in the future.
Advertisement
China has already played its hand. If Hong Kong is non-negotiable, there’s nothing to discuss. The subject will become more sensitive, not less, if the Hong Kong police move from tear gas and rubber bullets to the routine use of live ammunition, or if the People’s Liberation Army moves in. Would the NBA muzzle its employees then? Would the players and staff of a globally prominent American company censor their own feelings to protect the Chinese market? Why not take the stand before it gets to that?
Advertisement
I am sure that the tweet from Houston Rockets general manager Daryl Morey deeply offended the Chinese government. You know what ought to offend all of us? Running concentration camps and brutal crackdowns and then expecting Americans to restrict the speech of other Americans on behalf of those running those concentration camps and brutal crackdowns.
We’re Abandoning the Kurds
Behold, the fruits of a sudden change in American policy in the Middle East: “Fighting lit up the sky early Thursday as Turkish troops pressed their air and ground offensive against United States-allied Kurdish fighters in northern Syria. At least 16 Kurds were reported to have been killed, one monitoring group said.”
To say the members of the U.S. military who worked with and fought alongside the Kurds against ISIS are distraught is an understatement. “I am ashamed for the first time in my career,” one told Fox News’ Jennifer Griffin. “We met every single security agreement. The Kurds met every single agreement. There was NO threat to the Turks – NONE – from this side of the border. This is insanity.”
Advertisement
Members of the military are not infallible, but when everyone at the Pentagon, everyone in the intelligence community, and all of our allies and every expert on the region thinks a decision is a bad move, it takes a remarkably obstinate man to insist that he’s right and everyone else who’s been studying this region from the beginning is wrong. There is a willful blindness to the consequences and a message sent to every country and population around the world. The Kurds did everything the United States could possibly want against a foe that stunned the world with its cruelty, brutality, barbarism, and bloodthirstiness. And once our commander in chief believed we didn’t need them anymore — which is different from actually not needing them anymore — our country chatted with Recep Erdogan and let the Turks tear them apart.
It’s fascinating to see the president’s defenders insisting that we have to acquiesce to this long-desired military aggression on the part of the Turks. Funny, Turkey’s been our NATO ally all along, and up until last week, we believed it was a priority to keep the Turks — our fair-weather allies against ISIS — and the Kurds, our all-weather allies against ISIS, from going at each other.
The departure of U.S. forces means we’re no longer around to help the Kurds imprison 11,000 captured ISIS fighters. We’re apparently taking up “about five dozen” of the worst of the worst with us. Great, that means there are only 10,940 or so ISIS fighters who could break out during the upcoming fighting.
But apparently we don’t have to worry about ISIS fighters escaping, because, President Trump declared, “they’re going to be escaping to Europe. That’s where they want to go, they want to go back to their homes.” I guess we’re just cool with thousands of ISIS fighters running around Europe now.
Gee, it’s a good thing no Americans live in Europe.
ADDENDA: On this week’s The Editors podcast, Rich, Charlie, the soon-to-be-much-missed David French, and I discuss impeachment, the NBA, and Syria.

Story 28
An employee walks past crude oil storage tanks at the Juaymah Tank Farm in Saudi Aramco's Ras Tanura oil refinery and oil terminal in Ras Tanura, Saudi Arabia, on Oct. 1, 2018.
Oil prices climbed early on Friday, building on gains in the previous session, after producer club OPEC hinted at making deeper cuts in supply while optimism was revived over talks between the United States and China to end their trade war.
International benchmark Brent crude futures were at $59.26 a barrel by 0251 GMT, up 16 cents, or 0.3%, from their previous settlement. Brent settled up 1.3% at $59.10 a barrel on Thursday.
U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude futures rose 16 cents, also up 0.3%, from their last close to $53.71 per barrel. In the previous session, WTI settled 1.8% higher at $53.55 a barrel.
On Thursday Mohammad Barkindo, Secretary-General of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), said all options were on the table, including a deeper supply cut to balance oil markets. A decision would be taken at a December meeting between the OPEC and its partners, he said.
OPEC lowered its 2019 global oil demand growth forecast to 0.98 million barrels per day (bpd), while leaving its 2020 demand growth estimate unchanged at 1.08 million bpd, according to OPEC's monthly report.
Beyond OPEC, trade talks between the United States and China also remained on the market's radar as the world's top two economies seek to resolve a more-than-a-year-long trade row that has slowed global economic growth and curbed fuel consumption.
"Oil bought into the upbeat tone from the bilateral talks as well, for better or for worse, and was also boosted by fighting talk on prices by the OPEC secretary-general," said Jeffrey Halley, a senior market analyst at OANDA in Singapore.
Top U.S. and Chinese negotiators wrapped up the first of two days of scheduled trade talks on Thursday, with business groups expressing optimism that the two sides might be able to ease tensions and delay a U.S. tariff hike set for next week.
"The United States is the largest global consumer of oil while China, the biggest driver of year-on-year oil demand growth," said Stephen Innes, Asia Pacific market strategist at AxiTrader.
"The most significant sentiment driver hinges on the outcome of the trade talks which, if (they) end on a positive note, could go along way to begin to repair the economic damage done ... these economic powerhouses would need more oil," said Innes.
U.S. President Donald Trump is set to meet Chinese Vice Premier Liu He at 1845 GMT on Friday, the White House said.

Story 29
Image copyright Activision Blizzard
Gamers are complaining they are unable to delete their Activision Blizzard accounts, as they attempt to show solidarity with an e-sports competitor.
The US publisher caused controversy by placing a 12-month ban on a player who had voiced support for pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong on Sunday.
Users say they get error messages when they try to erase their accounts. Some suggest it could be deliberate.
But the firm has indicated a technical problem is to blame.
"There's an issue affecting the site which our engineers are currently addressing... it's a priority for us to have this resolved," one of its North America accounts tweeted.
The BBC's request for a comment has not yet been answered.
Some players in Europe have said they are able to cancel their profiles but have raised concerns that they are being asked to first upload government-issued IDs.
The firm has defended this on the grounds that it needs to be sure of their identity as the process cannot be reversed.
Activision Blizzard is behind some of the most popular console, PC and mobile video games, including Call of Duty, Overwatch, World of Warcraft and Candy Crush.
Now some players, who have been unable to wipe their accounts, are threatening to tell their banks to block the company from deducting payments.
Protests began after the firm banned professional video game player, Ng Wai "Blitzchung" Chung.
After playing its Hearthstone online card game at a tournament, Blitzchung had called out in Mandarin, "Liberate Hong Kong, revolution of our age," during a live-streamed interview.
The organisers wrote in a statement that the 21-year-old had broken competition rules and would not receive any prize money.
On 8 October, he was told he would not be allowed to compete professionally at Hearthstone for one year.
Image copyright Activision Blizzard Image caption Message from Activision Blizzard on its Hearthstone Site
The hashtag #Blizzardboycott subsequently trended on Twitter.
And since then, the firm has faced a growing backlash from both customers and some employees.
The Daily Beast news site reported that a small group of workers at the company's Los Angeles office staged a walkout in protest.
The matter has also drawn the attention of US politicians.
The row threatens to overshadow one of the firm's biggest releases of the year - its latest Call of Duty console title - which is due to go on sale on 25 October.

Story 30
Image copyright Activision Blizzard
Gamers are complaining they are unable to delete their Activision Blizzard accounts, as they attempt to show solidarity with an e-sports competitor.
The US publisher caused controversy by placing a 12-month ban on a player who had voiced support for pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong on Sunday.
Users say they get error messages when they try to erase their accounts. Some suggest it could be deliberate.
But the firm has indicated a technical problem is to blame.
"There's an issue affecting the site which our engineers are currently addressing... it's a priority for us to have this resolved," one of its North America accounts tweeted.
The BBC's request for a comment has not yet been answered.
Some players in Europe have said they are able to cancel their profiles but have raised concerns that they are being asked to first upload government-issued IDs.
The firm has defended this on the grounds that it needs to be sure of their identity as the process cannot be reversed.
Activision Blizzard is behind some of the most popular console, PC and mobile video games, including Call of Duty, Overwatch, World of Warcraft and Candy Crush.
Now some players, who have been unable to wipe their accounts, are threatening to tell their banks to block the company from deducting payments.
Protests began after the firm banned professional video game player, Ng Wai "Blitzchung" Chung.
After playing its Hearthstone online card game at a tournament, Blitzchung had called out in Mandarin, "Liberate Hong Kong, revolution of our age," during a live-streamed interview.
The organisers wrote in a statement that the 21-year-old had broken competition rules and would not receive any prize money.
On 8 October, he was told he would not be allowed to compete professionally at Hearthstone for one year.
Image copyright Activision Blizzard Image caption Message from Activision Blizzard on its Hearthstone Site
The hashtag #Blizzardboycott subsequently trended on Twitter.
And since then, the firm has faced a growing backlash from both customers and some employees.
The Daily Beast news site reported that a small group of workers at the company's Los Angeles office staged a walkout in protest.
The matter has also drawn the attention of US politicians.
The row threatens to overshadow one of the firm's biggest releases of the year - its latest Call of Duty console title - which is due to go on sale on 25 October.

Story 31
London (CNN Business) Happy Thursday. A version of this story first appeared in CNN Business' Before the Bell newsletter. Not a subscriber? You can sign up right here.
Prospects of a sweeping trade deal between the United States and China are dimming as negotiators prepare to resume two days of talks.
What's a mini deal? An agreement could include new purchases of American farm products in exchange for wiping out additional tariffs set to kick in starting next week.
President Donald Trump agreed in September to postpone an increase in tariffs on $250 billion in Chinese goods from 25% to 30% until October 15. He also delayed a tranche of tariffs until mid-December to avoid hurting consumers during the holiday shopping season.
Read More

Story 32
"Our issue, as I've said before, is not with the Chinese people, not with the amazing Chinese diaspora community that we have here in Australia; my issue is with the Communist Party of China and their policies to the extent that they're inconsistent with our own values.
"In a democracy like ours, we encourage freedom of speech, freedom of expression, thought, etc, and if that's being impinged, if people are operating outside of the law, then whether they're from China or from any other country, we have a right to call that out."
Regional influence push
Mr Dutton's criticism coincides with Prime Minister Scott Morrison travelling to Fiji for a bilateral visit as part of the government's Pacific Step Up policy, aimed in part as a check against Chinese efforts to build regional influence.
Mr Dutton's Home Affairs Department has a key role in administering the foreign interference laws, which were introduced amid concern over Chinese influence in politics.
Although no one has publicly confirmed it, intelligence agencies suspect China was behind hacks on the computer system of Parliament House and the major political parties, as well as the Australian National University.
The Morrison government has established a taskforce to safeguard universities from foreign interference, amid concerns about Chinese academics collaborating on security related projects at Australian institutions.
Other challenges to campus freedom have emerged. Pro-Beijing students won the praise of Brisbane Chinese Consul-General Xu Jie for their "patriotic behaviour" after clashing with students supporting democracy in Hong Kong at the University of Queensland in July.
Advertisement
While the government is reluctant to criticise China too harshly in public, Mr Dutton said "if we stick to the facts, we're on safe ground".
"I think many within the Government and many within the senior echelons in the public service and our intelligence community have been saying it for a long period of time," Mr Dutton said.
With the government often reluctant to criticise China too harshly, La Trobe Asia executive director Euan Graham said Mr Dutton's comments were a noticeable advance.
"Part of the problem in the dissonance in internal conversations you get in Canberra and what is said in public, is it allows gaps to develop between government and the business community." he said.

Story 33
F OR TWO years reports of mass incarceration have seeped out of the remote Chinese province of Xinjiang. Over 1m people, mainly Uighurs and other Muslim minorities, have been locked up in camps. Millions more live under a police state. American officials, fearful of upending trade negotiations, have dithered over a response. On October 7th, three days ahead of the 13th round of talks, they put their foot down. The Commerce Department banned American firms from selling software and hardware to 20 public-security organs. It also blacklisted eight Chinese companies whose products, it says, facilitate the Orwellian surveillance in Xinjiang.
The ban hits at the heart of China’s artificial-intelligence ( AI ) ambitions. The eight firms include startups working on facial recognition (Megvii, SenseTime, Yitu), voice recognition (iFlytek), digital forensics (Xiamen Meiya Pico) and chipmaking gear (Yixin), as well as Shenzhen-listed makers of video-surveillance kit (Hikvision and Dahua). Together they are worth around $75bn. In August Megvii and Yitu were designated as national champions.
Get our daily newsletter Upgrade your inbox and get our Daily Dispatch and Editor's Picks.
How much will it hurt? Most of the firms are probably using American components. The 10% post-ban drop in the share price of Ambarella, an American maker of computer-vision chips, suggests that the Chinese are important customers. Huawei, a telecoms giant on the same blacklist since May over concerns that Chinese spooks use its gear to spy on America, expects to lose $10bn in sales this year as a result, mainly from its smartphone business.
Things may not be so bad for the octet, at least in the short run. They have been hoarding parts in anticipation of a ban and have sought other suppliers. Since the array of components they require is tiny next to Huawei’s needs, they can buy essential ones on secondary markets. Jefferies, a bank, reckons domestic chipmakers such as DeePhi, Horizon and HiSilicon, an arm of Huawei, can make up any shortfall.
The firms were quick to downplay the ban’s impact on their business. Xiamen Meiya Pico said its hardware was mostly home-grown and “highly replaceable”. iFlytek said the restrictions would have “no significant impact” on daily operations. Most cameras built by Hikvision and Dahua are thought not to contain sophisticated American innards. For the “very small fraction” that cannot be substituted, Hikvision said it would ask clients to source and integrate the parts themselves.
The ban’s longer-term effects look hazier. It has spooked the firms’ Western research partners, whose help they rely on to develop cutting-edge technology. On October 9th the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, which cut ties with Huawei earlier this year, said it was reviewing those with SenseTime. American suppliers who lobbied their government to keep selling to Huawei may recoil at defending firms suspected of aiding human-rights abuses.
Foreign customers and investors may be put off, too. Over a quarter of Hikvision’s revenues come from abroad. In 2018 it entered the MSCI index of emerging-market stocks. But foreign shareholders are skittish. After selling down its stake UBS , a Swiss bank, is no longer among its ten biggest investors. This week Goldman Sachs, an investment bank, said it was reviewing its role in Megvii’s forthcoming flotation in Hong Kong. Megvii insists its blacklisting reflected a “misunderstanding” of the company, which earned 1% of its revenue in Xinjiang last year and requires clients “not to weaponise our technology”.
The ban came days before the latest round of trade talks, due on October 10th, after The Economist went to press. President Donald Trump may see it as a bargaining chip. Samm Sacks of New America, a think-tank in Washington, discerns darker motives. The blacklisting is “a clear shot across the bow from the decouplers of DC ”, she says, referring to national-security hawks intent on disentangling the commercial ties that bind the two superpowers. Sure enough, the move led China to decry America’s “wanton interference” in its internal affairs. It threatened retaliation. ■
Correction (October 10th 2019): An earlier version of this article implied that all of Huawei's $10bn in reduced revenues would be down to its smartphone business. That is expected to be the main reason for lower revenues, but not the only one.

Story 34
On Tuesday, the American video game company Blizzard suspended a Hong Kong player and rescinded his prize money after he donned goggles and a respirator — items that have come to symbolize the protests — and called for the liberation of the city in a post-match interview. Blizzard is a subsidiary of Activision Blizzard, which is partly owned by the Chinese com pany Tencen t .
In a statement on Tuesday, Blizzard said the player had violated a competition rule barring any act that “brings you into public disrepute, offends a portion or group of the public, or otherwise damages Blizzard image.”
“While we stand by one’s right to express individual thoughts and opinions, players and other participants that elect to participate in our e-sports competitions must abide by the official competition rules,” the company said.
The political land mines aren’t always easy to see.
The upscale jeweler Tiffany found itself at the center of a social media firestorm on Monday after posting an image of a model covering her eye with her right hand. To many Chinese internet users, the gesture evoked another symbol of the Hong Kong protests: a woman shot in the eye with what protesters say was a police beanbag round, whose image later appeared in countless posters and memes.
The photo posted by Tiffany had been taken in May, before the protests started. But it was a no-win situation for the company, which had already warned investors that it would be hurt by the drop in tourism amid the protests in Hong Kong, its fourth-largest market by sales. Mainland China is a much larger market, and the company has been rapidly expanding its presence there.
The photo “was in no way intended to be a political statement of any kind,” a spokesman for Tiffany said in an emailed statement, after the offending tweet was deleted. “We regret that it may be perceived as such, and in turn have removed the image from our digital and social media channels and will discontinue its use effective immediately.”

Story 35
President Donald Trump has repeatedly accused Hunter Biden, without evidence, of making millions of dollars in a “payoff” from China, after accompanying his father, then-Vice President Joe Biden, on a 2013 diplomatic trip to Beijing.
The claim involves a cross-border private equity fund involving some state-owned financial companies in China. Biden served on the management company’s board while his father was vice president, but his attorney says that was an unpaid position, that he did not create the company and has not yet received any money, let alone millions. The attorney says Hunter Biden only acquired a minority stake in the investment management company after his father left office.
We have found no evidence to contradict that, and Trump hasn’t provided any. We also found no evidence that Joe Biden used his position as vice president to enrich his son.
Trump has made numerous comments calling for the investigation of Hunter Biden’s business dealings in Ukraine and China, which the president suggests involved Joe Biden. We have written about how the president has twisted the facts on the Bidens and Ukraine, and here we will address claims related to China.
Trump has repeatedly claimed that Hunter Biden “made millions of dollars” from China “very rapidly” while his father was vice president. Trump and his personal attorney, Rudy Giuliani, have both claimed that Hunter Biden got “$1.5 billion” from China for a private equity fund.
“When Biden’s son walks out of China with $1.5 billion in a fund — and the biggest funds in the world can’t get money out of China — and he’s there for one quick meeting, and he flies in on Air Force Two, I think that’s a horrible thing. I think it’s a horrible thing,” Trump said during a joint press conference with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on Sept. 25.
During an Oct. 3 press conference, Trump called on China to “start an investigation into the Bidens.” Trump said China probably has enjoyed “a sweetheart deal” with the U.S. on trade, “because they deal like people with Biden, where they give their son a billion and a half dollars.” He called it a “payoff.”
China has since rejected Trump’s call to investigate the Bidens.
On ABC’s “This Week” on Sept. 29, Giuliani rattled off various claims, including saying that Hunter Biden got “$1.5 billion from China while [Vice President Biden was] negotiating with China.”
Giuliani, Sept. 29 : And there are three partners, Rosemont Seneca. That’s Hunter Biden and [Christopher Heinz] the stepson of the — of the secretary of state [John Kerry]. The second partner is the Bank of China. And the third partner is a company called Thornton Group. … The $1.5 billion was in a company that was specially established called Bohai Harvest Rosemont Seneca or some crazy name like that. The partners were Joe Biden’s son, John Kerry’s stepson, the Bank of China, one-third partner at least, and the Thornton Group. That was owned by Whitey Bulger’s nephew. Now, that’s all out there. You can go and look at it. If I’m wrong, I’m wrong. It should be investigated.
Hunter Biden was involved with the cross-border equity consortium in question, but the $1.5 billion was what the fund hoped to raise in 2014 for investments. It is not the value of the management company in which Hunter Biden now holds a minority share. It’s unclear if that $1.5 billion goal was reached in its first year, as the investment fund had forecast, but the company website says it now manages assets worth the equivalent of over $2.1 billion in U.S. dollars.
Giuliani’s mention of the three partners in Rosemont Seneca is a good place to start.
The same year that Barack Obama and Joe Biden took over the White House in 2009, a general partnership formed that brought together Hunter Biden, son of then-Vice President Joe Biden, Christopher Heinz, stepson of then-Sen. John Kerry, and Devon Archer, a classmate of Heinz’s from Yale.
But all three did not participate in all of the deals undertaken under the Rosemont Seneca umbrella, with separate corporations formed for some deals.
Such was the case with Biden and Archer’s foray into China. Heinz’s attorney told The Hill that Heinz had “no operating role” in Rosemont Seneca and had nothing to do with any of the deals in question in China.
Hunter Biden’s role is also not as straightforward as the president and Giuliani say, according to Hunter Biden’s attorney. But it is true that Hunter Biden and Archer made business overtures to high-ranking Chinese fund leaders as early as 2010.
As conservative author Peter Schweizer details in his book “Secret Empires,” Biden and Archer, along with James Bulger of the consultancy firm the Thornton Group, took several meetings in 2010 with high-profile business and government interests in China. (As Giuliani said, James Bulger is the nephew of mobster Whitey Bulger, but he’s also the son of former Massachusetts state Sen. Billy Bulger.)
Schweizer came across an account of the meetings posted by the Thornton Group — in Chinese — in which Chinese executives expressed their “warm welcome” to the “Thornton Group, with its US partner Rosemont Seneca chairman Hunter Biden (second son of the now Vice President Joe Biden).” According to the Thornton Group’s account — a copy of which Schweizer emailed to us — the purpose of the meetings was to “explore the possibility of commercial cooperation and opportunity.”
Flash forward three years to June 2013, and according to the New Yorker, Archer, Jonathan Li — who ran a Chinese private equity fund, Bohai Capital — and other partners “signed a memorandum of understanding to create” a cross-border private equity fund “which they named BHR Partners, and, in November, they signed contracts related to the deal.” (Some of those entities that met in China with Archer and Biden back in 2010, including representatives from the National Council of Social Security Fund and the Postal Savings Bank of China, ended up investing in the fund managed by BHR.)
In December 2013, Hunter Biden and one of his daughters flew on Air Force Two with Joe Biden to China, where the elder Biden was on a diplomatic mission. Hunter Biden’s attorney, George Mesires, told the New York Times that Hunter Biden went along because his daughter had been invited and needed a chaperone.
Although Hunter Biden told the New Yorker he conducted no business while in China, he did arrange for a photo op with Li and his father, Joe Biden, in a hotel lobby. Hunter Biden told the New Yorker that the meeting with Li, who would soon after become CEO of BHR, was purely social, and that he did not meet with any Chinese government officials about the fund on that trip. Mesires told NBC Hunter Biden he did not conduct any business on the trip.
Mesires also told NBC News that BHR’s initial formation documents were filed in November 2013 — the month before the China trip — but that the business was officially launched with a business license issued 10 days after the visit. Hunter Biden was named to its board of directors. Archer was a vice chairman of the company and sat on its investment committee.
According to a July 10, 2014, Wall Street Journal article, “A consortium of foreign and Chinese private-equity firms is aiming to raise about $1.5 billion to invest abroad, with the yuan-denominated portion of the fund to be converted to U.S. dollars through Shanghai’s free-trade zone.”
Wall Street Journal, July 10, 2014: The fund — launched by Chinese asset managers Bohai Industrial Investment Fund Management Co. and Harvest Fund Management Co. alongside U.S. investment and advisory firms Rosemont Seneca Partners and Thornton Group LLC — started fundraising in the second quarter, and has raised its target to $1.5 billion from an original $1 billion plan, a spokesman at Bank of China International Holdings Ltd. said. BOCI is one of the largest stakeholders in Bohai. The Bohai-Harvest fund is likely one of the biggest Sino-foreign collaborations [between Chinese partners and foreign ones] in private equity to take advantage of the free-trade zone’s benefits in converting yuan to dollars that can then be invested in foreign companies. The funds are raising a combination of yuan and U.S. dollars. The effort is the latest example private equity pushing boundaries in an area that China hopes will help drive the country’s economic transformation. Normally, China restricts free conversion of its currency. Bohai and its partners are expected to finish fundraising by the end of this year, according to BOCI’s spokesman and Lindsay Wright, co-chief executive officer of Harvest Capital Management Co., the subsidiary under Harvest that will hold a direct stake in the joint fund.
According to the article, BOCI and Harvest both declined to say how much had been raised at that time. We don’t know whether the $1.5 billion goal was ever reached. Nonetheless, that’s the origin of the figure cited by Trump and Giuliani. (BHR’s website says the assets it now manages are worth over $2.1 billion.)
Hunter Biden’s Role
Hunter Biden’s attorney says Hunter Biden neither created the management company nor had an ownership stake until well after his father left office.
“BHR (Shanghai) Equity Investment Fund Management Company (‘BHR’) is an investment management company that was formed in 2013,” George Mesires told us via email. “Hunter did not form BHR, was not an initial owner of BHR, and did not own any interest in BHR until October 2017, after his father had left government service. BHR was capitalized with approximately $4.2 million USD from various sources, not $1.5 billion. Hunter did not acquire any interest in BHR until October 2017 when he acquired a 10% interest, which has a $420,000 capital commitment.”
Trump and Hunter Biden’s attorney are talking past each other a bit. Trump says Hunter Biden “walk[ed] out of China with $1.5 billion in a fund.” Biden’s attorney dismissed that figure, saying “BHR was capitalized with approximately $4.2 million USD from various sources, not $1.5 billion.” The $1.5 billion figure refers to the size of the funds raised for investments.
Hunter Biden did serve on BHR’s original board of directors while his father was vice president, but Mesires told the Washington Post that Biden was on the board of the advisory firm that did not directly invest, but instead advised those who did.
Mesires told us, “Hunter has not received any return on his investment or compensation on account of his position on the board of directors.”
A BHR representative told the New Yorker in July that although Hunter Biden served on the board, he was not a signatory to the BHR deal, and that the deal wasn’t with Rosemont Seneca Partners, but rather with a holding company, established solely by Archer.
Corporate registration records in China — captured by Schweizer in May — show that “Rosemont Seneca Thornton LLC” owned a 30% stake in BHR. We could not confirm if that was the holding company to which the BHR representatives referred. And Biden’s attorney did not respond to our inquiries seeking details about that.
Schweizer points to a screen grab from a 2016 version of the BHR website that lists Rosemont Seneca Partners as a “sponsor” of BHR.
BHR website, Sept. 7, 2016: Formed in the Shanghai Free Trade Zone in December 2013 as its first cross-border investment private equity firm, BHR is the cross-border investment arm of Bohai Industrial Investment Fund Management Co., Ltd. (“Bohai Capital”). Our other sponsors include Harvest Fund Management Co., Ltd (‘Harvest”), Rosemont Seneca Partners (“RSP”), Thornton Group LLC (“Thornton”) and our management team. We also enjoy the support of Bank of China, China Development Bank Capital, National Council of Social Security Fund, China Life, Postal Savings Bank of China, among others, as our suite of legacy shareholders through Bohai Capital.
But according to Hunter Biden’s attorney, Hunter Biden derived no financial benefit from the deal at that time. He was acting as an unpaid director advising investors in the fund.
Mesires told the New York Times that while Hunter Biden now has a 10% stake in BHR, which he acquired through a company he created named Skaneateles LLC, “there have been no distributions to the shareholders since Hunter has been an equity owner.”
But that doesn’t mean Biden won’t eventually make millions from the deal. Steven Kaplan, who conducts research on issues in private equity, venture capital, entrepreneurial finance, corporate governance and corporate finance at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, told us that a private equity fund with $2 billion under management will typically generate fees over its life of hundreds of millions of dollars.
“It is difficult to imagine, if not incomprehensible, that a 10% stake in those economics is worth only $420K,” Kaplan told us via email. “The distinction they appear to be making is they capitalized the management company with $4.2 M even if the fund manages $2 B. The value of that management company is likely far in excess of $4.2 M if they are managing $2 B.”
Kaplan pointed to two large publicly traded private equity firms for reference, both of which have a market value of about 10% of the assets under their management. Using that as a rough guide, that would put the value of Hunter Biden’s share closer to $20 million, he said.
There are still some unanswered questions about Hunter Biden and his role in the BHR deal, and his attorney did not get back to us when we had follow-up questions. We don’t know details, for example, about the BHR representative’s claim to the New Yorker about Archer alone setting up a separate holding company apart from Rosemont Seneca Partners to make the initial BHR deal, though the fact that Hunter Biden used a separate corporation to acquire a 10% stake in BHR in 2017 may suggest he did not have any ownership stake prior to that.
Although some may speculate about Hunter Biden’s activities while on a diplomatic trip with his father in China, Hunter Biden told the Washington Post earlier this year, “At no time have I discussed with my father the company’s business or my board service.” And Joe Biden in Iowa recently said, “I have never spoken to my son about his overseas business dealings.”
In an op-ed for the New York Times published on Oct. 9, Schweizer said Hunter Biden didn’t do anything illegal in the China deal. While the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act prohibits a U.S.-owned company from hiring the children of foreign government officials “in the hopes of currying favor with their powerful parents,” Schweizer wrote, it is not a violation if a foreign company hires or does business with the family members of American politicians. Schweizer argues, however, that such “cronyism” should be illegal.
“It gives the politically connected class enormously tempting opportunities for self-dealing, the sort of thing that is blatantly illegal in almost any other context,” Schweizer wrote, adding that Biden landed a deal in China that “he was apparently unqualified to score save for one thing: his father.”
Hunter Biden is not the first child of a prominent politician to be accused of having ties to a company doing business with a foreign country. Indeed, similar questions have been raised about Trump’s own family members.
The president is free to question whether Hunter Biden capitalized on his father’s name to insert himself into a deal that involves investments by the Chinese government. But he goes beyond that to make unsubstantiated claims that Hunter Biden made “millions and millions” from China while his father was vice president and that he hitched a ride on Air Force Two to secure a $1.5 billion investment deal.
Biden’s attorney claims that Hunter Biden made no money off the deal while his father served as vice president, and has yet to see any return on his investment. We cannot verify either statement, and we can’t say how much Hunter Biden might ultimately make from his 10% stake in BHR. But while Trump has called on China to open an investigation, there has been no evidence presented to date that suggests either Biden did anything illegal.

Story 36
China President Xi Jinping will visit Mamallapuram near Chennai in the second week this month for the second informal summit with PM Narendra Modi. (Photo: PTI)
As India pulls out all stops to roll out a grand welcome to President Xi Jinping in this ancient seaside temple town, China has said the two countries pose no threat to each other and greater cooperation between the two Asian giants would inject positive energy in ensuring peace and stability in the region and beyond.
Chinese Ambassador Sun Weidong said a "new set of consensus", including "guiding principles" on the development direction of bilateral ties between the two nations, are expected to emerge from the two-day informal summit beginning Friday.
Sun said as the largest developing countries and emerging economies of the world, China and India have a responsibility to inject positive energy into a "complicated world".
"We believe that the summit will take bilateral relations to a higher level and have a major and positive impact on regional and world peace, stability and development," Sun said.
Xi will arrive in Chennai on Friday on a nearly 24-hour visit to hold talks with Modi in an informal setting amid growing unease in ties between the two countries over Jammu and Kashmir, particularly after Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan raised the issue during talks with the Chinese leader in Beijing on Wednesday.
"The two countries pose no threat but offer development opportunities to each other. The cooperation between China and India will not only contribute to each other's development, but also advance the process of world multi-polarisation and economic globalisation and safeguard the common interests of developing countries," Sun said.
The Chinese envoy said the two leaders will also have in-depth discussions on the international situation and overall, long-term and strategic issues concerning the development of ties between China and India.
"A new set of consensus is expected, including a shared vision for the transformation of the international system, the common responsibility and role of China and India in regional affairs, and guiding principles on the development direction of bilateral relations and cooperation in various fields," Sun said.
"We believe that the Summit will take bilateral relations to a higher level and have a major and positive impact on regional and world peace, stability and development," he said.
The envoy said deeper cooperation between India and China will benefit the developing countries as well as to deal with global challenges like unilateralism and protectionism.
"Unilateralism, protectionism and trade bullying are on the rise. The world is moving toward multi-polarity and economic globalisation despite twists and turns. The common threats and challenges facing human society have risen. As the largest developing countries and emerging economies of the world, China and India have a responsibility to inject positive energy into a complicated world," he said.
Ties between India and China came under renewed strain over Kashmir after a joint statement issued after talks between Xi and Khan on Wednesday said China is paying "close attention" to the situation in the Valley.
It also said that Kashmir issue is a dispute left from history, and should be properly and peacefully resolved based on the UN Charter.
After Xi-Khan meeting, External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Raveesh Kumar said India's consistent and clear position has been that Jammu and Kashmir is an integral part of the country and China is well aware of New Delhi's position.
Talking about overall Sino-India ties, the Chinese envoy particularly talked about cooperation in investment and energy sector, saying new progress has been made in the area.

Story 37
New York (CNN Business) In a rare move for a US tech company, Fitbit is pulling nearly all of its device manufacturing out of China amid a trade war between the world's two largest economies.
The company announced Wednesday that "effectively all trackers and smartwatches" starting in January "will not be of Chinese origin" as a result of US tariffs.
Fitbit FIT 's stock briefly ticked up Wednesday morning after the announcement, then fell around 1.5% from its previous close.
Fitbit appears to be one of the first major tech companies to publicly announce it is shifting fully away from China, which has long been a hub for Silicon Valley giants thanks to the country's abundance of skilled low-wage workers and robust technology infrastructure.
Read More

Story 38
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 39
Apple’s decision to greenlight an app called HKmaps, which is being used by pro-democracy protestors in Hong Kong to crowdsource information about street closures and police presence, is attracting the ire of the Chinese government.
An article in Chinese state mouthpiece, China Daily, attacks the iPhone maker for reversing an earlier decision not to allow the app to be listed on the iOS App Store — claiming the app is “allowing the rioters in Hong Kong to go on violent acts” (via The Guardian).
HKmaps uses emoji to denote live police and protest activity around Hong Kong, as reported by users.
The former British colony is a special administrative region of the People’s Republic of China that’s been able to maintain certain economic and and political freedoms since reunification with China — under the one country, two systems principle. But earlier this year pro-democracy protests broke out after the Hong Kong government sought to pass legislation that would allow for extradition to mainland China. It’s policing around those on-going protests that’s being made visible on HKmaps.
The app’s developer denies the map enables illegal activity, saying its function is “for info” purposes only — to allow residents to move freely around the city by being able to avoid protest flash-points. But the Chinese government is branding it “toxic”.
“Business is business, and politics is politics. Nobody wants to drag Apple into the lingering unrest in Hong Kong. But people have reason to assume that Apple is mixing business with politics, and even illegal acts. Apple has to think about the consequences of its unwise and reckless decision,” the China Daily writer warns in a not-so-veiled threat about continued access to the Chinese market.
“Providing a gateway for ‘toxic apps’ is hurting the feelings of the Chinese people, twisting the facts of Hong Kong affairs, and against the views and principles of the Chinese people,” it goes on. “Apple and other corporations should be able to discern right from wrong. They also need to know that only the prosperity of China and China’s Hong Kong will bring them a broader and more sustainable market.”
The article takes further aim at Apple — claiming it reinstated a song which advocates for independence for Hong Kong and had previously been removed from its music store.
We’ve reached out to Apple for comment.
A few days ago the company was getting flak from the other direction as Western commentators piled on to express incredulity over its decision, at the app review stage, not to allow HKmaps on its store. The app’s developer said Apple App Store reviewers had rejected it citing the reasoning as “the app allowed users to evade law enforcement”.
"Your app contains content – or facilitates, enables, and encourages an activity – that is not legal … Specifically, the app allowed users to evade law enforcement."@Apple assume our user are lawbreakers and therefore evading law enforcement, which is clearly not the case. — HKmap.live 全港抗爭即時地圖 (@hkmaplive) October 1, 2019
Yet, as many pointed out at the time, the Google-owned Waze app literally describes its function as “avoid police” if you take the trouble to read its iOS listing. So it looked like a crystal-clear case of double standards by Cupertino. And, most awkwardly for Apple, as if the US tech giant was siding with the Chinese state against Hong Kong as concerned residents fight for their autonomy and call for democracy.
We asked Apple about its decision to reject the app at the App Store review stage last week. It did not provide any comment but a couple of days afterwards a spokesman pointed us to an “update” — where the developer tweeted that the iOS version was “Approved, comming soon!” [sic].
It's on App Store now https://t.co/bLjjN6yXpA
There will not be any further comments on this matter unless status changes. We understand @Apple have many business considerations, but since they already make thing right I don't see any point to keep pressing. — HKmap.live 全港抗爭即時地圖 (@hkmaplive) October 5, 2019
At the time of writing the iOS app remains available on the App Store but the episode highlights the tricky trade-offs Apple is facing by operating in the Chinese market — a choice that risks denting its reputation for highly polished corporate values.
The size of the China market is such that just “economical deceleration” can — and has — put a serious dent in Apple’s bottom line. If the company were to exit — or be ejected — from the market entirely there would be no way for it to cushion the blow for shareholders. Yet with a premium brand so bound up with ethical claims to champion and defend fundamental human rights like privacy Apple risks being pinned between a rock and a hard place as an increasingly powerful China flexes more political and economic muscle.
Wider trade tensions between the US and China are also creating further instability, causing major operating headaches for Chinese tech giant Huawei — with the Trump administration pressuring allies to freeze it out of 5G networks and leaning on US companies not to provide services to Chinese firms (leading to question marks over whether Huawei’s smartphones can continue using Google’s Android OS, and suggestions it might seek to deploy its own OS).
The going is certainly getting tougher for tech businesses working from East to West. But it also remains to be seen how sustainable Apple’s West-to-East democratic balancing act can be given heightened and escalating geopolitical tensions.

Story 40
CNBC's Jim Cramer is warning against trading stocks on the roller coaster of U.S.-China headlines as the two countries restarted high-level talks aimed at ending their 15-month-old trade war on Thursday.
Markets are "hostage to events that are not only totally out of our hands, but I think totally out of the president's hands," Cramer said on "Squawk on the Street."
"I am describing an unfathomable market," he declared, "where if you have conviction, you are out of your mind," meaning fundamental cases for buying or selling are useless.
In the flip-flopping between trade talk pessimism and optimism, the latter was winning on Wall Street in midday trading. The Dow Jones Industrial Average was more than 200 points higher.
Stocks surged higher after President Donald Trump said he will meet Friday with Chinese Vice Premier Liu He, leader of the Chinese trade delegation in Washington for the latest round of talks Thursday and Friday.
Overnight, Dow futures plunged more than 300 points on a report that the trade talks might end earlier than expected. However, the White House later denied those claims, which helped futures recover.
Later confusion ensued after Bloomberg reported the U.S. might suspend next week's tariff increase in exchange for a currency pact. The New York Times also reported the Trump administration was looking to allow the sale of some supplies to China's Huawei, months after the administration restricted sales to the telecom giant over concerns of national security.
Stocks were on an unsure path in early Thursday trading on Wall Street until Trump tweeted about Friday's Liu meeting.
However, Cramer suggested there's still plenty of time left in the trade war for headlines to send stocks plunging again, saying that "it is just impossible."
Cramer pointed to the whiplash of confusion around Apple, which has been threatened by the two countries' increasing, retaliatory measures on one another.
"You sell Apple on the news that the trade talks are going badly," the "Mad Money" host said. But then Apple shares move higher, after the company gained favor with China by removing an app that antigovernment protesters in Hong Kong were using to track police.
"Do you buy Apple off that?" he asked. "You upgrade Apple because Apple is doing better with the [new iPhones]," he said, then questioned what would happen "if the trade talks go badly."

Story 41
Zedd won’t be making any appearances in China anytime soon.
The 30-year-old Russian-German DJ says he has been banned by authorities in Beijing for liking a South Park tweet.
The musician who was born Anton Zaslavski broke the news on Thursday to his millions of followers on social media.
He is just the latest entertainment icon to anger the Chinese Communist Party, which is being criticized for its policies in Hong Kong.
South Park hit back at China in its 300th episode saying 'F**k the Chinese Government' after the nation scrubbed the show from its internet when the irreverent animated series mocked Beijing's notorious censorship.
Zedd (seen above in Philadelphia on September 29) says he has been banned by China
'I just got permanently banned from China because I liked a South Park tweet,' he said on social media
The long-running Comedy Central series celebrated their 300th episode on Wednesday with heavy punches against China for banning the show from the Chinese internet.
In the celebratory episode in its 23rd season entitled 'SHOTS!!!' Towelie forces Randy Marsh to shout 'F**k the Chinese Government' outraged that anyone could do business with the country despite its human rights atrocities.
At first Marsh is hesitant to repeat the declaration as he's selling marijuana in China - where weed is illegal - and grapples with the moral dilemma of raking in profits from a country with human rights concerns.
But he eventually gives in and repeats 'F**k the Chinese Government' to appease Towelie.
South Park continued to slam China in its 300th episode 'SHOTS!!!' that aired on Comedy Central on Wednesday where the character Randy Marsh declares 'F**k the Chinese Government'
South Park shared a gif of that moment on Twitter with the hashtag #BannedInChina.
The jabs at China are a continuation of their episode last week called 'Band in China' that satirized the Chinese government, its censorship and authoritarian behavior and the complicity of American businesses for working with the nation.
In the episode South Park creators Matt Stone and Trey Parker mocked China for censoring Winnie the Pooh as the children's cartoon character has become symbol of resistance against China's ruling Communist Party and its leader Xi Jinping.
The episode also attacked the NBA, Disney and Marvel for doing business with the country.
Following the 'Band in China' episode, China banned the show for its critique on its government and scrubbed all reference of the show from its internet.
And in retaliation, protesters in Hong Kong have been playing bootlegged copies of the 'Band in China' episode on large projector screens in the streets, according to the Hollywood Reporter.
The episode comes after China banned the show from its country this week for last week's episode 'Band in China' which heavily criticized the Communist government
The episode poked fun at American companies who bow to strict Chinese censorship laws and resulted in the Comedy Central show being scrubbed from the internet in China
In the plot from the episode last Wednesday, Randy (right) gets arrested carrying marijuana into China, frustrating his plans to sell weed
He is then sent to a work camp, where he sees Winnie the Pooh and Piglet, who are imprisoned because the bear was used to mock Chinese President Xi Jinping
The episode highlights the harsh conditions of the prison camp where Randy is held
On Monday Stone and Parker issued a mock apology to China saying: 'Like the NBA, we welcome the Chinese censors into our homes and into our hearts. We too love money more than freedom and democracy. Xi doesn't look just like Winnie the Pooh at all.'
'Long live the Great Communist Party of China! May this autumn's sorghum harvest be bountiful! We good now, China?' the statement added.
The NBA name-drop was a reference to Houston rockets General Manager Daryl Morey's recent tweet supporting pro-democracy demonstrations in Hong Kong, which some Chinese NBA fans found offensive.
Morey apologized on Monday for a tweet in support of Hong Kong protests, saying he did not intend to offend fans of the NBA team in China.
'I was merely voicing one thought, based on one interpretation on a complicated event. I have had a lot of opportunity since that tweet to hear and consider other perspectives,' Morey said in a tweet.
South Park's creators made mention of the NBA, which is trying to dig itself out of a controversy that was sparked by a tweet from Houston Rockets General Manager Daryl Morey
Morey apologized on Monday for the tweet he swiftly deleted over the weekend that included an image of the activists' rally cry: 'Fight for freedom, stand with Hong Kong'
Rockets star James Harden (above) on Monday apologized to China as the team and the NBA were forced into defensive mode when China's state broadcaster yanked Rockets games from the air and sponsors abandoned them
THE NBA'S STATEMENT ON MOREY'S TWEET 'We recognize that the views expressed by Houston Rockets General Manager Daryl Morey have deeply offended many of our friends and fans in China, which is regrettable. 'While Daryl has made it clear that his tweet does not represent the Rockets or the NBA, the values of the league support individuals' educating themselves and sharing their views on matters important to them. 'We have great respect for the history and culture of China and hope that sports and the NBA can be used as a unifying force to bridge cultural divides and bring people together.'
'I have always appreciated the significant support our Chinese fans and sponsors have provided and I would hope that those who are upset will know that offending or misunderstanding them was not my intention,' he said, adding that his tweets did not represent the Rockets or NBA.
The team's Chinese sponsor and a Chinese sportswear maker suspended work with the Rockets after Morey's tweet over the weekend.
Morey quickly deleted the tweet, which included an image captioned: 'Fight For Freedom. Stand With Hong Kong.'
In recent months, masses of demonstrators have taken to the streets in Hong Kong to protest a proposed bill that would allow for the extradition of suspected criminals to mainland China.
Demonstrators see the bill, which has since been withdrawn, as a worrying sign of China's attempts to intervene in Hong Kong's affairs.
Hong Kong is a semi-autonomous region that has special administrative status in China after the British handed back the territory in 1997.
In a separate statement, the NBA said it recognized Morey's views have 'deeply offended many of our friends and fans in China, which is regrettable.'

Story 42
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 43
Satellite images of a graveyard in Aksu, Xinjiang province, in 2015 where Uighur poet Lutpulla Mutellip was buried, and the same view in 2019 showing a new area called Happiness Park.
A cemetery in Xayar in 2017, and the same view in 2019
The Sulanim cemetery in Hotan in 2018 and the same view in 2019 with no sign of the facility – now partially replaced with a car park.
A burial ground in Xayar in 2014, and the same view in 2019 where it has been replaced with a newly built standardised cemetery
A cemetery in Xayar in 2017, and the same view in 2019
Teywizim cemetery in Hotan in 2018 and the same view in 2019

Story 44
U.S. stocks advanced Thursday for a second straight day after President Donald Trump said he would meet China’s chief trade negotiator at the White House, again raising hopes for progress from two days of talks in Washington in an effort to resolve the two-year-old trade war.
How did the benchmarks perform?
The Dow Jones Industrial Average DJIA, +0.57% rose 150.66 points, or 0.6%, to 26,496.67. The S&P 500 index SPX, +0.64% climbed 0.6%, or 18.73 points, to 2,938.13. The Nasdaq Composite Index COMP, +0.60% picked up 47.04 points, or 0.6%, to finish at 7,950.78.
At session highs, the Dow was up 257.30 points, the S&P 500 had risen 28.98 points and the Nasdaq had gained 79.1 points, all of which amounted to advances of about 1%.
Despite two days of gains, the Dow has lost 0.3% week-to-date, while the S&P 500 and Nasdaq are on pace to post 0.5% and 0.4% weekly losses, respectively.
What drove the stock market?
Trump tweeted that he would meet Chinese Vice Premier Liu He on Friday to advance a trade deal, bolstering hopes that the U.S. was looking to strike a resolution soon.
Liu is meeting with U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin in Washington, with the hope that the parties can resolve, at least partially, tensions over trade that have stoked anxieties on Wall Street, though it is unclear if a substantive agreement can be achieved.
If Trump’s meeting with Liu takes place, it could assuage concerns among market participants who were whipsawed by conflicting overnight headlines on Thursday, including reports from the South China Morning Post suggesting that the China delegation would leave Washington on Thursday, a day earlier than had been planned. However, a White House spokesperson later told CNBC that no change of plans had occurred with Beijing’s representatives.
Bloomberg News reported that the White House may implement a previously agreed upon currency deal with China ahead of schedule, and suspend tariff hikes to 30% from 25% scheduled to take effect Oct. 15 on some $250 billion in Chinese products. Those moves would be part of a first-phase agreement with China, the report said, with negotiations on critical issues such as intellectual-property rights and forced technology transfers coming at a later time.
Separately, the New York Times reported Wednesday night that Trump had approved issuing licenses to some U.S. companies to conduct business with Chinese telecom giant Huawei Technologies. The U.S. blacklisted Huawei earlier this year, and allowing sales of non-sensitive products could help defuse trade tensions.
“If Trump and Liu He do meet, it’s clearly a positive to the market,” said Quincy Krosby, chief market strategist at Prudential Financial. “At this point, the market would be satisfied with the continuation of talks as long as tariffs do not increase next week. But we’ve had dress rehearsals for this where the meetings don’t take place.”
“Last night’s headlines was reminiscent of the chaos around the Chinese delegation canceling their visit to farms in the heartland. Like then, we had different explanations for that,” said Krosby.
In economic data, U.S. consumer price inflation was little changed in September, giving the Federal Reserve room to cut interest rates in late October. Weekly jobless claims fell in early October.
Investors also saw some comfort in commentary from Dallas Fed President Robert Kaplan, who said he’s open-minded on the outlook for further rate cuts. The central bank has already cut its benchmark interest rate by a half percentage point this year.
Which stocks were in focus?
PG&E Corp.’s stock PCG, -29.05% plunged 29.1% after a judge ruled to allow for a competitive bankruptcy plan, opening up the path for Elliott Management Group and other bondholders to push for their own chapter 11 plan. Their proposal would involve raising new money and using most of PG&E’s equity to pay off the utility firm’s debts. The utility also faced intense criticism over pre-emptive power cuts in Northern California, where more than 1.5 million people were without power Thursday.
Delta Air Lines Inc. ’s DAL, -1.52% shares fell 1.5% after profit forecasts for the fourth quarter were less upbeat than expected. Still, the airline’s third-quarter results beat earnings expectations.
Shares for Ra Pharmaceuticals Inc. RARX, +101.10% surged 101.1% after Belgian biopharma company UCB agreed to acquire the Massachusetts-based biopharma company for $2.5 billion.
Kroger Co.’s stock KR, -2.81% retreated 2.8% after a Jefferies analyst called the grocer’s tech investment into Ocado a “misstep,” downgrading the company to hold from buy.
Shares of Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. BBBY, +21.58% rallied 21.6% after it announced that former Target Corp. TGT, +0.19% head of merchandise Mark Tritton will take over as chief executive officer.
How did other assets trade?
The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note TMUBMUSD10Y, -0.87% climbed 6.4 basis points to 1.649%.
Gold futures fell after posting small gains on Wednesday. December gold GCZ19, +0.17% was down $11.90, or 0.8% to settle at $1,501.20 an ounce.
West Texas Intermediate crude for November delivery CLX19, +1.98% rose 96 cents, or 1.8%, to settle at $53.55 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
In Asia overnight Thursday, trade was mixed, as Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index HSI, +2.35% added 0.1% to 25,707.93, the China CSI 300 000300, +1.13% rose 0.8% to reach 3,874.64, and Japan’s Nikkei 225 NIK, +1.15% gained 0.5% to 21,551.98. The Stoxx Europe 600 SXXP, +0.65%, meanwhile, closed 0.7% higher to 382.76.

Story 45
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 46
Become an FT subscriber to read:
Leverage our market expertise
Expert insights, analysis and smart data help you cut through the noise to spot trends, risks and opportunities.
Join over 300,000 Finance professionals who already subscribe to the FT.

Story 47
Become an FT subscriber to read:
Leverage our market expertise
Expert insights, analysis and smart data help you cut through the noise to spot trends, risks and opportunities.
Join over 300,000 Finance professionals who already subscribe to the FT.

Story 48
Chinese Vice-Premier Liu He (right) leads the Chinese delegation that will meet with US trade negotiators Robert Lighthizer (centre) and Steven Mnuchin on Thursday in Washington. They are pictured in Shanghai on July 31. Photo: AP

Story 49
Alphaville is completely free.
All you have to do is register.
Ready to subscribe, View our subscription options

Story 50
An employee works next to shoes on display inside the flagship store of sporting-goods giant Nike in Shanghai on March 16, 2017.
An ongoing spat between the NBA and China could end up hurting Nike, which has ties to both the basketball organization and the region.
Greater China, which is a term generally used to refer to mainland China, Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan, has been Nike's fastest-growing region for over a year now, with the sneaker maker continuing to cite heightened momentum overseas for its Jordan brand and other gear.
Nike did $6.21 billion in sales in Greater China in fiscal 2019, up 24%, excluding currency, from the prior year, according to financial reports.
These fears have bubbled up as Chinese state media and Tencent have now said they will be suspending broadcast of NBA preseason games in China, following a tweet made by Houston Rockets general manager Daryl Morey, in which he showed support for the anti-government protests in Hong Kong. The tweet, which was later deleted, drew strong criticism in the world's second-largest economy.
NBA Commissioner Adam Silver later defended Morey, fueling the fire.
A representative from Nike wasn't immediately available to respond to CNBC's request for comment.
Nike is the exclusive on-court apparel provider for the NBA. It signed the eight-year deal in the 2017-18 season, taking over from Adidas.
At least one analyst has already issued a note to clients saying he doesn't expect there will be any adverse impact for Nike because of the spat, calling any concerns "overblown."
"Proprietary checks indicate that the Nike brand in China remains exceptionally strong; Chinese consumers perceive Nike as a global athletic brand, not associated with any country or part of the world," Susquehanna Financial Group analyst Sam Poser said Tuesday afternoon.
"Management has noted in the past that the philosophy since Nike began selling product in China has been to be 'of China, for China' vs. strictly being a U.S. brand looking to capitalize on the growth of the Chinese consumer," Poser said. "The philosophy has worked, as Nike has continued to thrive in China."
Other brands, including Vans and Tiffany, have been proceeding with caution as China has been upset over the Hong Kong protests — each trying to balance their business interests in China with the U.S. principle of free expression.
For Nike, the fear now is that Chinese consumers might be encouraged by the government to not purchase NBA-branded or basketball-related merchandise. Or they might not want to be seen wearing that gear.
Nike shares fell more than 1.5% Tuesday afternoon, having climbed about 24% this year and recently hitting an all-time high of $94.75.

Story 51
SAN FRANCISCO -- For nearly a week, the Warriors and the NBA have been dealt with controversy following a tweet from Rockets general manager Daryl Morey backing a Hong Kong protest.
In the fallout, NBA executives and China at large have denounced Morey's comments. As for players and coaches -- most have said they're trying to get more educated on the topic before speaking on the controversy, a trend Warriors forward Draymond Green followed Thursday morning.
"I don't really understand it so at this point I'm just trying to educate myself on all of it," Green said. "Even the initial tweet that started this uproar, I don't really understand what's going on in Hong Kong or China. It's hard enough trying to understand politics in America for me. I'm not knowledgeable enough to say much unless I just want to talk the talk and I never really do that. I don't really know enough."
Green's comments come nearly a week after Morey tweeted and deleted “stand with Hong Kong” in support of protests happening in the city. The tweet caused a firestorm in Communist China, as country officials denounced the tweet and Chinese shoe companies Li Ning and Anta paused sponsorships with the Rockets. This week, CCTV -- China's state-run broadcast company -- announced they canceled NBA preseason coverage. In response, NBA commissioner Adam Silver said he wouldn't punish Morey for his tweet and hoped he could repair the league's relationship with China.
"I think they've handled it well," Green said. "The way Adam [Silver] has acted in that situation is no different than he's he's acted in any situation that's taken place over the course of his tenure."
Morey's comments put the NBA and some of its players in an awkward position. Not only is China hosting exhibition games between the Los Angeles Lakers and Brooklyn Nets this week, but the league has a lucrative business relationship with the Communist country. Tencent -- a Chinese news company that signed a $1.5 billion streaming deal with the league in July -- announced it would suspend all Rockets-related programming.
"It's so broad, the statements that's been released, I don't really understand what it is that's going on," Green said. "I know that they're pulling sponsorships and stuff back but like is that affecting the players that's signed with them or not? Like I don't quite get everything that's going on enough to really even comment on it."
The controversy also has ruffled feathers domestically. Politicians from both sides of the aisle have criticized the NBA for their response to this issue. That includes President Donald Trump, who took a jab at Warriors coach Steve Kerr -- an outspoken advocate on many social topics -- after Kerr gave a non-committal answer when asked about China, saying he didn't know enough to comment.
For years, the Warriors have been the poster team for statements on social issues, ranging from gun-control to equal pay. But in recent days, the team has been mum on the China issue facing the NBA.
Following Kerr's comments, the coach faced criticism by not giving a forceful statement, with some observers calling Kerr's non-comment hypocritical. On Wednesday, Warriors guard Stephen Curry defended his coach.
For his part, Green said the current controversy wouldn't stop team personnel from speaking out on topics going forward.
"I think any issue that touches you per sè, players are going to speak out about it," Green said. "As Daryl did with this situation. When you speak out on an issue - its America so you have freedom of speech - you've never really had a reaction like this because its America and whatever your position is on a certain thing, if you want to take that position, you take that position.
"I'm sure he didn't think like 'Oh my god like it would cause this' because you're just doing what an American does which is if you have an opinion, if you're going to speak on something, you speak on it," Green continued. "I think its the first time that you actually spoke on another country and you kind of see the difference in the countries, which I'm sure no one expected it to be this, but like I said, it's two completely different countries that's on different ends of the spectrum. It's been very interesting to see and learn about."
[RELATED: Trump's Kerr comments show sports, politics aren't inseparable]
Green said while players and coaches will remain outspoken, the latest issue between China and the NBA underscores the differences between the two countries.
"That's a part of being an American. You operate in a manner of which Americans do and that's kind of what happened," he said. "It's just happened to be involving a completely different country and that's not what they do."

Story 52
SINGAPORE (BLOOMBERG) - The luxury end of Singapore's residential market is hot, and according to Colliers International Group, it's because of increased interest from mainland Chinese nationals.
While some market watchers have speculated the turmoil in Hong Kong may lead people there to buy property in the city-state, it seems that isn't necessarily the case.
"The increase in luxury home sales could be due to more China buyers seeking an alternative from Hong Kong, while others may have shifted funds from China after the yuan was devalued," said Tricia Song, the head of research for Singapore at Colliers. She added the Singapore dollar is also perceived to be more stable.
In the first nine months of the year, 315 apartments in Singapore's prime core central region were bought by foreigners, almost recovering to the pace before the government introduced cooling measures in July 2018.
Of those, 97 units, or about one-third, were purchased by mainland Chinese nationals, which make up the largest foreigner buyer group in Singapore.
Meanwhile, only eight units were bought by Hong Kongers.
"Based on the available data, we have not seen any strong evidence to suggest a sharp inflow of Hong Kong money into Singapore residential properties. However, we note that there is more Chinese interest, particularly in luxury homes," Song said.
While the government doesn't break down nationality data by property value, the figures show that over the same period, 75 apartments were sold for S$10 million ($7.3 million) or more, equal to all of 2010.
Urban Redevelopment Authority home-price data released earlier this month showed the cost of luxury apartments rose 2.9% in prime and central regions in three months ended Sept 30, versus a 2.3% increase the previous quarter.
Overall, residential prices increased 0.9%.

Story 53
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 54
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 55
A grimacing figure wearing an elaborate feathered headdress is riding on the back of a frightening monster. He must be powerful, perhaps even supernatural, because he effortlessly subdues this sharp-clawed beast with bulging eyes. But who, exactly, is he? A shaman? A god? And why is he forcing historians to tear up the conventionally accepted timeline of Chinese history?
More like this:
- How Spiritualism inspired modern art
- Is Bouquet of Tulips’ the year’s most controversial artwork?
- Dürer: The painter with a magical touch
Earlier this year, while filming China’s Greatest Treasures, a new six-part television documentary series for BBC World News, I encountered this mysterious character incised on a spectacular ancient jade carving that now belongs to the Zhejiang Provincial Museum in the city of Hangzhou. Known as a ‘cong’ (pronounced ‘ts-ong’) – essentially, a jade cylinder, squared on the outside, with a circular tube within – this squat column was recovered by archaeologists from a cemetery for elite members of a complex late Neolithic society that flourished at the site of Liangzhu, around 100 miles (160km) southwest of Shanghai, in the 3rd millennium BC. Traditionally, historians have taught that China’s earliest recorded dynasty was the Shang, who ruled during the Bronze Age, in the 2nd millennium BC.
Intricate bronze artefacts – ritual food and wine vessels; ceremonial axes embellished with bloodcurdling, grinning faces – have been excavated from Shang cities in modern-day Henan province, along the Yellow River. Many are decorated with the mask-like face of a monster with bulging eyes and curling horns known as a ‘taotie’, the precise meaning of which is still debated. Recent discoveries at Liangzhu, however, which is situated in the lower Yangtze River Basin, more than 600 miles (965km) southeast of the last Shang capital of Anyang, have upended the standard chronology of Chinese history. This is because, according to archaeologists, the impressive ancient settlement at Liangzhu was home to a sophisticated civilisation that was already prospering 1,700 years before the establishment of the Shang. Contemporaneous with the ancient Cycladic civilisation of the Aegean Sea in the West, it was possibly the earliest state society in East Asia.
Freed from the daily, hand-to-mouth struggle for survival, the Liangzhu elite became besotted with art
Some scholars even suggest that the origins of the famous Shang ‘taotie’ motif may be the gargoyle-like, frog-eyed monster that decorates artefacts from Liangzhu, including the ‘cong’ – which is known as the ‘king of cong’, because of its impressive heft of 6.5kg (14.33lbs) – that I saw at Zhejiang Provincial Museum.
Earlier this year, the archaeological ruins at Liangzhu were designated a Unesco World Heritage site. Today, visitors can marvel at extraordinary artefacts from the city at the beautiful Liangzhu Museum, designed by British architect David Chipperfield. On display are many more jade grave goods, including ceremonial axe-heads, ornamental combs, and circular discs with a central hole, which look like oversized Polo mints and are known as ‘bi’. Located at the foot of Mount Tianmu, the principal settlement of Liangzhu was a fortified town encompassing a rectangular area of approximately 740 acres (299 hectares), protected by a system of moats and rammed-earth walls at least 65ft (19.8m) wide. Visitors could enter via one of eight water gates – suggesting that, in the words of archaeologists Colin Renfrew and Bin Liu, “this was a town of canals as much as of roads”.
A civic emblem?
The sophistication of the civilisation that flourished at Liangzhu from approximately 3300-2300 BC is evident not only in the precious finds from the town’s high-status cemetery, but also from a remarkable network of monumental earthen dams, amounting to an extensive system of hydraulic works, and carefully managed rice paddy fields, arranged across the surrounding area. These ensured a regular supply of food for the city’s inhabitants. Within the settlement, archaeologists discovered a massive pit of charred rice – “perhaps burnt in a granary located in the palace nearby and subsequently discarded,” say Renfrew and Liu.
Clearly, then, thanks to their social organisation and mastery of irrigation techniques, the Liangzhu people had a hefty surplus of food – and this bought them an important stimulant to civilisation: the luxury of time. Freed from the daily, hand-to-mouth struggle for survival, the Liangzhu elite became besotted with art. Just look at their obsession with jade, an obstinate, almost impossibly tough mineral, which their craftsmen painstakingly worked into spectacularly fine grave goods.
In the past, Chinese scholars believed that the earliest dynasty to value jade was the long-lasting Zhou, which followed the Shang in the 1st millennium BC. The evidence from Liangzhu, though, suggests otherwise. And the ‘king of cong’ that I saw – carved from a pure, creamy-coloured type of jade called nephrite – is arguably the most spectacular of all the Liangzhu jades. What struck me was how sleek and crisp and gracefully minimal it was – if you weren’t familiar with it and were told that it had been carved by, say, the 20th Century modern sculptor Constantin Brancusi, you wouldn’t bat an eyelid.
And the precise significance of that ‘man/beast motif’, as some art historians describe it? Well, in the absence of written records from the site of Liangzhu, scholars can only speculate. For now, we can’t be sure if the figure is a deity or a member of the Liangzhu elite – some of whom wore feathered headdresses – such as a shaman or priest. Or maybe, as Renfrew and Liu propose, the motif could be interpreted “in social terms, as representing the corporate community of Liangzhu town”. In other words, perhaps the solution to the riddle of this puzzling design is that it is a kind of civic emblem, akin to a Western coat of arms.
China’s Greatest Treasures is on BBC World News on Sat 12 Oct at 03:30 and 16:30 and on Sun 13 Oct at 01:30; 10:30 and 22:30 GMT.
Alastair Sooke is The Telegraph’s Chief Art Critic.
If you would like to comment on this story or anything else you have seen on BBC Culture, head over to our Facebook page or message us on Twitter.
And if you liked this story, sign up for the weekly bbc.com features newsletter, called The Essential List. A handpicked selection of stories from BBC Future, Culture, Worklife and Travel, delivered to your inbox every Friday.

Story 56
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 57
NBA Commissioner Adam Silver issued the following statement regarding the NBA and China:
I recognize our initial statement left people angered, confused or unclear on who we are or what the NBA stands for. Let me be more clear.
Over the last three decades, the NBA has developed a great affinity for the people of China. We have seen how basketball can be an important form of people-to-people exchange that deepens ties between the United States and China.
At the same time, we recognize that our two countries have different political systems and beliefs. And like many global brands, we bring our business to places with different political systems around the world.
But for those who question our motivation, this is about far more than growing our business.
Values of equality, respect and freedom of expression have long defined the NBA -- and will continue to do so. As an American-based basketball league operating globally, among our greatest contributions are these values of the game.
In fact, one of the enduring strengths of the NBA is our diversity -- of views, backgrounds, ethnicities, genders and religions. Twenty-five percent of NBA players were born outside of the United States and our colleagues work in league offices around the world, including in Beijing, Hong Kong, Shanghai and Taipei.
With that diversity comes the belief that whatever our differences, we respect and value each other; and, what we have in common, including a belief in the power of sports to make a difference, remains our bedrock principle.
It is inevitable that people around the world -- including from America and China -- will have different viewpoints over different issues. It is not the role of the NBA to adjudicate those differences.
However, the NBA will not put itself in a position of regulating what players, employees and team owners say or will not say on these issues. We simply could not operate that way.
Basketball runs deep in the hearts and minds of our two peoples. At a time when divides between nations grow deeper and wider, we believe sports can be a unifying force that focuses on what we have in common as human beings rather than our differences.

Story 58
The US core consumer price index, which excludes food and energy, increased 0.1 per cent from the prior month, a Labor Department report showed, below the median estimate of economists. The annual gain of 2.4 per cent matched projections as well as the August increase. The broader CPI was unchanged on the month and up 1.7 per cent annually, trailing projections.
The subdued monthly reading is likely to reinforce investor bets that the Fed will ease policy later in October as the global picture darkens and the trade war worsens. Officials favouring a reduction may see little risk that inflation will jump above the central bank's price goal and a danger that trade tensions will potentially persist for some time.
Today's agenda
Local: BusinessNZ manufacturing PMI September
Overseas data: German CPI September; US import price index September; UoM consumer sentiment October; Fed Reserve's Robert Kaplan speech.
Market highlights
ASX futures up 42 points or 0.6% to 6571
AUD +0.6% to 6765 US cents
On Wall St: Dow +0.6% S &P 500 +0.6% Nasdaq +0.6%
In New York: BHP +1.8% Rio +2.7% Atlassian -0.7%
In Europe: Stoxx 50 +1% FTSE +0.4% CAC +1.3% DAX +0.7%
Spot gold -0.5% to $US1497 an ounce at 1.34pm New York time
Brent crude +0.3% to $US58.66 a barrel
US oil +0.6% to $US53.17 a barrel
Iron ore +2.8% to $US96.30 a tonne
Dalian iron ore +1.3% to 654 yuan
LME aluminium +0.5% to $US1753 a tonne
LME copper +1.7% to $US5781 a tonne
2-year yield: US 1.52% Australia 0.61%
5-year yield: US 1.47% Australia 0.61%
10-year yield: US 1.66% Australia 0.89% Germany -0.48%
10-year US/Australia yield gap: 77 basis points
Advertisement
From today's Financial Review
ACCC chief blows open rift with energy suppliers: Suggestions from Rod Sims that electricity suppliers are delaying investments to keep power prices high have been rejected by companies and investors.
We're ready to boom, says Incitec Pivot's Jeanne Johns: The CEO of the explosives and fertiliser company has had a turbulent first two years in the job. Now it's time to deliver on her big strategic plan.
Perth Mint goes crypto: Perth Mint has teamed up with a team of scientists in Sydney to come up with the first digital gold token on a public blockchain backed by a government-guaranteed gold.
United States
US stocks rose on hopes that top-level US-China trade talks would yield at least a partial deal, while a rise in Apple's shares lifted the technology sector.
Wall Street's main indexes moved higher after President Donald Trump tweeted he would meet Chinese Vice Premier Liu He on Friday for further trade talks.
Apple rose 1.2 per cent, lifting the technology sector by 0.6 per cent, after Longbow Research upgraded the company's stock to "buy", citing higher iPhone 11 demand. Cisco dropped 2 per cent, after a report that Goldman Sachs downgraded the network gear maker's shares to "neutral".
Advertisement
Apple suppliers Skyworks Solutions Inc and Qorvo Inc gained 4.3% and 4.4%, respectively,
However, the three main indexes were off their session highs, with some analysts pointing to a sense of caution among investors. Stock markets have been rankled by weak economic indicators showing a contraction in US manufacturing and a bleak reading on business activity, bolstering bets of another interest rate cut by the Federal Reserve to combat a slowdown.
Europe
London stocks finished a roller coaster session with gains as domestic companies rose after Britain and Ireland said they saw a pathway to a Brexit deal. The FTSE 100 ended 0.3 per cent higher, after flipping back and forth during the day, while the midcap index that has a greater UK exposure also rose by the same level. But the FTSE 100 confirmed a "Death Cross" pattern as its 50-day moving average DMA crossed below the 200 DMA, which is seen a warning sign that more losses are likely in the near term. The pan-European STOXX 600 index rose 0.83 per cent.
Asia
Asian shares were mixed as investors pondered mixed reports on the likelihood of progress in resolving the trade war between the US and China.
Japan's benchmark Nikkei 225 added 0.3 per cent to 21,509.54 in early trading, while South Korea's Kospi lost 0.8 per cent to 2,029.23. India's Sensex skidded 0.4 per cent to 38,050.81.
Hong Kong's Hang Seng picked up 0.2 per cent to 25,726.60. The Shanghai Composite rose 0.2 per cent to 2,930.35. Shares fell in Singapore and Thailand bur rose in Jakarta.
Advertisement
"Updates on US-China trade keep their grip on markets as we await the commencement of trade talks going into Thursday," says Jingyi Pan, market strategist at IG in Singapore.
A strong sales update from LVMH boosted stocks across the luxury goods sector, as months of unrest in Hong Kong proved less of a drag on the Louis Vuitton owner in the third quarter than expected.
Currencies
The euro shot above $US1.10 versus the dollar as the greenback turned weaker across the board - partly due to market chatter about a currency pact with China to stop devaluation. The dollar fell to two-week lows on with safe-haven demand for the currency waning. The yen also slid to a one-week trough against the dollar, weakening as well against riskier currencies but with higher yields such as the Australian dollar.
Euro zone government bond yields rose to three-week highs on optimism around trade US/China trade talks and after the British and Irish prime ministers said they still saw a path to a Brexit deal. Key benchmark German bond yields are 10 bps higher this week after three straight weeks of falls.
Ireland raised €2 billion from the sale of its 11-year green bond, dipping into an increasingly popular market for the second time at a yield well below its debut a year ago. Italy also plans to sell more debt denominated in foreign currencies next year after demand for its first US dollar bond in nearly a decade exceeded expectations, the head of debt management at the Rome Treasury said.
Commodities
Copper prices rose. Benchmark copper on the London Metal Exchange (LME) traded up 1.7 per cent at $US5781 a tonne in official rings. It touched its lowest level in more than two years on September 3 of $5518.
Advertisement
"There's a lot of volatility in industrial metals markets linked to the tos and fros of the trade negotiations," said WisdomTree analyst Nitesh Shah.
But he said a supply deficit that is likely to worsen in coming years will likely support prices even if demand growth for copper weakens.
Oil prices were buoyed by comments by the head of OPEC that the organisation could take action to balance oil markets and that it will decide in December on supply for next year.
Mohammad Barkindo, secretary-general of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, did not specify if the move would mean extending a pact to rein in production to stabilise prices, but the comments appeared to nudge the market out of pessimism over US-China trade talks.
Federal Bank of Dallas President Robert Kaplan introduced some caution to investor enthusiasm that has sent gold holdings in exchange-traded funds to their longest steak of gains in a decade.
Kaplan said that the reduction in borrowing costs by the Fed shouldn't be a "full-fledged cutting cycle," tamping down expectations of a prolonged monetary easing that helped drive non-interest bearing gold to a six-year high last month.
Gold prices retreated from a one-week peak while palladium prices marked an all-time high. Palladium was 1.1 per cent higher at $US1700.19, having hit a record $1704.59. LME lead closed 1.3 per cent higher at $US2158 and tin finished flat at $US16,450.
Australian sharemarket
Advertisement
The Australian sharemarket ended Thursday flat, after substantial gains for packaging companies could not cancel out a turgid performance by staple industries amid fresh trade concerns.
Despite the significant losses and negative international news, the packaging industry did its best to stem the blood flow. Bloomberg
The benchmark S &P/ASX 200 Index had gained 0.3 points, or 0.01 per cent, to 6547.1 points by the end of the seesaw session. The All Ordinaries Index fell 4.1 points, or 0.06 per cent, to 6662.9 points.
Street Talk
RM Williams earnings to more than triple by 2024, bidders told
Strike while it's hot: fundies take a look at gas hopeful
Sale docs out for Downer's mining, attention on proceeds

Story 59
Surveillance cameras are mounted on a post at Tiananmen Square as snow falls in Beijing, China, on Thursday, Feb. 14, 2019. Qilai Shen | Bloomberg | Getty Images
China's push to export its surveillance technology via some of its biggest companies, including to liberal democracies, has raised concerns because of the risk of data being siphoned back to Beijing and the growing influence of the Communist Party, experts told CNBC. The world's second-largest economy has built a vast surveillance state comprised of millions of cameras powered by facial recognition software. The devices, perched on lamp posts and outside buildings and streets, are able to recognize individuals. Some of China's most valuable technology firms have been involved in such projects across the country. But this technology is now being exported as the nation's technology firms expand their global footprint.
Chinese tech companies — particularly Huawei, Hikvision, Dahua, and ZTE — supply artificial intelligence surveillance technology in 63 countries, according to a September report by the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace think tank. Of those nations, 36 have signed onto China's massive infrastructure project, the Belt and Road Initiative, the report said, adding that Huawei supplies technology to the highest number of countries. Some of these so-called "smart city" projects, which include surveillance technologies, are underway in Western countries, particularly in Europe, including Germany, Spain and France, according to analysis by the Australian Strategic Policy Institute (ASPI).
I think we don't even quite understand the full scale of the problem that we are dealing with when it comes to Chinese surveillance technology when it is exported. Samantha Hoffman fellow at Australian Strategic Policy Institute's Cyber Centre
Experts warned of a number of risks including potential access to data by the Chinese government. "I think that sometimes there is an assumption that 'oh well when we roll out this technology we aren't going to use it in a negative way, we are using it to provide services or we are using it in a way that is seen as acceptable, socially acceptable in our society,'" Samantha Hoffman, a fellow at ASPI's Cyber Centre, told CNBC's "Beyond the Valley" podcast. "But actually (we) can't be sure of that because the difference isn't necessarily how the technology is being deployed, but who has access to the data it's collecting," she said. "If it's a Chinese company like Huawei, and that … data goes back to China and can be used by the party in whatever way that it chooses."
Chinese laws and regulations
Hoffman cited laws in China that appear to compel Chinese firms to hand over data to the government, if asked. She did not accuse Huawei of wrongdoing, but just used the company as an example. Earlier this year, Huawei CEO Ren Zhengfei said he would "definitely say no" to any request for customer data from Beijing. "I think we don't even quite understand the full scale of the problem that we are dealing with when it comes to Chinese surveillance technology when it is exported. It's not just that other regimes can use it in similar ways, it's that when it's exported the (Chinese Communist) Party can attach its interests as well," Hoffman added.
I think the worse future could be these governments adopting these technologies and adding that arsenal to the existing ones for the control of people. Maya Wang China researcher at Human Rights Watch
Nowhere is China's surveillance state more visible than in Xinjiang, home to China's Uighur minority. The territory has made headlines for its detention and "re-education" camps that hold an estimated 1.5 million Muslims, many of them for violating what Amnesty International describes as a "highly restrictive and discriminatory" law that China says is designed to combat extremism. Maya Wang, a China researcher at Human Rights Watch, focuses on Xinjiang and the surveillance activities there. She warned of the dangers of China's surveillance technology going to authoritarian states. "I think the worse future could be these governments adopting these technologies and adding that arsenal to the existing ones for the control of people," Wang told CNBC. Earlier this year, an ASPI report highlighted other concerns from China exporting its surveillance tech, including being able to undermine democracies, get an edge on new technologies and in military areas. "You know, domestically and globally, it (Chinese Communist Party) plans to use technology as (a) way to both protect and expand its power," Hoffman said. "Globally, the implications of that are that the party is trying to reshape global governance in a way that ... will ensure the party's power."
Privacy backlash
Facial recognition technology has already faced backlash around the world. Last month in the U.S., California lawmakers banned local police from using facial-recognition software in body cameras. The current ban is temporary. Earlier this year, the Financial Times reported that the European Commission, the European Union's executive arm, was looking at drafting new regulation on the technology. Microsoft CEO also said in January that he would welcome new rules on the use facial recognition. The FT also discovered that a developer involved in London's King's Cross area had deployed facial recognition cameras without people's knowledge. This drew criticism from Britain's data protection watchdog which said it was "deeply concerned about the growing use of facial recognition technology in public spaces." Also in the U.K., Liberty — a human rights advocacy group on behalf of a person called Ed Bridges — brought a case against South Wales Police regarding the use of facial recognition. It was seen as one of the first cases of its kind in the world. Bridges claimed to have his face scanned by the police force and argued there were no legal safeguards in place for the use of the tech. "That struck me as being an infringement of my privacy," Bridges told CNBC's "Beyond the Valley" podcast. "I am a law-abiding citizen, I was doing nothing wrong, I was just going about my business, and yet here the police were in my home city taking my data." The judges in the case ruled against Liberty and Bridges, and said they were "satisfied that the current legal regime is adequate," and that the use of the technology did not violate the Human Rights Act. Bridges told CNBC he would appeal and that he's concerned about the lack of consent from the public. "The issue this comes back to is around consent … When I'm walking through what is a public space … how many of us have that sort of option to stop and go … 'hang on my face is being scanned, who is doing this, for what purposes?' We've all got lives to lead and I think that's why it's important to challenge the use of technology in the way that we are," he said.
Surveillance and trade war
Chinese technology firms have been the caught in the crosshairs of the U.S.-China trade war. Huawei, the world's largest telecoms equipment maker, has been blacklisted by the U.S., restricting its access to American technology. Washington has dubbed Huawei a national security risk, saying its gear could be used by Beijing for espionage. The Chinese tech giant has repeatedly denied those allegations. On Monday, the U.S. government widened its net to add another 28 Chinese entities to a blacklist called the Entity List. Hikvision, a firm that makes surveillance products, is one of those companies. Dahua, which deals with surveillance equipment, was also added to the list.

Story 60
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 61
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 62
On Oct. 1, 2019, the Chinese Communist Party will celebrate the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People’s Republic of China, an event referred to by the government as a liberation. It was a liberation that plunged the country into decades of Maoist cruelty and chaos.
China today, for any visitor who remembers the country from 20 or 30 years ago, seems hardly recognizable. One of the government’s greatest accomplishments is to have distanced itself so successfully from the Mao era that it seems almost erased. Instead of collective poverty and marching Red Guards, there are skyscrapers, new airports, highways, railway stations, and bullet trains. Yet scratch the glimmering surface and the iron underpinnings of the one-party state become apparent. They have barely changed since 1949, despite all the talk about “reform and opening up.” The legacy of liberation is a country still in chains.
Just what was China liberated from in 1949? It wasn’t the Japanese, defeated four years earlier by the Allies, including the Nationalists and their leader, Chiang Kai-shek. It wasn’t colonialism—all the foreign concessions in the country had been dissolved, some as early as 1929. The Republic of China was a sovereign state and a permanent member of the U.N. Security Council.
Nor was it tyranny. In 1912, when China became Asia’s first republic, it had an electorate of 40 million people, or 10 percent of the population, a level of popular representation not reached by Japan until 1928 and India until 1935. Participatory politics, despite many setbacks, continued to thrive over the following decades. When the National Assembly met in May 1948, upwards of 1,400 delegates from all parts of China adopted a constitution that contained an elaborate bill of rights.
In many parts of Asia, the Republic of China was seen as a beacon of democracy, not least because of its sustained efforts to separate powers and establish an independent judicial system and promote the rule of law. Freedom of speech may have been curtailed by local strongmen, but Ta Kung Pao, China’s most important newspaper before 1949, regularly lambasted Chiang. Freedom of association was vigorously defended and led to a thriving civil society, with endless associations set up independently from the government, from imposing chambers of commerce to student unions.
China, before 1949, was more closely integrated into the global community than it is now. Several bilingual lawyers became judges at the International Court of Justice in The Hague, while educated professionals were able to match their foreign peers in many other fields, ranging from avionics to zoology. But ordinary people, too, were familiar with the world beyond their community, as illustrated magazines and radio programs disseminated information about every aspect of the modern world, whether new agricultural techniques or the fluctuating price of silk on the international market. Freedom of religion was taken for granted.
The term “liberation” brings to mind cheering crowds celebrating newly won freedoms, but what happened in 1949 was the result of a long and bloody military conquest. After 1945, the Americans abandoned their wartime ally Chiang and the Nationalists, while Joseph Stalin occupied Manchuria and helped Mao Zedong turn his ragtag army of guerrilla fighters into a formidable war machine.
By 1948, the Communists began to lay siege to one city after another, starving them into surrender. Changchun, in the middle of the vast Manchurian plain north of the Great Wall of China, was blockaded for five months in 1948. The city fell after 160,000 civilians died of hunger. Unwilling to undergo the same fate, other cities capitulated soon afterward. By the end of 1949, the red flag was raised over the Forbidden City in Beijing.
Over the following years, a newly conquered public had to turn themselves into what the Communists called “New People.” They went to reeducation centers to learn the right answers, the right ideas, and the right slogans. Many of those deemed beyond redemption were slaughtered in an initial Great Terror that claimed some 2 million lives between 1949 and 1952, as victims were shot in public rallies held in stadiums or executed far away from the public eye, along rivers and ravines. In a meticulously drafted report preserved in the vaults of the Communist Party archives, Public Security Minister Luo Ruiqing proudly announced in August 1952 to Mao that 301,800 people had been executed in one year in a mere six provinces.
All organizations operating outside of the party—religious communities, charitable organizations, study societies, independent chambers of commerce, civil associations—were eliminated within a few years. By 1956, all private enterprises had been expropriated. In the countryside, the land was collectivized, while villagers lost their freedom of movement and were obliged to sell the grain to the state at government-mandated prices.
In 1958, people in the countryside were herded into huge collectives called “people’s communes,” modeled on the army with collective canteens and collective dormitories. Mao was convinced that by turning every villager into a foot soldier in one giant army, to be deployed day and night to transform the economy, he could catapult his country into the future. His experiment was called the Great Leap Forward, but it was a disaster as tens of millions of people, reduced to the status of bonded servants, were worked, beaten, and starved to death.
The catastrophe of the Great Leap Forward undermined Mao’s standing among his colleagues. His answer was to launch the Cultural Revolution in 1966, unleashing the Red Guards on all those suspected of harboring doubts about his leadership. Ten years of chaos ensued, with endless campaigns in which people were forced to denounce family, friends, and colleagues.
By the time Mao died in 1976, living standards for the population were lower than in 1949.
Hundreds of millions of people, it has often been claimed, were lifted out of poverty by the Chinese Communist Party after Deng Xiaoping came to power in 1979. But it is the people who lifted themselves out of poverty after having been stripped of their land and property, deprived of their most basic freedoms, impoverished, beaten, and starved during three decades of forced collectivization. The Cultural Revolution severely battered the ranks of the Communist Party, and villagers everywhere used the opportunity to quietly reconnect with the past, as they opened black markets, shared out collective assets, took back the land, and opened underground factories. Well before Deng came to power, large parts of the countryside had already abandoned the planned economy.
But the limited economic freedoms wrenched from the state by ordinary villagers came without significant political reform. After the chaos of the Cultural Revolution, the party became more determined than ever not to give up its monopoly on power. The separation of powers was explicitly ruled out by Deng, including the idea of free elections.
The party used economic growth to rebuild itself. Over the next couple of decades, relative economic freedoms came hand in hand with a determined suppression of every basic political aspiration. The institutions on which the party has relied to impose its will since 1949 have been spruced up over the decades. There is the massive Propaganda Department, which has not changed its Chinese name or its mission since 1949, although it is now conveniently translated into English as the “Publicity Department.” There is the Ministry of Public Security, which concentrates on repressing the public, and the Ministry of State Security, which concentrates on controlling party members, two behemoths that reach all the way down to every household. There is the National Bureau of Statistics, which told the world about the miracle of the Great Leap Forward in 1958 and continues to produce the numbers required by the party. And then, of course, there is the People’s Liberation Army (PLA). Like most organizations in the People’s Republic that invoke the people, the PLA is the exclusive instrument of the party.
In the first years of the People’s Republic, Mao successfully eliminated all organizations outside of the party’s umbrella, making sure the Chinese Communist Party was the unrivaled master of all of the country’s resources. That situation has not substantially changed, as the party remains in a position of exclusive power to extract wealth from its population. The land belongs to the state, the banks belong to the state, industry belongs to the state, and most large enterprises and companies belong to the state or are controlled indirectly by the state.
Since there is no separation of powers, there is no independent judiciary capable of protecting private property. According to the constitution, so-called “socialist public property” is “inviolable,” unlike private property. Even billionaires are unable to protect their assets, except by shipping them out of the country, as we saw a few years ago before capital controls were reinforced. Occasionally one or two billionaires disappear from view, such as the financier Xiao Jianhua two years ago, while the others scramble to prove their loyalty to the party.
During the past 40 years, ideas, goods, and people have been allowed to flow out of China in endless quantities but apparently not the other way around. “Reform and opening up,” it turns out, is more like a screen or a turnstile used to insulate the country from the outside world. Take, for instance, the number of foreigners who reside in China. A hundred years ago, there were some 350,000 of them, or close to 0.1 percent of the overall population. The number today is closer to 0.05 percent. By comparison, it is 0.2 percent in North Korea.
A one-party state is good at giving the appearance of stability during periods of economic crisis. But the government appears unable, or unwilling, to grant its promises of equality, justice, and freedom that it proclaimed—although never fulfilled—70 years ago on Oct. 1, 1949. It seems to know only one standard response to a whole range of political aspirations from its huge and very diverse population, namely repression. As it swats left, right, and center, it looks increasingly as if it has reached a dead end.

Story 63
The big picture: U.S. companies are increasingly weighing in on social and political issues at home. But when it comes to China — in particular to Hong Kong or to mass detentions of Muslims in Xinjiang — they’re silent.
"When it has to do with market access in China and profits ... they will bend over backwards to apologize," says Bonnie Glaser, an expert on China at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.
The latest: An image that Houston Rockets' general manager Daryl Morey tweeted — then quickly deleted — that backed Hong Kong's pro-democracy protests kicked off a firestorm in China.
Both Morey and the NBA backtracked after offending Chinese fans. But the Chinese government, the Chinese Basketball Association and multiple Chinese businesses have severed ties with the Rockets, reports Axios' Kendall Baker.
Hanging in the balance is an NBA-Tencent streaming deal worth billions, the support of millions of Chinese fans and Morey's job.
This isn't the first time Beijing has squeezed an apology out of — or even changed the behavior of — an American entity.
Marriott apologized to China after Beijing shut down the hotel chain's website because it listed Hong Kong, Taiwan, Tibet and Macau as separate countries. "We don’t support separatist groups that subvert the sovereignty and territorial integrity of China,” the company said in a statement.
All three big U.S. airlines — American, United and Delta — bent to China's will last summer and scrubbed references to Taiwan as its own country.
The Gap — under threat of getting cut out of China — apologized for selling T-shirts with a map of China that didn't include Tibet or Taiwan. The company said its map was "incorrect."
Beijing, which is Hollywood's biggest international market, has also pushed American studios to alter content in order to get into Chinese theaters.
What to watch: NBA commissioner Adam Silver released a statement on the situation this morning.
"It is inevitable that people around the world — including from America and China — will have different viewpoints over different issues. It is not the role of the NBA to adjudicate those differences."
that people around the world — including from America and China — will have different viewpoints over different issues. It is not the role of the NBA to adjudicate those differences." "However, the NBA will not put itself in a position of regulating what players, employees and team owners say or will not say on these issues. We simply could not operate that way."
The bottom line: Leveraging foreign access to its 1.5 billion consumers is one of China’s most potent weapons against the U.S.

Story 64
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 65
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 66
Ask Google or Siri: "What is Taiwan?"
"A state", they will answer, "in East Asia".
But earlier in September, it would have been a "province in the People's Republic of China".
For questions of fact, many search engines, digital assistants and phones all point to one place: Wikipedia. And Wikipedia had suddenly changed.
The edit was reversed, but soon made again. And again. It became an editorial tug of war that - as far as the encyclopedia was concerned - caused the state of Taiwan to constantly blink in and out of existence over the course of a single day.
"This year is a very crazy year," sighed Jamie Lin, a board member of Wikimedia Taiwan.
"A lot of Taiwanese Wikipedians have been attacked."
Edit wars
Wikipedia is a movement as much as a website.
Anyone can write or edit entries on Wikipedia, and in almost every country on Earth, communities of "Wikipedians" exist to protect and contribute to it. The largest collection of human knowledge ever amassed, available to everyone online for free, it is arguably the greatest achievement of the digital age. But in the eyes of Lin and her colleagues, it is now under attack.
Image caption Jamie Lin - seen on the left - is one of many Taiwanese Wikipedians concerned about changes being made to the online encylopedia
The edit war over Taiwan was only one of a number that had broken out across Wikipedia's vast, multi-lingual expanse of entries. The Hong Kong protests page had seen 65 changes in the space of a day - largely over questions of language. Were they protesters? Or rioters?
The English entry for the Senkaku islands said they were "islands in East Asia", but earlier this year the Mandarin equivalent had been changed to add "China's inherent territory".
The 1989 Tiananmen Square protests were changed in Mandarin to describe them as "the June 4th incident" to "quell the counter-revolutionary riots". On the English version, the Dalai Lama is a Tibetan refugee. In Mandarin, he is a Chinese exile.
Angry differences of opinion happen all the time on Wikipedia. But to Ms Lin, this was different.
"It's control by the [Chinese] Government" she continued. "That's very terrible."
'Socialist values'
BBC Click's investigation has found almost 1,600 tendentious edits across 22 politically sensitive articles. We cannot verify who made each of these edits, why, or whether they reflect a more widespread practice. However, there are indications that they are not all necessarily organic, nor random.
Both an official and academics from within China have begun to call for both their government and citizens to systematically correct what they argue are serious anti-Chinese biases endemic across Wikipedia. One paper is called Opportunities And Challenges Of China's Foreign Communication in the Wikipedia, and was published in the Journal of Social Sciences this year.
In it, the academics Li-hao Gan and Bin-Ting Weng argue that "due to the influence by foreign media, Wikipedia entries have a large number of prejudiced words against the Chinese government".
They continue: "We must develop a targeted external communication strategy, which includes not only rebuilding a set of external communication discourse systems, but also cultivating influential editors on the wiki platform."
They end with a call to action.
"China urgently needs to encourage and train Chinese netizens to become Wikipedia platform opinion leaders and administrators… [who] can adhere to socialist values and form some core editorial teams."
Shifting perceptions
Another is written by Jie Ding, an official from the China International Publishing Group, an organisation controlled by the Chinese Communist Party. It argues that "there is a lack of systematic ordering and maintenance of contents about China's major political discourse on Wikipedia".
It too urges the importance to "reflect our voices and opinions in the entry, so as to objectively and truly reflect the influence of Chinese path and Chinese thoughts on other countries and history".
"'Telling China's story' is a concept that has gained huge traction over the past couple of years," Lokman Tsui, an assistant professor at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, told BBC Click. "They think that a lot of the perceptions people have of China abroad are really misunderstandings."
To Tsui, an important shift is now happening as China mobilises its system of domestic online control to now extend beyond its borders to confront the perceived misconceptions that exist there. Wikipedia has confronted the problem of vandalism since its beginning. You can see all the edits that are made, vandalism can be rolled back in a second, pages can be locked, and the site is patrolled by a combination of bots and editors.
People have tried to manipulate Wikipedia from the very beginning, and others have worked to stop them for just as long.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Hong Kong's protests are one topic where there has been a back-and-forth over edits to descriptive words
However, much of the activity that Lin described isn't quite vandalism. Some - such as Taiwan's sovereignty - is about asserting one disputed claim above others. Others, subtler still, are about the pruning of language, especially in Mandarin, to make a political point.
Should the Hong Kong protests be considered "against" China? Should you call a community "Taiwanese people of Han descent", or "a subgroup of Han Chinese, native to Taiwan"?
It is over this kind of linguistic territory that many of the fiercest battles rage.
Coordinated strategy?
The attacks are often not to Wikipedia's content, but rather its community of Wikipedians.
"Some have told us that their personal information has been sprayed [released], because they have different thoughts," Lin said.
There have also been death threats directed at Taiwanese Wikipedians. One, on the related public Wikimedia Telegram Channel, read "the policemen will enjoy your mother's forensic report". And elections to administrator positions on Wikipedia, who hold greater powers, have similarly become starkly divided down geopolitical lines.
Attributing online activity to states is often impossible, and there is also no direct, proven link between any of these edits and the Chinese government.
"It's absolutely conceivable," Tsui continued, "that people from the diaspora, patriotic Chinese, are editing these Wikipedia entries. "But to say that is to ignore the larger structural coordinated strategy the government has to manipulate these platforms."
Image caption It has been argued that minor changes to Wikipedia entries can change readers' perceptions
Whilst unattributed, the edits do happen against the backdrop where a number of states, including China, have intensified attempts to systematically manipulate online platforms. They have done so on Twitter and Facebook, and researchers around the world have warned of state-backed online propaganda targeting a range of others.
Compared with almost any other online platform, Wikipedia makes for a tempting, even obvious, target.
"I'm absolutely not surprised," said Heather Ford, a senior lecturer in digital cultures at the University of New South Wales, whose research has focused on the political editing of Wikipedia. I'm surprised it's taken this long actually… It is a prioritised source of facts and knowledge about the world."
Of course, every state cares about its reputation.
"China is the second largest economy in the world and is doing what any other country in this status would seek," said Shirley Ze Yu, a visiting senior fellow at the LSE. "Today China does owe the world a China story told by itself and from a Chinese perspective. I think it's not only Chinese privilege, it's really a responsibility".
Taiwan is itself locked in a messaging war with China, with its own geopolitical points to make and many of the misconceptions may be genuine ones, at least in the eyes of the people who edit them.
So does this amount to telling China's story, or online propaganda?
At least on Wikipedia, the answer depends on where you fall on two very different ideas about what the internet is for. There is the philosophy of open knowledge, open source, volunteer-led communities.
But it may now be confronted by another force: the growing online power of states whose geopolitical struggles to define the truth now extend onto places like Wikipedia that have grown too large, too important, for them to ignore.
* The Chinese Embassy was approached for a comment but we did not receive a reply.

Story 67
As China seeks ever more control over its population, it’s turning to one tool of particular note: people’s faces.
On Sept. 27, the nation’s information-technology ministry announced that telecom carriers, from December, must scan the face of anyone applying for mobile and internet service. Using facial-recognition technology, the companies will verify that the applicant is indeed the owner of a valid ID.
Meanwhile the Hong Kong government invoked emergency powers on Oct. 4 to ban demonstrators from wearing face masks. People may believe they can evade legal liability for their actions when their faces are concealed, noted Maria Tam, deputy director of the Chinese parliament’s Basic Law Committee in Hong Kong. The new rule, she said, would send a message that demonstrators can be identified and arrested.
The consequences of being identified can be severe. In Hong Kong, demonstrators charged with rioting face up to 10 years in prison (among their five demands is a halt to characterizing the protests as “riots”). In mainland China, displeasing the government can land one in even more trouble.
In August, Hong Kong protesters vandalized “smart” lampposts that they suspect are used for surveillance, not just for collecting data on traffic, weather, and air quality. The government plans to install many more of the devices. Meanwhile in mainland China, facial recognition and artificial intelligence—combined with a social credit score—are helping authorities reward or punish citizens for certain behavior, even jaywalking.
With or without China, the advent of facial-recognition technologies would likely draw the interest of repressive governments seeking new ways to monitor people. But Beijing’s push in this area makes the threat stronger.
The Chinese Communist Party is busy exporting its surveillance capabilities to like-minded regimes, while also promoting its authoritarian system as a political model for other nations to follow. It uses the Xinjiang region, home to the repressed Uyghur minority, as a testbed for data-driven surveillance, refining systems that could eventually spread throughout China and beyond.
Perhaps most disturbing, such efforts are still in their early days. Beijing is just getting started, and faces are increasingly in its sights.
This essay was originally published in the weekend edition of the Quartz Daily Brief newsletter. Sign up for it here.

Story 68
Activision Blizzard, one of America’s biggest gaming companies, just bowed to Chinese censorship in a disturbing way: suspending a professional player of Hearthstone, its digital card game, over a statement supporting the Hong Kong pro-democracy protests.
The offending commentary from Chung Ng Wai, a Hong Kong-based player who goes by the name “Blitzchung,” came during an official interview on Sunday held after he won a match in the Hearthstone Grandmasters tournament, the highest level of competition in the game.
Chung said “Liberate Hong Kong, revolution of our time” — a protest slogan in the city — while wearing goggles and a face mask, items commonly donned by protestors to conceal their identity. The protests, which began over an extradition law, have morphed into a broad-based demand to protect the semi-autonomous city’s democratic political system from mainland China’s attempts to exert control over it.
On Tuesday, Blizzard came down hard on Chung. In an official statement on Hearthstone’s blog, the company announced that it would be suspending Chung for a year, forcing him to forfeit thousands of dollars in prize money from 2019 and firing the casters (commentators) who conducted the interview.
This is a big deal.
Blizzard, who created (among other things) World of Warcraft, is a massive company. It brought in about $7.5 billion in revenue in 2018. Like the NBA, which has rebuked the Houston Rockets’ general manager over a pro-Hong Kong tweet, Blizzard is not merely trying to operate within the confines of Chinese censorship but acting as its agent.
The non-Chinese Hearthstone player base is furious with Blizzard; the game’s subreddit is full of longtime players vowing to quit the game in protest. Count me as one of them.
I’ve been playing Hearthstone daily for about two years, including spending some money on cards and reaching the top tier of the game’s competitive ladder (the Legend ranks). But now I’m done, both with Hearthstone and any other Activision Blizzard product, unless it reinstates Chung and the casters.
The case for boycotting Blizzard — and other US companies who act as Chinese censors
Blizzard’s argument for suspending Chung hinges on an alleged rule violation, specifically Section 6.1 of the official Hearthstone Grandmasters rules. The rule prohibits “engaging in any act that, in Blizzard’s sole discretion, brings you into public disrepute, offends a portion or group of the public, or otherwise damages Blizzard image.”
The idea here seems to be that supporting pro-democracy protestors in Hong Kong has brought Chung into “public disrepute” in mainland China, justifying his suspension. The actual motivation is most likely crasser: Blizzard’s userbase is declining, and it is counting on expansion in the very large Chinese market to reverse the downward momentum.
“The gaming giant ... is badly in need of a stimulus after its market value declined by a quarter over the past twelve months,” the financial news company AlphaStreet reported in January. “Blizzard’s strategy of taking the China route for regaining the lost strength is currently followed by many American tech companies.”
Blizzard’s userbase remains overwhelmingly non-Chinese. According to the company’s most recent financial data, from June 2019, the entire Asia-Pacific region makes up a scant 12 percent of its revenue. Since that region includes large gaming markets in places like Japan and South Korea, mainland China’s clout is smaller than you think — and pales in comparison to the Americas (55 percent) and Europe/the Middle East (33 percent).
So while Blizzard may have a lot of ground to gain in the Chinese market, a significant hit to its revenue in the United States and other liberal democracies would be a massive threat. Blizzard’s fans in those countries have a lot of leverage over the company.
And, in this case, they’re justified in using it.
Navigating the Chinese market is difficult for major companies and requires some necessary tradeoffs. Blizzard has changed the art in World of Warcraft to comply with Chinese cultural norms and strictures, notably cutting out some goriness and skeletons. That’s maybe not ideal, but at least a defensible choice for a company that has a clear financial stake in the Chinese market.
Censoring a professional player for expressing support for the democracy movement in Hong Kong — and seizing his money — is way over the line.
It isn’t merely adjusting a cosmetic part of the product to fit a particular market; it’s actively participating in the suppression of political speech on behalf of core liberal values. Blizzard is throwing its lot in with an authoritarian state, acting as an international agent of its repressive apparatus in opposition to fundamental human rights.
An organized boycott targeting Blizzard is also a relatively rare opportunity for ordinary citizens around the world to help out the Hong Kong protestors working to protect their democratic system.
It’s hard to do much for the brave people taking to the streets from thousands of miles away, but international consumers do have leverage over international corporations. Punishing Blizzard for its behavior could help send a signal to other companies that acting as agents of the Chinese state carries a cost and that they need to think carefully before throwing Hong Kong under the bus.
Blizzard’s censorship of Chung is hardly the only case of a US company acting on behalf of China. Just yesterday, the NBA issued a statement distancing itself from Daryl Morey, the general manager of the Houston Rockets, after he tweeted support for the Hong Kong protestors. The team is reportedly considering firing him in order to placate Chinese authorities and protect NBA investments there.
The league is facing a bipartisan political backlash as a result; Sen. Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and several Democratic presidential candidates have condemned the league’s actions.
But Blizzard, less well known among the American political class, isn’t facing the same amount of high-level political condemnation. For now, it seems it’s up to Blizzard’s users to show the company that its actions have consequences.

Story 69
ZHENGZHOU, China — Forty years after China began its near-miraculous run as the world’s most powerful economic growth engine, its people are experiencing something new and unsettling: a feeling that the best times may be behind them.
The Chinese economy is slowing, and the cost of living is rising. The trade war with the United States shows no sign of ending. Wage growth is sluggish. More young people are chasing fewer job prospects.
Chinese consumers, who have become more cautious over the past year, are now staging a broad retreat. They are buying fewer cars, smartphones and appliances. They are going to the movies less and taking fewer trips abroad. They would rather stick their money in the bank.
For China’s young people , who have never experienced a prolonged slump in their lives, the shift is especially stark. China has seen slowdowns before, but its consumers kept spending through most of those downturns.

Story 70
ZHENGZHOU, China — Forty years after China began its near-miraculous run as the world’s most powerful economic growth engine, its people are experiencing something new and unsettling: a feeling that the best times may be behind them.
The Chinese economy is slowing, and the cost of living is rising. The trade war with the United States shows no sign of ending. Wage growth is sluggish. More young people are chasing fewer job prospects.
Chinese consumers, who have become more cautious over the past year, are now staging a broad retreat. They are buying fewer cars, smartphones and appliances. They are going to the movies less and taking fewer trips abroad. They would rather stick their money in the bank.
For China’s young people , who have never experienced a prolonged slump in their lives, the shift is especially stark. China has seen slowdowns before, but its consumers kept spending through most of those downturns.

Story 71
In a 1996 essay, an official with China Foods Limited, a government-affiliated company that managed the national pork reserve, wrote that the official stockpile had grown to 200,000 tons from around 20,000 tons at inception. The number dipped in the early 2000s, researchers say. But it seemed to have recovered by 2011, when, amid a bout of infectious disease that brought pork prices to new highs, China’s commerce ministry said the national reserve held around 200,000 tons.
The big question, of course, is whether the reserves could ever be large enough to have a meaningful effect on prices. China consumes over 50 million tons of pork a year, or nearly half of the pork that is eaten annually by all of humankind. Pretty much all of that comes from pigs raised within the country.
But analysts estimate that China’s herd is already 40 percent smaller this year than last, as hogs die from African swine fever, are culled to control the disease’s spread or are never born in the first place. Analysts at Jefferies, the investment bank, predict that the nation will produce 30 percent less pork this year compared with last year, a drop of 16 million tons.
Against those numbers, even 200,000 tons of emergency meat can seem like a drop in the ocean.
Where is all that pork kept?
China’s central government has more than a dozen storehouses around the country, each of which can hold around 10,000 tons of frozen raw pork. There are also private and state-owned companies that work with the authorities to manage national and local reserves.
These companies mostly keep their pork in unmarked suburban warehouses, where the meat stays at the state-mandated temperature of minus-18 degrees Celsius, or just under zero degrees Fahrenheit. In 2013, a reporter in the eastern province of Shandong got a peek inside one such facility, where 1,500 tons of pork was sitting behind a double-locked door. The guard at the warehouse was wearing eight layers of clothing.
Technically, though, China’s pork reserves don’t contain only meat. Since the ’90s, the government has stockpiled live pigs, too.
In 2007, when reporters in Shandong visited a farm that bred pigs for the provincial reserve, they found tens of thousands of hogs running around in what sounded like pretty idyllic conditions: “The area is lush with vegetation and shaded by trees. The hog house is tall and spacious. There is heating in the winter and ventilator fans in the summer.”

Story 72
There would seem to be no bad time to put out a hot new videogame, though Activision Blizzard may have found one.
The videogame company launched “Call of Duty: Mobile” last week to great acclaim. It isn’t the first mobile game to bear the imprint of the blockbuster game franchise, though it is the first to deliver the sort of robust, multiplayer experience previously available only on the game’s console and PC versions. It has been a hit. Downloads of the game hit 100 million in the first week, with gross revenue totaling...

Story 73
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 74
China Has No Room for Dissenting Friends
In July this year, 22 Western-aligned countries issued a joint statement to the high commissioner of the United Nations’ Human Rights Council objecting to China’s abuses against the Uighur Muslim minority in Xinjiang province. That’s not unusual: The reports of human rights abuses in the province are coming out thick and fast, and Western countries are more than happy to raise concerns against such abuses, whether out of genuine concern, domestic virtue signaling by political leaders, or the use of any available stick to whack a geopolitical rival.
What was remarkable was the 37 countries issuing a counter letter praising China’s human rights record, from humanitarian luminaries including such as Syria, Myanmar, and North Korea. More interestingly, about half of the signatories of this letter were Muslim-majority countries. If the issues had been about Palestinians or even the Rohingya, one might expect the usual cynical domestic virtue signaling by political leaders around the well-worn claims of Muslim solidarity. Instead, they chose to loudly broadcast their support for Beijing’s policy of eradicating the old Islamic culture of the ancient Silk Road gateway to the Chinese heartland in Xinjiang.
The calculation of such leaders, from Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan to Mohammed bin Salman, the de facto head of government of Saudi Arabia, the custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, is well understood and publicized: “Muslim solidarity” is a convenient and effective slogan to be thrown at domestic audiences, but if your national economy—and the personal profits of the elite—depends on the goodwill of Beijing, then you must defer to China’s supposedly sovereign right to do as it pleases within its borders, and forget about the umma.
In a sense, none of this is surprising. Political hypocrisy is the bread and butter of strongman leaders of marginal states. But what’s curious is that the very same leaders and countries would have no compunction voicing objections to any real or imagined ill-treatment of Muslims by Western countries. Many of these countries, and certainly Turkey and Saudi Arabia, owe their security and their regional power and prominence to U.S. and NATO guarantees. There is no sense in which many of these countries are more dependent on China than they are on the United States. The asymmetry comes out of China’s expected response.
Unlike the West, China has a much lower tolerance for disagreement and criticism. In part, this is down to the political system. Western democracies are built upon disagreement and criticism. A Western government can hardly complain to Ankara or Riyadh about comments they make on domestic affairs when that country’s political opposition, media, and public opinion would have already raised those points. That ability to take criticism and hopefully respond by improving is one of the key strengths of the West’s political culture.
However, as much as the Chinese Communist Party has changed in the last four decades, its default is still control. Dissent under President Xi Jinping has been ruthlessly quashed, with even the limited space available for mild criticism in the 2000s now eliminated. Beijing maintains the habits of 20th-century socialist dictatorships. Criticism is not taken as an opportunity to learn and improve. It is taken as an attack on the party and consequently a deliberate assault upon the obviously correct and harmonious social order.
When translated to foreign affairs, the contrast between these two cultures is stark. Britain and America’s other key Western allies could all sit on the side in the Vietnam War, criticizing through popular mass protest and government resistance U.S. policy and war conduct. There was never, therefore, a question of Washington withdrawing economic and military support from Western Europe in response. The most famous incident of Washington threatening to pull economic support was for an anti-imperialist cause—when then-President Dwight D. Eisenhower promised devastating measures if Britain and France didn’t pull out of the self-created Suez crisis.
When Washington invaded Afghanistan in the wake of 9/11, U.S. allies came through, but when the United States sought war in Iraq under the same pretext, many of those allies had the latitude to step back and say, as well-meaning friends, that it was the wrong thing to do. They were, of course, right—and if Washington listened more, it would make better decisions.
But as China builds a sphere of influence, its newfound friendships are of an entirely different nature. China’s friends are expected to acquiesce unquestioningly to Beijing’s higher wisdom and present ostentatious displays of public fawning whenever Beijing comes under any criticism. And as Beijing’s crackdown shows no sign of ending, foreign leaders in China’s sphere of influence will be under continued pressure to come to the defense of Beijing in public forums, regardless how awkward that might turn out to be for them.
But if that is how Beijing and their friends want to transact their friendship, what is the problem? We do not need to like it, but it is not for us to decide how these countries organize their relationships to one another, right?
Well, the problem is that Beijing is, in effect, building a gang. China’s sphere of influence is not going to be a just a group of pals. It will be an in-group organized around currying favor with the gang leader, but, crucially for everyone else, also the performance of hostility toward the out-group as a display of loyalty to the gang and the leader. China is cultivating an us versus them attitude in the foreign outlook of their clients, and the West is the “them” to be hostile against.
For the time being, this tendency has not yet produced any obviously absurd displays of hostility. Even though many of these countries are increasingly moving toward the warm embrace of China, they still have vital relationships with the United States and the West more broadly. So when asked for rhetorical support by Beijing on issues such as the Uighurs or even Hong Kong, these countries will calculate that China will not tolerate dissent, their Western partners will, and so the logical middle ground is to sign Beijing’s letters and leave things at that.
But as the United States, and consequently the Western alliance, are increasingly withdrawing from many areas of the globe, those vital relationships for many of these countries will wither and increasingly be replaced by relations of dependency toward Beijing. In fact, there are already countries where this has happened, most obviously and starkly in Pakistan. When these countries begin to have deeper and more essential relationships with China than they do with the West, China will ask for more than just rhetorical support. And these countries will oblige, even if that means attacking Western relations, interests, and assets.
All this is compounded by the current crisis in Washington. The difficulty for the United States in criticizing China for its demands on its friends, and in raising these issues with their common friends, is that the current U.S. leadership is significantly more thin-skinned and unreliable as a friend than previous occupants of the White House. The United States may not threaten to withdraw support over national criticism, but President Donald Trump will do so over personal criticism. So it is only natural that more and more countries will drift ever closer to China, quite apart from considerations of geographical proximity and expectations of future economic opportunities.
China will continue to build an anti-Western bloc, which whether by design or accident will consolidate the world once more into two camps facing each other in a cold war. The United States needs to show itself to be a global leader and reliable friend—either to avert this, or to prepare for it.

Story 75
Hitler’s Third Reich was obliterated by massive military force in 1945. It lasted just 12 years. Stalin’s Soviet Union bore the brunt of beating Hitler, but later succumbed to economic sclerosis. It fell apart in 1991, after 68 years. The mystery of the People’s Republic of China is that it is still with us.
The 70th anniversary of the People’s Republic of China was not a birthday I felt like celebrating. As Dutch historian Frank Dikötter has shown in his searing three-volume history of the Mao Zedong era, the Communist regime claimed the lives of tens of millions of people: 2 million in the revolution between 1949 and 1951, another 3 million by the end of the 1950s, up to 45 million in the man-made famine known as the “Great Leap Forward,” and yet more in the mayhem of the Cultural Revolution, Mao’s campaign against the intelligentsia, which escalated into a civil war.
Advertisement
Two weeks ago, I bet the Chinese economist Justin Yifu Lin 20,000 yuan that China’s economy — defined as gross domestic product in current US dollars—will never overtake that of the United States. Most informed people would expect me to lose that bet.
Now, I could give you a rather boring explanation of why I think China’s bid to “catch up and surpass” (ganchao) the United States will fail. But maybe a more interesting answer can be found in Liu Cixin’s astonishing 2008 novel, “The Three-Body Problem,” which I read for the first time last week.
The problem of the title is introduced to the reader — and to the nanotechnology scientist Wang Miao, one of the central characters — as a virtual reality game, set in a strange, distant world with three suns rather than the familiar one. The mutually perturbing gravitational attractions of the three suns prevent this planet from ever settling into a predictable orbit with regular days, nights, and seasons. It has occasional “stable eras,” during which civilization can advance, but with minimal warning, these give way to “chaotic eras” of intense heat or cold that render the planet uninhabitable.
Advertisement
The central conceit of Liu’s novel is that China’s history has the same pattern as the three-body problem: periods of stability always end with periods of chaos — what the Chinese call dong luan. The other key character in the book is Ye Wenjie, who sees her father, a professor at Tsinghua University, beaten to death by a gang of teenage Red Guards during the Cultural Revolution.
Banished from Beijing to a labor camp in benighted rural backwater, Ye is rescued when she is given a lowly job in a mysterious observatory known as Red Coast. But nothing can undo the emotional damage of witnessing her father’s murder. Nor can she escape the chaos of Communism. She watches in horror as the entire area around the observatory is deforested. Everything — even astrophysics — is subordinated to Mao’s warped ideology.
Disillusioned completely by the madness of mankind — a sentiment reinforced by a chance meeting with an American environmentalist — Ye stumbles on a way of beaming a message from Earth deep into space by bouncing it off the sun. When, after years of empty noise, a clear message is received in reply, she does not hesitate. Even though the message is a warning not to communicate with Trisolaris — the name of a real planet with three suns — Ye sends another message, ensuring that the Trisolarians can locate Earth, and initiate their long-planned relocation.
Advertisement
Rehabilitated in the political thaw that follows Mao’s death, Ye Wenjie returns to Beijing, following in her father’s footsteps as a physics professor. But she leads a double life, for she also becomes the Commander of the Earth-Trisolaris Movement, a radically misanthropic organization dedicated to helping the Trisolarians conquer earth. Acute readers will notice that this group’s ideology is a subtle parody of Maoism.
“Start a global rebellion!” they shout. “Long live the spirit of Trisolaris! We shall persevere like the stubborn grass that resprouts after every wildfire! . . . Eliminate human tyranny!”
Little do they know that the Trisolarians are even worse than humans. As one of the aliens points out to their leader, because of their world’s utter unpredictability, “Everything is devoted to survival. To permit the survival of the civilization as a whole, there is almost no respect for the individual. Someone who can no longer work is put to death. Trisolarian society exists under a state of extreme authoritarianism.” Life for the individual consists of “monotony and desiccation.” That sounds a lot like Mao’s China.
There is one scene in “The Three-Body Problem” that sticks in the mind. An adult and a child stand looking at the grave of a Red Guard killed during the factional battles that raged during the Cultural Revolution. “Are they heroes?” asks the child. The adult says no. “Are they enemies?” The adult again says no. “Then who are they?” The adult replies: “History.”
Advertisement
True, the hero of the story is the foul-mouthed, chain-smoking Beijing cop Shi Qiang. Chinese readers doubtless relish the scene when he lectures a pompous American general about how best to save the world.
But the deeper meaning of the book is surely that Trisolaris is China. The three bodies in contention are not suns but classes: rulers, intellectuals, masses. Right now, China is in one of its stable phases. But, as the contending forces shift, chaos will sooner or later return. Perhaps it already has, in Hong Kong.
If it spreads, I — and history — will win that bet.
Niall Ferguson is the Milbank Family Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University.

Story 76
Much of Chinaâs chapters over the past seven decades can seem very remote and disconnected from todayâs economic powerhouse â black-and-white images of grinding poverty where there are now food delivery apps; the groundbreaking visit of President Richard M. Nixon in 1972 to Beijing, which is now home to many Western brands. But not everything has changed.

Story 77
[Read live updates to China’s National Day parade and Hong Kong protests.]
President Xi Jinping on Tuesday presided over a large military parade and pageant involving 100,000 performers as China commemorated the 70th anniversary of Communist rule and its rapid emergence as a global power.
National Day is an important holiday in China’s political calendar and the authorities in Beijing have left little to chance: For weeks they have imposed an extensive security crackdown around the country and across the internet.
But as much as China wants to project a vision of itself as prosperous, powerful and unified, anti-government protests in Hong Kong threaten to overshadow the festivities.
Mr. Xi used his speech Tuesday to say that China would “maintain the lasting prosperity and stability” of Hong Kong, but he did not address the protests convulsing the city.

Story 78
WASHINGTON — President Trump’s latest broadside against former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and his son Hunter appears to center on a joint venture that involved the younger Mr. Biden and some of China’s leading state-owned financial companies.
But the president’s claims bear little if any relation to the known facts.
Without presenting any evidence, Mr. Trump suggested on Thursday that China showered $1.5 billion on Hunter Biden in order to influence his father and win favorable trade deals with the United States.
“That’s probably why China for so many years has had a sweetheart deal where China rips off the U.S.A.” because they deal with people like “Biden where they give the son a billion and a half dollars,” Mr. Trump told reporters on the South Lawn of the White House. He added: “You know what they call that? They call that a payoff.”
Companies associated with Hunter Biden or his business partners have struck several deals involving China over the past decade. So, in fact, have Mr. Trump’s own relatives — a point that Mr. Trump does not mention in his now almost-daily accusations against the former vice president, a leading Democratic presidential candidate, and his son.

Story 79
As the government celebrated 70 years in power, the Last Week Tonight host looked at the policy’s history and long-term effects
As the Chinese government celebrated 70 years in power with massive celebrations, John Oliver examined the country’s now extinct one-child policy on Last Week Tonight. A long look at the policy, which mandated only one child per family between 1980 to 2015, illustrates how the Communist party wielded and maintained power, said Oliver, with long-term effects confronting China today.
Oliver first went back to the beginning: in the years leading up to 1980, overpopulation was a global fear, and the Communist party saw population growth control as an economic opportunity to secure power. So who to solve this issue? “Just take a minute and think, who would be the absolute worst choice to craft a proscriptive nationwide policy on reproduction – and do keep in mind, Jared Kushner is not Chinese,” said Oliver.
The policy was developed by male military scientists who, according to Mei Fong, author of One Child, thought female fertility could be shifted up and down, like a switch.
“Yeah, she’s absolutely right: family planning isn’t rocket science,” said Oliver. “And that’s exactly why rocket scientists should not do it. It’s the same reason we don’t let OBGYNs launch babies into space and land them on the moon: experts should stay in their lane.”
'Wild west of the drug industry': John Oliver takes on compounding pharmacies Read more
The policy was a national directive from the Community party but enforced on the local level; there might be exceptions for second children in rural areas, but the general message was to have only one child, as conveyed through propaganda such as “have fewer children, but raise the quality”, which is “just not how children work”, said Oliver. “Children, and I say this as a loving parent, are not high-quality individuals. Their artwork is derivative and their stories meandering.”
The one-child policy was also enforced by a sprawling bureaucracy, with millions of local-level employees who would issue fines multiple times that of a household’s annual income to those with second children.
Even if the parents could afford the fine, “some chose never to let their kids ever forget it”, said Oliver. In the film China’s Stolen Children, for example, a father says: “Why did we name our child 20,000 yuan? Because that’s how much we were fined to have him.”
“Yeah, they named their kid 20,000 yuan so everyone would have to know what they had to go through to have him,” said Oliver. “It’s the equivalent of naming your child “Jason-last-minute-epidural-and-a-whole-lot-of-shitting-on-the-table Rabinowitz”.
There were also far more brutal enforcement methods; Oliver played a clip of one woman tearfully recalling her forced abortion at nine months. “That’s obviously horrifying,” said Oliver, “and I know that there are some who like to hold up China as a blanket argument against abortion in general, so just let me be clear on this: it is very easy to be both pro-choice and anti-forced abortion, in the same way that you can be pro-drinking fountain and anti-waterboarding. The important thing really is who’s in control of the fucking process.”
Seth Meyers on Trump: 'He basically just blew the whistle on himself' Read more
Moving to the present, “for a government that made it a point to micro-manage their citizens’ lives, China did surprisingly little to prepare for the long-term consequences of this policy”, Oliver said. For example: an entire generation of only children. And also an entire generation of “ghost” second children – 6.5 million with no official citizenship status because they were born outside family planning rules, according to a New York Times report from 2015.
There’s also a huge gender disparity – 34 million more men than women, meaning “millions of men who want a wife will never have one”, said Oliver. This has led to some unintended consequences, such as the success of a company that sells life-size mannequins of female bodies. “For the record, buying a life-size sex doll does not stop you from being alone,” said Oliver.
In 2015, China ended the one child policy by instituting a two child policy, with similar propaganda and enforcement methods of fines and forced abortions. The policy enforcement “does suggest that the Chinese government still hasn’t learned the fundamental lesson here”, said Oliver. “People are not machines whose reproductive systems can be turned on or off at will.”
The image of the sex dolls factory – full-size mannequins hanging on a clothing rack to peruse at will – is “pretty on the nose, if you think about it”, said Oliver. “A factory churning out headless silicone women because rocket scientists nearly 40 years ago didn’t care enough about what their policies might do to real ones.”
So as China’s Communist party celebrates 70 years in power this week, he concluded, “it seems worth remembering a massive way they used that power. And if they’re running low on pandas … I’d argue that sex dolls might actually be a more appropriate tribute.”

Story 80
Vice-Premier Liu He will lead the Chinese delegation in Washington for talks with US Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and US trade representative Robert Lighthizer. Photo: Reuters

Story 81
Chinese consumers traditionally spend large on travel during golden week, but huge crowds at popular tourist sites appear to have deterred some travellers. Photo: Imaginechina

Story 82
Image copyright EPA Image caption About 15,000 Chinese military personnel featured in the parade
Deep-sea drones and an intercontinental ballistic missile were among the advanced weapons on public display for the first time at a parade marking 70 years of communist rule in China.
According to the Ministry of National Defence, about 15,000 military personnel, 580 pieces of military equipment and 160 aircraft featured.
Military march-pasts on a grand scale have a long history in the country.
But experts say this year's display showed China's ambitions to modernise.
"It was Russian and Ukrainian equipment at these parades 20 years ago - now everything is made in China," Jon Grevatt of Jane's Defence Weekly told the BBC.
"The technological advancement that China has achieved is almost unprecedented."
Warfare has become increasingly information-driven in recent years - about networks rather than just systems.
This is reflected in the variety of unmanned systems on display in Tuesday's parade in Beijing, says BBC defence correspondent Jonathan Marcus, "in many ways the 'poster weapon' of new-age warfare".
Image copyright AFP Image caption Huge floats bore emblems including that of the Chinese People's Liberation Army (R)
For China, experts say today's parade is also a show of strength to the US.
"We have to remember that China's claims to territory are driving this - and many of these places happen to be claimed by US allies like Japan, and nations in the South China Sea," says Mr Grevatt.
At its heart is a strategy known as known as "anti-access area denial".
Our correspondent says it is exemplified by the DF-26 ballistic missile which, fired from land bases, is believed to have the accuracy to strike at the key element of US power projection, the US Navy's aircraft carriers.
This latest parade also saw the first public display of a newer model - the DF-41 road mobile intercontinental ballistic missile - which Chinese analysts say is able to target any part of the globe.
Image copyright EPA Image caption China's military displayed new intercontinental ballistic missiles in public for the first time
Weapons expert Alex Neill of International Institute for Strategic Studies says the DF-41 can reportedly carry "a warhead payload of 10 multiple, independently targetable re-entry vehicles (MIRV)".
He adds: "A MIRV warhead can be guided towards a specific target, so one could potentially hit 10 different targets over a wide area."
China knows that its forces are now very much the benchmark against which the US is re-building its capabilities, says our correspondent, after decades of focusing on counter-insurgency operations in places like Afghanistan and Iraq.
China is responding by developing its own forces, extending their reach and sophistication.
Image copyright ©2019 Maxar Technologies Image caption Satellite images of the parade moving through Beijing's streets gave an idea of its vast scale
Image copyright Getty Images
Image copyright AFP
Image copyright EPA
Image copyright Reuters Image caption HSU-001 underwater drones were on show for the first time
Image copyright Getty Images
Image copyright Getty Images
Image copyright AFP Image caption Relatives of revolutionary martyrs carried their portraits in the procession
Image copyright AFP Image caption One float featured a giant portrait of Chinese President Xi Jinping
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Non-military performers also took part in the parade
All photos subject to copyright.

Story 83
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 84
BEIJING — As Presid ent Xi Jinping watched from a rostrum above the iconic portrait of Mao, the weapons came one after the other down the Avenue of Eternal Peace, a propaganda-filled show of force to celebrate the 70th anniversary of Commun ist rule in China. Intercontinental ballistic missiles capable of delivering multiple nuclear warheads. Drones built for precision strikes. Tanks and armored personnel carriers bearing soldiers in green uniforms.
In an era when China plays a dominant role on the global stage, foreign officials, whether in Washington or Moscow or Hanoi, use such events to discern the intentions of Mr. Xi and determine whether the economic juggernaut of China is a political and milit ary threat. And the festivities on Tuesday sent a clear message at a complicated time for China’s diplomacy.
With the parade and policies like the militarization of the South China Sea, Mr. Xi and other Communist Party leaders want to tell the world: We are ready to fight and to seize or protect what we deem is ours. They want to show that China is not the same nation they say was humiliated by European powers and Japan from the 19th to 20th centuries.

Story 85
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption China's version of its past is a story of prosperity, progress and sacrifice for the common good
China's extraordinary rise was a defining story of the 20th Century, but as it prepares to mark its 70th anniversary, the BBC's John Sudworth in Beijing asks who has really won under the Communist Party's rule.
Sitting at his desk in the Chinese city of Tianjin, Zhao Jingjia's knife is tracing the contours of a face.
Cut by delicate cut, the form emerges - the unmistakable image of Mao Zedong, founder of modern China.
The retired oil engineer discovered his skill with a blade only in later life and now spends his days using the ancient art of paper cutting to glorify leaders and events from China's communist history.
"I'm the same age as the People's Republic of China (PRC)," he says. "I have deep feelings for my motherland, my people and my party."
Image caption For people like Zhao Jingjia, China's success outweighs the "mistakes" of its leaders
Born a few days before 1 October 1949 - the day the PRC was declared by Mao - Mr Zhao's life has followed the dramatic contours of China's development, through poverty, repression and the rise to prosperity.
Now, in his modest but comfortable apartment, his art is helping him make sense of one of the most tumultuous periods of human history.
"Wasn't Mao a monster," I ask, "responsible for the deaths of tens of millions of his countrymen?"
"I lived through it," he replies. "I can tell you that Chairman Mao did make some mistakes but they weren't his alone.
"I respect him from my heart. He achieved our nation's liberation. Ordinary people cannot do such things."
On Tuesday, China will present a similar, glorious rendering of its record to the world.
The country is staging one of its biggest ever military parades, a celebration of 70 years of Communist Party rule as pure, political triumph.
Beijing will tremble to the thunder of tanks, missile launchers and 15,000 marching soldiers, a projection of national power, wealth and status watched over by the current Communist Party leader, President Xi Jinping, in Tiananmen Square.
An incomplete narrative of progress
Like Mr Zhao's paper-cut portraits, we're not meant to focus on the many individual scars made in the course of China's modern history.
It is the end result that matters.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption 'I was so proud and excited to join the parade'
And, on face value, the transformation has been extraordinary.
On 1 October 1949, Chairman Mao stood in Tiananmen Square urging a war-ravaged, semi-feudal state into a new era with a founding speech and a somewhat plodding parade that could muster only 17 planes for the flyby.
This week's parade, in contrast, will reportedly feature the world's longest range intercontinental nuclear missile and a supersonic spy-drone - the trophies of a prosperous, rising authoritarian superpower with a 400 million strong middle class.
It is a narrative of political and economic success that - while in large part true - is incomplete.
New visitors to China are often, rightly, awe-struck by the skyscraper-festooned, hi-tech megacities connected by brand new highways and the world's largest high-speed rail network.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Those in China's glittering cities may accept the trade-off of political freedom for economic growth
They see a rampant consumer society with the inhabitants enjoying the freedom and free time to shop for designer goods, to dine out and to surf the internet.
"How bad can it really be?" the onlookers ask, reflecting on the negative headlines they've read about China back home.
The answer, as in all societies, is that it depends very much on who you are.
Many of those in China's major cities, for example, who have benefited from this explosion of material wealth and opportunity, are genuinely grateful and loyal.
In exchange for stability and growth, they may well accept - or at least tolerate - the lack of political freedom and the censorship that feature so often in the foreign media.
For them the parade could be viewed as a fitting tribute to a national success story that mirrors their own.
But in the carving out of a new China, the knife has cut long and deep.
The dead, the jailed and the marginalised
Mao's man-made famine - a result of radical changes to agricultural systems - claimed tens of millions of lives and his Cultural Revolution killed hundreds of thousands more in a decade-long frenzy of violence and persecution, truths that are notably absent from Chinese textbooks.
Image copyright Getty/Topical Image caption Tens of millions starved to death under Mao, as China radically restructured agriculture and society
After his death, the demographically calamitous One Child Policy brutalised millions over a 40-year period.
Still today, with its new Two Child Policy, the Party insists on violating that most intimate of rights - an individual's choice over her fertility.
The list is long, with each category adding many thousands, at least, to the toll of those damaged or destroyed by one-party rule.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Beijing still regulates how many children families can have
There are the victims of religious repression, of local government land-grabs and of corruption.
There are the tens of millions of migrant workers, the backbone of China's industrial success, who have long been shut out of the benefits of citizenship.
A strict residential permit system continues to deny them and their families the right to education or healthcare where they work.
And in recent years, there are the estimated one and a half million Muslims in China's western region of Xinjiang - Uighurs, Kazakhs and others - who have been placed in mass incarceration camps on the basis of their faith and ethnicity.
China continues to insist they are vocational schools, and that it is pioneering a new way of preventing domestic terrorism.
The stories of the dead, the jailed and the marginalised are always much more hidden than the stories of the assimilated and the successful.
Viewed from their perspective, the censorship of large parts of China's recent history is not simply part of a grand bargain to be exchanged for stability and prosperity.
Getty Timeline of modern China 1949 Mao declares the founding of the People's Republic of China
1966-76 Cultural Revolution brings social and political upheaval
1977 Deng Xiaoping initiates major reforms of China's economy
1989 Army crushes Tiananmen Square pro-democracy protests
2010 China becomes the world's second-largest economy
2018Xi Jinping is cleared to be president for life
It is something that makes the silence of their suffering all the more difficult to penetrate.
It is the job of foreign journalists, of course, to try.
'Falsified, faked and glorified'
But while censorship can shut people up, it cannot stop them remembering.
Prof Guo Yuhua, a sociologist at Beijing's Tsinghua University, is one of the few scholars left trying to record, via oral histories, some of the huge changes that have affected Chinese society over the past seven decades.
Her books are banned, her communications monitored and her social media accounts are regularly deleted.
"For several generations people have received a history that has been falsified, faked, glorified and whitewashed," she tells me, despite having been warned not to talk to the foreign media ahead of the parade.
"I think it requires the entire nation to re-study and to reflect on history. Only if we do that can we ensure that these tragedies won't be repeated."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Can progress really be attributed to the leadership?
A parade, she believes, that puts the Communist Party at the front and centre of the story, misses the real lesson, that China's progress only began after Mao, when the party loosened its grip a bit.
"People are born to strive for a better, happier and more respectful life, aren't they?" she asks me.
"If they are provided with a tiny little space, they'll try to make a fortune and solve their survival problems. This shouldn't be attributed to the leadership."
'Our happiness comes from hard work'
As if to prove the point about how the unsettled, censored pasts of authoritarian states continue to impact the present, the parade is for invited guests only.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Mao's portrait will, as it always is, be watching over the events in Tiananmen Square
Another anniversary, of which Tiananmen Square is the centrepiece, is also being measured in multiples of 10 - it is 30 years since the bloody suppression of the pro-democracy protests that shook the foundations of Communist Party rule.
The troops will be marching - as they always do on these occasions - down the same avenue on which the students were gunned down.
The risk of even a lone protester using the parade to mark a piece of history that has largely been wiped from the record is just too great.
With central Beijing sealed off, ordinary people in whose honour it is supposedly being held, can only watch it on TV.
Back in his Tianjin apartment, Zhao Jingjia shows me the intricate detail of a series of scenes, each cut from a single piece of paper, depicting the "Long March", a time of hardship and setback for the Communist Party long before it eventually swept to power.
"Our happiness nowadays comes from hard work," he tells me.
It is a view that echoes that of the Chinese government which, like him, has at least acknowledged that Mao made mistakes while insisting they shouldn't be dwelt on.
"As for the 70 years of China, it's extraordinary," he says. "It can be seen by all. Yesterday we sent two navigation satellites into space - all citizens can enjoy the convenience that these things bring us."

Story 86
Nearly seven years into the Xi Jinping administration, China is facing arguably the most restrictive domestic political environment since the aftermath of the June 4 crackdown 30 years earlier. From a massive system of detention and surveillance in Xinjiang to the obliteration of the country’s once robust intellectual discourse, Xi and his allies have moved to tighten Chinese Communist Party (CCP) control over nearly all aspects of economic, political, and social life.
And while the word “totalitarian” overstates the capabilities of the CCP, Xi certainly aspires to that end. It’s captured in his reprisal of an old Mao Zedong quote, “Party, government, military, civilian, and academic; east, west, south, north, and center, the party leads everything.” This CCP-centric conception of Chinese modernity now imbues the country’s political culture, leaving little to no room for nonparty individuals or organizations to claim a leading role in the story of China’s rise.
For outside observers, the question of China’s future political trajectory remains paramount. It may continue to slide toward totalitarianism—or perhaps pull back toward the kind of limited liberalism it seemed to be moving toward in the 2000s. While the record of analysts in predicting such paradigmatic changes is abysmal—thanks as much to authoritarian opacity as to our own epistemic shortcomings—imagining possible futures is critical to how the rest of the world deals with China.
Below are likely signs of a distinct change in the status quo, either signaling an intensification of political control or indicating that the pendulum is swinging back toward political and economic liberalization and reform. The Sinologist Richard Baum argues that China undergoes periodic swings between “tightening” (shou) and “relaxation” (fang). After years of tightening, the country may be due a reprise—or things could get much, much worse.
Tightening (Shou)
1. The Great Terror
For three straight summers, rumors have persisted that President Xi Jinping is facing rising internal dissent that threatens his ability to remain in power. None of those threats has materialized, nor are any of them likely to. Xi has spent the better part of his seven years in office attempting to coup-proof his hold on power. This is not unique to Xi—all authoritarian leaders fear challenges to power coming from their elite rivals. “The art of governing,” French King Louis XIV told his heir, consists of “knowing the real thoughts of all the princes in Europe, knowing everything that people try to conceal from us, their secrets, and keeping close watch over them.”
Yet even if Xi can feel relatively secure in his control over the security services and the People’s Liberation Army, the only way to guarantee his own political survival is to constantly be on guard against organized dissent. But this proves difficult in a political system where there’s only one political party and where all officials are pressed to declare loyalty to Xi. It’s difficult for an autocrat to determine who’s truly loyal and who’s going along until the wind changes.
Such difficulties of political sorting could lead to intensifying paranoia, and just as Joseph Stalin launched his Great Terror against a phantom menace, so too might Xi feel compelled to transform an already extraordinary anti-corruption campaign into a more sustained and overt purge of political enemies, both real and imagined. His main potential rivals at the top of the party have already been imprisoned, from Bo Xilai to Sun Zhengcai, but a new round of purges could be far more sweeping—and potentially deadly.
2. A Manufactured Personality Cult Emerges
“What is this? Why do you praise me alone, as if one man decides everything?” So Stalin reportedly said to his deputy Lazar Kaganovich. According to the historian Stephen Kotkin in his extraordinary multivolume biography of the Soviet leader, Stalin initially resisted the systematic fawning that soon metastasized into full-blown cult of personality. Mao likewise objected to the early signs of a leadership cult but later warmed to it as he glimpsed its effectiveness as a political weapon.
Every Chinese leader gets his share of praise, but the flattery lavished on Xi has already gone far beyond his predecessors. Signs of systematic bootlicking are already manifest in today’s China, with appellations such as “the people’s leader” and the mandatory studying of Xi Jinping Thought on a dedicated Xi Jinping mobile app by CCP cadres. And if a political system acts as if there is a cult of personality even if there isn’t a shred of sincerity, the byproduct is nonetheless a policy environment that careens toward hypersensitive political correctness and a stifled intellectual climate.
3. Xi’s Third Term
When in March 2018 he pushed through the removal of term limits on the office of the presidency (as distinct from his more important title of CCP general secretary, which carries no such limitation on term), Xi effectively declared his desire to remain in power for life. This shouldn’t come as a surprise, for it is the natural tendency of all political leaders. Young Americans are taught about President George Washington relinquishing power and returning to his farm precisely because the act of abdication is so rare.
Xi would not have signaled his intentions so early unless he felt there was no effective opposition. Yet the intention to remain in power is distinct from the ability to do so, and the real test of Xi’s control over the political system will come in 2022 at the 20th Party Congress, when, according to a norm that previously held since 2002, he would step down from his leadership of the party after two five-year terms. If he remains in power past this date, not only would this signal an extraordinary level of political authority, but it would also signal that China’s trajectory would remain oriented toward Xi’s particular form of CCP domination.
4. Beijing Turns Hong Kong Into a Police State
As of this writing, the question of how Beijing will respond to the ongoing unrest in Hong Kong hangs uneasily over every discussion of the city’s future. What’s clear, however, is that Beijing believes it has no good options, hence the extraordinary delay by Xi and the party leadership since protests broke out in June. Such can kicking, however, merely “sharpens the contradictions” (to borrow from Karl Marx), thus making the underlying disputes more complex and seemingly intractable.
Should Beijing feel compelled to use force to break the stalemate, for example by imposing martial law and arresting thousands of protesters, Hong Kong will turn into a de facto police state. Greatly increased repression in the mainland will follow as party authorities go on high alert for any activism or agitation, and a massive propaganda campaign will flood Chinese media. Relationships with the outside world—which cares about Hong Kong far more than any mainland city—will sharply deteriorate, continuing a spiral of paranoia. This will be uncharted territory for Xi and the CCP leadership, but when the party feels threatened, its muscle memory is fear and coercion.
5. A Massive Economic Stimulus—for the State
In the wake of the 2008 global financial crisis, Chinese authorities unleashed a large-scale fiscal stimulus program equal to 11 percent of the country’s GDP. While this had the intended effect of insulating China from the full force of the economic slump, the longer-term and unintended impact was to expand and solidify China, Inc., the sprawling system of state-owned enterprises and quasi-private companies that are sustained by the CCP’s management of the economy. Xi’s accession to power in late 2012 solidified this trajectory. As the economist Nicholas Lardy writes in his recent book, The State Strikes Back: The End of Economic Reform in China?, since 2012, “private, market-driven growth has given way to a resurgence of the role of the state in resource allocation, and a shrinking role for the market and private firms.” Today, facing a slowing economy and struggling with both deleveraging its debt-bloated system and dealing with the ongoing trade war with the United States, the Xi administration is again wrestling with the question of how large of a stimulus package it should deploy. If the economy spirals out of control, we will likely see a redux of 2008, with a resultant further strengthening of the state sector over the private economy.
Loosening (Fang)
1. Return of Economic Gravity
The financial exigencies of operating a modern-day national security state are extraordinary, with the CCP’s spending on domestic security now estimated to be 118 percent of its external defense budget. Indeed, as the deposed former security czar Zhou Yongkang said in a 2010 speech, maintaining China’s internal stability is “extremely onerous.” China’s accumulating debt levels (now over 300 percent of GDP) will be increasingly difficult to service as its economy continues to slow.
China is also staring at a significant demographic crunch in a few years’ time, with both a shrinking workforce and a rapidly aging population, creating a potential fiscal nightmare. For decades, it appeared as though the Chinese economy operated by a different set of rules while Chinese regulators were gifted with powers lacking in developed economies. The return of economic gravity could force the CCP to finally enact many of the more fundamental economic reforms that it has been promising for decades, most recently during the Third Plenum of the 18th Party Congress in 2013. And as has been pointed out repeatedly, including by the occasional senior party leader, enduring political reform requires changes to China’s political system, including allowing more space for civil society and fewer political constraints for the country’s regulators.
2. A Change in Leadership
While the prospect of Xi Jinping being removed from office is slim, it is not, strictly speaking, impossible. Xi, despite his best efforts, is mortal, and despite the apparent ability of party leaders to live extraordinarily long lives—thanks in part to a dedicated medical unit—Xi faces the same actuarial odds the rest of us do. Even assuming a sudden change in leadership, however, the probability of political liberalization is dim.
Even under the more reformist Deng Xiaoping, there was never much appetite for fundamentally reforming the political system, an instinct that was only further strengthened after the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991. That being said, several more years of inept governance by the current administration could provoke a leadership challenge premised on his misrule of the economy. Xi’s opponents might accelerate this process, not by initially challenging him, but instead by slowly grinding the government to a halt through inaction and foot-dragging. The upcoming 20th Party Congress in 2022 might then set the scene for a more concerted effort to unseat Xi, with the victorious coalition pushing for a more tolerant approach to civil society and a more reform-minded economic policy regime.
3. Rising Domestic Pressure
Despite the heroic efforts of some statisticians and social scientists, what the Chinese people think on a range of important policy and political questions remains a fundamental mystery. For example, how much popular support does Xi have? Most discussions of his favorability devolve into anecdotes and crass assumptions in place of the data we have on most other countries around the world. As well as the obvious issues of speaking up in an authoritarian state, there is also the issue of “preference falsification,” wherein people misrepresent what they actually think due to social pressure. This means that even the much-vaunted Beijing cab driver, the source of all wisdom, may not be giving analysts a clear picture.
What’s certain, though, is that the CCP spends a significant amount of time and resources attempting to subvert, subdue, and sabotage the ability of Chinese citizens to freely express their opinions and to organize around them. It’s reasonably likely that the CCP’s own estimation of popular support is fairly low, otherwise it would not create such difficulties for researchers looking to measure popular sentiment. From labor unrest to protests by military veterans, there are numerous fault lines in China, and a further slowing economy might be the necessary catalyst for intensified public grievance, which in turn might spark a policy direction change in Beijing.
Unfortunately, the orientation of the CCP and recent political developments in China strongly suggest that the country’s trajectory will remain biased toward further tightening. Even possible loosening will be tightly limited by the fundamental needs of the CCP. As the CCP nears the 100th anniversary of its founding in 1921, with seven decades spent as the sole governing authority in China, analysts have fairly good idea of how the party operates and what it wants. While this experience does not rule out the possibility of a more fundamental directional shift toward political pluralism and a rights-based approach to social rule, it seems a wishful hope at best.

Story 87
Analysts of China's political economy tend to fall into two camps, with one side describing it as a genuine meritocracy, and the other arguing that the regime is corrupt to the core. In fact, neither view is correct: in a land of paradoxes, cronyism and strong economic performance go hand in hand.
ANN ARBOR – Since Chinese President Xi Jinping launched his sweeping anti-corruption campaign in 2012, more than 1.5 million officials, including some of the Communist Party of China’s (CPC) top leaders, have been disciplined. Among them is Ji Jianye, the former leader of Nanjing and Yangzhou, in Jiangsu Province. Disgraced, Ji is now remembered only for his bribes and scandals. Yet, prior to his downfall, he was famous for his iron-fisted competence. “In Yangzhou,” reads one local media report in Southern Weekend, “most people agree that Ji is the leader who has made the greatest contributions to the city since 1949.”
Portrayals of China’s political system are sharply divided. One camp describes China as a Confucian-style meritocracy where officials are selected, as Daniel A. Bell of Shandong University puts it, “in accordance with ability and virtue” through a top-down process, rather than by elections. According to Bell, meritocracy presents an alternative – even a challenge – to democracy. He recommends that the Chinese government export this model abroad.
The second camp comprises naysayers such as Minxin Pei of Claremont McKenna College and author Gordon G. Chang, who have insisted for decades that the CPC is decaying from corruption and will soon collapse. In dire terms, Pei describes the regime as filled with “looting, debauchery, and utter lawlessness.”
In fact, neither view is correct. Corruption and competence do not just coexist within China’s political system; they can be mutually reinforcing. Ji is a case in point. Through massive demolition and urban-renewal projects, he rapidly transformed Yangzhou into an award-winning tourist destination, and over the course of his career has earned the nickname “Mayor Bulldozer.” Under his leadership, the city’s GDP surpassed the provincial average for the first time ever.
Meanwhile, Ji’s long-time cronies made a fortune during his tenure. In exchange for lavish gifts, bribes, and company shares, Ji awarded their businesses near-monopoly access to government construction and renovation projects. One of these companies, Gold Mantis, saw its profits grow fifteenfold in just six years. The more Ji pushed for growth, the more spoils he produced.
This paradox is not limited to Ji. In a forthcoming book, China’s Gilded Age, my study of 331 CPC city-level secretaries’ careers, I find that 40% of those who have fallen to corruption charges were promoted within five years, or even just a few months prior to, their downfall.
Subscribe now Subscribe now Subscribe today and get a free copy of our new magazine, Sustainability Comes of Age, along with unlimited access to OnPoint, the Big Picture, the entire PS archive of more than 14,000 commentaries, and our annual magazine, for less than $2 a week. SUBSCRIBE
To be sure, champions of Chinese meritocracy, like venture capitalist Eric X. Li, acknowledge the existence of patronage and corruption, but argue that “merit remains the fundamental driver.” Yet corruption is more of a feature of the system than a bug. This should come as no surprise. The CPC controls valuable resources – from land and financing to procurement contracts – and individual CPC leaders can and do command immense personal power. Hence, CPC leaders find themselves constantly inundated with requests for favors, many of which are accompanied by graft.
Moreover, any political meritocracy faces the problem of who should guard the guardians. Li describes the Party’s appointment-making body, the Organization Department, as a “human resources engine that would be the envy of some of the most successful corporations.” Yet, if anything, this office is even more corruptible than others, precisely because it controls appointments and promotions. Lo and behold, in 2018, 68 officials at the Central Organization Department were punished for corruption.
Naysayers, meanwhile, err in the opposite direction, magnifying stories of Chinese corruption while ignoring corrupt officials’ effectiveness in promoting growth and delivering social welfare. Bo Xilai, the former Party boss of Chongqing who was dramatically ousted in 2012, is the most striking example. Although he flagrantly abused his power, Bo turned around his landlocked municipality’s fortunes, and delivered public goods and affordable housing to tens of millions of poor residents.
What both camps fail to grasp is the symbiotic relationship between corruption and performance in China’s fiercely competitive political system. For political elites whose formal pay is low, cronyism not only finances lavish consumption but also helps advance their careers. Wealthy cronies donate to public works, mobilize business networks to invest in state construction schemes, and help politicians complete their signature projects, which improve both a city’s physical image and the leader’s track record.
Like a supersized game of Whac-A-Mole, Xi’s crusade against corruption has netted a staggering number of officials, and is still ongoing. But the campaign ignores a crucial reality: politicians’ performance is dependent on sponsorships from corporate cronies and political patronage. Nor has the spate of arrests reduced the power of the state over the economy, which is the root cause of corruption. On the contrary, Xi has ratcheted up state intervention to a level not seen in years.
Paradoxes define China’s political economy. China is ruled by a communist party yet it is capitalist. The regime has a meritocracy yet it is also corrupt. Understanding China requires that we grasp such seeming contradictions, which will persist well into the next decade.

Story 88
China is taking every measure it can to verify the identities of its over 850 million mobile internet users.
From Dec. 1, people applying for new mobile and data services will have to have their faces scanned by telecom providers, the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology said in a Sept. 27 statement (link in Chinese).
MIIT said the step was part of its efforts to “safeguard the legitimate rights and interests of citizens in the cyberspace” and to control phone and internet fraud. In addition to the facial-recognition test, phone users are also banned from passing their mobile phone numbers to others, and encouraged to check if numbers are registered under their name without their consent.
Most countries require some form of ID to sign up for mobile phone contracts—versus for prepaid services—but the facial-recognition requirement seems to be a first. In China, it’s only the latest example of the technology’s embrace by a government that is using it for everything from catching jaywalkers to nabbing criminals at concerts to social profiling, even as other countries go slow due to concerns over privacy and human rights. The new decree is an upgrade of China’s real-name registration system for mobile phone users launched in 2013, which requires people to have their national IDs checked and photos taken by carriers to get a new number. The facial-recognition step will match the image against the person’s stored ID.
Earlier rules also said people who apply online via operators’ websites have to submit a short video (link in Chinese) of themselves to prove they are the same person as in the ID. Currently, almost all mobile phone users in China have been registered under people’s real names, according to MIIT.
The new regulation comes as Beijing tightens its control over the internet, which most people in China access on their mobiles, seeing it as a vital tool of social control. Chinese president Xi Jinping has promoted the idea of “cyber sovereignty,” asking other countries to respect China’s internet governance practices, which have seen major international sites like Facebook and Twitter blocked, and even personal messaging communications censored.
While the technology ministry said enhancing protection for ordinary phone users was one of the aims of the new order, that reason didn’t appear to convince Chinese internet users, who say it could contribute to more personal information leakage, and is just downright invasive.
“How many years passed since the real-name registration system has been implemented? Scam and sales phone calls still have not been stopped! Gathering citizen’s information excessively like this is a violation of people’s civic rights,” one user said under the news, with this comment being liked over 1,000 times.
In March, a Chinese database containing hundreds of millions of private chat logs on six Chinese messaging apps including WeChat and QQ, both operated by Tencent, was leaked online and could be accessed by anyone who searched for the IP address of the database, according to Victor Gevers, a researcher working for nonprofit cyber security firm GDI Foundation. More recently, the terms and conditions of use of popular face-swapping Chinese app Zaobao sparked concerns about privacy, and eventually led to an order from MIIT for the app to enhance its protection of user data.

Story 89
Seven thousand miles was a long way to go for a tiny scrap of paper. The note was pinned to my daughter’s sweater when she was found at seven weeks old on a bridge in Yixing, China. That’s what I had been told by the adoption coordinator there who had placed her in my arms.
This search was set in motion 15 years ago when, at 3, Sophie was astonished to learn from me that all babies don’t come from China but from inside their mothers. When I explained that another woman had given birth to her, not me, she protested.
I could not bring myself to utter the well-meaning evasion that she was “born in my heart,” as had many adoptive mothers I knew. But it didn’t matter what I said; her world had been upended and she kept trying to right it.
At 4, she said, “Mommy, I always think: How was I made? What was I made from? Was I made from someone?”

Story 90
In August, groups of Chinese patriots, ranging from dozens to thousands of people, held a string of rallies in the United States, Canada, Britain, Australia, France, and Japan to voice support for the Chinese government. On paper, this sounds somewhat innocent.
Following months of pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong that have drawn international sympathy, many mainlanders, mostly students abroad, staged their own demonstrations to offer the world their perspective.
But that perspective isn’t pretty. And it’s one sanctioned by officialdom.
In Toronto, young nationalists drove Ferraris draped with Chinese flags and ridiculed Hong Kongers for being “poor cunts.” In London, a sign at a rally demanded that Hong Kongers “lick [their] master’s ass.” In several separate incidents in Australia, Chinese protesters attacked a journalist, assaulted Hong Kong sympathizers, and lambasted anyone who doesn’t love China with chants of “get the fuck out.” In response to “Hong Kong stay strong” on one university campus, young Chinese students shouted in unison, “Fuck your mother!”
The romantic idea has long persisted that the hundreds of thousands of Chinese students who enroll in Western universities each year are secret rebels who will change the country for the better. Except most are not. Even when Chinese nationalists go abroad, it is difficult for them to change their minds. Many effectively stay inside the Great Firewall for the comfort and convenience it offers. Others, like me, are shocked and outraged when exposed to ideas that are unspeakable and unthinkable back in mainland China. Encouraged by Chinese authorities and the state media, some take it to the streets in foreign countries, rallying against others’ freedom of speech and undermining democracies. Indoctrinated but violent, they are as complicit as they are powerless.
Since I reported on a Sydney pro-China rally marred by aggression and violence, I have become a national enemy on the Chinese internet. Articles and social media posts calling me a traitor have spread from Australia to the United States and even my hometown. These accounts have been read by almost every fellow Chinese person I’ve ever crossed paths with. A bare handful of Chinese friends have reached out and voiced support for my work. Dozens, meanwhile, who were once friends or at least friendly, have violently condemned my treacherous behavior.
Let me spell it out: This is the Chinese version of the alt-right, except it isn’t fringe. Instead of “Make America Great Again,” the Chinese students were chanting “Long Live China.” Instead of blasting racist speeches against the ethnic minorities clearly visible in the West, this time the discrimination was political and regional—targeting Hong Kongers and their supporters. But the rage, the aggression, and the pride on the streets are all too similar. And they have largely flown under the radar as abusive speeches get lost in translation and go unchecked.
These rallies attract large turnouts. An estimated 1,500 participants attended the pro-China rally in Sydney on Aug. 17, which is a bigger number than most far-right rallies in Australia or the United States—that speaks volumes, given mainland Chinese migrants are only a tiny fraction of the local population. Some of this is performative, aimed at bolstering eventual careers back home—and embassies have been involved in organizing and promoting these rallies. But much of it is sincere.
The Chinese people have every right to feel proud of their country’s achievements. Countless social and cultural contributions were born in the land that is now mainland China. However, the only truly sanctioned form of pride today is a pride in the Chinese Communist Party and its claimed role as the owner of these achievements. That’s the same party currently holding a million Uighurs and other Turkic Muslim minorities in detention camps. That doesn’t seem something to be proud of for me.
Chinese nationalism today has been hijacked by the state to indoctrinate its citizens and the diaspora, bolster the state’s legitimacy, and consolidate international support. It’s centered on the narrative that China has been a victim of colonization and the current world order and that the Communist Party is the only savior. The imagined enemy, the West, is perpetually looking for an opportunity to prevent China from rising to superpower status. To be a model Chinese citizen is to be ready to fight—in the case of Hong Kong, the CIA was blamed for inciting protests, and Chinese students overseas were enlisted to amplify party propaganda. Meanwhile, domestic issues are always forced to the back burner because the priority is to fight foreign forces from all sides.
These narratives are fed to schoolchildren and the general public alike in their every waking moment. It’s impossible to escape—I should know, because I spent the first 19 years of my life living and studying in China. On the first day of primary school, we were given a student handbook in which the first rule was to love the country and the party. Growing up, “Taiwan is a sacred, inseparable part of China” was taught to us as a fact just like “the Earth is round.” The most common wish for an idealist Chinese teenager is to “serve the motherland”—while in the West, perhaps, it’s to “make the world a better place.”
I remember the horror when I encountered my first Hong Kong separatist abroad. I felt shock and rage—surely they shouldn’t be allowed to have such thoughts? And that’s how your mind works when your own thoughts have been controlled for too long. I remember typing out an aggressive message to the separatist but deciding against sending it. I remember seeing Free Tibet protests on the street and wanting to yell at them. I even remember fantasizing about sabotaging Ai Weiwei’s art exhibit when he toured in my city. Anything for that red-hot nationalism. In my mind, I was prepared to serve my country—and that meant violence and shouting down others.
It’s hard to escape state-led nationalistic doctrines that demand not only Chinese citizens but anyone of Chinese heritage around the world follow and promote the Chinese government’s expansionism and imperialism. Examples abound: the continuous erosion of freedom in Hong Kong, military adventurism in the South China Sea, and, most prominently right now, attempts to extinguish the Uighur culture.
To be a modern-day Chinese nationalist is to unknowingly agree to all of that and to become a de facto Han supremacist. On these issues, which all boil down to territorial disputes, it is extremely difficult for a Chinese person living in the mainland to hear arguments against the government’s claims. An argument against any is an argument against the whole. The domestic media and internet are flush with material that accuses the West of meddling in Hong Kong and Uighurs of being extremists yearning for their own reeducation—and alternative voices are ruthlessly crushed.
In a global environment where Han supremacy is being aggressively promoted by the Chinese state, it’s difficult for any dissenter to exist.
Many have tried to argue that young students from China hold diverse views but that the moderate voices are not as loud. Those moderate voices are there, but it’s not just an issue of volume but one of quantity. Journalists sometimes go on to interview a handful of Chinese students who are open-minded enough to speak to Western media, but these voices are fringe and unrepresentative of the community.
It is human nature to want to see the best in people, but the party doesn’t bring out the best in the Chinese people. Some of the most obscene comments I have seen have been from perfectly normal and gentle people to be around—after a lifetime of patriotic education and state media incitement, their minds short-circuit on contentious issues.
Nationalists are the majority—and likely to stay that way. In a global environment where Han supremacy is being aggressively promoted by the Chinese state, and where Western governments are often indifferent at best to alternatives, it’s difficult for any dissenter to exist.
It is midnight in Australia, and after explaining toxic Chinese nationalism, I must go back to finding out the office addresses of Chinese media outlets that have called me a traitor, a whore, and a West-worshiping dog so my lawyer can send them a letter in the morning.
And on the other side of the sea, the country I once dearly loved descends into nationalist fervor as the rest of the world marvels at the spectacle.

Story 91
Chinese first began settling Taiwan in the early 1600s, and in 1683 the Qing put Chinese colonists and indigenous Taiwanese under two distinct kinds of administration. The Qing conquered Xinjiang , to the west, in 1759, the culmination of a long-running struggle with the Zunghar Mongols for dominance in Central Asia. The imperial court ran Xinjiang under loose military rule, allowing indigenous elites to manage local affairs. Chinese settlers followed, colonizing parts of northern Xinjiang. Tibet, too, fell under Qing control during the Zunghar wars, thanks to a combination of military intervention and religious diplomacy. The Tibetan lamas and Qing emperors agreed in principle to split spiritual and secular realms of authority between them, in a formula known as the “priest-patron relationship.”
Hong Kong is a different case, but it is also linked to the Qing imperial era and, perhaps surprisingly, to Xinjiang. The city was ceded by the Qing to Britain in the 1842 Treaty of Nanking that ended the first Opium War — the same treaty that opened treaty ports elsewhere on the Chinese coast to western commerce. This infamous agreement, widely known as an “unequal treaty,” is unquestionably a case of British imperialist aggression. But the idea of letting foreigners manage frontier trade enclaves like Hong Kong and the other treaty ports was a standard element of the Qing imperial repertoire. Indeed, Russians had traded in just such an enclave in Kiakhta, in Qing Mongolia, since 1727.
Before the first Opium War, the Qing faced a challenge off Xinjiang’s western border similar to the one they later faced from the British. Merchants from the Khanate of Kokand attacked Kashgar repeatedly to press for trade privileges. After years of instability, the Qing and Kokand reached a deal to open a trade enclave, let Kokandi officials apply their own laws and levy customs tariffs in return for governing the Kashgar marketplace, and granted most-favored-nation status to merchants from other lands. Many of the same Qing officials who negotiated the Treaty of Kokand in 1835 subsequently dealt with the British, and key articles of the treaties that settled the first Opium War in the 1840s mirrored those in the Kokand agreement. Trade enclaves may have been a foreign imposition, but they were also a tool of the Qing state.
When the C.C.P. first came to power in 1949, it tacitly recognized this imperial past. Like the Soviet Union — another socialist state that denounced Western imperialism while itself assuming power in a former empire — the P.R.C. did not want to look like an evil colonialist. So it acknowledged the ethnic diversity of the peoples living in the territory it controlled by recognizing 55 nationalities besides the majority Han. And it established titular “autonomous” administrations in non-majority-Han areas, in many of the same places where the Qing had ruled through local non-Han elites, including Xinjiang and Tibet.
The special economic zones that Deng Xiaoping established in the late 1970s in Shenzhen and other Chinese cities revived a Qing precedent. Those zones look a lot like the traditional trade enclaves in Kiakhta, Kashgar, Hong Kong and the treaty ports. And like the Qing trade enclaves, they facilitate commerce by granting legal and tax privileges to foreign businesses. Similarly, the promise of “One Country, Two Systems” — the principle that is supposed to guarantee Hong Kong a high degree of autonomy and serve, Beijing hopes, as a model for the future reunification of Taiwan with the mainland — is another echo of Qing policy.

Story 92
BEIJING — When Turkey’s leader, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, visited Beijing this summer, he hailed a new Silk Road bridging Asia and Europe. He welcomed big Chinese investments for his beleaguered economy. He gushed about China’s sovereignty.
But Mr. Erdogan, who has stridently promoted Islamic values in his overwhelmingly Muslim country, was largely silent on the incarceration of more than one million Turkic Muslims in China’s western region of Xinjiang, and the forced assimilation of millions more. It was an about-face from a decade ago, when he said the Uighurs there suffered from, “simply put, genocide” at the hands of the Chinese government.
Like Mr. Erdogan, the world has been noticeably quiet about Xinjiang, where China has built a vast network of detention camps and systematic surveillance over the past two years in a state-led operation to convert Uighurs into loyal, secular supporters of the Communist Party. Even when diplomats have witnessed the problems firsthand and privately condemned them, they have been reluctant to go public, unable to garner broad support or unwilling to risk financial ties with China.
Backed by its diplomatic and economic might, China has largely succeeded in quashing criticism. Chinese officials have convinced countries to support Beijing publicly on the issue, most notably Muslim ones in Africa, Asia and the Middle East. They have played to the discord within the West over China. And they have waged an aggressive campaign to prevent discussion of Xinjiang at the United Nations.

Story 93
Hong Kong (CNN) Powerful, domestically-built and in the People's Liberation Army arsenal right now -- China is expected to show off some of the most advanced weaponry the world has ever seen during a special National Day military parade in Beijing on Tuesday, October 1.
About 15,000 personnel, more than 160 aircraft and 580 pieces of weaponry and equipment will be part of the 80-minute procession through the Chinese capital, which will highlight the country's military advances in the 70 years since the founding of the People's Republic of China.
Key among those is drone technology -- of which Beijing boasts some of the world's best -- and advanced missile systems.
Maj. Gen. Tan Min, executive deputy director of the Military Parade Joint Command Office and deputy chief of staff of the Central Theater Command of the People's Liberation Army (PLA), said at a press briefing this week that all weapons to be on display were in service and made in China, highlighting the country's ability to innovate in defense research and development.
Here are some of the key items to look out for Tuesday.
DF-41 missile
A Chinese military vehicle carrying a ballistic missile participates in rehearsals for the October 1 military parade.
Much of the parade hype has focused on this powerful intercontinental-range ballistic missile, thought to be the mainstay of the People's Liberation Army Rocket Forces (PLARF) arsenal for years to come -- and, by some estimations, the most powerful missile on the planet.
Under development since 1997, the DF-41 was rumored to appear in parades in 2015 and 2017, but instead was kept under wraps.
Rumors that it will get a showing this around were sent into overdrive following reports in China's state media that the missile was spotted during parade rehearsals in Beijing earlier this month.
The Missile Defense Project at the Center for Strategic and International Studies says the DF-41 will have a range of up to 9,320 miles (15,000 kilometers), more than any missile on Earth, and will be capable of carrying 10 independently targeted nuclear warheads. From launch in China, it could theoretically hit the continental United States in 30 minutes, the Missile Defense Project says.
Mobile-launched DF-41s can be carried by trucks and trains. Satellite photos taken earlier this year showed DF-41 mobile launchers in the PLARF Jilintal training area in Inner Mongolia, according to the Federation of American Scientists (FAS), which monitors world nuclear arms developments.
Those satellite photos also show what "strongly resembles" a silo, according to Hans Kristensen, director of the Nuclear Information Project at the FAS, who analyzed the images.
JUST WATCHED China releases video of 'Guam killer' missile Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH China releases video of 'Guam killer' missile 01:01
Kristensen wrote the possible missile silos appeared to bear more of a resemblance to Russian ICBM versions than existing silos for older, liquid-fueled Chinese ICBMs. The DF-41 is solid-fueled, like the Russian missiles. Solid-fueled missiles are easier to deploy and quicker to launch than liquid versions.
The backbone of the United States nuclear arsenal, the Minuteman III missile, is a solid-fueled, silo-based weapon. However, it carries only one warhead, as its original three-warhead design was limited by nuclear treaties with Russia.
China may be ready to deploy the DF-41 in numbers. At least 18 of them appeared to be at the Inner Mongolia training ground in satellite photos earlier this year.
Though capable of carrying 10 warheads, it is likely only three would be on each missile, with the rest being dummy or decoy warheads, according to the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists (BAS).
Part of that has to do with warhead availability. China's nuclear warhead inventory is estimated at 290 for use on ballistic missiles and bomber aircraft, the Bulletin said in its 2019 report on Beijing's nuclear forces
JL-2 submarine-launched ballistic missile (SLBM)
A nuclear-powered submarine of the People's Liberation Army Navy's North Sea Fleet prepares to dive into the sea.
This is the main weapon aboard China's Jin-class fleet of nuclear-powered ballistic missile submarines. Four of the subs are in service, with two more under construction.
Each sub can carry 12 of the single-warhead JL-2 missiles. With an estimated range of 4,473 miles (7,200 kilometers), it is regarded as more of a regional than global weapon.
That range puts targets from India to Alaska in range from coastal Chinese waters, the BAS report says. But for it to threaten the continental US, for instance, the subs would have to get past formidable US anti-submarine choke-points around Japan and deep into the Pacific.
A longer-range SLBM, the JL-3, was reportedly tested in late 2018 and again in June this year, according to Jane's Defence Weekly , but that missile remains in development and it would be a surprise to see it on October 1.
Still, the Chinese SLBM force falls short of the US. The US Navy's Ohio-class ballistic submarine fleet numbers 14, with each of those subs capable of carrying 20 Trident missiles. Each of those missiles can carry up to 10 warheads.
DL-17
This is an example of a hypersonic glide vehicle, or HGV. It is launched via a standard missile rocket -- but after reaching the desired altitude, the booster rocket is jettisoned and the HGV carries the missile payload to target.
HGVs can fly low and fast -- at least five times the speed of sound, or 3,800 mph (6,115 kph), according to the Missile Defense Advocacy Alliance -- with maneuverability to avoid enemy radar detection and air defenses.
China has been testing HGV technology since 2014 and is expected to deploy it in 2020, according to the Missile Defense Project . The DF-17 will be capable of carrying both nuclear and conventional warheads, it added.
A Congressional Research Service report from September 17 notes that the US trails China -- and Russia -- in hypersonic development and is not expected to have an operational weapon before 2022.
The US is also not expected to have a an HGV with nuclear capability, the CRS says. "As a result, US hypersonic weapons will likely require greater accuracy and will be more technically challenging to develop than nuclear-armed Chinese and Russian systems," the report adds.
H-6N bomber
The H-6 has been Beijing's core long-range bomber for years, but images taken during flyover rehearsals for Tuesday's parade show what could be a significant upgrade.
Photos posted on social media sites in China -- which have been popping up on Western sites -- show what appear to be points to mount large missiles.
And so there is a fourth H-6N ...

(Image via Huitong's CMA-Blog) pic.twitter.com/pv94vxtgVF — @Rupprecht_A (@RupprechtDeino) September 23, 2019
These could be DF-21 anti-ship ballistic missiles, according to Joseph Trevethick, writing on the War Zone blog
The ability to carry the DF-21 would give the bomber "an impressive stand-off capability against large enemy warships, especially aircraft carriers," Trevethick said.
Jane's Defense Weekly noted another update on the H-6N over its predecessor, the H-6K -- a nose-mounted probe for aerial refueling. That gives the bomber the ability to fly deeper into the Pacific from the Chinese mainland.
Combined, the two developments mean US aircraft carriers would need to stay further out to sea during conflict and their aircraft, predominantly F/A-18 jets, would have more difficulty reaching targets.
DR-8 drone
This stealthy drone is drawing lots of attention leading up to the parade, much of that due to its sleek shape and supersonic speed.
China unveils DR-8 supersonic spy drone during National Day military parade rehearsal https://t.co/DqM3THztOj pic.twitter.com/iskIlfcjzZ — China Daily Mail (@ChinaDailyMail) September 17, 2019
Thought to be able to fly up to five times the speed of sound , the main mission of the DR-8 could be to get close to foreign aircraft carriers during conflict and send targeting information back to missile launchers, reports say.
The 1960s-designed Lockheed D-21B drone at the National Museum of the United States Air Force.
Some analysts note that satellite images of what is believed to be the DR-8, as well as tarp-covered objects seen in parade rehearsals, resemble the US military's D-21 supersonic reconnaissance drone , which was introduced in the 1960s.
The D-21 would self-destruct after dropping its high-resolution camera payload into friendly hands. The program was canceled in 1971 after four of the aircraft were lost in missions over ... China.
Sharp Sword drone
Chinese paramilitary policemen stand guard as a Chinese military vehicle possibly carrying a drone participates in an October 1 parade rehearsal.
China military watchers have been tweeting images of what they speculate is the Sharp Sword, a bat wing-shaped drone designed for use from aircraft carriers.
Inconnu, mais quoi qu'il soit cela ferait à priori partie des choses qui vont défiler au 1er Octobre. pic.twitter.com/80OUiDmCvp — East Pendulum (@HenriKenhmann) September 14, 2019
The drone is thought to have two internal bomb bays and its stealthy design indicates it's built for a new type of drone warfare, says analyst Sam Roggeveen, writing on the Lowy Institute's Interpreter blog
"What makes Sharp Sword different ... is that it is stealthy, which means it is built not for Afghanistan-type scenarios, where the enemy is equipped with little more than rifles, but for situations where it might have to evade sophisticated air defenses," Roggeven says.
The Sharp Sword was first tested in 2013, and an appearance in the October 1 parade could signal that it's close to deployment.
Other countries, including the US, have been developing drones to use off carriers. The US Navy's MQ-25 Stingray has just started flight tests with an eye to deployment in 2024 as an aerial tanker.
Drone submarine
Images have appeared online of what looks like a large torpedo on the flat bed of a truck.
The state-sanctioned Global Times noted its appearance in rehearsals, adding: "More mysterious was an image of a large autonomous underwater vehicle. Its mission remains unknown."
This could be one of China's first undersea drones. A 2015 report from the Rand Corp. think tank said the Beijing government, relying mainly on military funding, had set up at least 15 research teams at universities and institutes to develop technology for unmanned underwater vehicles (UUVs).
Tanks
A soldier mounted on an army tank in Beijing on September 21 during rehearsals for the October 1 military parade.
Images have surfaced of Type 99 main battle tanks and Type 15 light tanks during parade rehearsals.
Rehearsal from the ground in Beijing for the upcoming military parade marking the 70th anniversary of the People's Republic of China on October 1--Type 99 main battle tank, Type 15 light tank, Type 04 infantry fighting vehicle (IFV), Type 05 amphibious IFV for Chinese Marine Corps pic.twitter.com/5FmjY5YkC8 — Simon Chen, MD (@simonbchen) September 15, 2019
It also noted a change in the Type 99s, desert camouflage, which was "delighting enthusiasts who recalled the jungle look of previous parades."
There was no indication as to why the camouflage scheme was changed, but it prompted speculation about whether China sees a new mission for its ground forces.

Story 94
Communist China Turns 70. Who Shares Its Economic Growth?
Enlarge this image toggle caption Noel Celis/AFP/Getty Images Noel Celis/AFP/Getty Images
Seventy years ago, Mao Zedong appeared on a balcony overlooking Tiananmen Square and conjured a new country into being. On Tuesday, Xi Jinping, arguably the strongest leader since Mao, appeared on that same balcony to reaffirm his vision of modern China.
That vision includes what Xi has repeatedly referred to as the "Chinese Dream," one pillar of which is the idea that all Chinese should have access to the shared prosperity of the nation.
Hundreds of millions of citizens have climbed out of poverty in the past few decades, but a chasm of inequality has opened up in the country at the same time. Researchers place China within the ranks of the 20 least equal nations in the world.
And as the nation marks 70 years of communist rule, many Chinese people are reflecting on their own stories of struggle and mobility.
"At the start of China's post-Mao period 40 years ago, China had one of the lowest levels of economic inequality in the world," says Bruce Dickson, a China expert at George Washington University. "But that was because everyone was equally poor."
When China's economy opened up to the world starting in the late 1970s, wealth poured in. But that wealth has not trickled down equally to all parts of society.
"There are opportunities, [but it's up to the] individual to seize them," says Cao Shuhao, a 53-year-old migrant worker from rural Hebei province. He came to Beijing when he was in his early 20s to find work. And he has sent the money he has made as a construction worker back to his family in Hebei for nearly 30 years.
As a child, Cao often went hungry. Rice and flour were luxuries that his parents, both farmers, couldn't afford.
There was no future at home with his family, he said. So he made the trek to Beijing to find a better life. "What I did wasn't unusual," Cao says. "Most people in my generation traveled to Beijing or somewhere else to work, and feed their families."
A better life in this case is a corrugated metal shanty at the bottom of a hill in the northern reaches of Beijing's suburbs.
By day, he and a team of construction workers, all migrants, make repairs to a Buddhist temple complex at the top of the hill. Then at night, they troop to the bottom of the hill to their temporary homes. There are about a dozen shanties set up in a long row, and each one sleeps two to three men.
China's decades of economic development have relied partly on the movement of hundreds of millions of laborers from their home provinces to wherever the job market pulls them. Although some have returned home, many continue to travel and set up temporary, often precarious, dwellings where they land.
Enlarge this image toggle caption Jolie Myers/NPR Jolie Myers/NPR
The floors are a dusty mix of dirt and concrete tiles, there are swarms of ravenous mosquitoes, and in the summer, the heat is nearly unbearable. But the shared kitchen is painted a cheerful blue and a communal table out front has room for a slew of stools to be pulled up to the action.
When his crew finishes the work on the temple, they'll move on to another site and set up their temporary digs once again.
Had he stayed in Hebei, Cao says, there's no way he would have been able to put food on his family's table. In Beijing, that's exactly what he has been able to achieve.
By any measure, Cao is better off than his parents, the definition of economic mobility. But not everyone has access to the same rate of mobility.
Enlarge this image toggle caption Jolie Myers/NPR Jolie Myers/NPR
"In both China and the U.S., the position one is born into has a big effect on life outcomes," says David Dollar, a China expert at the Brookings Institution. In China, a system called hukou means that children must attend school where they were born, no matter where their parents end up living. Dollar says educational opportunities are vastly inferior in rural areas when compared with cities in China.
"Most children born in the countryside with rural hukou do not go to college, while most urban children do," Dollar says. And a large portion of the income gap is the result of the education gap, he added.
Cao says his two grown children are doing better than him. His daughter is now a kindergarten teacher, and his son works on stage management for government events — working-class jobs that offer much more comfort than Cao has ever experienced. "I hope my children won't be like me; that they won't have just one option for work," he says.
Grace Jin's parents wanted options for her as well. The 28-year-old architect studied dance, music and art as a child. "My mother, when she was young, she didn't have access to the arts. She wanted to learn dance and she wanted to learn piano," she recalls. "But when she was growing up, the lessons were very expensive, and they couldn't afford it. So when I was young, she thought, 'What I couldn't have, I can give to my daughter.' "
Enlarge this image toggle caption Jolie Myers/NPR Jolie Myers/NPR
Jin grew up in Zhejiang, an affluent eastern coastal province. Her father was an agricultural researcher and her mother was an accountant. Jin went to college after high school — a forgone conclusion for her middle-class upbringing. She then studied architecture at Columbia University in the U.S.
Over passion fruit cucumber sodas at a cat cafe in Beijing, Jin says that the Chinese Dream, for her, is about freedom. "Freedom to choose love, freedom to choose what I do for a living. I also want that for my children. I want them to grow up and have access to what they like — music, art, science, whatever. I want them to live their own lives," she says.
Seventy years ago, freedom of choice was not high on the priority list for the government of the brand-new nation. After centuries of imperial rule, Mao set up a Marxist system that abolished private property and exulted in the equality of all workers. Dickson, of George Washington University, says that when the government decided to rely on the private sector to achieve unprecedented growth after the late 1970s, it effectively abandoned Marxist ideals. But that evolution has been a successful survival strategy for the modern Chinese Communist Party.
"One reason that inequality has not been a politically explosive issue is that most people have benefited from economic growth, even though some have benefited more than others," Dickson says.
Enlarge this image toggle caption Jolie Myers/NPR Jolie Myers/NPR
Jin, for her part, isn't interested in politics. When she studied in the U.S., she became familiar with the political system in the U.S. Ever the architect, she compares the U.S. practice of electing a president every four years to a Frank Gehry creation — you don't know what you're going to get. She says she much prefers the stability of the Chinese system, where she doesn't have to worry about instability at the top. She can focus on her own life, career and success.
Jin has never known a China without rapid economic growth. But the national economy is slowing down. The percentage of GDP growth has been falling over the past decade, from 14.2% in 2007 to 6.6% in 2018.
Enlarge this image toggle caption Jolie Myers/NPR Jolie Myers/NPR
"If there is such a thing as a social contract in China, it is based on the presumption of continued prosperity under Chinese Communist Party rule," Dickson says.
As long as people believe the government will continue to make their lives better, hope will pacify them. But if growth and wages stagnate, that hope could turn to resentment, he says. And resentment could turn into action.
Then again, he says, the U.S. has often underestimated the Chinese government's ability to survive over the 70 years of its existence.

Story 95
The People’s Bank of China has approved PayPal’s acquisition of a 70% equity state in GoPay (Guofubao Information Technology Co. [GoPay], Ltd.), which will make PayPal the first foreign payment platform to provide online payment services in China. GoPay has licenses for online and mobile transactions, and mainly provides payment products for industries including e-commerce, cross-border commerce, aviation tourism and others.
According to a statement from Guofubao, PayPal acquired the controlling stake through the Shanghai-based subsidiary Yinbaobao Information Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.
The companies did not disclose deal terms.
The news of PayPal’s entry into China comes at a time when there’s increased tension between the U.S. and China, with The White House reportedly now considering curbing some U.S. investments in China amid the trade dispute between the countries.
Though China’s payments market today is led by local players, including eWallet providers like AliPay and WeChat Pay on the mobile side, there’s still plenty of room for it to grow — which would benefit PayPal.
On the mobile payments side alone, the market is expected to grow 21.8%, from 2017 to $96.73 trillion in 2023, driven partly by increasing demand for e-commerce, a report from Frost & Sullivan found. The market has also seen an increase in cross-border transactions, particularly in sectors like e-commerce, travel and overseas education. These reached $6.66 trillion in 2016.
The report additionally said the total number of active mobile payment customers is expected to reach 956 million by 2023, up from 562 million in 2017.
Last year, China’s central bank said it would open up further to foreign payment companies.
U.S. firms in the financial services market have for a long time struggled to enter China. Notably, American Express became the first U.S. card network to gain permission to set up card-clearing services in China last November, and Mastercard this year said it would try to set up a joint venture with another local player to gain entry.
PayPal said the transaction is expected to close in Q4 2019 and is subject to customary closing conditions.
The company’s full statement on the acquisition is below:

Story 96
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 97
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption China's exports have fallen, especially to the US, with whom it is locked in a so-called trade war
China's economy has been slowing for the better part of the past decade, but a recent run of poor data has prompted fresh concerns. What is making investors nervous, and how China has responded?
China became a key engine of world economic growth as developed countries licked their wounds after the 2008 global financial crisis.
Now, the world's second-largest economy is expanding at its slowest pace since the early 1990s.
China saw industrial output grow at its slowest pace since 2002 in August.
Weeks later China's Premier Li Keqiang said it would not be easy for the country to sustain growth rates of above 6%.
Domestic issues, the US-led trade war, and swine fever are all putting a brake on China's rapid expansion.
"The slowdown in China is becoming quite significant," says Tommy Wu, senior Asia economist at Oxford Economics.
"Both the weakening in the domestic economy and deteriorating external environment, including both a global slowdown, and the US-China trade tensions, have a role to play in China's slowdown."
Given China's importance in the global economy, and its healthy demand for anything from commodities to machinery, any downturn is likely to have far-reaching consequences.
Gary Hufbauer, of the Peterson Institute for International Economics, estimates that a one percentage point drop in Chinese growth would probably take 0.2 percentage points off global growth.
What is happening in China?
The official data paints an increasingly cloudy outlook.
Industrial output is growing at its weakest pace since 2002, and retail sales are slowing.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption China has seen a slowdown in retail sales
Chinese exports fell in August by 1% from a year earlier, and by a sharp 16% to the US - a clear sign that the dispute with the US is hurting bilateral trade.
But while growth is down from double digit levels in the mid-2000's, the more recent slowdown has been relatively gradual.
China's economy grew 6.2% year-on-year in the second quarter, easing from 6.4% in the first three months of the year, and from 6.6% in 2018.
"It's not as if Chinese growth has completely fallen off a cliff," says Frederic Neumann, co-head of Asian economics research at HSBC.
"On the contrary, there are still many pockets of growth," he adds, pointing to housing construction and spending in the services sector.
How effective has stimulus been?
China's government has sought to support the economy this year through tax cuts, and by taking measures to boost liquidity in the financial system.
But Mr Neumann says that this time around, the government was being "fairly restrained" when providing credit to firms and individuals, and administering stimulus.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The Chinese government has been careful to limit its economic stimulus moves
That's because the government believes China needs to curb the risk in its financial system, and cool the rapid credit growth of recent years, he adds.
"Chinese authorities are not really showing signs of wavering from this track... so it's by design in many ways, rather than by accident, that we've seen weaker economic growth numbers," says Mr Neumann.
Having relied heavily on infrastructure spending to stimulate the economy over the years, analysts say Beijing had limited room to do much more on that front.
Instead they have opted for tax cuts, which tend to be less effective in boosting growth than infrastructure spending, says Mr Wu.
Mr Wu expected Beijing to do more to stimulate the economy going forward - both through fiscal and monetary policy - but worried this would not be enough.
"We do expect more to come to help stabilise growth by next year. But the key downside risk is that the authorities do not step up policy support enough to stabilise growth."
What has been the fallout from the trade war?
The US and China have been fighting a trade war for more than a year, and more tariffs are expected.
The impact from the US tariffs has been offset to some extent by a weaker yuan, says Julian Evans-Pritchard at Capital Economics, while China has also sought to bypass the taxes by exporting to the US via other Asian countries.
He says that China's share of global exports has actually grown over the past year, showing that the fall in Chinese exports has been less pronounced than those from other countries.
Western businesses, meanwhile, are finding it increasingly hard to navigate the uncertainty.
Some have been shifting production out of China, even though the numbers have not been large enough to show up in the economic data, says Mr Evans-Pritchard.
"The longer these tariffs remain in place, the longer this drags on, the higher the chance we are going to see more firms shifting out of China, and it also makes the country a less attractive place to invest in the first place," he says.
While many firms will want to keep some production in China to cater for its important domestic market, there are signs some firms are already considering their options.
According to a 2019 survey by the American Chamber of Commerce in China, 65% of members said trade tensions are influencing their longer-term business strategies. Nearly a fourth of all respondents are delaying China investments, it said.
How about the swine fever outbreak?
The deadly swine fever has placed an additional drag on the Chinese economy over the past year.
China, the world's biggest producer of pork, has struggled to control the disease even after slaughtering more than one million pigs.
The supply shortage has sent pork prices soaring - by 46.7% in August on a year earlier- and that is eating into household incomes.
Global Trade
More from the BBC's series taking an international perspective on trade:
"The price of pork has almost doubled," said the Peterson Institute's Hufbauer, adding that this was "very painful for low income Chinese."
Pork is one of China's main food staples, and accounts for more than 60% of the country's meat consumption.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Chinese shoppers have had to endure a big rise in the price of staple meat pork
While for now the surge has been partly offset by more subdued non-food inflation, analysts say this could quickly change.
"What worries me is that they just don't seem to have gotten the disease under control yet. The pig stock is still falling," says Mr Evans-Pritchard.
"At this stage it's already pointing towards pork price inflation rising above 80% year-on-year within the next six months."

Story 98
When China's Chang'e-4 spacecraft landed on the lunar far side on 3 January 2019, it made history. It was the first spacecraft to visit that part of the Moon, and among its payload was a 2.6 kg (5.7 lb) mini-biosphere called the Lunar Micro Ecosystem (LME).
The sealed, cylindrical biosphere is only 18 cm (7.1 in) long and 16 cm (6.3 in) in diameter. The LME carried six lifeforms, kept in mostly Earth-like conditions except for micro-gravity and lunar radiation.
The LME carried:
cotton seeds
potato seeds
rape seeds
yeast
fruit fly eggs
Arabidopsis thaliana, a common, hardy weed
This ground-breaking work by China is the first biological growth experiment on the Moon. Only the cotton seeds produced positive results.
This experiment took place back in January 2019 when the lander made it to the Moon. At that time, the team behind this experiment thought that there was only one leaf, but now data indicates there were two.
The image is a 3D reconstruction based on data analysis and image processing, and it clearly shows two leaves.
None of the other organisms produced any results.
The LME was unheated, so after the first lunar day – about 14 Earth days – the cotton sprout died when the temperatures plunged to minus 190 Celsius (-310 F.) But the experiment continued, to test the longevity of the LME itself.
(CNSA)
The leader of the experiment is Xie Gengxin of the advanced Technology Research Institute at Chongqing University. While there will be no scientific papers published from the experiment, Xie hopes to build on this work.
During the planning stages there was talk of sending a small tortoise to the Moon, but mission constraints prevented it.
In an interview with IEEE Spectrum Xie said, "The weight of the Chang'e-4 probe demanded that the weight [of the experiment] can't exceed three kilograms."
It would have been a hard, brutish life for any tortoise that made the trip. Not only would it have died when the temperature plunged, but oxygen would've run out in about 20 days.
It wouldn't have been the first tortoise in space. That honour goes to the two tortoises on the Soviet Union's Zond 5 mission in 1968. Alongside the two turtles were fruit flies and plants. (The two turtles were deprived of food as part of the experiment, and they suffered from starvation when they returned to Earth, but they were alive.)
But while the Zond 5 mission was the first mission to carry any Earthlings beyond Earth's orbit, the Chang'e-4 mission was the first to carry some to the Moon (other than astronauts, of course.) And it won't be China's last.
(CNSA/CLEP)
Xie and his team are looking ahead to the next Moon mission, when they hope to send more lifeforms there. If the mission allows for a larger payload, they may send more complex life forms, though they haven't specified what they'll be.
China has already planned Chang'e-6, a sample return mission to the Moon, sometime in the mid-2020s. In 2018 China invited international partners to become involved in an additional 10 kg. of scientific payload for the mission. Chang'e-6 is a backup mission to Chang'e-5, which is scheduled to be China's first sample-return mission.
There's bound to be more of these lunar biological experiments. Not only are China, the United States, Russia, India, the European Space Agency, and Japan all planning missions to the Moon, but so are private companies.
And with long-duration visits to the Moon in the future, and even a continuous human presence there, scientists will keep studying how organisms respond to that environment.
This article was originally published by Universe Today. Read the original article.

Story 99
YINCHUAN, China — In China’s northwest, the government is stripping the most overt expressions of the Islamic faith from a picturesque valley where most residents are devout Muslims. The authorities have destroyed domes and minarets on mosques, including one in a small village near Linxia, a city known as “Little Mecca.”
Similar demolitions have been carried out in Inner Mongolia, Henan and Ningxia, the homeland of China’s largest Muslim ethnic minority, the Hui. In the southern province of Yunnan, three mosques were closed. From Beijing to Ningxia, officials have banned the public use of Arabic script.
This campaign represents the newest front in the Chinese Communist Party’s sweeping rollback of individual religious freedoms, after decades of relative openness that allowed more moderate forms of Islam to blossom. The harsh crackdown on Muslims that began with the Uighurs in Xinjiang is spreading to more regions and more groups.

Story 100
Video shows what appear to be Uighur or other minority prisoners led away by police
Drone footage has emerged showing police leading hundreds of blindfolded and shackled men from a train in what is believed to be a transfer of inmates in Xinjiang.
The video, posted anonymously on YouTube last week, shows what appear to be Uighur or other minorities wearing blue and yellow uniforms, with cleanly shaven heads, their eyes covered, sitting in rows on the ground and later being led away by police. Prisoners in China are often transferred with handcuffs and masks covering their faces.
Nathan Ruser, a researcher with the Australian Strategic Policy Institute’s international cyber policy centre, used clues in the footage, including landmarks and the position of the sun, to verify the video, which he believes was shot at a train station west of Korla in south-east Xinjiang in August last year.
Much of the focus of international criticism of China’s far-reaching anti-terrorism campaign in Xinjiang has centred on the extrajudicial detentions of more than 1 million ethnic Uighurs and other Muslim minorities in internment and political re-education camps.
Q&A Who are the Uighurs? Show Hide The Uighurs are a predominantly Muslim Turkic-speaking ethnic group, primarily from China’s northwestern region of Xinjiang. They have been subject to religious and ethnic persecution by Chinese authorities, with rights groups claiming that in recent years more than 1 million people have been held in detention camps. Having initially denied the existence of the camps, China has described them as “vocational education centres” in the face of mounting evidence in the form of government documents, satellite imagery and testimonies from escaped detainees. Satellite images have also suggested that more than two dozen Islamic religious sites have been partly or completely demolished since 2016. In July 2019 China claimed that most of the people sent to the mass detention centres have “returned to society”, but this has been disputed by relatives of those detained. Around 1-1.5m Uighur are estimated to live overseas as a diaspora, many of whom have campaigned against the treatment of their families. Martin Belam
The number of formal arrests and prison sentences has also increased. According to analysis by the New York Times, local courts sentenced 230,000 people to prison or other punishments in 2017 and 2018, as the campaign got under way. Xinjiang accounts for less than 2% of the country’s population but about 21% of all arrests in 2017.
Ruser said the detainees were most likely being transferred to prisons in Korla from Kashgar, where the crackdown has been particularly severe. The area is believed to be home to several re-education camps but fewer detention centres.
“It counters the propaganda offensive China is trying to show,” he said, underlining the treatment of those within the penal system.
China has been taking diplomats and select groups of journalists on carefully orchestrated tours of Xinjiang and has defended its anti-extremism methods, describing them as a model for other countries to follow.
On Sunday, Australia’s foreign minister, Marise Payne, described the video as “deeply disturbing”.
The video was posted on YouTube by an account named War on Fear, whose stated goal is to fight fear inspired by hi-tech surveillance.

Story 101
Shuping Wang, a Chinese doctor who braved the loss of her job as well as ostracism, assault and the destruction of her first marriage to expose the spread of AIDS in rural China, died on Sept. 21 in Salt Lake City. She was 59.
She died while hiking in a canyon with her husband, Gary Christensen. A preliminary autopsy indicated that the cause was a heart attack, he said. She had lived in Salt Lake City in recent years after settling in the United States.
Her death came just over two weeks after a stage play based on her experience as a whistle-blower opened in London.
Dr. Wang worked for nearly two decades in relative quiet as a medical researcher in her adopted homeland, most recently at the University of Utah. Colleagues, she said, sometimes did not know of her dramatic past.

Story 102
Zhao Jiaxin and Howey Ou are trying to convince Beijing to take radical carbon-cutting action
One is a student engineer who became obsessed after watching an incendiary film about air pollution. The other is a 16-year-old who went on China’s first climate strike.
Zhao Jiaxin and Howey Ou are part of a small but growing minority of young Chinese determined to press their country towards more radical carbon-cutting action. The pair are also China’s sole winners of carbon neutral “green tickets” the UN is providing to 100 young people around the world.
China is the world’s leading carbon emitter. It generates 60% of its electricity from coal-fired power and coal consumption and carbon emissions have risen for two years in a row after a plateau between 2014 and 2016. Emissions are expected to rise again in the figures for this year.
Yet within the country, the positive half of the picture is more likely to be heard: how devoted the nation is to Xi Jinping’s goal of constructing an “ecological civilisation”, how China is a climate change leader compared with the US, and how much record-breaking renewable energy capacity it continues to install.
Howey does not think this is enough. She conducted a public climate strike in front of government offices in Guilin in southern China for several days in late May – Greta Thunberg called her a “true hero” – before the authorities said she had to stop because she did not have a permit.
The 16-year-old, who spends her spare time planting trees around her hometown, was nominated to travel to this week’s United Nations climate summit in New York by the youth activist group Earth Uprising and nearly had to back out of attending because her chaperone was worried she would not stick to the Chinese government script.
“People in China don’t know the situation and think the Chinese government is doing a lot and is great,” she said.
“The point is that people here can’t petition to protest and do something about the climate. Even if people want to change [things] they think activism in China will fail and the cost is too [high].”
In a country where the party line controls the climate debate to the extent that a general apathy infuses the broader public, Howey and Zhao are the sudden, fresh young faces of environmental activism.
There are some signs they are not alone. Young people and women living in cities are increasingly aware of global climate issues and China’s place at the centre of them, according to a recent study in the journal The China Quarterly.
“In China, the good news is that compared to the population, younger Chinese tend to be more concerned about climate change,” said Liu Xinsheng, the lead author of the report from Texas A&M University. “The bad news is that overall, average Chinese climate change concern is low relative to many countries around the world.”
Zhao’s passion for climate issues was triggered by the documentary Under the Dome, which he watched four years ago while studying engineering at Shanghai Jiao Tong University.
Facebook Twitter Pinterest Zhao Jiaxin: ‘I found something I could do for society.’ Photograph: Supplied
The film inspired him to set up an NGO to raise awareness of the climate crisis on campus and create a platform disseminating information on the social media app WeChat.
“I found something I could do for society,” Zhao said of his awakening after seeing the film. “In my last year [at university] I felt that if I did not communicate, did not advocate about what I thought was true, then powerful [other ideas] would dominate society.”
Under the Dome, an examination of the policy failures and personal effects of air pollution in China, appeared online for several days in February and was viewed by as many as 300 million people before being banned.
It is unlikely there will be climate strikes in China on Friday like those being staged in the west. The country passed a law after the Tiananmen crackdown in 1989 that imposed strict conditions on public gatherings and forced groups to register with the police if they want to stage a protest.
Organisations connected to the government such as the China Youth Climate Action Network, founded in 2007, are one of the official routes young people can take to raise climate awareness. The group holds events and educational training to help raise awareness of climate issues among China’s young people.
Zheng Xiaowen, CYCAN’s executive director, said: “I don’t think student protests are a helpful solution to the problem in China. Because of the unique cultural and political circumstances, Chinese people tend to resort to more moderate ways to voice their concerns.
Howey Ou (@howey_ou) #FridaysForFuture I don’t have to stuck in the way of striking,I must do what I could do right now.If I keep‘preparing’,the time will lose.While the time is the most gracious thing to survive from climate crisis.Planted 6 trees in 13th,Sep.Starting #PlantforSurvive,This is WEEK1. pic.twitter.com/IFvFW0ypN8
“We need to advocate actions against climate change in ways that best suit China. For us, the best way is to work with the government and help come up with plans to tackle those issues together.”
While small steps are being made, the lack of awareness of climate change in the country is alarming, Liu said, because China is the world’s leading greenhouse gas emitter and one of the countries that could be badly affected by extreme weather events and rising sea levels, with knock-on effects for the economy and health.
“China has top-down policymaking,” Liu said. “It is hard to imagine without public awareness and concern for climate issues that the government policies will be successful.”
No Chinese media outlets have signed up to a global pledge to increase coverage of the climate crisis in the week leading up to the UN summit on Friday, a pledge 250 media groups have agreed to including the Guardian and Bloomberg.
The inertia bothers Howey, but she believes there is hope: “It is frustrating to me, but I’m still alive and have the passion for change.”

Additional research contributions from Zhong Yunfan

Story 103
President Donald Trump meets with China's President Xi Jinping at the start of their bilateral meeting at the G20 leaders summit in Osaka, Japan, June 29, 2019. Kevin Lemarque | Reuters
China is closing in on the U.S. in some areas of technology and could soon even overtake America in certain respects, experts told CNBC. The world's second-largest economy is already showing some good progress in its push on homegrown industries such as artificial intelligence and chips. "China is closing the technological gap with the United States, and though it may not match U.S. capabilities across the board, it will soon be one of the leading powers in technologies such as artificial intelligence (AI), robotics, energy storage, fifth-generation cellular networks (5G), quantum information systems, and possibly biotechnology," U.S.-based think tank the Council on Foreign Relations (CFR) said in a recent report. It comes as Beijing gears up to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China on October 1. With much fanfare expected, the event will see the Asian giant flaunt its military prowess in a parade in Beijing and President Xi Jinping talk up the nation's progress
China's digital footprint
A big part of the nation's development has been technological. China's digital economy accounts for over 34% of the country's gross domestic product. It's also home to some of the largest technology companies in the world, including e-commerce giant Alibaba and tech conglomerate Tencent. That's thanks to an internet boom over the years. The number of internet users in China at the end of 2008 totaled 298 million — or just over 22% of the population at that time, according to official statistics from the China Internet Network Information Center (CNNIC). That number rose to 854 million at the end of June this year — or over 60% of the population.
We have a technology grip from the U.S. that is actually being torn apart by China at this point. Eoin Murray head of investment at Hermes Investment Management
Just over 99% of Chinese web-users access the internet on their mobile devices, according to official government statistics. In the U.S. just over 92% of internet users access it on mobile, separate statistics from eMarketer show. That mobile focus in China has helped companies roll out products quickly and on a large scale. And China's rise is threatening America's historically strong position in technology. "We have a technology grip from the U.S. that is actually being torn apart by China at this point," Eoin Murray, head of investment at Hermes Investment Management told CNBC's "Squawk Box Europe" last week.
Copycat image changing
But the rise of China's tech industry has been tarnished by allegations of intellectual property theft and claims that the country's technology companies have been copycats. Whether it is Chinese-designed phones that look similar to Apple's iPhone, or Chinese search or e-commerce companies being compared to Silicon Valley's Google or Amazon, China has for a long time carried the image of a tech follower. But that image is changing. "For years, Silicon Valley looked down on China tech and believed it was only copying. But today, there is awareness that China is innovating and getting ahead in certain tech arenas," Rebecca Fannin, author of "Tech Titans of China," told CNBC.
There are even signs that some of America's biggest tech firms have been imitating some Chinese companies now. Facebook released a short video app called Lasso last year to fend off competition from TikTok, an app owned by Chinese firm Bytedance. TikTok has made major inroads with U.S consumers.
China threat to US tech
Over the past few years, Beijing has publicly stated its ambitions to develop critical future technology, such as artificial intelligence and the next-generation of super-fast mobile networks known as 5G. Even before the U.S.-China trade war started, Beijing said in 2017 that it wanted to become a world leader in AI by 2030. Some of China's biggest companies including Alibaba, Huawei, Tencent and Baidu, are all investing heavily in AI. Just last week, Alibaba followed Huawei's footsteps and released its own AI chip.
The US-China trade war is hurting both sides. China's ambition is unstoppable to become a global leader in tech, trade war or not. Rebecca Fannin author of "Tech Titans of China"
Beijing has also said semiconductors will be a key area of the Made in China 2025 plan, a government initiative that aims to boost the production of higher-value products. China wants to make more of the chips it uses. Meanwhile, Huawei, the world's largest telecommunications equipment-maker, has secured more commercial 5G contracts than its rivals Nokia and Ericsson. 5G promises super-fast data speeds and the ability to support new technologies like autonomous vehicles.
US response
Technology has been a key part of the ongoing U.S-China trade war with one company in particular, Huawei, being caught in the crosshairs. The Chinese technology giant has been put on a U.S. blacklist known as the Entity List which restricts its access to American technology. But this has only sharpened its focus on trying to make more of the components and software it needs. The company has been releasing its own processors for smartphones and recently unveiled its own operating system, in a bid to become less reliant on the U.S.
Washington's response to the rise of China's tech industry has been about containment rather than trying to stay ahead, according to one expert. "So far it has been primarily focused on slowing China down and preventing critical technologies from flowing to Beijing," Adam Segal, one of the authors of CFR's report, told CNBC. "While there is a growing recognition in Congress and in the White House that the U.S. needs to do more to accelerate innovation at home, the response so far has fallen short." Segal suggested the U.S. should restore federal funding for research and development to its historical average. This would mean increasing funding from 0.7% to 1.1% of gross domestic product (GDP) annually, or from $146 billion to about $230 billion at the 2018 exchange rate, according to Segal. Fannin echoed some of Segal's comments and said the U.S. needs a "national agenda" in key technology areas. She added that the current trade war won't stop China's rise. "The US-China trade war is hurting both sides. China's ambition is unstoppable to become a global leader in tech, trade war or not," Fannin told CNBC.

Story 104
Hong Kong (CNN) China's ability to fight island and coastal conflicts got a big boost Wednesday when the country's navy launched its first amphibious assault ship.
The massive ship, which was floated at a shipyard in Shanghai, is the first in China's Type 075 class of amphibious assault ships, according to the People's Liberation Army's English language website.
Analysts said the launch is yet another indication of the growing power of the Chinese fleet
"It highlights China's growing maritime power projection and the expansion of its amphibious warfare ambitions and forces," said Carl Schuster, a former United States Navy captain and Hawaii Pacific University instructor.
Amphibious assault ships -- sometimes called helicopter landing docks -- can be described as small aircraft carriers designed for island or coastal assaults.
China provided no details of the size and capabilities of the new ship.
But, in general, the flat-topped ships have the ability to carry dozens of aircraft -- helicopters in the case of the Type 075 -- along with hundreds of ground troops, their vehicles and equipment. The ships have internal docks that allow those troops to load into smaller vessels to be carried ashore.
JUST WATCHED China releases video of 'Guam killer' missile Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH China releases video of 'Guam killer' missile 01:01
"The Type 075 gives them not only a significant increase in assault lift, but also provides their Marine Corps with a vertical assault dimension and air mobile force projection capability," Schuster said.
The US and Japanese navies also operate amphibious assault ships in the Pacific.
The USS Wasp was just left the region this month after more than 18 months operating out of Japan. It will be replaced by the newer and slightly larger USS America later this year, according to a US Navy release.
Japan has two Izumo-class helicopter destroyers, which function much like amphibious assault ships.
The US ships can carry fighter jets, the short-takeoff and vertical landing capable F-35B. Japan also plans to give its ships the ability to carry the F-35Bs
China, however, does not yet have an aircraft with the vertical landing capability of the F-35B.
But Schuster said it's likely that such a jet is in the works and the Type 075 has the size to accommodate it.
JUST WATCHED China's military expands its influence in Africa Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH China's military expands its influence in Africa 04:13
In announcing the launch of its new amphibious assault ship on Wednesday, the Chinese military noted the ship still has some work to do before it's commissioned into the active fleet.
"In the next phase, engineers will start outfitting and fine-tuning the vessel's equipment and then conduct mooring tests and sea trials," the Chinese military said.
But even with that, analysts noted the frenetic pace of Chinese naval shipbuilding . The ship launched just five months after pictures of its keel under construction were seen, wrote Joseph Trevithick and Tyler Rogoway on the The War Zone blog
"The speed with which the Chinese have been able to execute its construction is as impressive as the ship's size," they wrote.
The US Department of Defense, in its annual report for Congress on the state of China's military released in May, noted that China was the world's top shipbuilding nation.
It has been churning out advanced destroyers and submarines, and it has one domestically built aircraft carrier in sea trials and another under construction.
The US Defense Department report noted that the new Type 075 will join a fleet of eight smaller Type 071 amphibious transport docks. Those ships have limited flight deck and handle only about four helicopters, according to the report.
It also noted how China was improving and refining amphibious warfare capabilities as well as bulking up its marine corps.
Shuster said he expects China to eventually build three of the Type 075s with them conducting exercises and showing the Chinese flag into the Indian Ocean to Africa and possibly the Mediterranean.

Story 105
Explore the new agenda
We live in a time of disruption but where others see difficulty, we see opportunity - not just to survive but to thrive. Subscribe to the new agenda and lead the way in business and beyond.

Story 106
Since BRI was launched, in 2013, China has sunk hundreds of billions of dollars into ports, railways, and energy projects across Asia, Africa, and Europe. The goal is to not only expand infrastructure, including in many developing countries, but also win over local populations and governments by funneling investment, jobs, and economic growth in their direction. The path forward has been bumpy, though. Questions regarding the commercial value of certain projects and concerns over the initiative being a backdoor for more sinister geopolitical ambitions have undercut Beijing’s official rhetoric of “win-win” cooperation and illustrated the uncertainty surrounding its plans.
As Beijing marks the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People’s Republic of China, questions over the implementation of BRI are among several facing the country regarding the limits of its power—from protests in Hong Kong to the escalating trade war with the United States.
“There is a reason that lots of these gaps in global infrastructure that China is trying to fill exist in the first place,” Andrew Cainey, a China expert and an associate fellow at Chatham House, a London-based think tank, told me. “It’s because they are not so commercially appealing.”
Read: China is quietly reshaping the world
This tension—between the expectations surrounding BRI and the challenges of fulfilling them—is on display here in Khorgos.
The project has posted impressive overall growth numbers, and Kazakh officials are keen to talk up plans to develop the area. The dry port processed 44 percent more cargo, as measured by so-called 20-foot-equivalent units, in 2018 compared with the previous year, according to data provided by the authorities here. Kazakh officials were also keen to point to the area’s potential for growth. A 2017 study commissioned by the International Union of Railways estimated that trade volume between China and Europe via rail would increase sharply over the next decade, with Kazakhstan becoming the key crossroads. Similarly, officials mentioned new investments from Chinese companies to build facilities and factories in the special economic zone on the Kazakh side as a sign of the area’s growth.
“Khorgos is about turning Kazakhstan into Central Asia’s transit hub,” Nurlan Toganbayev, the director of the commercial department at the Khorgos Gateway, told me. “We know this is no easy task, but we’re growing, and we take great pride in that.”
Yet even these touted successes point to future problems for the project. Rail transport is still only a small percentage of global trade; sea and air routes, which are cheaper and faster, respectively, form the bulk of goods moved between China and Europe. The land route has also been criticized for waste and fraud. Many of the cargo containers returning by rail from Europe to China through Kazakhstan are empty, officials admit, due to a trade imbalance, but the problem may run even deeper. The Chinese government provides significant subsidies to encourage use of the rail links, and a recent report by the Chinese Business Journal found that many exporters transported empty containers from China to Europe just to receive those subsidies. China Railway, the government operator of the rail line, admitted to the state-run Global Times that the problem existed, but said that it has been eradicated. Not only does the episode illustrate the commercial limits of large-scale shipping by train, but it calls into question the viability of the Khorgos project.

Story 107
While military might and mass pageantry were on display in Beijing to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People’s Republic of China, violent clashes erupted across Hong Kong as thousands of black-clad pro-democracy protesters took to the streets. Police shot a protester with live ammunition for the first time in four months of demonstrations, marking a major escalation

Story 108
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 109
China has framed Hong Kong’s pro-democracy protests as a foreign-backed movement that uses “thugs” to threaten the mainland’s sovereignty.
The narrative might be working within the great firewall. Outside China? Not so much.
“The goal is different: China is more about self-defense.”
Beijing’s approach has been quite clumsy, experts say, drawing a sharp contrast to Russia’s success in spreading disinformation on Western social media. Rather than blending seamlessly into the online sphere—where Moscow has demonstrated its skill at camouflage—it’s ridiculously easy to identify China’s efforts as bizarre or even downright false.
“China is much more primitive in terms of techniques,” said Haifeng Huang, associate professor of politics at the University of California’s Merced campus, whose research focuses on opinion shaping in authoritarian settings. “…The goal is different: China is more about self-defense, Russia is more about actively going out, targeting foreign events. China’s goal is to influence Western discourses about Chinese events.”
China’s “blunt-force” recipe
Since the 2016 US presidential election, social media users have grown used to hearing of inauthentic accounts—which are most often attributed to Russia. When Twitter last month said it was suspending more than 900 accounts linked to China, it marked the first time the platform had publicly identified and removed a Chinese disinformation campaign. Facebook took similar action against a handful of pages the same day. The accounts and tweets made public by Twitter offer researchers a chance to study China’s tactics.
After an estimated 2 million people marched in Hong Kong to protest against the now-withdrawn bill that would have allowed extradition of criminal suspects to the mainland, a Twitter account with a red Chinese flag as its profile picture tweeted in Chinese that protesters dressed in black and linked to foreign agents had attacked police headquarters, “instigating others to march and protest as a means to disrupt Hong Kong.” In other instances, if users scrolled down, they would have seen that two of the accounts with the most retweets in recent days about Hong Kong topics were earlier tweeting links offering nude photos. Others were previously tweeting in Portuguese or Indonesian.
Twitter One of the suspended accounts Twitter said was linked to a campaign targeting Hong Kong’s protesters.
“You sort of scratch the surface and you see something is not right,” said Elise Thomas, a researcher at Canberra-based think tank Australia Strategic Policy Institute (ASPI) who is one of the authors of a report this month analyzing Twitter activity aimed at discrediting the protests. The campaign—which was built from repurposing old Twitter marketing or porn accounts to begin tweeting about Hong Kong in April—appeared “hastily constructed,” ASPI’s report said. And perhaps it was, spurred by Hong Kong activists’ own increased presence on the platform.
“You sort of scratch the surface and you see something is not right.”
Yet China’s Communist Party has been very successful at shaping public opinion at home, thanks to a blend of online censorship, patriotic trolls, and directives to state-run media that have intensified under president Xi Jinping, who came to power as general secretary of the party in 2012. Angela Wu, an assistant professor of media studies at New York University, says her research showed that in the five years up to 2016, stances critical of the Beijing government and shaped by liberal democratic ideas were largely displaced by patriotic views.
When China tries to adopt the same blueprint outside the country, with ads and messaging from state-run media working alongside troll accounts on overseas platforms, these efforts run into competing narratives. (Thomas cautions there may be more sophisticated efforts we’re not aware of.)
“Its earlier propaganda measures designed and worked for guiding domestic popular opinion, [which] paved the way for what you see in the present day,” Wu told Quartz via email. “That’s why they look bad and even bizarre.”
One widely panned message was a tweet from state-run China Daily, which rewrote Martin Niemöller’s famous Nazi-era Germany poem about complicity to be about the protest movement, in effect comparing demonstrators to the Nazis. Last week, China Daily’s Hong Kong Facebook account posted the claim that Hong Kong protesters were going to wage terror attacks on Sept. 11, citing an unverified post from messaging app Telegram, used by many protesters to organize—which prompted multiple comments criticizing the page and the Party.
“The focus is on telling a good story about China.”
With state-run media actively in the mix, it’s easier to identify the framing China’s trying to push, even when it starts to come from sources not obviously linked to the government, such as from handles with profile descriptions identifying social accounts as a “beer evangelist” or as Ariana Grande fans, as in the data sets released by Twitter. China’s efforts could in fact backfire, for example by adding fuel to the discussion about whether Western papers should continue to carry China Daily inserts, an important part of the country’s overseas self-defense efforts.
“The focus is on telling a good story about China,” said Huang. “Because the Chinese government understands that Western opinion about China is pretty bad.”
Playing offense vs. defense
While China fails at painting a rosy picture of its internal affairs, Russia has had more success blending into discussions of events, in places from Ukraine to the US, to sow confusion.
In the US, Russia’s strategy was to use handles cultivated over years to wade into controversial topics—the Black Lives Matter protests over police violence against African-Americans, gun control, and the hearings on Donald Trump’s Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh.
“They know what the issues are in the American public, they immersed themselves in American discourse,” said Huang.
The Russians established “digital assets months and months in advance, put a huge amount of time and assets building up what looked like credible online personas,” said Thomas, of ASPI. “They really put time and effort in a sort of very careful campaign, targeting different audiences and different kind of messages.”
Kremlin-linked troll farm Internet Research Agency (IRA), was able to reach up to 126 million Americans on Facebook through fake accounts, groups, and ads, according to US special prosecutor Robert Mueller’s Russia report examining meddling in the 2016 election. The IRA bought Facebook ads that led to real-life rallies in Pennsylvania and Florida to undermine Trump’s Democratic rival Hillary Clinton and support him. Fake personas also communicated with Trump’s Republican campaign, which was unaware it was talking to foreign nationals.
Russia’s efforts are likely more sophisticated because of being rooted in the Soviet Union’s long experience with spycraft during and after the Cold War. The hit US television show The Americans was, after all, based on a real group of Russian spies from an operation known as “The Illegals.” China did not have many Western diplomatic ties until the 1970s, and, even then, it was deeply focused on the internal project of economic development.
In addition, Chinese propaganda authorities “do not have a sophisticated understanding of mainstream discourses, perspectives, and public opinion outside China, and don’t know how to engage with Western societies effectively,” notes Huang.

Because Russia’s efforts are more believable, when they do get discovered—and “getting caught is half the point,” Peter Pomerantsev, a senior fellow at London’s Legatum Institute think tank, notes in his new book This is Not Propaganda—they spread disillusionment with the press and popular movement. Finding out something that seemed genuine isn’t breeds cynicism, furthering Russian aims.
Of course, it’s not that Russia hasn’t tried to do what China is attempting—reshape the West’s opinion of itself—but it hasn’t been very successful at it either. In the last decade its efforts saw a shift (pdf, p. 8) “of Russian international media outlets like RT and Sputnik from presenting a positive picture of Russia to the world to giving a different perspective on negative developments in Europe and the US.”
Will China’s propaganda campaigns evolve?
China likely will continue using foreign social networks for issues beyond Hong Kong. With its growing expertise with artificial intelligence, visible in recent popular apps, “deep fakes” could become part of China’s disinformation arsenal. “China’s investments in AI may lift its capacity to target and manipulate international social media audiences,” ASPI noted in its report.
The rise of globally popular apps such as TikTok, one of China’s first to be a big hit overseas, could also play a role. Hong Kong protests have an unusually light presence on TikTok, spurring suspicion of censorship and manipulation.
Beijing’s focus appears to still be mainly on propagating wonky messages about Chinese policy that have little chance of connecting with non-Chinese audiences. Since June, three state-affiliated organizations alone have been contracting for projects costing more than $1 million to grow overseas social media presence.
The country’s Internet regulator, the Cyberspace Administrator of China (CAC), wants to “tell China’s stories with multiple angles, express China’s voice, and get overseas audience recognition and support for Xi Jinping Thought,” according to the contract the CAC offered. That agenda might win points with party elites—the mindset that is part of China’s weakness on messaging.
“People engaged in the operations are more incentivized to please their higher-ups with visible metrics such as numbers of tweets and followers (who cares if the followers are real people) than actual effectiveness of the operations,” Huang, the politics professor, wrote in an email.

Story 110
In this image released on Friday, February 15, 2019, a crew work on the set of The Wandering Earth which was shot at Oriental Movie Capital Industrial Park in Qingdao, China.
Advertising
Messages of Chinese nationalism arrived in full force during China’s 70th National Day celebrations on October 1, 2019. Nationalist messages, however, have been circulating throughout China by other means than President Xi Jinping’s speeches.
China’s 2019 hit film Wandering Earth (流浪地球) is one of the clearest embodiments of Beijing’s nationalist messaging around China’s role in the international system. An international and domestic success, Wandering Earth has grossed over $700 million since its release in February 2019. Over $690 million came from domestic audiences alone, placing it as the fifth-biggest single-territory grosser worldwide and the second highest in China behind Wolf Warrior 2 ($854 million in 2017). Beyond being China’s first big budget sci-fi adventure in outer space, Wandering Earth drew crowds by bringing discussions of contemporary issues into space, including climate change, capitalism, the role of international governance, and loss — of home, of family, and of hope.
The premise of Wandering Earth is straightforward: The sun will engulf Earth in 100 years and humans will need to relocate to survive. Instead of relocating to a different planet altogether, the United Earth Government decides to propel Earth into a new solar system to avoid its inevitable doom. The voyage will take 2,500 years.
The first story underlying Wandering Earth is one of the global influences changing the way humans live and understand life. The film begins with a montage of the effects of climate change, including volcanic eruptions in South Carolina, the extinction of various species, and a rise in sea levels. Fast forward to the film’s present day, where humans are living in underground cities 5 kilometers below Earth’s surface to avoid the extreme weather aboveground, complete with temperatures as low as -84°C (-120°F). One character compares this new reality to the old world, stating, “Everyone was worried about the thing called money.” With money ruling society, society allowed for worldwide disaster.
The impact of international (and universal) influence on Chinese people is embodied in the dynamic relations between family and the expansion of what it means to “be” Chinese. While each of these scenarios occurs in the future, they are aggravated forms of current dynamics influencing the evolution of the concept of family in China.
Enjoying this article? Click here to subscribe for full access. Just $5 a month.
The film follows two primary protagonists and father-son pair: teenager Liu Qi (played by Qu Chuxiao), and his father and Chinese astronaut, Liu Peiqiang (Jing Wu). Liu Peiqiang has been absent from his son’s life for 17 years while living on the United Earth Government navigation platform and leading the Earth’s journey. As a result, Liu Qi has grown up with his grandfather, Han Ziang (Ng Man-tat). Although set in a futuristic plot, parent-child separation in China is a reality for many young Chinese who end up living with and being raised by grandparents while parents work in larger cities and send money back home. The heroism displayed by Liu Peiqiang counterbalances his absence, reinforcing that parental absence in the service of the nation is not only worthy of admiration, but a necessity to survival.
The film also grazes the topic of adoption through the character of Han Duoduo (Zhao Jinmai), Liu Qi’s adopted sister. We learn Duoduo was adopted by Han Ziang in the midst of the environmental chaos that preceded the Earth’s decision to leave our current solar system. Her storyline, rather than representing domestic adoption trends, reflects the importance of the broader Chinese family or nation, where all can find refuge and acceptance. The broader notion of losing Earth’s home in the solar system is further equatable to the literal loss of family, which is only surmounted through collective action.
What it means to belong to the Chinese identity is explored through the character of Tim (played by Mike Sui). As a mixed ethnicity character (half-Chinese, half-Australian), Tim brings up his father’s identity as a Beijinger to prove his credentials as a Chinese (and not a foreigner) to the other full Chinese characters. This plays out when Tim shows up in a rescue team unit alongside Liu Qi and Duoduo. When a fellow Chinese asks, “Aren’t you a Chinese rescue team? Why is a foreigner here?” Tim responds, “Who here is a foreigner? My father is from Beijing. I have a Zhongguo xin (Chinese heart).” The original questioning of Tim’s identity is a reality for many mixed ethnicity Chinese, both those living in China and outside of China. The film’s affirmation of Tim as a true Chinese reflects broader campaigns to encourage China’s growing diaspora to embrace their Chinese roots.
Advertising
Wandering Earth may present a future rife with tragedy and instability on an international scale, but it also presents solutions rooted in nationalist messages: strong family ties, reliance on Chinese heroism in the face of failing international systems, and an extended acceptance of what it means to be Chinese. While China’s National Day celebrations may present explicit nationalist rhetoric, films like Wandering Earth provide relatively implicit reminders of the same messages, reinforcing nationalism more pervasively.
Wandering Earth is available via Netflix but may be subject to geographic restrictions.

Story 111
Embattled US President Donald Trump is lashing out at Democrat rival Joe Biden, and China has rejected Trump’s call to investigate Biden’s family’s business affairs. Photo: AFP

Story 112
BEIJING--An official gauge of China's factory activity rebounded in September but continued to indicate a contraction, reflecting the headwinds faced by Chinese economy amid its protracted trade dispute with the U.S.
The manufacturing purchasing managers index rose to 49.8 in September from 49.5 in August, the National Bureau of Statistics said Monday. September's reading was above the median forecast of 49.6 from a Wall Street Journal poll of 11 economists.
But the index has stayed below the 50 mark for five straight months, which indicates the activity was still cooling despite its improvement. A reading above 50 indicates an expansion in manufacturing activity, while a reading below 50 indicates a contraction.
A subindex measuring total new orders received by manufacturers in China rebounded to 50.5 in September from 49.7 in August. It was the first time the new order subindex showed an expansion since May.
New export orders, an indicator of external demand for Chinese goods, rose to 48.2 from 47.2 in August, while import orders recovered to 47.1 from 46.7 a month earlier.
Production also rebounded to 52.3 in September, compared with 51.9 in August.
Zhao Qinghe, an economist with the statistics bureau, said production in food processing, textiles and equipment rebounded sharply in September. China's large manufacturing companies, which typically benefit the most from the government efforts to support the economy, were the major force behind the rise in the index this month, he said.
Beijing has released billions of dollars in liquidity into the banking system to encourage more lending to business as economic growth slips to a nearly three-decade low.
The official PMI data are based on the replies to monthly questionnaires sent to purchasing executives at 3,000 companies in 31 manufacturing sectors.
China 's official nonmanufacturing PMI, also released Monday, edged down to 53.7 from 53.8 in August.
-- Grace Zhu

Story 113
“Nearly the whole country has emptied out,” she said. “And nearly everyone has made it through.”
Shortly before taking office on June 1, the new president, Nayib Bukele, signaled he had little appetite for grand Chinese ventures despite his promises to create jobs and attract investment.
The Chinese, he said, “go in, do projects that are not feasible, then they leave the countries with huge loans they cannot repay and use that as leverage.”
Weeks after taking power, however, he struck a different note and ruled out the possibility of switching El Salvador’s allegiance back to Taiwan. “We need to recognize China’s status in the world,” he said.
And in the long run, some American officials fear that China’s willingness to build roads, railroads and ports in the region will be impossible for El Salvador and some of its neighbors to resist.
Norma Torres, a Guatemalan-born representative from California who has become a leading voice on Central America policy on Capitol Hill, said the Trump administration’s focus on keeping migrants out will benefit China.
“They are not looking at short-term, immediate results as we do here in the United States,” Ms. Torres said. “The Chinese have focused on, ‘Where are we going to be in the next 20 years?’”
While the port deal was sidetracked, at least for the time being, it is clear the Chinese are positioning to become El Salvador’s ally of choice.
“Under the careful care of each side, the China-El Salvador relationship will, without doubt, transform from a shrub into a verdant tree,” Ms. Ou, China’s ambassador, wrote in a recent opinion piece published in a local newspaper. “The bilateral cooperation will be as fragrant and delicious as Salvadoran coffee and as sweet and tasty as the sugar of this beautiful nation!”

Story 114
Hong Kong (CNN Business) China's economic slowdown keeps getting worse. That could give the country incentive to repair its trading relationship with the United States and take more steps to stimulate its economy.
The country released data Monday that showed industrial production — an important indicator for China's economy — increased by just 4.4% in August compared to a year earlier. That's worse than the sector's performance in July, when it grew by 4.8%, its weakest growth in 17 years.
Industrial production is important because it measures the output of key businesses in China's manufacturing, mining and utilities sectors. The latest figure was also worse than the 5.2% growth that analysts polled by Reuters expected.
Other data released Monday by China's National Bureau of Statistics was also poor. Retail sales growth slowed to 7.5% in August, down from July's 7.6% year-on-year uptick.
The world's second biggest economy has been struggling because of its trade war with the United States. It's also facing domestic challenges as it tries to rely less on debt to fuel growth.
Read More

Story 115
President Rodrigo Duterte recently travelled to Russia where he met with senior Russian officials. Following the visit, Finance Secretary Carlos G. Dominguez III announced that Moscow was very interested in agreeing on an energy partnership in a huge blow to China's dominance in the region. Mr Dominguez said: "You have to remember that we don’t have a big relationship with Russia, and I think that the trip of the President opened the avenues for increased contact with Russians."
When asked what ventures Russia was interested in, the Finance Secretary said: "All kinds of power—distribution, technology, power generation; also, renewable energy." Following the trip, a spokesman for Mr Duterte confirmed that he met with the directors and chief executive of Rosneft, Igor Sechin. At the meeting, he invited Mr Sechin to form a joint partnership with the Philippines to drill for oil in its waters in the South China Sea. The president is said to have reassured his Russian hosts that their investments would be safe from Chinese interference and also from corruption.
Vladimir Putin
President Duterte
The Philippines' ambassador to Russia, Carlos Sorreta, had indicated before last week’s meeting that Russian energy companies were very keen to invest in oil and gas developments in the region. The South China Sea offers huge opportunities for Russia’s oil and gas sector, and this invitation would be hard for it to resist. Experts believe that the region has up to 11 billion barrels worth of oil under the South China Sea along with 190 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. However, resource-hungry Beijing has aggressively sought to assert its sovereignty over these hydrocarbon deposits. JUST IN
China unveil mystery supersonic cruise missile weapon in demonstration
President Xi
The People’s Republic says that the entire waterway up to the coasts of the Philippines, Malaysia and Taiwan belongs to it, a claim rejected by an international court of arbitration in 2016. China would, therefore, most likely see any attempt by foreign companies to drill for oil as an unwarranted act of aggression and interference. Putin has worked extremely hard over the past few years to develop strong political and economic ties with President Xi. He sees an alliance with China as the perfect way to counterbalance and oppose US and Nato influence on the global stage. As Cailin Birch, global economist at the Economist Intelligence Unit, told CNBC that “there’s a growing consensus that a partnership between Russia and China is quite a powerful force, led by China rather than Russia, but that between the two of them they could represent quite a powerful bloc. DON'T MISS
South China Sea shock: The secret plan the Philippines has employed
South China Sea outrage: Vietnam launches stunning attack on Beijing
South China Sea: Vietnam accuses China of ‘violating sovereign rights’
Chinese navy
Chinese navy
“Russia would be the junior partner based on the size of markets and its prospect for growth, so obviously in that sense, Russia would be pulled into China’s sway slightly.” Beijing is also a major market for Russian armaments, having spent roughly $15billion (£12billion) on Russian weapons in 2017. These included purchases of SU-35 combat aircraft, as well as S-400 surface-to-air missile systems. Russia already has made investments in oil and gas projects in the South China Sea.
South China Sea
Rosneft has entered into a joint venture deal with Vietnam, building an oil rig in Vietnamese waters of the South China Sea. China reacted aggressively to this move, sending coast guard ships to try and block the rig’s construction during the summer. According to Hanoi, the joint venture has already lost some $295million (£241million) due to Chinese interference. Beijing demanded that Vietnam abandon its oil exploration projects with foreign companies.
Vladimir Putin
Trending

Story 116
Hong Kong (CNN Business) Last weekend's drone attack on Saudi Arabian oil facilities sent shockwaves through global energy markets and the price of crude spiking.
While Saudi authorities have pledged that production will soon be back on track and oil prices have fallen, the attack underscored China's particular vulnerability to disruption in oil supplies.
As the world's largest crude oil importer, China's heavy dependence on other countries for energy has influenced much of its foreign policy. Beijing is trying to reduce that dependence, butthe needs of its growing economy and a trade war with the United States have put it in an awkward position. It's buying more Saudi oil than it has done for years.
Less American oil, more Saudi oil
China has traditionally purchased the bulk of its oil from Russia, Iran , Saudi Arabia, and the United States.But it has been forced to cut back on at least two of those sources.
the escalating trade war and the Chinese imports of US oil plunged 76% in the first half of 2019 because ofthe escalating trade war and the threat of tariffs , according to data from customs authorities. Imports from Iran also dropped sharply due to sanctions re-imposed by the Trump administration on countries buying Iranian crude.
has become China's biggest supplier in recent months, increasing its share of Chinese imports from 14% in 2018 to 18% so far this year, and overtaking Russia for the first time in more than five years, according to a report by financial data provider Refinitiv. That gap has largely been closed by Saudi Arabia. The world's largest oil exporter has become China's biggest supplier in recent months, increasing its share of Chinese imports from 14% in 2018 to 18% so farthis year, and overtaking Russia for the first time in more than five years, according to a report by financial data provider Refinitiv.
Last Saturday's attack, which knocked out about half of Saudi oil production, left China worried.
"We are very concerned about the attack's potential impact on the international crude supply and price stability," Hua Chunying, a spokeswoman for China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said at a press conference on Tuesday.
Not enough reserves
Beijing has repeatedly emphasized the need to diversify its energy sources.
"Our most important task is to ensure energy security," Zhang Jianhua, director of China's National Energy Administration, said in a statement posted on the website of the Chinese government last month. "How to ensure national energy security and economic and societal growth is always the No. 1 issue for our energy development," he said.
In 2018, China imported nearly 70% of its oil, according to a paper released earlier this year by the China Petroleum Enterprise Association. The association expects that figure to rise to 72% in 2019.
As its economy grows, China will need more oil, the paper said. But domestic production has been going backwards and efforts to establish strategic reserves have fallen short of targets.
Last year, China's crude oil production decreased 1.3% to 189 million metric tons, a third straight year of decline. That's less than one third of its annual consumption of 648 million tons in 2018.
"China's crude imports will continue to increase in 2019," the paper said.
At a press conference on Friday, Zhang from the National Energy Administration said Beijing is trying to reduce China's dependence on foreign oil. He said the government will increase investments and support exploration to boost domestic oil production.
China's oil production should increase slightly to reach 191 million tons by the end of 2019 and 200 million tons in 2022, he added.
China doesn't release data about its oil reserves. But the statistics authority said at the end of 2017 that the country had established nine major oil reserve bases across the country, with a combined capacity of 37.7 million tons. Going by the 2018 consumption figures, that would only satisfy the country's needs for about three weeks.
had set a goal of increasing its oil reserves to around 85 million tons by 2020. That's almost as much as the United States keeps in its In 2008, the Chinese governmenthad set a goal of increasing its oil reserves to around85 million tons by 2020. That's almost as much as the United States keeps in its Strategic Petroleum Reserve — the world's largest backup oil supply.
Weaning itself off foreign oil
The Chinese government has also been trying various means to achieve energy independence.
In its 13th five-year plan, China's policy blueprint for 2016 to 2020, the government established a goal of becoming at least 80% self sufficient in energy by 2020.
In 2014, Chinese President Xi Jinping proposed a New Energy Security Strategy, calling for the country to diversify sources of energy imports, foster cordial relations with major oil and gas producers, boost alternative energy development as well as encouraging technological innovation in nuclear power and electric vehicles.
But in an opinion piece published in June, Lin Boqiang, director of the China Center for Energy Economics Research at Xiamen University, said China is finding it hard to cut its reliance on oil because its vast transportation industry accounts for 70% of consumption.
The most effective way for China to boost energy security is to accelerate the development of electric vehicles , high-speed railways, and transit systems that are more efficient, according to Lin.
Higher gas prices
China is already struggling with a slowing economy, a long drawn out trade war with the United States and a pork crisis that has pushed up inflation. Volatility in the global oil industry will only make things worse.
High oil prices could propel inflation further upward and leave policymakers less leeway to reduce the severity of the economic downturn.
On Monday, the People's Bank of China made a surprise move by keeping a key loan rate steady. Markets previously thought the central bank would reduce the rate given poor economic readings for last month.
Analysts said rising inflationary pressure is limiting the room for the central bank to cut rates. Cutting interest rates stimulates growth, but it also stokes inflation.
China's consumer price index rose 2.8% in August, driven mainly by a spike in pork prices after a bout of African swine fever wiped out roughly a third of China's pigs.
China has dipped into its national pork reserves to stave off that crisis, but it doesn't have the same ability with its oil reserves.
And with Chinese consumers already paying more for a variety of goods thanks to higher US tariffs, a jump in the price of gasoline will only add to their woes.
The price increases were due to "recent changes in international oil prices," according to a statement by the National Development and Reform Commission, the nation's top economic planner. The commission sets China's domestic fuel prices by issuing price guidance every few weeks.

Story 117
There’s been a heap of China in Africa coverage over the last decade, but very little of it is focused on tech. In part, because the country’s engagement with African startups is light compared to its deal-making on infrastructure and commodities. Now, that all looks to be shifting.
TechCrunch has tracked moves by a number of Chinese actors in Africa’s tech sector over the past year. This could signal the next chapter in China’s influence in Africa — one more digital than bricks and mortar.
Primer on China in Africa
To the former, the government of China has designated Africa a strategic priority in its foreign relations and has pursued policies and programs accordingly.

Story 118
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 119
Judy Woodruff:
Tonight, we continue our series "China: Power & Prosperity" with what the U.S. calls one of the worst human rights crises of our time.
Uighurs are Muslims who trace their roots back through thousands of years to Central Asia. Today, most of them, about 11 million, live in the Chinese province Xinjiang. They represent less than 1 percent of the population in a country that is more than 92 percent Han Chinese, the ethnicity that China traces back to an ancient Chinese empire.
Communist China has long persecuted people based on their religion. But the U.S., international groups, and Uighurs say this is different. They accuse China of throwing Uighurs into camps and targeting their religion and entire culture.
With the support of the Pulitzer Center, Nick Schifrin reports from a city many Uighurs have fled to, Istanbul.

Story 120
Beijing (CNN) — As Beijing's new, multibillion-dollar airport opened with great fanfare last Wednesday, a piece of China's history quietly closed its doors on the other side of the city.
The country's very first airport, Nanyuan Airport, shut its doors for good on September 25, the same date that Beijing's new $11.5 billion Daxing Airport was opened by President Xi Jinping.
The last flight, China United Airlines KN5830, left at just after 10 p.m., state media said. By Saturday, its doors were firmly shut and the car park mostly deserted.
The few remaining dusty cars had a polite notice taped to their side window. "Hello! This airport has officially moved to Daxing International Airport on September 25 ... I want to thank you again for putting your trust in Nanyuan Airport," said the notice.
Nanyuan first opened in 1910, 109 years ago, when China was still ruled by the Qing Dynasty. It has seen two world wars, China's civil war and finally the founding of the People's Republic of China in 1949.
l e v a r t
According to state-run China Daily, Nanyuan will become an aviation museum, while its practical functions will all be transferred to Daxing Airport.
Superficially the two could not be more different.
Daxing, designed by the late architect Zaha Hadid, is sleek and high-tech. Nanyuan is far more run down, with a brutally practical square shape and traces of rust showing.
Nevertheless, even days after its closure, Beijing citizens were still flocking to the old terminal to pay their tributes to a slice of the city's history.
Xiang Wang, 33, visited the airport with his children and partner on Saturday, the first weekend after it closed, taking photos next to the historic displays put up by the government.
"The Chinese dream took off from here," he said.
Related content Your guide to China's most impressive urban centers
Wang Xiang and his young daughter pose in front of a sign commemorating the closure of Beijing's Nanyuan Airport on September 29. CNN/Ben Westcott
Wang, a PhD student at Tsinghua University, said that he deeply regretted not getting a ticket to fly out of Nanyuan one last time and was jealous of his classmates who got to work here.
"We have feelings for this place," he said. "It's sad that Nanyuan is gone ... I brought my 1-year-old son here. He probably won't understand what I say to him about it, but he will have the memories."
Nanyuan has witnessed some pivotal moments in Chinese history. After the founding of the People's Republic of China in 1949, the first squadron of the Communist air force to fly over Tiananmen departed from Nanyuan.
In 1971, when then-US Secretary of State Henry Kissinger was flying into China in secret to arrange President Richard Nixon's historic visit, he touched down at Nanyuan Airport.
An abandoned guard post at Beijing's Nanyuan Airport which closed its doors this week. CNN/Ben Westcott
Chunqian Yin, a 34-year-old accountant, brought her son out to the airport so he could be part of the historic moment.
"I will miss this airport very much. I used to see aircraft flying around here before, but now I won't be able to anymore," she said.
Outside the museum there was a display with a countdown to the airport's closure, which Yin said she'd visited regularly.
But Yin said she also takes a philosophical approach to the airport's closure. After all, she said, now the area might see a boom in construction as a result.

Story 121
For fans of pro tennis, European soccer and British tabloids, the mysterious Twitter account had a lot to offer.
Beginning last year, it retweeted news, most of it in English, about Roger Federer and the Premier League, and it shared juicy clickbait on Zsa Zsa, an English bulldog that won the 2018 World’s Ugliest Dog contest.
Tweets from @HKpoliticalnew June 2018 @HKpoliticalnew Now Andy Murray’s out of Wimbledon, cheer on these young British hopefuls https://t.co/ct2kgTuEgU @HKpoliticalnew Hong Kong independence is a dead end. But there are always people who are vying to go into the fire pit. Pathetic! 2019 Dots are sized by number of retweets. @HKpoliticalnew The United States is funding ‘Hong Kong independence’ and brainwashing deadbeat kids #spieseverywhere #colorrevolution #hongkong Tweets from @HKpoliticalnew @HKpoliticalnew Now Andy Murray’s out of Wimbledon, cheer on these young British hopefuls https://t.co/ct2kgTuEgU June 2018 @HKpoliticalnew Hong Kong independence is a dead end. But there are always people who are vying to go into the fire pit. Pathetic! Dots are sized by number of retweets. 2019 @HKpoliticalnew The United States is funding ‘Hong Kong independence’ and brainwashing deadbeat kids #spieseverywhere #colorrevolution #hongkong @HKpoliticalnew Now Andy Murray’s out of Wimbledon, cheer on these young British hopefuls https://t.co/ct2kgTuEgU Tweets from @HKpoliticalnew June 2018 @HKpoliticalnew Hong Kong independence is a dead end. But there are always people who are vying to go into the fire pit. Pathetic! Dots are sized by number of retweets. 2019 @HKpoliticalnew The United States is funding ‘Hong Kong independence’ and brainwashing deadbeat kids #spieseverywhere #colorrevolution #hongkong Tweets from @HKpoliticalnew June 2018 @HKpoliticalnew Now Andy Murray’s out of Wimbledon, cheer on these young British hopefuls https://t.co/ct2kgTuEgU July Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov. Dots are sized by number of retweets. Dec. @HKpoliticalnew Hong Kong independence is a dead end. But there are always people who are vying to go into the fire pit. Pathetic! 2019 Feb. Mar. Apr. @HKpoliticalnew The United States is funding ‘Hong Kong independence’ and brainwashing deadbeat kids #spieseverywhere #colorrevolution #hongkong May June Tweets from @HKpoliticalnew June 2018 @HKpoliticalnew Now Andy Murray’s out of Wimbledon, cheer on these young British hopefuls https://t.co/ct2kgTuEgU July Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov. Dots are sized by number of retweets. Dec. @HKpoliticalnew Hong Kong independence is a dead end. But there are always people who are vying to go into the fire pit. Pathetic! 2019 Feb. Mar. Apr. @HKpoliticalnew The United States is funding ‘Hong Kong independence’ and brainwashing deadbeat kids #spieseverywhere #colorrevolution #hongkong May June Then, suddenly, the account began posting, in Chinese, about a different obsession: politics in Hong Kong and mainland China. By this summer, it had become a foot soldier in a covert campaign to shape people’s views about one of the world’s biggest political crises.
The account, @HKpoliticalnew, and more than 200,000 other Twitter accounts were part of a sprawling Russian-style disinformation offensive from China, Twitter now says, the first time an American technology giant has attributed such a campaign to the Chinese government.
China has long deployed propaganda and censorship to subject its citizens to government-approved narratives. As the nation’s place in the world grows, Beijing has increasingly turned to internet platforms that it blocks within the country — including Twitter and Facebook — to advance its agenda across the rest of the planet.
It has done so in part by setting up accounts on the platforms for its state-run news outlets, such as China Daily, to make a public case for its views. But that is quite different from using fake accounts to manipulate opinions surreptitiously or simply to sow confusion.
“The end goal is to control the conversation,” said Matt Schrader, a China analyst with the Alliance for Securing Democracy at the German Marshall Fund in Washington.
Twitter last month took down nearly 1,000 accounts that it said were part of a state-directed effort to undermine the antigovernment protests in Hong Kong. It also suspended 200,000 other accounts that it said were connected to the Chinese operation but not yet very active. Facebook and YouTube quickly followed suit. All three platforms are blocked in mainland China but not in Hong Kong.
The 3.6 million tweets that the accounts sent represented a campaign that was less sophisticated and more hastily assembled than the one Russia carried out during the 2016 United States presidential election, researchers at the Australian Strategic Policy Institute said in a report published this month.
Instead of taking the time to cultivate plausible yet fake online personalities, the campaign’s operators appear to have simply bought accounts in the shadowy global marketplace for social media influence, where followers and retweets can be had for cheap.
The accounts posted in Indonesian, Arabic, Portuguese and other languages. They promoted hookup services, posted about Korean boy bands and retweeted messages about pop-punk music.
How the languages of the tweets shifted The accounts tweeted in more than 55 languages aside from English and Chinese. Then a wave of English tweets kicked in. But in mid-2017, many of the accounts started spreading propaganda in Chinese. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 The accounts tweeted in more than 55 languages aside from English and Chinese. Then a wave of English tweets kicked in. But in mid-2017, many of the accounts started spreading propaganda in Chinese. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 The accounts tweeted in more than 55 languages aside from English and Chinese. Then a wave of English tweets kicked in. But in mid-2017, many of the accounts started spreading propaganda in Chinese. 2016 2017 2018 2019 The accounts tweeted in more than 55 languages aside from English and Chinese. Then a wave of English tweets kicked in. But in mid-2017, many of the accounts started spreading propaganda in Chinese. 2016 2017 2018 2019
“As a Hong Kong person who loves Hong Kong, I really miss the Hong Kong of before, which was developed and ruled by law,” @derrickmcnabbx wrote in Chinese on June 15. The account’s location was described as “Georgia, USA.” Before this year, nearly all of its tweets were links to pornography.
The “blunt-force” approach, the authors of the Australian report wrote, suggested that the operation was likely to have been a “rapid response to the unanticipated size and power of the Hong Kong protests rather than a campaign planned well in advance.”
A spokesman for China’s foreign ministry said he had no knowledge of the matter when asked last month whether the government was behind the accounts that Twitter and Facebook took down.
In its announcement, Twitter said little about how it determined that the accounts it removed were state directed. The company said it routinely monitored for such campaigns but declined to comment further.
The Chinese government blocks Twitter’s service in mainland China, and yet some of the accounts were operated from unblocked Chinese internet addresses, the company said. Some of the activity was traced to addresses in Beijing, according to a person familiar with Twitter’s investigation who feared retaliation from the government and requested anonymity.
There are already some signs that Twitter has not halted the Chinese campaign entirely. Nick Monaco of Institute for the Future, a think tank in Palo Alto, Calif., identified 17 accounts that had strong similarities to those that Twitter took down but which remained active.
Some of the accounts tweeted messages that matched, word for word, ones that Twitter had deleted. They used the same third-party software as many of the accounts Twitter had removed to post messages with similar themes, in what seemed to be a coordinated manner.
After The New York Times presented Mr. Monaco’s findings to Twitter last week, the company shut the accounts down but declined to say conclusively whether they had been part of the same state-backed network.
Many of the accounts originally identified by Twitter had spread pro-government messages during other public-relations crises for Beijing. Large numbers of such messages began appearing in 2017, after the exiled businessman Guo Wengui began accusing senior Chinese leaders of graft, which raises the question of why Twitter did not remove the accounts sooner.
The closed accounts also targeted Chinese dissidents Before the accounts focused on the Hong Kong protests, they smeared critics of the Chinese government, according to analyses by The Times and the Australian Strategic Policy Institute. Tweets about the Hong Kong protests and the extradition bill exploded after June 9, the day of the first big demonstration. Yang Jianli, an outspoken critic of the Chinese government, was accused of being a fraud. The favorite target was Guo Wengui, a businessman who accused top Chinese officials of corruption. The accounts attacked him continuously for more than two years. Gui Minhai, a Hong Kong bookseller who disappeared then resurfaced in police custody in China, was also targeted. Jan. 2018 April July Oct. 2019 April July @Sawyer19Carole So Yang Jianli spreads rumors everywhere, disguising himself as a victim, when in fact he is the one who wants to persecute others. @ksiushalapina73 Gui Minhai was taken off a train by Chinese police on Jan. 20, various foreign media outlets made a big fuss about it. Chinese law does not tolerate such criticism from the foreign media @valentinax5w1sw Guo Wengui, as a wanted criminal, you have evaded taxes in China, forcibly taken your female employees as mistresses, used recordings to threaten business partners, wooed and corrupted government officials. Tweets about the Hong Kong protests and the extradition bill exploded after June 9, the day of the first big demonstration. The favorite target was Guo Wengui, a businessman who accused top Chinese officials of corruption. The accounts attacked him continuously for more than two years. Yang Jianli, an outspoken critic of the Chinese government, was accused of being a fraud. Gui Minhai, a Hong Kong bookseller who disappeared then resurfaced in police custody in China, was also targeted. Jan. 2018 April July Oct. 2019 April July @ksiushalapina73 Gui Minhai was taken off a train by Chinese police on Jan. 20, various foreign media outlets made a big fuss about it. Chinese law does not tolerate such criticism from the foreign media @valentinax5w1sw Guo Wengui, as a wanted criminal, you have evaded taxes in China, forcibly taken your female employees as mistresses, used recordings to threaten business partners, wooed and corrupted government officials. @Sawyer19Carole So Yang Jianli spreads rumors everywhere, disguising himself as a victim, when in fact he is the one who wants to persecute others. Yang Jianli, an outspoken critic of the Chinese government, was accused of being a fraud. @Sawyer19Carole So Yang Jianli spreads rumors everywhere, disguising himself as a victim, when in fact he is the one who wants to persecute others. Jan. 2018 Gui Minhai, a Hong Kong bookseller who disappeared then resurfaced in police custody in China, was also targeted. @ksiushalapina73 Gui Minhai was taken off a train by Chinese police on Jan. 20, various foreign media outlets made a big fuss about it. Chinese law does not tolerate such criticism from the foreign media April July The favorite target was Guo Wengui, a businessman who accused top Chinese officials of corruption. The accounts attacked him continuously for more than two years. @valentinax5w1sw Guo Wengui, as a wanted criminal, you have evaded taxes in China, forcibly taken your female employees as mistresses, used recordings to threaten business partners, wooed and corrupted government officials. Oct. 2019 April Tweets about the Hong Kong protests and the extradition bill exploded after June 9, the day of the first big demonstration. July Yang Jianli, an outspoken critic of the Chinese government, was accused of being a fraud. @Sawyer19Carole So Yang Jianli spreads rumors everywhere, disguising himself as a victim, when in fact he is the one who wants to persecute others. Jan. 2018 Gui Minhai, a Hong Kong bookseller who disappeared then resurfaced in police custody in China, was also targeted. @ksiushalapina73 Gui Minhai was taken off a train by Chinese police on Jan. 20, various foreign media outlets made a big fuss about it. Chinese law does not tolerate such criticism from the foreign media April July The favorite target was Guo Wengui, a businessman who accused top Chinese officials of corruption. The accounts attacked him continuously for more than two years. @valentinax5w1sw Guo Wengui, as a wanted criminal, you have evaded taxes in China, forcibly taken your female employees as mistresses, used recordings to threaten business partners, wooed and corrupted government officials. Oct. 2019 April Tweets about the Hong Kong protests and the extradition bill exploded after June 9, the day of the first big demonstration. July The favorite target was Guo Wengui, a real estate developer who fled to the United States and accused top Chinese officials of corruption. Yang Jianli, an outspoken critic of the Chinese government, was accused of being a fraud. Jan. 2018 Gui Minhai, a Hong Kong bookseller who disappeared then resurfaced in police custody in China, was also targeted. April July The campaign targeting Guo Wengui extended into 2018 and 2019, before the focus shifted to Hong Kong. Oct. 2019 Early tweets related to the ongoing Hong Kong crisis appeared in February, when the government proposed the extradition bill. April Tweets about the Hong Kong protests and the extradition bill exploded after June 9, the day of the first big demonstration. July
During some of their tweet campaigns, the accounts posted primarily during the workweek, a sign that the accounts were run by employees working on the clock. For months, one account posted messages smearing Mr. Guo at 12 and 42 minutes past the hour, suggesting that the activity was automated.
Some of the accounts appear to have been started by genuine users but were later hijacked.
The first four years of posts on one account, @emiliya_naum, read like those of an ordinary American teenager.
She tweeted longingly at @justinbieber and said she twerked in her room to celebrate Barack Obama’s 2012 election victory. She cataloged her moods and mused about her crushes.
“The guy I like and my best friend hate each other … #ThisIsntGood,” she wrote in 2012.
Then, like many Twitter users, she let her account fall silent — until this summer, when she re-emerged as a cheerleader for Hong Kong law enforcement.
“Hong Kong police, way to go, we support you!” she tweeted, in Chinese. “We understand your hardships!”
It could not be determined whether @emiliya_naum was originally operated by a real person. No accounts with that name were found on Facebook, Instagram or other major social platforms.
By and large, the accounts that Twitter took down struggled to go viral with their pro-Beijing messages. Many of their most retweeted posts were links to pornography and animal videos.
Elise Thomas, one of the authors of the Australian report, said that the low level of professionalism suggested that the campaign was not the work of the People’s Liberation Army or the Ministry of State Security, which have previously been linked to Chinese cyberespionage and information campaigns.
“I would be surprised if the P.L.A. was responsible because I would expect they would be more competent than this,” Ms. Thomas said.
Russia’s social media efforts ahead of the 2016 presidential election were cannier about finding and influencing audiences in the United States. The Internet Research Agency, a St. Petersburg company with Kremlin ties, tailored its trolling operations to sow maximum discord.
Titus C. Chen, a professor who studies Chinese social media at the National Sun Yat-sen University in Taiwan, said he believed that China had created its own analogues to the Internet Research Agency, though they operated far less openly.
Turning spam bots into propaganda mouthpieces would represent a natural evolution of techniques that Beijing has long used at home.
For years, China has used armies of pseudonymous keyboard warriors to flood domestic social platforms and news sites with pro-government comments.
In 2013, the head of China’s propaganda department said that in Beijing alone, there were more than two million people working to “strengthen guidance of online opinion,” including by posting comments on Weibo, China’s Twitter-like social media platform.
Samm Sacks, a China expert at New America, a Washington-based think tank, said the clumsiness of the Twitter operations showed that China was still “out of its depth in trying to shape the international narrative.”
“What works inside China doesn’t work internationally,” she said. “I think China is probably working through that now.”

Story 122
SHANGHAI (Reuters) - Tesla Inc’s (TSLA.O) China factory aims to start production this month but it is unclear when it will meet year-end production targets due to uncertainties around orders, labor and suppliers, sources with knowledge of the matter said.
FILE PHOTO: Workers are seen outside a planned entrance of U.S. electric carmaker Tesla's Gigafactory that is under construction in Shanghai, China September 28, 2019. REUTERS/Yilei Sun
The U.S. electric vehicle maker aims to produce at least 1,000 Model 3s a week from the new factory by the end of this year, the centerpiece of its ambitions to boost sales in the world’s biggest auto market and avoid higher import tariffs imposed on U.S. cars.
The plant’s mass production schedule is crucial for Tesla’s hopes of reaching its total production rate at an annualized 500,000 vehicles by the end of this year.
The $2 billion factory - Tesla’s first car manufacturing site overseas - gained key government approvals last month and is on schedule to start production in October, the sources said.
“We aim to start some production in October, but the actual production volume depends on many factors including car orders we received, performance of newly hired workers, supply chain and so on,” a Tesla source told Reuters.
“It’s unclear when we can reach the 1,000-2,000 units per week target,” the person said, declining to be named as he was not allowed to speak to media.
Tesla did not respond to requests for comment.
The factory is kicking into gear amid the U.S.-China trade war and weakness in China’s auto market. Sales of new energy vehicles contracted for a second month in a row in August, and are likely to grow at a slower pace this year to 1.5 million vehicles, down from a previous forecast of 1.6 million, according to an industry association.
Tesla has fared better, with China sales rising 98% in the first seven months of this year thanks to strong demand for Model 3, according to research firm LMC Automotive.
NEW PHASE
Tesla has embarked on a new phase of construction work at the factory in a sign of confidence in its China strategy. The new facilities will include battery pack production units, according to a company source and documents.
The so-called 1.5-phase works, which have not previously been reported, include a production workshop and an energy center, construction documents showed. Construction is scheduled for completion by around the end of this year.
Tesla also is looking to hire battery-related production engineers in Shanghai, according to its job advertisements.
The plant, which Tesla says will be simplified and more cost-effective than its existing Model 3 line, will have 500,000 units of annual capacity when the second phase is completed, doubling from initial phase capacity of 250,000 vehicles.
Slideshow (2 Images)
The factory, China’s first fully foreign-owned car plant, is a reflection of Beijing’s broader shift to open up its car market.
Shanghai authorities have offered assistance to speed up construction, and China excluded Tesla models from a 10% car purchase tax on Aug. 30.
State partners of the Tesla project include Shanghai Construction Group (600170.SS), China Construction Industrial & Energy Engineering Group, State Grid [STGRD.UL], Power Construction Corporation of China (601669.SS), and MinMetals’ [CHMIN.UL] Shanghai unit Baoye, according to multiple sources involved in the construction project.

Story 123
Tuesday was National Day in China, which marked the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People’s Republic of China. Like all authoritarian regimes the ruling Chinese Communist Party loves a good giant celebration of state power to remind everyone who is in charge, and the parade featured plenty of new weapons and technology. Here’s your Foxtrot Alpha guide to the most interesting new equipment spotted during Beijing’s parade.

First off, here’s a link to the entirety of the parade, which CGTN broadcast live to the world via YouTube.

If you watch the segments before and after the parade keep in mind CGTN is official Chinese state media, so whatever you hear from commentators, news anchors, and guests will all pretty much parrot the Chinese Communist Party line. The most basic facts are help; the rest is not.
Advertisement
According to Chinese state television, approximately 40 percent of the hardware on display had never been seen in public before. Much of the equipment observed during the parade had been guessed at, observed from a distance during testing, or seen in satellite photographs.
Having reached the end of the military portion of the parade, Xi circles back. Xi does not have a license plate. Screenshot : CGTN/YouTube
The first thing that happened was President Xi Jinping jumped in his armored limousine and reviewed the troops. Xi stood in the sunroof, rolling past the rows of thousands of People’s Liberation Army troops and their varied equipment. Xi drove the length of the military portion of the parade, reached the DF-41 intercontinental ballistic missiles at the end, and then circled back to take his place in the reviewing stand. The rest of the parade, including extravagant floats that celebrated Chairman Mao and the various provinces of China, were ignored.
The weather was hazy in Beijing, which still suffers from bad air pollution despite government attempts to fix it.
Advertisement
Screenshot : CGTN/YouTube
According to CGTN commentary four generals, two lieutenant generals, over one hundred major generals, and nearly 15,000 officers and enlisted participated in the parade, which drew on all elements of the People’s Liberation Army: the PLA Ground Forces (Army), People’s Liberation Army Navy, People’s Liberation Army Air Force, People’s Liberation Army Rocket Force (missiles and cruise missiles), and the People’s Liberation Army Navy Marine Corps.
Advertisement
The People’s Armed Police, China’s paramilitary law enforcement, also took part. The PAP Is not an insignificant force: China spends more on internal security than externally-focused national defense.

Ground Forces
Advertisement
First up were the tanks. The PLA Ground Forces brought 22 Type 99A main battle tanks to the parade, all decked out in tan digital camouflage. The Type 99A features a 125-millimeter gun, a 1,500 horsepower engine, advanced composite armor and modular reactive armor tiles, which appears to be belly armor for protection from improvised explosive devices, and a commander’s independent thermal viewer. No real surprises here.
Advertisement
Next was about a dozen Type 15 light tanks. A new tank, the Type 15 is designed to operate in mountainous and rugged regions, where larger main battle tanks might be too heavy to cross bridges or wide to travel narrow mountain roads. The U.S. Army is also looking into fielding a new light tank with its new Mobile Protected Firepower program.
Screenshot : CGTN/YouTube
Advertisement
From there the action shifted to the Chinese Marine Corps. The PLANMC showed off rows of ZBD-05 amphibious infantry fighting vehicles. The boat-like bow allows it to swim in the water, and once ashore it can disgorge eight marine riflemen riding in the rear. Fire support is provided by the 105-millimeter gun in the turret. The ZBD-05 is just the sort of vehicle that would lead an invasion of Taiwan.
Advertisement
PLA airborne troops showed off their ZBD-03 airborne infantry fighting vehicles. Small, lightly armored and designed to be airdropped, the ZBD-03 is at least inspired by the Russian BMD airborne fighting vehicle. The Chinese vehicle is armed with a 30-millimeter autocannon and an anti-tank missile apparently based on the Soviet 1960s-era AT-3 Sagger. Airborne vehicles like this allow troops to move quickly off the drop zone and seize their objectives.
Advertisement
Wrapping up ground forces are China’s oddball vehicles. The first, a 6x6 all-terrain vehicle appears to carry four PLA soldiers. It is equipped with an armored windshield and a 12.7-millimeter heavy machine gun. It may also have propellers or waterjets to navigate swampy areas.

Advertisement
Another unusual vehicle is the “Hunting Eagle” autogyro. Like something of a James Bond film, the autogyro is used for patrolling remote areas with poor roads. Hunting Eagle can carry two soldiers and is quite likely a ripoff of German autogyro maker MTO’s aircraft.

China does have odd military vehicles, but it does have a lot of difficult terrain without a lot of road infrastructure. The result is a lot of mountains, deserts, swamps and other hostile terrain to patrol. Eventually these sorts of vehicles will be replaced by unmanned vehicles, but for now, the PLA does have some strange stuff.
Advertisement
Screenshot : CGTN/YouTube
Finally, the People’s Armed Police appeared with stretched 4x4 wheeled armored personnel carriers... armed 12.7-millimeter heavy machine guns. Why would police need heavy machine guns? Great question.

Advertisement
Naval Forces
Naval forces were under-represented In the parade, despite China’s emphasis on naval power. It’s not like you can haul a guided-missile destroyer across Beijing. If you could, the Chinese Navy probably would have done it.
Advertisement
Screenshot : CGTN/YouTube
Instead of ships, China showed off a variety of naval weapons. Above are YJ-18A anti-ship cruise missiles. The YJ-18 series are launched from ships and submarines. The missiles have a range of 290 nautical miles and fly at about 600 miles an hour. Once within 20 miles of the target, the missiles kick into overdrive, accelerating to Mach 3, to give enemy defenses minimal time to intercept. That’s a capability U.S. missiles do not have.
Advertisement
Screenshot : CGTN/YouTube
Most of the ship-based weapons, unless they carry nuclear weapons, are not all that interesting. This, however, was: a shipboard close-in weapon system similar to the American Phalanx or European Goalkeeper. Unlike the six or seven-barred western weapons this weapon has an amazing eleven barrels.
Advertisement
If a six-barrel Phalanx has a rate of fire of 3,000 rounds per minute and a seven-barrel Goalkeeper can shoot 4,000 rounds a minute, this Chinese weapon... well, it can shoot a lot. It’s not clear why the Chinese gun needs nearly twice as many barrels as its Western counterparts.
Air Forces
Screenshot : CGTN/YouTube
Advertisement
This Is the DR-8 supersonic drone. The DR-8 is thought to serve with the People’s Liberation Army Rocket Forces, providing targeting data and post-strike followup for ballistic missiles. It’s thought to be particularly aimed at helping target U.S. aircraft carriers with anti-ship ballistic missiles (ASBMs), as well as assessing the damage done by ASBM strikes.
Advertisement
Next is the Gongji-11, or GJ-11 “Sharp Sword” unmanned combat aerial vehicle (UCAV). Unlike the Predator and Reaper drones, the GJ-11 Is designed for high-intensity warfare, with a stealthy design to mask it from enemy air defense radars. The GJ-11 likely has an internal bay to carry weapons, fuel, and additional sensors.
According to Chinese officials, “All weapons on display in the parade are in active service.” If that’s true, China beat the United States in fielding a UCAV.
Advertisement
Long-Range Missiles and Nukes
Advertisement
This is something you don’t see every day: a sea of hypersonic missiles. The DF-17 hypersonic missile appeared for the first time in the parade and is the first hypersonic weapon system in service with any country. In other words, if all of these weapons really are operational, China beat America again.
The DF-17 is a “boost-glide” weapon: A rocket booster accelerates the missile upward to gain altitude, then separates and the hypersonic glide vehicle separates. The HGV (the front half of the weapon with the fins) then glides to target at speeds in excess of Mach 5. The benefit of hypersonic weapons is that they reach their targets much faster, flummoxing enemy defenses.
Advertisement
Another sea weapon that made it to the parade is the Ju Lang-2, or JL-2 submarine-launched ballistic missile. Twelve JL-12s were featured in the parade, each in a transportation canister.
Advertisement
Each missile, according to the Center for Strategic and International Studies, carries a one-megaton thermonuclear warhead or 3-8 smaller warheads. The missile has a range of 4,970 miles to 5,592 miles. That’s not quite far enough to reach the continental United States, but it could hit Hawaii and Alaska. It also won’t be the last Chinese submarine-launched ballistic missile.
Advertisement
Last but not least is the most powerful weapon in the parade: the DF-41 mobile intercontinental ballistic missile. The DF-41 can carry a single one-megaton thermonuclear warhead or up to ten smaller warheads. The DF-41 is designed to travel by road or rail, eluding enemy missile hunting forces. The missile has an estimated range of around 7,456 miles to 9,320 miles. The former number can strike nearly the entire United States while the latter can strike anywhere in the Northern Hemisphere.
This Was For The Rest Of The World
One thing readers might have noticed: all of the missile names are not only on the side of missiles they’re in English, not Chinese. That’s because the real audience for this parade doesn’t understand Chinese.
Advertisement
It is hard to look at this parade and not think that China is advancing on the U.S. in fielding key weapon systems, if not beating America outright in some ways. The U.S. was flying UCAV combat drones as early as 2013, but then stopped flying them entirely. The U.S. was also an early researcher into hypersonic weapons, flying them un the mid-2000s, but again stopped testing. The first American high-intensity combat drone to fly will be an aerial refueling tanker, and won’t enter service until 2024. The U.S. is now playing catch up to Russian and Chinese hypersonic weapons research, with no less than five weapons in development. It could have easily beaten the DF-17 to the field.
Don’t expect China to slow down with this kind of thing anytime soon.

Story 124
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption China's new mega-airport is the size of 98 football fields
China's new $11bn (£8.8bn) mega airport has opened its doors, days before the country's 70th anniversary celebrations.
The Daxing International Airport in the capital Beijing was formally opened by President Xi Jinping on Wednesday.
The airport spans 700,000 square metres, or 98 football fields, says state media outlet China Daily.
Beijing's existing airport is the world's second busiest behind Atlanta, according to the Airport Council.
But officials say a new airport was needed to take the pressure off the overcrowded Beijing Capital International Airport.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption What does the world's largest single-building airport terminal look like?
The Daxing airport - said to be the world's largest terminal in a single building - is expected to receive a large amount of the 170m passengers the city expects to welcome by 2025.
According to state agency the Global Times, seven domestic airlines were expected to begin operations out of the new airport on Wednesday. The first flight - a China Southern Airlines A380 - took off at 16:23 local time.
And international carriers including British Airways, Cathay Pacific and Finnair have already announced routes to Daxing.
The new airport, which is located around 46km (29 mi) south of Tiananmen Square, was designed by famed architect Zaha Hadid.
With the opening of the airport, Beijing has joined a group of cities, including New York and London, that have two-long haul international airports.
More than 100 million passengers have used Beijing Capital, which opened in 1958.
Image copyright AFP Image caption Daxing Aiport in June 2019

Story 125
“There’s political pressure for this to be done,” said one of the people, adding that Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), who is emerging as a front-runner among Democratic presidential candidates, “could take this and run with it.”
Top U.S. officials are scheduled to hold a high-level meeting with their Chinese counterparts in early October.
China has made moves to build goodwill by agreeing to purchase U.S. agriculture goods again. But it’s still unclear if China is willing to meet U.S. demands on core concerns related to intellectual property, forced technology transfer, subsidies and other state-directed policies accused of ripping off U.S. innovation.
POLITICO NEWSLETTERS Morning Trade A speed read on global trade news — weekday mornings, in your inbox. Sign Up Loading By signing up you agree to receive email newsletters or alerts from POLITICO. You can unsubscribe at any time.
After numerous, bruising rounds of tariffs, the U.S. could have duties in place by the end of the year on almost all of the roughly $500 billion worth of goods it imports from China. Now, the administration now seems to be considering new ways to pressure China beyond tariffs.
The news that the administration is now considering capital measures was reported by Bloomberg on Friday, but people close to the administration have hinted for weeks that such actions were under consideration.
“We’re at very low levels of pressure compared to what could be done,” Michael Pillsbury, an outside adviser to Trump on China and senior fellow at the Hudson Institute, told POLITICO earlier this month.
Pillsbury described a measure the administration could take to eliminate waivers that allow Chinese companies listed on U.S. stock exchanges to bypass auditing and financial disclosure requirements required for American firms. This could force major Chinese companies like Alibaba and Tencent off U.S. stock exchanges, he said.
“Steps that would inflict pain on China’s national champion companies might bring them around to a binding deal,” Pillsbury said.
There are 159 Chinese firms listed on U.S. stock exchanges, representing a total market capitalization of $1.1 trillion, according to the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission.
Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) introduced legislation in June that would force Chinese companies to disclose financial information the Chinese government blocks U.S. regulators from reviewing.
Rubio and Sen. Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.) also sent a letter in late August to Michael Kennedy, the chairman of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board, to reverse a decision that exposed $50 billion worth of U.S. government workers’ retirement assets to investments in Chinese firms.
The lawmakers said the decision exposed U.S. pension funds to Chinese companies involved in espionage, human rights abuses and Chinese industrial policies, like the “Made in China 2025" initiative, that have been the target of the U.S. tariff actions.
“There are obvious problems that need to be urgently corrected given China’s policies, its use of all companies to achieve them regardless of ownership structure, and its lack of transparency around all such efforts,” said one of the people familiar with the discussions. “Folks have had blinders on for far too long, particularly Wall Street.”
The move could cause major disruptions as portfolio managers try to adjust to a possible ban and new regulations, said Jim Paulsen, chief investment strategist at the Leuthold Group.
“My own guess is this is just a negotiating tactic from the White House aimed at ratcheting up the pressure on China and giving a tangible show of U.S. leverage ahead of the upcoming meeting in October,” he said.
Capital controls and restrictions could also make it more difficult for the two sides to reach a true deal.
“We don’t have confidence in China honoring a deal. China has no confidence in Trump; he appears to them as an unreliable moving target,” said David Kotok, chairman and chief investment officer at Cumberland Advisors. “My best guess is no real trade deal is possible for at least two years.“
Meanwhile, Beijing recently repeated its warning that a further decoupling of the U.S. and Chinese economies would be counterproductive.
During a speech this week to U.S. business executives on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi said China will continue efforts to open up its economy.
“Given the size of our economies and the level of interdependence, the so-called ‘decoupling‘ or ‘shutting the door to each other‘ is just like an attempt to build castles in the air,” he said. “It is neither sensible nor realistic.“
Ben White contributed to this report.

Story 126
A worker on the production line at a truck factory in Hefei, China, in 2014. (Reuters)
It’s running short of workers, which surprises no one but its central planners — and the American Left.
China has a problem: not enough people.
If you didn’t see that one coming, you haven’t been paying attention.
More precisely, China’s problem is its shrinking work force.
According to Beijing’s official numbers, China’s work force has declined by 25 million workers — about the combined work forces of California and Ohio — since topping out in 2011. Everywhere in China’s industrial belt, help-wanted signs hang outside the factories.
Advertisement
Advertisement
After years of officially restricting couples to one child, the cabal that rules China — never forget that this is a one-party police state — relaxed that policy a few years ago. But Chinese people did not start having more children. They’re having fewer, for the same reasons many Western societies have seen declining birth rates: Would-be parents dread the expense of children, and women delay motherhood as they pursue professional goals rather than maternal ones. The Communist bosses want Chinese couples to have more children, but Chinese couples are not obliging.
Advertisement
Some Chinese officials blame the declining work force for the country’s declining economic growth. The Chinese economy is still growing, and growing quickly by many standards — its 6.6 percent growth last year is more than twice what President Trump dreams of, with his unfulfilled promise of sustained 3 percent growth — but, long-term, the Chinese forecast is normalcy, at least as far as economic growth is concerned.
For a regime that has based its legitimacy on dramatic economic growth, normalcy is a crisis. And a national crisis in China is a serious thing. The future is unknowable, but the wise man would not bet very much on Xi Jinping’s career coming to an end because of an election. A Chinese recession might very well end in a Chinese revolution.
Advertisement
Governments always operate in ignorance, and authoritarian governments suffer from this more than the governments of liberal societies. That is because in liberal societies, the spontaneous orders of markets, civil society, and open intellectual life help to organize and deploy useful knowledge in ways that centralized bureaucracies cannot.
Advertisement
(Of course that applies to corporate bureaucracies as well; that’s why an intelligent society allows businesses to die quickly, with as little disruption as possible. That’s a lesson we Americans keep failing to learn with our “too big to fail” superstitions.)
You might expect that state of ignorance to produce some kind of random distribution of errors, which could in theory be partly self-correcting in the same way that big crowds are, on average, pretty good at guessing how many jelly beans are in a jar. But that isn’t how things actually work.
Advertisement
Political actors — not only elected officials but also career bureaucrats and expert managers — do not err randomly or in ways that are entirely unpredictable. That is because political actors, even the most intelligent and well-meaning of them, are not the dispassionate philosopher-kings of the progressive imagination. Political actors have incentives, and they act in accordance with those incentives. This produces biases that are mostly predictable: bias toward bigger budgets and bigger staffs, bias toward settlements and procedures that minimize institutional accountability, bias toward relying on metrics of progress that are easy to measure and likely to obscure or minimize ongoing problems (you can tell a great deal about an institution by what questions its managers choose not to ask and which metrics they choose not to measure), etc. Among central governments, the bias tends to be toward centralization. Among local governments, the bias tends to be toward localizing power and delocalizing funding. Police departments are predictably biased against civilian-review boards. Public-school teachers’ organizations are biased against measuring performance rather than relying on criteria such as seniority in decisions relating to compensation and advancement.
The Communist bosses in Beijing have certain ideological biases that have evolved over the years. Unsurprisingly for an authoritarian ideology with its roots in agrarian and pre-industrial social arrangements, the Chinese long regarded themselves as having a population problem. The peasants may have been lionized as the vanguard of the revolution, but there were countless millions of them, and the Communist planners regarded them as liabilities rather than as assets — mouths to be fed rather than a productive work force. Central planners are reliably unable to cope with the organic pace of change as it happens in the real world — which does not operate on a series of five-year plans — and, among their other errors, the authorities in Beijing continued believing that they had a population problem long after it was plain that they did not.
Advertisement
The Chinese are not alone in this. In the West, progressives have been for many years hostage to the deathless superstition of “overpopulation” and all of the predictable Malthusian errors that go along with it. Paul Ehrlich, the wrongest man in the history of modern American thought, captivated a generation with his Population Bomb and his predictions that the world would soon run out of . . . everything, really: food, energy, industrial metals, etc. In 1970, he predicted that “in ten years, all important animal life in the sea will be extinct.” He predicted that the United Kingdom would cease to exist, that hundreds of millions would die in inevitable famines, etc. Subsequent prophets from Al Gore to Greta Thunberg have offered variations on the same theme. Thank goodness we were not persuaded by their forebears back when they were insisting that we were on the verge of a “new ice age” and drawing up plans to cover the polar ice caps in coal soot in order to warm up the planet and thereby prevent . . . climate change.
Advertisement
This kind of thinking exercises powerful influence over the thinking of progressives, from Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg’s enthusiasm for abortion as a means of reducing “populations that we don’t want to have too many of” to Senator Bernie Sanders’s recent invocation of taking steps to “curb population growth” — where? — “especially in poor countries.” The “Planned” in Planned Parenthood is very much like the “planned” in “planned economy.” Remember that many so-called liberals in the Western world celebrated China’s one-child policy as the height of wisdom even as they shed a few tears, some of them possibly sincere, over the brutality of its implementation.
Advertisement
Central planners are always fighting the last war. Even as the world’s population is projected to peak and then decline in the not-so-distant future (only 20 or 30 years) “population control” remains a going concern among progressives. It isn’t about population: It is about control. The same is true of gun control and “putting the economy under some measure of democratic control,” as Jamelle Bouie recently put it in the New York Times. In the progressive imagination, the perfection of society — and the perfection of man — is only a matter of control, and choosing the right controllers. This is how you end up with a callow young bartender with no relevant experience or knowledge drawing up grand plans to reorganize the entire world economy, which is understood to be a fundamentally moral question — ask young Miss Thunberg or Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez — with the technical details to be addressed by a bureaucracy to be organized later.
Moral imperatives are attractive in that they do not rely on any particular verifiable expertise or measurable outcome. Millions were starved to death in the Holodomor by those who were whitewashed as being nothing more than “liberals in a hurry.” That, too, was an economy under some measure of political control by people who said they were acting in the interests of the majority of the people.
Advertisement
The American Left is at the moment engaged in a peculiar assault on American liberalism, especially its protections of individual rights and the interests and rights of minorities. The First and Second Amendments both are under attack, as are the Senate and the Electoral College, and other counter-majoritarian institutions that form an important part of the American constitutional architecture. The everything-is-racist campaign of the past few years is intended largely to discredit these institutions. Representative Ocasio-Cortez has judged the Electoral College both “racist” and a “scam,” a common view among progressives. Paul Krugman and Will Wilkinson, both writing in the New York Times, have insisted that projects ranging from liberalizing regulations to defending the Bill of Rights are, somehow, racist enterprises. Michelle Goldberg, also writing in the New York Times, dreams of “an end of the GOP” for the crime that Democratic pollster Stanley Greenberg describes as conspiring “to stop the New America from governing.” Greenberg dreams of an unchallengeable Democratic monopoly on power “liberated from the nation’s suffocating polarization to use government to advance the public good.”
Polarization is what happens when there are two opinions about something. What happens when there is one opinion — one permitted opinion — about something is: China, roughly.
The main reason the modern United States has not, for all its errors and failures, pursued something as destructive as China’s one-child policy is that no one actually has the power to do so. Those dusty old terms from the long-forgotten civics textbooks — separation of powers, federalism, unalienable rights — have saved us many times from the worst kinds of tyranny. And, as our founders knew, the worst forms of tyranny very much include majoritarian tyranny. One might think that the Trump presidency would cause progressives to think twice about what William F. Buckley Jr. dismissed as “the authority of political truths arrived at yesterday at the voting booth.” But they cannot endure such a thought. That is why they remain unable to intellectually progress from November 2016 without convincing themselves that the election was somehow illegitimate.
Advertisement
To face the facts would be to understand themselves to be devotees of another god that failed. They may believe that they are not followers of the same god that has failed in China, but that is only a matter of comparing Zeus to Jupiter. They are slowly beginning to understand what’s happening in Beijing, if only because the bosses there have no other choice but to accept reality or risk a fate a good deal worse and more bloody than mere electoral defeat.
But Beijing’s errors are not so different from our errors, which will become more apparent the farther down the same road we go.

Story 127
In 2012, Chinese President Xi Jinping promised that the Communist Party would deliver great successes in advance of two upcoming centennials, in 2021 and 2049. But no amount of nationalist posturing can change the fact that the fall of the CPC appears closer than at any time since the end of the Mao era.
CLAREMONT – On October 1, to mark the 70th anniversary of the People’s Republic, Chinese President Xi Jinping will deliver a speech that unreservedly celebrates the Communist Party of China’s record since 1949. But, despite Xi’s apparent confidence and optimism, the CPC’s rank and file are increasingly concerned about the regime’s future prospects – with good reason.
In 2012, when Xi took the reins of the CPC, he promised that the Party would strive to deliver great successes in advance of two upcoming centennials, marking the founding of the CPC in 1921 and the People’s Republic. But a persistent economic slowdown and rising tensions with the United States will likely sour the CPC’s mood during the 2021 celebrations. And the one-party regime may not even survive until 2049.
While there is technically no time limit on dictatorship, the CPC is approaching the longevity frontier for one-party regimes. Mexico’s Institutional Revolutionary Party retained power for 71 years (1929-2000); the Communist Party of the Soviet Union ruled for 74 years (1917-1991); and Taiwan’s Kuomintang held on for 73 years (from 1927 to 1949 on the mainland and from 1949 to 2000 in Taiwan). The North Korean regime, a Stalinist family dynasty that has ruled for 71 years, is China’s only contemporary competition.
But historical patterns are not the only reason the CPC has to be worried. The conditions that enabled the regime to recover from the self-inflicted disasters of Maoism and to prosper over the last four decades have largely been replaced by a less favorable – and in some senses more hostile – environment.
The greatest threat to the Party’s long-term survival lies in the unfolding cold war with the US. During most of the post-Mao era, China’s leaders kept a low profile on the international stage, painstakingly avoiding conflict while building strength at home. But by 2010, China had become an economic powerhouse, pursuing an increasingly muscular foreign policy. This drew the ire of the US, which began gradually to shift from a policy of engagement toward the confrontational approach evident today.
With its superior military capabilities, technology, economic efficiency, and alliance networks (which remain robust, despite President Donald Trump’s destructive leadership), the US is far more likely to prevail in the Sino-American cold war than China. Though an American victory could be Pyrrhic, it would more than likely seal the CPC’s fate.
Subscribe now Subscribe now Subscribe today and get a free copy of our new magazine, Sustainability Comes of Age, along with unlimited access to OnPoint, the Big Picture, the entire PS archive of more than 14,000 commentaries, and our annual magazine, for less than $2 a week. SUBSCRIBE
The CPC also faces strong economic headwinds. The so-called Chinese miracle was fueled by a large and youthful labor force, rapid urbanization, large-scale infrastructure investment, market liberalization, and globalization – all factors that have either diminished or disappeared.
Radical reforms – in particular, the privatization of inefficient state-owned enterprises (SOEs) and the end of neo-mercantilist trading practices – could sustain growth. But, despite paying lip service to further market reforms, the CPC has been reluctant to implement them, instead clinging to policies that favor SOEs at the expense of private entrepreneurs. Because the state-owned sector forms the economic foundation of one-party rule, the prospect that CPC leaders will suddenly embrace radical economic reform is dim.
Domestic political trends are similarly worrying. Under Xi, the CPC has abandoned the pragmatism, ideological flexibility, and collective leadership that served it so well in the past. With the Party’s neo-Maoist turn – including strict ideological conformity, rigid organizational discipline, and fear-based strongman rule – the risks of catastrophic policy mistakes are rising.
To be sure, the CPC will not go down without a fight. As its grip on power weakens, it will probably attempt to stoke nationalism among its supporters, while intensifying repression of its opponents.
But this strategy cannot save China’s one-party regime. While nationalism may boost support for the CPC in the short term, its energy will eventually dissipate, especially if the Party fails to deliver continued improvement in living standards. And a regime that is dependent on coercion and violence will pay dearly in the form of depressed economic activity, rising popular resistance, escalating security costs, and international isolation.
This is hardly the uplifting picture Xi will present to the Chinese people on October 1. But no amount of nationalist posturing can change the fact that the unraveling of the CPC’s rule appears closer than at any time since the end of the Mao era.

Story 128
Smederevo, Serbia (CNN) The sprawling steel mill is visible for miles around Smederevo, disgorging plumes of thick black smoke into the Serbian sky . More than 100 years old, the mill is the beating heart of the city, perched on the banks of the Danube River.
That lifeline is now connected to China.
"If the Chinese didn't buy it, we would have chaos here," says Ljubisa Stojiljkovic, a resident of Smederevo, where the mill dominates the skyline. "If it weren't for them, I don't know how these people would survive."
The plant struggled in the late 1990s, and US Steel purchased it for $33 million in 2003. Less than a decade later, in the shadow of the global economic crisis, the company sold it to the Serbian government for one dollar.
In 2016, China saw an opening. HBIS Group, or Hesteel Group, a state-run steel manufacturer, bought the mill for a premium of $52 million, and promised tens of millions more in the future. Of the 66,000 people who live in Smederevo, according to the most recent census from 2011, some 5,000 work at the mill, which declined to grant CNN access to the facilities.
It is a small fraction of the ballooning Chinese investment in Serbia, which once hailed itself as one of China's best friends in Europe. That friendship has only grown tighter. Beijing has poured some $4 billion in investments -- largely from state-run firms -- into Serbia since 2011, according to data from the US Embassy in Belgrade, roughly equal to American investment in the Western Balkan nation.
In addition, China has pledged another $5 billion in loans and regional infrastructure projects, Deputy Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlovic told Reuters in July. The projects include major upgrades to highways, railroads, and industry.
The steel plant in Smederevo, once US-owned but sold back to Serbia for $1 and now run by Heestel, a Chinese state-owned firm.
The United States and Europe have watched as the Chinese footprint in Serbia has grown, shifting Belgrade from its traditional allies in the West to its new friend to the east. On the doorstep of the European Union, Serbia has made it clear that joining the EU is one of its strategic goals, but Belgrade's recent moves have some questioning the country's aim.
"We're trying to support them to move in one direction. They should be careful about where they're going," US Ambassador to Serbia Kyle Scott told CNN.
The Chinese firm that has drawn the most scrutiny from the US is Huawei, the world's largest telecom equipment provider. Huawei is installing surveillance cameras in Belgrade as part of its "Safe City" initiative. And there are plans for Huawei to build a 5G network in Serbia, despite US security concerns about the Chinese firm -- concerns which the company has denied.
While the US has banned American companies from using telecoms gear from Huawei, there is no such ban in the European Union. And Germany, Italy, France and the United Kingdom have to varying degrees expressed a desire to work with Huawei on next generation 5G services.
'Who will pick up the bill?'
Loans to foreign countries from China's Belt and Road initiative -- a huge plan to pump hundreds of billions of dollars into infrastructure and other projects across Europe, Africa and Asia -- have the potential to create big debt problems for those who accept them, according to some observers.
"It's mostly highways that are built with these loans and those never generate the sort of economic stimulus that was expected from the infrastructure -- at least that's the assumption now," says Jan Weidenfeld, head of Head of European Affairs and Business Strategy at MERICS, a Berlin-based think tank for contemporary and practical research into China.
"There's a question of how fiscally sound are all these loans? If they're not able to repay, who will pick up the bill? Will it be EU taxpayers or will it indeed mean that China will basically waive some of that debt, but ask for political favors in return?"
A statue of Confucius listing the name of Chinese sponsors, including Huawei.
One senior administration official from the White House was skeptical of the Chinese investment in the steel mill Smederevo, which struggled for years to turn a profit.
"I think it's often perceived that this is 'cheap' money. I think it's more accurate to say that this is 'dumb' money," the official told CNN. "This is a project that no one else would touch with a 10-foot pole, but the Chinese are happy to fund it. Maybe you should think through whether or not that's a good idea."
Hesteel, the firm that owns the steel mill, did not respond to CNN's request for comment. Serbian President Alexander Vacic declined CNN's request for an interview.
China clearly thinks these investments are good ideas, and ones that appear to be working. In a meeting between Chinese President Xi Jinping and President Aleksandar Vučić in April 2019, Xi said: "the establishment of the comprehensive strategic partnership between China and Serbia in 2016, bilateral cooperation in various fields has been advancing steadily. Political mutual trust has been strengthened, and both sides have firmly supported each other's core interests."
The US isn't the only country worried about Chinese investment in Serbia. There is also significant concern coming from the European Union, the largest investor in Serbia and the bloc that the Balkan nation has spent a large part of its most recent history trying to join. As Deputy Premier Ivica Dačić told reporters earlier this year, Serbia's dealings with China "are not met with enthusiasm in Brussels."
The European Investment Bank published a report in September 2018 warning that Chinese money could come with major pitfalls, including unsustainable debt and increased dependency on Beijing. The report also said there was a chance that Chinese activities in the region "will not help to reduce the already existing problem of corruption, unlike other financiers that put more emphasis on institutional, environmental and social standards."
This view was echoed by Agatha Kratz from Rhodium Group, an independent monitor of economic data, who said the EU and US are pushing for good principles for management of economic stability in the region.
"China's not a signatory to OECD rules, so it doesn't publish its loan portfolio. If you don't know how much China lends ... you don't know how much trouble you're in," Kratz said, adding that the opaqueness of Chinese loans could hurt efforts to push for reform in the Balkans. "If a player comes in who doesn't care about this, everyone loses."
Workers at the Zelezara Smederevo steel plant during Xi Jinping's tour in 2016.
China's rising influence in Serbia
Economically, Serbia has relied on Europe for the vast majority of its exports, and most of the investment in Serbia comes from Europe.
At the same time, many Serbians have never forgiven the US or Europe for the NATO bombing campaign in 1999 in response to ethnic cleansing in Kosovo. Some buildings destroyed in the campaign remain empty, haunting reminders of the fighting.
More than just a part of Serbian education, they are an element of the Serbian psyche. "It represents a period of time when we saw Serbia suffered without a known cause," says tour guide Miljan Miljovic, who takes tourists to see the sites. "The victims that died here, they represent the sacrifice of Serbian being."
One of the targets was the Chinese embassy in Belgrade. The US claimed it was a mistake, an explanation neither Serbia nor China quite believed.
Now, on the site of the former Chinese embassy, Beijing is building its biggest cultural center in Europe. The huge eight-story building will span an area of 6,000 square meters, and will feature four separate zones - a cultural center, embassy apartments, a business reception area and office space.
The entrance to the construction works at the Chinese cultural Center in Belgrade.
Outside stands a statue of Confucius, the famed Chinese philosopher. The building stands on the junction of Confucius Street and China-Serbia Friendship Square, where there is a small memorial plaque thanking China for their solidarity with Serbia and honoring those that died in the bombing. Surrounding the plaque is a Chinese flag, and stuck to the corrugated fence, a sticker reads "iron friendship" in Chinese and Serbian.
Yet the building is more than just a former embassy, it is also a tourist destination. Lain around the plaque are flowers brought by Chinese who make a visit to the embassy a pilgrimage.
Song, a Chinese student from Germany, spent his first evening in Belgrade visiting the embassy. "China and Serbia are closer in ideology than people think, we both have the shared communist history," he said, adding that he was sorry that he didn't bring any flowers to lay.
Chinese police will soon start patrolling the streets of Belgrade in response to a rise in Chinese tourism, as they have done in other cities like Paris. In this corner of Belgrade, Beijing feels much closer than 4,600 miles away.
Song, a Chinese tourist studying in Germany, made the cultural center in Belgrade his first visit.
A balancing act
Serbia has always tried to balance its politics between the major world powers: Russia, Europe, and the United States. Now that delicate balance includes China as well.
"If you see Serbia economically, you will see that actually Serbia is part of the European economy. Even if still not an EU member, we are much more a part of the European economic value chain," says Marko Cadez, President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Serbia and a close ally of President Aleksandar Vacić.
But the United States says it has seen a shift in politics.
"As Serbia gets closer to the EU, it is supposed to harmonize its foreign policy with that of the EU," said US Ambassador Scott. But in recent weeks, Serbia has signalled it may join the Eurasian Economic Union, a Russian-led economic bloc. Brussels has warned Serbia that joining the bloc could complicate its accession to the EU.
Asked who Serbs see as a better friend, Ambassador Scott didn't hesitate: "Absolutely they would say China, and it doesn't surprise me. You can see it in the polls. It's also part of the media environment. You will see that they get 50 positive articles for any neutral article, whereas the West gets about 25 negative articles for any neutral article."
Vojislav Milenkovic, a retired resident of Smedorov, agreed.
"People do see the Chinese here as saviors," he said. "We would like them to stay here. If they leave, this would mean disaster for many of us."

Story 129
Get our daily newsletter Upgrade your inbox and get our Daily Dispatch and Editor's Picks.
A N OLD SAYING warns about Greeks bearing gifts, but it might fit the Chinese better. In the 1400s Zheng He, a Muslim slave who became the Ming empire’s admiral, led seven voyages south and west. He offered treasure to every leader he met—but only if they acknowledged the emperor, joining a world order centred on Beijing.
Chinese leaders today are following in Zheng’s wake. The “road” half of its Belt and Road Initiative ( BRI )—a global infrastructure-building scheme—is a maritime one of seaports and shipping channels. Xi Jinping, China’s president, has said it will create a new model of “win-win co-operation”. Some critics suspect nefarious motives, such as yoking poor countries to China by giving them unrepayable loans.
The BRI has evolved site by site and Chinese officials have not made their intentions clear. However, the locations of the 22 maritime-road projects that we have identified as under way show how it is most likely to aid China. They suggest it will be more useful for protecting existing trade routes than expanding Chinese influence.
To measure the maritime road’s impact, we tested three benefits it could offer China. If the road were a resource grab, its projects should cluster in places that sell raw materials that China imports. If its aim were to boost trade, it should track the busiest routes used by Chinese shipping today, or where trade is likely to grow fastest. And if it were intended to secure current trade routes, its ports should sit near choke points—areas whose closure would force goods to travel circuitously—or in places that offer alternative routes.
We tested these explanations by using them to predict if countries host a BRI port. The results were conclusive. After holding other factors constant, there was no statistically significant link between having a BRI port and exporting raw materials that China wants, or having high current or projected trade with it. In contrast, the “trade-protection benefit”—either the value of Chinese trade in a country’s waters multiplied by the extra distance goods would have to go if those routes were shut, or the amount of trade that would be diverted to a country if shipping were disrupted elsewhere—was a good predictor. Given two otherwise average countries, one with a high trade-protection benefit (like Libya) is 2.7 times likelier to host a BRI port than another with an average benefit (like Liberia).
Owning or running a port does not guarantee perpetual access, but it does give China influence by enabling it to disrupt the host’s own shipping if it chooses. Many overland “belt” routes in the BRI would also make Chinese trade more resilient. For example, if the Strait of Malacca were closed, China could switch to BRI ports it wants to build in Myanmar, and finish the trip on planned BRI rail lines.
China’s military footprint also shows a focus on guarding trade routes. Its only base abroad is at Djibouti’s Bab al-Mandab Strait—the waterway whose closure would hurt China more than anywhere else. ■
Sources: Mercator Institute for China Studies; World Bank; Journal of Contemporary China; European Space Agency; US National Centres for Environmental Information; NOAA Geosciences Lab/SOEST, University of Hawaii; The Economist

Story 130
Trade talks between the U.S. and China are set to resume Oct. 10-11 in Washington, three people close to the talks told CNBC on Thursday.
Chinese Vice Premier Liu He will be representing the delegation from Beijing, one of the people told CNBC.
Liu visited Washington this spring sporting the title "special envoy," empowering him to negotiate on behalf of President Xi Jinping and pledge in the Oval Office with President Donald Trump to buy American soybeans.
But Liu was stripped of that title on a subsequent trip, after Communist Party hardliners balked at some of the concessions to which he had agreed.
The White House, the Treasury Department and Office of the U.S. Trade Representative did not respond to CNBC's requests for comment about the date for the resumption of talks.
Trump administration officials have said they expected the stalled talks with Beijing to resume next month.

Story 131
BEIJING—Economic activity in China cooled further in August, testing Beijing’s tolerance for slower growth as it seeks to ease trade tensions with the U.S.
Softness was visible last month in nearly every aspect of the Chinese economy, with industrial output and retail sales data pointing to sluggish demand and low confidence among businesses and consumers. Economists had been expecting economic activity to have recovered a little from July, when it fell to its lowest level in more than a decade.
...

Story 132
SYDNEY (Reuters) - Australian intelligence determined China was responsible for a cyber-attack on its national parliament and three largest political parties before the general election in May, five people with direct knowledge of the matter told Reuters.
FILE PHOTO: A man holds a laptop computer as cyber code is projected on him in this illustration picture taken on May 13, 2017. REUTERS/Kacper Pempel/Illustration/File Photo
Australia’s cyber intelligence agency - the Australian Signals Directorate (ASD) - concluded in March that China’s Ministry of State Security was responsible for the attack, the five people with direct knowledge of the findings of the investigation told Reuters.
The five sources declined to be identified due to the sensitivity of the issue. Reuters has not reviewed the classified report.
The report, which also included input from the Department of Foreign Affairs, recommended keeping the findings secret in order to avoid disrupting trade relations with Beijing, two of the people said. The Australian government has not disclosed who it believes was behind the attack or any details of the report.
In response to questions posed by Reuters, Prime Minister Scott Morrison’s office declined to comment on the attack, the report’s findings or whether Australia had privately raised the hack with China. The ASD also declined to comment.
China’s Foreign Ministry denied involvement in any sort of hacking attacks and said the internet was full of theories that were hard to trace.
“When investigating and determining the nature of online incidents there must be full proof of the facts, otherwise it’s just creating rumors and smearing others, pinning labels on people indiscriminately. We would like to stress that China is also a victim of internet attacks,” the Ministry said in a statement sent to Reuters.
“China hopes that Australia can meet China halfway, and do more to benefit mutual trust and cooperation between the two countries.”
China is Australia’s largest trading partner, dominating the purchase of Australian iron ore, coal and agricultural goods, buying more than one-third of the country’s total exports and sending more than a million tourists and students there each year.
Australian authorities felt there was a “very real prospect of damaging the economy” if it were to publicly accuse China over the attack, one of the people said.
UNHINDERED ACCESS
Australia in February revealed hackers had breached the network of the Australian national parliament. Morrison said at the time that the attack was “sophisticated” and probably carried out by a foreign government. He did not name any government suspected of being involved.
When the hack was discovered, Australian lawmakers and their staff were told by the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President of the Senate to urgently change their passwords, according to a parliamentary statement at the time.
The ASD investigation quickly established that the hackers had also accessed the networks of the ruling Liberal party, its coalition partner the rural-based Nationals, and the opposition Labor party, two of the sources said.
The Labor Party did not respond to a request for comment. One person close to the party said it was informed of the findings, without providing details.
The timing of the attack, three months ahead of Australia’s election, and coming after the cyber-attack on the U.S. Democratic Party ahead of the 2016 U.S. election, had raised concerns of election interference, but there was no indication that information gathered by the hackers was used in any way, one of the sources said.
Morrison and his Liberal-National coalition defied polls to narrowly win the May election, a result Morrison described as a “miracle”.
The attack on the political parties gave the perpetrators access to policy papers on topics such as tax and foreign policy, and private email correspondence between lawmakers, their staff and other citizens, two sources said.
Independent members of parliament and other political parties were not affected, one of those sources said.
Australian investigators found the attacker used code and techniques known to have been used by China in the past, according to the two sources.
Australian intelligence also determined that the country’s political parties were a target of Beijing spying, they added, without specifying any other incidents.
The people declined to specify how the attackers breached network security and said it was unclear when the attack had begun or how long the hackers had access to the networks.
The attackers used sophisticated techniques to try to conceal their access and their identity, one of the people said, without providing details.
The findings were also shared with at least two allies, the United States and the United Kingdom, said four people familiar with the investigation.
The UK sent a small team of cyber experts to Canberra to help investigate the attack, three of those people said.
The United States and the United Kingdom both declined to comment.
CHINA TIES
Australia has in recent years intensified efforts to address China’s growing influence in Australia, policies that have seen trade with China suffer.
For instance, in 2017, Canberra banned political donations from overseas and required lobbyists to register any links to foreign governments. A year later, the ASD led Australia’s risk assessment of new 5G technology, which prompted Canberra to effectively ban Chinese telecoms firm Huawei from its nascent 5G network.
While some U.S. officials and diplomats have welcomed such steps by Australia and praise the countries’ strong intelligence relationship, others have been frustrated by Australia’s reluctance to more publicly confront China, according to two U.S. diplomatic sources.
On a visit to Sydney last month, U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo delivered thinly veiled criticism of Australia’s approach after Foreign Minister Marise Payne said Canberra would make decisions toward China in based on “our national interest”.
Pompeo said countries could not separate trade and economic issues from national security.
“You can sell your soul for a pile of soybeans, or you can protect your people,” he told reporters at a joint appearance with Payne in Sydney.
Morrison’s office declined to comment on whether the United States had expressed any frustration at Australia for not publicly challenging China over the attack. The U.S. State Department did not immediately respond to requests for comment.

Story 133
Rising from the hills of Dao County in Hunan Province, China, beyond the city of Yongzhou, a dramatic sight appears on the horizon. Here, the massive blades of wind turbines from the Concord Jing Tang and Concord Shen Zhang Tang wind farms turn rhythmically in the sky. Developed by the Concord New Energy Group Limited, each farm generates 48 megawatts (MW) of clean energy. Along with a 38 MW farm in bordering Hubei province developed by Fenghua Energy Investment Group Co., Ltd., these three clean energy projects are the first investments of the China Clean Energy Fund.
Launched in 2018, the China Clean Energy Fund is a new, first-of-its-kind investment fund in China that connects suppliers with renewable energy projects. Apple and 10 of its suppliers in China will invest nearly $300 million by 2022 to develop projects totaling 1 gigawatt of renewable energy. The three wind farms in Hunan and Hubei will generate approximately one-tenth of the anticipated overall project total.
“To see these projects completed and already supplying clean energy to the grid is really exciting,” said Lisa Jackson, Apple’s vice president of Environment, Policy and Social Initiatives. “We are proud that suppliers participating in the fund share our commitment to supporting innovative energy solutions, cutting emissions and fighting climate change.”

Story 134
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 135
Mining TikTok for the sole purpose of seeing inside a police state is an unorthodox use of the app. TikTok, which did not respond to requests for comment for this article, shot to the top of Apple’s most downloaded list last year, and stayed there—hitting an estimated one billion installs in February. Most people know it as an app popular with teenagers in the US, Europe, and China for its user-generated, snappy, gimmicky short videos cut to pop music. But soon, the app was co-opted by people who understood its potential.
Earlier this year, I reported on the story of Kalbinur Tursun, a woman who managed to flee Xinjiang but was forced to leave her children behind. While casually browsing social media from her home in Istanbul, Tursun saw a TikTok video of her 6-year-old daughter, Aisha, filmed in what appears to be a Chinese orphanage for Uyghur children. It was the first time in years she had seen her daughter’s face.
Though Tursun’s story seems an astonishing coincidence, she’s not the only Uyghur to have discovered news of her missing family by chance through TikTok. In February, Business Insider reported on the story of Abdurahman Tohti, who lives in Turkey and had not heard from his family since they left for Xinjiang on vacation in 2016. “While scrolling through Douyin ... he saw a familiar sight: big, black eyes, and round, rosy cheeks,” reporter Alexandra Ma wrote. “It was his 4-year-old son, Abduleziz.” In the video, an off-camera voice asks: “What’s the name of the Fatherland?” “The People’s Republic of China!” the little boy yells.
Tohti’s story was a turning point for Alip Erkin, the Uyghur activist in Australia. “I realized Douyin was one of the few platforms that people overseas can get some valuable information from,” he said.
The Uyghurs who do this work need to use special tactics to access Chinese TikTok, which is behind China’s firewall, and must be accessed with a Chinese phone.
China’s firewall—originally designed to keep Chinese people from accessing foreign websites—now appears to be also stopping foreigners from seeing in. “It looks like they’re creating a reverse great firewall, and Douyin is a perfect example. They want to keep TikTok outside and Douyin inside; there’s an intentionality there that has an element of censorship about it,” says James Leibold, associate professor in politics and Asian studies at Australia's La Trobe University. Day by day, he says, it’s becoming more difficult to access online content from Xinjiang. The solution, he believes, is to be ever more innovative and methodical.
Once they’ve got around the firewall and accessed TikTok, the international Uyghur activists then have to “teach” the app’s algorithm to show them the videos they want to see. “You have to train it in a certain way,” Yasin said. “You can’t really search, because they cleaned up all the location-based search results. Anything that uses Xinjiang keywords is censored.” TikTok uses algorithms to “serve” users the content it thinks they will like, based on their reactions and responses to each video.
“To make my feed more relevant, I don’t ‘like’ or comment on content other than that about Uyghurs or East Turkestan [the preferred Uyghur name for Xinjiang],” Erkin says. “I only like what I want to see.” That way, he’ll see more videos like it.
It’s a strangely satisfying process, Yasin says. “That’s the beauty of it. Sometimes the algorithm will recommend me something recently posted, not super popular—and it’s what I’m looking for.”
Two months ago, a Uyghur exile escaped Xinjiang and arrived in the United States. She brought her Chinese phone with her—a precious commodity. Using her old phone and Chinese sim card, she now works alongside a group of Uyghur students to mine TikTok. Mehmet Jan, a student in the US, helps run the project. “I categorize the videos into four groups,” he says, sorting them according to whether they show testimonials, surveillance, destruction of mosques, or cultural annihilation.
SIGN UP TODAY Sign up for our Longreads newsletter for the best features and investigations on WIRED.
The group of students are intent on collecting proof of Xinjiang’s gradual reprogramming into a state built in Beijing’s image.“This is no targeted response to violent extremism, but a concerted campaign to hollow out a whole culture,” scholar Rachel Harris wrote in an article for The Guardian in April.

Story 136
China's new 'super camera' can instantly pinpoint specific targets among tens of thousands of people
Posted
Scientists have unveiled a 500 megapixel cloud camera system in China that they say is capable of capturing the facial details of each individual in a crowd of tens of thousands of people, raising fears facial recognition monitoring could soon reach a new level.
Key points: The super camera can instantly detect specific targets in a crowd of thousands
It has the capacity to take both still images and record video
The abilities of such a camera raise serious concerns about privacy
The camera, which was revealed at China's International Industry Fair last week, was designed by Fudan University and Changchun Institute of Optics, Fine Mechanics and Physics of the Chinese Academy of Sciences.
The camera's resolution is five times more detailed than the human eye, and it is also equipped with artificial intelligence (AI), facial recognition, real-time monitoring and cloud computing technology, designers say.
All this means it can detect and identify human faces or other objects and instantly find specific targets even in a crowded stadium, Xiaoyang Zeng, one of the scientists who worked on the new technology, explained to reporters at the exhibition display.
He said this device — dubbed the "super camera" by local media — can capture both still images and record video.
Australian freelance technology journalist Alex Kidman said the camera was technically feasible but there were potential difficulties.
"The challenge for a camera of this scope, especially in a cloud-led AI environment is the quantity of data that's needed to shuffle around for identification; as you raise the detail level of each image as the Fudan University scientists have done, you seriously raise the size of the files — especially for video — a substantial amount," Kidman said.
"The serious technical challenge — leaving privacy concerns aside for a second — is in uploading that data and parsing it in a sensible timeframe for the kinds of applications they're talking about, especially wirelessly."
The capacity of such a camera has also raised concerns about privacy in a country already criticised for heavily monitoring its citizens.
"The Party-state has massive databases of people's images and the capability to connect them to their identity, so it isn't inconceivable that technology like this is possible if not now then in the future," Samantha Hoffman, an analyst at the Australian Strategic Policy Institute, told the ABC.
Local media reported that the camera has received a mixed response from Chinese experts with some lauding the invention for its military and national security applications, while others voiced privacy concerns.
China's social credit system
For the past few years, China has been developing a Social Credit System intended to be rolled out nationwide which assesses citizens and businesses by economic and social reputation.
Social credit is like a scorecard for each of China's 1.4 billion citizens and millions of businesses.
Just this month, China announced plans to push ahead with a corporate ranking system that will affect 33 million companies.
The system for citizens is designed to value and engineer better individual behaviour by awarding the trustworthy and punishing the disobedient.
Top "citizen scores" can earn VIP treatment at hotels and airports, cheap loans and a fast track to the best universities and jobs.
Those with lower scores can be banned from travel, or barred from getting credit or government jobs.
The system is enforced by surveillance cameras equipped with facial recognition, body scanning and geo-tracking to cast a constant gaze over citizens.
The new 500 megapixel camera could make that process much more efficient.
At the expo, Mr Zeng explained that while other cameras were capable of filming thousands of people at once in a wide frame, each face is represented by only a few pixels, which means "you couldn't clearly see your targeted person at all".
With 500 megapixels, or 500 million pixels, each face is easily identifiable, and the AI technology can scan and identify a target within seconds.
Ms Hoffman said data generated from surveillance video can be "fed into a pool of data that, combined with AI processing, can generate tools for social control, including tools linked to the Social Credit System".
"I think it is important to note that third-party data like surveillance video — [or any information] in addition to data like government records, legal records or economic records — does not feed into something that generates a score automatically moving up and down in real time," Ms Hoffman said.
"Of course, there are separate but linked public security bureau databases that images like this are more likely to directly feed into."
The China News Service reported that Mr Zeng had called for laws and regulations to standardise the application of the camera.
The developers of the camera did not respond to the ABC's requests for comment.
Topics: community-and-society, computers-and-technology, science-and-technology, information-and-communication, information-technology, government-and-politics, china, asia

Story 137
Soldiers stand beside armored vehicles in Beijing during a rehearsal Saturday for a military parade Oct. 1 to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the People’s Republic of China. (Wu Hong/EPA-EFE/Shutterstock)
The Sharp Sword stealth drones and the intercontinental ballistic missiles and the truck-borne monuments to the Communist struggle are ready. Flowers have been planted and red lanterns hung along all the major thoroughfares of Beijing. Almost 100,000 people have been practicing their formations in Tiananmen Square.
The Communist Party is ready to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People’s Republic of China on Oct. 1 with the kind of military extravaganza that only Stalinist states can pull off.
It ought to be a particularly sweet anniversary for China’s leaders: Their Communist state has now lasted longer than the Soviet Union, which endured for 69 years.
But it is not. The months-long standoff between the party and the millions who have been protesting in Hong Kong is set to come to a head on Oct. 1, when the demonstrators plan to stage a counter-rally.
“A confrontation of monumental proportions is coming up,” said Orville Schell, a China specialist at the Asia Society. “Clearly, something will happen on Oct. 1.”
Chinese officials have been ­going to great lengths to ensure “stability” in Beijing on the day of the parade. Homing pigeons and kite-flying have been banned. Airports and train stations are planning extra security checks.

Military aircraft fly over a trail of colored smoke in Beijing on Sunday. (Andy Wong/AP)
Local journalists have been told to report only good news, and foreign ones have been told to stay off their office balconies to avoid being shot by snipers. The skies have been ordered to be blue.
But the protests in semiautonomous Hong Kong — and the sympathies they are generating in Taiwan, which Beijing views as a breakaway state — show that not everyone shares President Xi Jinping’s “Chinese Dream.”
[‘I couldn’t breathe’: Hong Kong protesters allege beatings and torture by city’s police ]
Xi, who is presiding over his first of the Communist Party’s decennial anniversaries — but maybe not his last, because he removed term limits on leadership — has laid out a vision to revive the Chinese nation and restore it to its rightful place at the center of the world.
Part of this vision involves the reunification of greater China, incorporating Taiwan, which exists as a democratic, pluralistic flip side to the one-party state of the People’s Republic.

Streets were shut down for the parade rehearsal. (Jason Lee/Reuters)
Another part involves overcoming the “century of humiliation,” in which Hong Kong played a significant role. Britain invaded Hong Kong in 1841 at the beginning of the First Opium War, when it forcibly redressed its trade imbalance with China by getting people addicted to the narcotic.
These factors make the expression of a different kind of Chinese dream in Hong Kong and Taiwan inconvenient, to say the least, for the Communist Party.
“There’s a kind of counter-dream, one with a more cosmopolitan view of Chinese-ness and a more inclusive view of Chinese-ness that’s separate from the Chinese Communist Party but linked up to things that really fit in with the Chinese tradition,” said Jeffrey Wasserstrom, a historian of modern China at the University of California at Irvine.
[Unidentified flinching object: In Hong Kong protests, police wage assault on facts]
Indeed, the “Chinese Dream” has almost zero appeal in Hong Kong, said Jean-Pierre Cabestan, a political scientist at Hong Kong Baptist University.
“In the past, the Hong Kong and Chinese identities had always been distinct, but they have been diverging since 2012,” Cabestan said. That was the year mainland Chinese patriotic education, including a book titled “The China Model,” extolling the Communist Party, was introduced into Hong Kong schools.
“More and more Chinese young people think that they can’t be both,” Cabestan said. “They might feel Chinese, but they don’t feel PRC. That’s why the Chinese Communist Party feels threatened.”
A survey conducted by the University of Hong Kong in June found that the percentage of people who identified as Chinese had fallen to a record low.
Only 11 percent of the 1,015 respondents said they were Chinese. More than half — 53 percent — described themselves as Hong Kongers. Twenty-three percent said they were “Hongkongers in China.” When asked whether they were proud of being a Chinese national, 71 percent said no. That rose to 90 percent for respondents ages 18 to 29.
[Hong Kong activists press U.S. to counter China’s erosion of city’s freedoms ]
While Hong Kongers say they have felt more distance from the mainland, they say they also have begun to feel closer to Taiwan.
In 2014, Hong Kong and Taiwan saw large-scale demonstrations bristling against Beijing’s influence.
Hong Kongers took to the streets in their Umbrella Movement to protest Beijing’s increasing intervention in their governance. Young people in Taiwan launched the Sunflower Movement to oppose greater integration with China.
“Since 2014, since the Sunflower and the Umbrella movements, they have felt that they share the same values,” Cabestan said.
This poses an existential challenge to Xi, whose top priority is the perpetuation of Communist Party rule over a rejuvenated greater China.
In the years since Hong Kong’s return from British control in 1997, Beijing had held up the territory as an example of what the future could hold for Taiwan: a vibrant Chinese territory with a degree of autonomy.
Hong Kong held the promise of how the “one country, two systems” framework could work for Taiwan.
But since 2014, that promise has begun to look more like a threat.
“With the Umbrella Movement, the protesters in Hong Kong began to say: ‘Look Taiwan, Hong Kong today could be Taiwan tomorrow,’ but in a warning sense,” Wasserstrom said.
Now, five years on from those protests — and five years of increasingly authoritarian leadership under Xi — young people in Hong Kong and Taiwan are finding more concerns in common.
After the Hong Kong protests began in June, demonstrators in Taiwan took to the streets chanting “Taiwan cheng Hong Kong,” using the Mandarin word for “support.”
Then musicians from Taiwan and Hong Kong joined forces to release a song called “Cheng.” “The dark night is falling, but I will keep you company. The rain pours down heavy and hard, but cannot drown our dream,” the lyrics go. “Let us hold up the umbrella, never give in, never back down.”
The situation is clearly uncomfortable for Beijing.
[Protesters scatter after Hong Kong police deploy tear gas, water cannon ]
As if to show that “one country, two systems” can work, the party plastered photos of Xi and the next chief executive of Macao, a Chinese special administrative region like Hong Kong, over the front page of its mouthpiece, the People’s Daily.
When Ho Iat Seng visited Beijing this month, Xi said Macao, which was handed back to China by Portugal two years after Hong Kong, showed that the principle of “one country, two systems” was “completely feasible, and can be achieved and well received with people.”
For his part, Ho emphasized the “one country” part of the formulation and said he would work to make sure the casino state became further integrated “into the nation’s development.” He encouraged young Macanese to work on the mainland.
Communist Party leaders have condemned the violence of some of the protests and accused Western countries of fomenting the unrest. But they have stopped short of direct action.
They have publicized military training on Hong Kong’s borders and at the Hong Kong garrison of the People’s Liberation Army, which reports to the party. But apparently conscious of the international criticism that would follow military action and the effect on Hong Kong as a financial center, they have shown restraint.
The big question now is whether, after the spectacle of Oct. 1, Beijing will be less worried about the optics of action.
Read more
Paramount and paranoid: China’s Xi faces a crisis of confidence
With threats and propaganda, China tries to silence support for Hong Kong protests
Will China crush Hong Kong protests? For Beijing, there are no good options.
Today’s coverage from Post correspondents around the world
Like Washington Post World on Facebook and stay updated on foreign news

Story 138
'Afraid We Will Become The Next Xinjiang': China's Hui Muslims Face Crackdown
Enlarge this image toggle caption Emily Feng/NPR Emily Feng/NPR
Gold-domed mosques and gleaming minarets once broke the monotony of the Ningxia region's vast scrubland every few miles. This countryside here is home to some of China's 10.5 million Hui Muslims, who have practiced Sunni or Sufi forms of Islam within tight-knit communities for centuries, mainly in the northwest and central plains. Concentrated in the Ningxia region, the Hui are China's third-largest ethnic minority.
Now, though, virtually every mosque in Ningxia's countryside has been denuded of its domes, part of a sweeping crackdown on China's Muslim minorities that has reached Hui strongholds in Ningxia, in central China, and as far inland as Henan province in the east. (Up to now, Gansu province in central China has been able to keep most of its mosques intact.)
The crackdown on Muslims has been most extreme in the northwestern region of Xinjiang, where scholars estimate that up to 1.5 million Muslim Uighurs, a Turkic-speaking group, and other ethnic minorities have been detained since 2016, in one of the most sophisticated surveillance states in the world.
The same restrictions that preceded the Xinjiang crackdown on Uighur Muslims are now appearing in Hui-dominated regions. NPR has learned that since April 2018, Hui mosques have been forcibly renovated or shuttered, schools demolished, and religious community leaders imprisoned. Hui who have traveled internationally are increasingly detained or sent to reeducation facilities in Xinjiang.
In August 2018, in Ningxia's Tongxin county, authorities attempted to demolish the Weizhou Grand Mosque, claiming it lacked the right building permits. Hundreds of furious residents staged a sit-in, sharing videos of their protest through popular Chinese social media platforms like WeChat and Kuaishou, a livestreaming app, faster than censors could take them down.
Taken aback, officials called off the demolition. But the victory was short-lived. In November, local government work units began visiting every household in Weizhou, pressuring residents to sign letters stating their acquiescence to "renovate" the mosque by removing its main dome and domed minarets. In some cases, Weizhou officials threatened to fire state employees if they did not sign the letter, according to multiple residents.
This month, an NPR reporter drove through Weizhou, which is now guarded by checkpoints on the only road leading in and out of town. The mosque is closed, its main dome and minarets replaced with tiled Buddhist-style pagodas, and its entrances blocked by scaffolding.
Enlarge this image toggle caption Emily Feng/NPR Emily Feng/NPR
"Of course we are afraid we will become the next Xinjiang," one Hui man told NPR. He did not provide his name for fear that authorities in Xinjiang would find him. Three years ago, he abandoned his family's property in Xinjiang in order to transfer his residency to Tongxin county. "But what can an individual do? We can only take it year by year."
"We say what we have to say"
Descendants of Arab traders who entered China some 1,500 years ago, the Hui pride themselves on having thoroughly assimilated into Chinese society. Unlike the Uighurs, the Hui have no distinct language, speaking Mandarin and often some Arabic. Save for the occasional white cap customarily worn by Hui men or hair coverings among women, they are often visually indistinguishable from China's ethnic majority, the Han.
Their exemption from the harshest of religious restrictions changed in April 2018, when the Chinese Communist Party's United Front Work Department formally took control of the State Bureau of Religious Affairs — meaning that the party now directly oversees policy for religious affairs, not the government.
"The day-to-day responsibility for managing religious activities and organizations shifted to the UFWD, and its atheist party apparatchiks, whose overarching mission is the protection of party power," James Leibold, an associate professor at Australia's La Trobe University and an expert on China's ethnic minority policy, tells NPR via email.
That same April, a mass dome-removal campaign began in Zhengzhou, the capital of Henan province, and resumed in Ningxia as part of the official effort known as chu shahua, fan ahua, to "expel Saudi and Arabic influence."
All Hui-run nursery schools, child care centers and religious schools were forcibly closed in Ningxia and across Yunnan and Henan provinces, which are also home to a large number of Hui Muslims.
Enlarge this image toggle caption Emily Feng/NPR Emily Feng/NPR
The United Front's new control over Chinese ethnic and religious policy marks a substantial change, says Leibold. While the State Bureau of Religious Affairs was sometimes restrictive, it at least "saw the protection, if not promotion, of 'normal religious activities' as part of their mission and mandate, and many of its officials were religious practitioners themselves," he says in his email to NPR.
Abroad, the United Front is the party body that liaises with international nonstate individuals and organizations. Domestically, the United Front has emerged as one of the most aggressive proponents of stripping away foreign influences within religious practices and bringing them under state control — making them more Chinese, a process known as "Sinification."
"Sinification of religion in China is an important discourse of Party General Secretary Xi Jinping on the problem of religion and religious work," Ma Jin, a United Front official, told the Islamic Association of China, a state-backed organization, in January.

The pressure on not just one's religious behavior, but how one lives one's daily life, is unbearable. It weighs on your chest.
"This recent crackdown on the Muslim activities is really a part of a national campaign of China today to correct what they believe are the excesses in permitting Arab-style mosques ... and influence by the Middle East. The Salafi and Wahhabi groups have been pouring money in China," says Dru Gladney, an anthropologist at Pomona College and an expert on Hui Muslims. "These restrictions through UFWD are part and parcel of government efforts to control Islamic practices, to make them more Chinese."
In Xinjiang, Uighur-language books and films have been expunged, Uighur intellectuals imprisoned, and Uighur children sent to state-run schools to be taught Mandarin Chinese and culture.
For the Hui across China, mosques have become the major vehicle for Sinification. In April 2018, authorities began revoking the state-issued licenses given to imams who have residency outside the province in which they practice and from those who have studied abroad. In Ningxia, smaller mosques without licensed imams have been closed outright.
Ningxia sent senior leadership delegations to visit Xinjiang's detention camps last November and signed a counterterrorism cooperation agreement with Xinjiang a month later.
Enlarge this image toggle caption Emily Feng/NPR Emily Feng/NPR
Imams in Henan and Ningxia must now attend monthly training sessions that can last for days. There, imams told NPR, they are taught Communist ideology and state ethnic policy and discuss Xi Jinping's speeches. Imams must then pass an exam testing their ideological knowledge in order to renew their license each year, mirroring how the government issues licenses to imams in the Xinjiang region.
"We go along with it. We say what we have to say, because it is just words and it lets us continue to work in the mosque," said one of the few imams still based in Henan, requesting his name be kept anonymous because of fears of political reprisal.
Fears of Saudi influence
Mosque employees say orders to demolish mosque domes and minarets are transmitted orally from local officials citing the United Front, with no written notice. The demolitions are swiftly executed at night, to avoid protests and video documentation.
"We ourselves do not even have the documents. [The United Front] takes them back at the end of each meeting," a local Henan official says in a recording NPR listened to of a meeting between local officials and employees at a mosque whose domes were removed after the meeting.
"Party organs like the UFWD work outside the state legal system and thus have far greater power than the state bureaucracy and are not required to report back to the State Council," the equivalent of China's cabinet, says Leibold.
Others say officials are looking to avoid the attention that mass mosque demolitions and detentions of Muslims in Xinjiang have attracted.
"Local officials learned from Xinjiang. They know that by aggressively restricting people in obvious ways, like constructing detention centers and leaving written evidence, they might create resistance," Tianfang, the pen name of a prominent blogger critical of China's religious policies, told NPR.
The crackdown on China's Hui Muslims is in part driven by the government's fears that fundamentalist strains of Islam like Salafism and Wahhabism are filtering into China by way of Hui students who study in Saudi Arabia and Pakistan and through private religious foundations on the Arabian Peninsula that have funded some Hui social enterprises and mosques.
Signs of Saudi influence, including Arabic script, are being removed across China. Hui women in Henan and Ningxia provinces say they are no longer allowed to wear the head-to-toe black abaya customary to Saudi women, and Hui shops say they no longer stock Saudi-style clothes for men or women.
Imams suspected of preaching Salafism are also promptly removed. One of them, Han Daoliang, was the imam at Huayuanjie Mosque in Zhengzhou, Henan province's capital, according to mosque attendees. Han raised his hands three times during prayer instead of just once, they said, marking him to Zhengzhou officials as a Salafi adherent.
Enlarge this image toggle caption Emily Feng/NPR Emily Feng/NPR
Forced by local officials to resign this year, Han is now living in Malaysia, according to acquaintances. His former mosque has been given a state-appointed imam. According to a new plaque and mosque employees, the house of worship is now run by a new committee appointed by the state, with a board including two non-Muslim government officials.
"Sweep away the black and root out evil"
The crackdown on Hui Muslims is backed by a national anti-corruption effort launched by the government in 2018 to "sweep away the black and root out evil." Posters exhorting residents to "sweep away the black" are now ubiquitous in Chinese cities and such slogans have been scrawled in graffiti on village walls.
Among the crimes the campaign targets is using "religious connections at villages and townships to form mobs," according to implementation guidelines published late last year. State media reports say 6,885 "black and evil" criminal organizations were taken down under the campaign as of January.
The "sweep away the black" campaign has also decimated power bases outside the Communist Party structure, including among religious communities. Hui communities are now told that unauthorized religious events or proselytizing are considered gatherings of "black" forces or "underworld forces."
Those unauthorized gatherings include Islamic schools run by Hui mosques, nearly all of which have been closed across China, particularly in Henan and Ningxia, according to residents in Henan, Ningxia, Yunnan and Gansu provinces. NPR visited multiple former Islamic schools in September, several of which looked as if they had been cleared in a hurry — with dusty bedding piled on dormitory beds and chipped dishes and other kitchenware stacked haphazardly in corners.
All had taught Arabic language and some Islamic doctrine, but some were run more like vocational schools or social welfare schools for students who might be otherwise ineligible or unable to afford an education.
Enlarge this image toggle caption Emily Feng/NPR Emily Feng/NPR
"We barely taught any Islamic doctrine. It was about making sure these children were educated and would not become criminals or radicalized," said a former teacher surnamed Ma, who did not want her full name used for fear of political reprisal.
She had taught at an Islamic school in China's southwestern Yunnan province, which closed in April 2018. The school had stayed open despite orders in 2014 to expel all non-local students, particularly those having residency status in Xinjiang.
Ma was interrogated by police about the school's curriculum and whether the school was distributing drugs. A common stereotype about ethnic minorities in China is that they sell drugs. One of her colleagues was held incommunicado for three days and subjected to "thought work," or ideological training, Ma says.
Rewards for reporting suspicious behavior
In Ningxia's Tongxin county, a rare female-only Islamic school once renowned across China's north-central and west is being readied for demolition after it was shut down last year to make way for residential development.
"It is the government's policies. Who knows if they will change and when?" one of the school employees told NPR in hushed tones. She withheld her name because of the sensitivity of the matter.
Hui residents of Tongxin say local officials are offering rewards between $700 and $2,820 to those who report suspicious religious behavior, such as proselytizing Islam or secretly teaching Islamic texts. Some male mosque attendees have begun wearing cloth masks covering the lower half of their faces when attending daily prayers to avoid identification.
Hui who have performed the Hajj, the Islamic pilgrimage to Mecca, fall under particular suspicion. Last year, a group of about 20 pilgrims was detained in Saudi Arabia for having the wrong visas before being sent back to China, according to two people with friends in the group. Two Hui pilgrims with residency in Xinjiang were promptly sent to low-security Xinjiang detention facilities, according to the two people with friends in the group.
"Unbearable" pressure
NPR found evidence of significant pushback from Hui seeking to delay or avoid implementing religious restrictions. Hui say they drag out orders to demolish mosque domes, and some students continue to secretly attend religious classes, despite shuttered schools.
In Henan, NPR came across one mosque in the process of "renovating" its dome by building a cover to shield it from view, a compromise between local officials who demanded its removal and nearby Hui residents who refused to do so. Mosque employees were also installing translucent plastic Arabic calligraphic inscriptions on the mosque walls – nearly invisible to all but true believers – to satisfy demands that they remove all Islamic symbols and Arabic script.
Enlarge this image toggle caption Johannes Eisele/AFP/Getty Images Johannes Eisele/AFP/Getty Images
"The Hui people have been through one storm after another, and this is a storm that will pass," the mosque's imam told NPR. "Who knows how the political environment may change? We do not want to spend money to tear our dome down, only to have to pay to build it up again next year."
Fearing the worst, some younger Hui Muslims are looking to leave China and have emigrated to Malaysia and Dubai in the past few years.
"The pressure on not just one's religious behavior, but how one lives one's daily life, is unbearable," said a young Hui man from Ningxia surnamed Tian, who did not want to use his full name for fear of being punished for talking to a foreign journalist. "It weighs on your chest."
Ma Ju, a leader in a Sufi sect of Hui Muslims, left China for the United Arab Emirates in 2009 because of his outspoken criticism of religious restrictions in Xinjiang. This year, he fled to the United States, because the UAE has an extradition agreement with China.
"The oppression I saw inflicted on Tibetans 20 years ago and the Uighurs 10 years ago has finally reached my people," he says.
Ma Ju worries for his community back in China, especially now that technological tools like facial recognition make evading restrictions in China nearly impossible.
"You have legs, but you can't run away," he says. "You have money, but it's of no use. You have a heart, but you cannot lift yourself up. This is a new kind of repression."

Story 139
The UN Human Rights Council heard on Tuesday that China is engaged in widespread harvesting of human organs from persecuted religious and ethnic minorities.
The China Tribunal made the accusation at the council's meeting in Geneva, Switzerland. It said Uighur Muslims and the Falun Gong religious group were affected.
The China Tribunal is a group backed by an Australian human rights charity that's investigating the issue.
A lawyer for the group said China was "cutting out the hearts and other organs from living, blameless, harmless, peaceable people," describing the situation as an atrocity.
China has denied large-scale harvesting of organs. It has acknowledged using executed prisoners' organs in the past but says it stopped in 2015, according to Reuters.
Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.
China was accused on Tuesday of harvesting human organs from persecuted groups in the country.
The China Tribunal, a group that's investigating the organ harvesting, said at a tense meeting of the United Nations Human Rights Council that the Chinese government was taking hearts, kidneys, lungs, and skin from groups including Uighur Muslims and members of the Falun Gong religious group.
The China Tribunal describes itself as an "independent, international people's tribunal, and was backed by the International Coalition to End Transplant Abuse in China, an Australian human rights charity made up of lawyers, academics, and medical professionals.
China has denied carrying out mass harvesting of organs in any circumstance.
Addressing UN representatives, a lawyer for the China Tribunal, Hamid Sabi, said the group had proof of the organ harvesting.
Sabi said the group had found that China was committing "crimes against humanity" by harvesting organs from religious minorities like the Uighurs and members of Falun Gong, which has been banned and widely persecuted by the Chinese government.
Read more: A wave of Islamic countries started to stand up to China over its persecution of its Muslim minority. But then they all got spooked.
"Forced organ harvesting from prisoners of conscience, including the religious minorities of Falun Gong and Uighurs, has been committed for years throughout China on a significant scale," Sabi said in a video published on the China Tribunal website.
Members of Falun Gong spiritual movement. Jewel Samad / AFP / Getty
Sabi was presenting evidence from the tribunal's final report, published in June, which found that a "very substantial number" of prisoners were "killed to order" by the Chinese government.
They were "cut open while still alive for their kidneys, livers, hearts, lungs, cornea and skin to be removed and turned into commodities for sale," the report said.
The body parts were then used for medical purposes, it said, citing extremely short wait times for organ transplants in Chinese hospitals as evidence of the practice.
The report was led by Sir Geoffrey Nice, a British lawyer who was the lead prosecutor in the trial of Slobodan Milosevic, the former Yugoslavian president.
Read more: Chilling undercover footage taken inside China's most oppressive region shows it's virtually impossible to escape the paranoid police state
Hamid Sabi, a lawyer for the China Tribunal. Screenshot/The Independent
Sabi told the UN council on Tuesday that China's efforts involved "hundreds of thousands of victims," describing it as "one of the worst mass atrocities of this century."
He did not specify how many organs the China Tribunal believes had been harvested, or the number taken from Uighurs and from Falun Gong members.
"Victim for victim and death for death, cutting out the hearts and other organs from living, blameless, harmless, peaceable people constitutes one of the worst mass atrocities of this century," he said.
"Organ transplantation to save life is a scientific and social triumph, but killing the donor is criminal."
Reuters said China has insisted that it "stopped using organs from executed prisoners in 2015."
The Chinese government did not immediately respond to Business Insider's request for comment on Sabi's testimony.
Sabi concluded by saying that it is the duty of international bodies like the UN to investigate the tribunal's findings "not only in regard to the possible charge of genocide, but also in regard to crimes against humanity."

Story 140
China is looking to narrow the scope of its negotiations with the U.S. to only trade matters, seeking to put thornier national-security issues on a separate track in a bid to break deadlocked talks with the U.S.
Chinese officials hope such an approach would help both sides resolve some immediate issues and offer a path out of the impasse, people familiar with the plan said.
The...

Story 141
China is planting trees to stop deserts expanding.Credit: Wang He/Getty
China has planted billions of trees over the past four decades as part of its fight against expanding deserts, mostly in its north. Each year, the country sows seedlings over an area nearly the size of Ireland. It is even sharing its desert-control methods with others as part of its massive Belt and Road trade initiative.
The trees have held back China′s deserts. But some scientists worry that the planting could worsen water scarcity. Many of the trees are not native to the regions where they have been planted, and they use a lot of water — despite being placed in areas that are experiencing less rainfall due to global warming.
“The idea is nice, but it’s kind of foolish to plant trees in a desert,” says Troy Sternberg, a geographer at the University of Oxford, UK.
Chinese scientists say there are good reasons to plant vegetation in barren areas but that the programme needs to take into account local conditions. They say local and national governments are already planting more shrubs, herbs and other forms of native vegetation that need less water.
Greening China
The Gobi Desert and similarly arid regions in China are expanding as processes such as overgrazing deplete vegetation on their borders, allowing wind and gravity to erode soil. China’s largest tree-planting drive, the Three-North Shelter Forest Program, also called the Great Green Wall, is designed to halt that encroachment. The government says that it has planted more than 66 billion trees across 13 provinces in the country’s north since the programme began in 1978.
Around the year 2000, deserts across the country were expanding by 10,400 square kilometres a year, says the government. But in 2017, the State Forestry Administration reported that China’s deserts were shrinking by more than 2,400 square kilometres a year.
A 2018 study1 analysing satellite data from the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration found there has been an increase in forest cover consistent with government statistics, but suggested that changes in logging policy were more important factors than afforestation — planting forests where none had grown before.
In 1999, the Chinese government began planting millions of trees in its Grain for Green Program, intended to repair damaged farmland in key agricultural in the northern Loess Plateau, which is roughly the size of France. “I was there two years ago, and it is indeed amazing that once bare landscapes are now almost fully covered by plants,” says Philippe Ciais, a climate researcher at the Laboratory of Climate and Environmental Sciences in Gif-sur-Yvette near Paris.
And the afforestation drive is continuing apace: in 2018, the State Forestry Administration announced a target of 30% forest coverage by 2050. At the moment, the coverage is around 22%.
The growth of forests is significant and necessary progress in the fight against desertification, says Jianping Huang, a climate researcher at Lanzhou University.
But it’s still too early to determine whether it has solved the problem, says Congbin Fu, director of the Institute for Climate and Global Change Research at Nanjing University. Land restoration is usually a long-term process — it can take several decades or even 100 years, he says.
Shrubs and herbs are often more suitable than trees for the desert environment.Credit: Wang He/Getty
Water shortages
There are some pitfalls to mass tree planting. In southwestern China, researchers have found that farmers were cutting down native vegetation so they could collect money for sowing non-native plants in government programmes4.
Then there are water shortages. Large parts of China — including some areas where trees are being planted — are becoming drier. A study2 published online in July found that semi-arid areas in the country grew by 33% between 1994 and 2008 compared to between 1948 and 1962. Another paper3, co-authored by Sternberg, found that arid areas in China had increased by roughly 1.6 million square kilometres, about the size of Iran, since 1980 — probably due in large part to anthropogenic climate change.
Many of the plant species introduced to the Loess Plateau use more water than native vegetation. A 2016 study5 co-authored by Ciais found that the revitalized ecosystem is already sucking up rainfall and reducing the amount of water that runs off to rivers; a drier climate could exacerbate the situation and trigger water shortages for humans. A modelling study6 co-authored by Fu and published last month reached similar conclusions, and cautioned against continuing the Grain for Green Program.
Alternative approach
Considering water shortages is important, says Shixiong Cao, an ecologist at Beijing Forestry University. He thinks the national forestry department has recognized the error of planting trees in arid areas, and that in recent years, the department and local governments have moved towards planting shrubs with lower water requirements.
The head of the forestry department, Zhang Jianlong, told Chinese state media in March that efforts should go towards keeping vegetation healthy, rather than simply planting trees. “Also, species should be planted with the right techniques in inhospitable places.”
Cao says planting programmes work best when local governments engage with researchers and communities to find ways to seed less-thirsty plants that create economic value. These include herbs used in traditional Chinese medicine, some of which can grow symbiotically with shrubs, and which farmers can harvest and sell.

Story 142
China’s “one-child” policy lasted from 1979 to 2015 (to be replaced by the two-child maximum, still in force) and is revealed in this powerful documentary to be a cruel and tragic experiment in big-government meddling, a colossal and yet intimate abuse of the family by the state whose aftereffects have still to be reckoned with.
Film-makers Zhang Lynn and Nanfu Wang were themselves products of the one-child policy, although Nanfu reveals that her own family benefited – if that is the word – from an early softening of the approach for rural communities, allowing a second child if the first was a girl. This horribly institutionalised sexism naturally bred generations of women encouraged to see themselves as inferior, and created state-sanctioned market forces for infanticide and child-trafficking. Baby girls were routinely abandoned or sold to “orphanages” that would sell them on to customers in the west – a practice horribly comparable to Ireland’s Magdalen laundries but on a more massive scale.
Meanwhile, an entire propaganda culture grew up around this idealised one-child family: on playing cards, stickers, posters and in travelling opera performances. The film shows how China’s contemporary artists have drawn on this strident tradition to create their own bitterly satirical artworks, such as The Thoughts of Chairman Mao, by Peng Wang, which shows individual pages of the little red book, each horribly emblazoned with an aborted foetus. (The film’s most unwatchable section shows photographs of foetuses left in rubbish dumps.)
Nanfu returns to her home town to confront the people from her village who were complicit. And she broods on how, paradoxically, depriving women of choice is still embraced by some in her adopted homeland of the United States. Nanfu’s mother says defiantly that the policy was necessary or China would have turned to “cannibalism”.
I would have liked (in a spirit of devil’s advocacy) to hear from an economist about the measurable benefits or otherwise of this brutal approach, and perhaps to ponder the climbing global population. These reservations hardly diminish the film’s force.
• One Child Nation is released in the UK on 27 September.

Story 143
China's Yutu-2 moon rover captured this image from the edge of the small crater where it found a mysterious, gel-like material. (Image credit: CNSA/CLEP)
China's lunar exploration program has released images that give us a glimpse of the mysterious material discovered on the far side of the moon.
Yutu-2 , the lunar rover for China's Chang'e-4 mission, grabbed attention last month after its drive team spotted something unusual while roving close to a small crater. The Chinese-language science outreach publication Our Space, which announced the findings on Aug. 17, used the term "胶状物" (jiao zhuang wu), which can be translated as "gel-like." This notion sparked wide interest and speculation among lunar scientists.
Scientists have now gotten a look at that curious material, thanks to a post ( Chinese ) released over the weekend by Our Space via its WeChat social media account. Along with new images of the stuff on the moon, the post details how the Yutu-2 team carefully approached the crater in order to analyze the specimen, despite risks.
Related: The Greatest Mysteries of the Moon
The clearest image shows two of the rover's six wheels and the contents of an approximately 7-foot-wide (2 meters) crater.
The compressed, black-and-white shot comes from an obstacle-avoidance camera on the rover. The green, rectangular area and red circle within are suspected to be related to the field of view of the Visible and Near-Infrared Spectrometer (VNIS) instrument, rather than the subject matter itself, according to some lunar scientists.
A cropped image showing the highlighted area with the crater. (Image credit: CNSA/CLEP)
VNIS is one of Yutu-2's four science payloads. It detects light that is scattered or reflected off materials to reveal their chemical makeup. As VNIS has a small field of view, the drive team needed to carefully navigate Yutu-2 to make a detection without falling into the crater.
After obtaining the first set of data that VIRS collected at the crater in July, the Yutu-2 team deemed it to be unsatisfactory due to shadows, so the team members attempted a second approach and measurement during the following lunar day in August. According to Our Space, a satisfactory detection was made — but the results were not released.
An image showing Yutu-2's shadow and tracks from when it approached the crater. (Image credit: CNSA/CLEP)
Clive Neal, a lunar scientist at the University of Notre Dame, told Space.com that while the image is not great, it may still give clues to the nature of the material.
Neal said that the material highlighted in the center of the crater resembles a sample of impact glass found during the Apollo 17 mission in 1972. Sample 70019 was collected by astronaut Harrison Schmitt, a trained geologist, from a fresh crater 10 feet (3 meters) in diameter, similar to that approached by Yutu-2.
The crater containing sample 70019, with the Apollo 17 lunar module in the background. (Image credit: NASA)
Neal describes 70019 as being made of dark, coherent microbreccia — broken fragments of minerals cemented together — and black, shiny glass. "I think we have an example here of what Yutu-2 saw," Neal said.
High-speed impacts on the lunar surface melt and redistribute rock across the craters they make and can create glassy, igneous rocks and crystalline structures.
As for being unusual and "mysterious," as described by the initial Chinese account, "having craters looking like those from Yutu-2 and where 70019 was collected is to be expected," Neal said.
The initial observation that commanded the attention of the drive team was made from an image from Yutu-2's Panoramic Camera (PCAM). The Chang'e-3 mission's Yutu rover , which landed on the near side in 2013, returned impressive, high-resolution color images of the lunar landscape using its PCAM
The Yutu-2 team will have great images to work with, and these may suggest something different. However, images from the Chang'e-4 mission might be released publicly as long as one year after they have been taken.
An image from Mare Imbrium taken by the PCAM on Yutu-1. (Image credit: CNSA/CLEP)
Dan Moriarty, NASA Postdoctoral Program Fellow at the Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Maryland, agrees that it is hard to make a definitive assessment of the substance's chemical composition, given the poor image quality and overlying colored section in the Yutu-2 image.
Moriarty told Space.com that the outlined material appears somewhat brighter than surrounding materials, though the actual brightness is hard to confirm from the photographs. If so, the contrast could be due to the differing origins of the respective materials.
"Chang'e-4 landed in a mare basalt-filled crater, which is typically dark," Moriarty said. "Highlands crustal materials are typically brighter, so that would be a potential candidate."
"It will be very interesting to see what the spectrometer sees, and if any higher-resolution images become available," Moriarty notes.
Chang'e-3's Yutu rover carried an alpha particle X-ray spectrometer for analyzing chemical composition, mounted on a robotic arm, which would be very useful for identifying such specimens. Yutu-2 instead carries the new Advanced Small Analyzer for Neutrals (ASAN), a payload from Sweden for studying how solar winds interact with the lunar surface .
A stitched image from Yutu-2 looking back toward the Chang'e-4 lander during lunar day 7, in late June and early July 2019. (Image credit: CNSA/CLEP)
The Chang'e-4 lander and Yutu-2 completed the ninth lunar day of their mission on Sept. 5, powering down around 24 hours ahead of local sunset. Lunar day 10 will begin around Sept. 22 for Yutu-2 and Sept. 23 for the lander. (On the moon, a day lasts about two weeks.)
Yutu-2 has been heading west of the Chang'e-4 landing site in the Von Kármán crater since the historic Jan. 2 lunar far side landing , covering 934 feet (285 meters) so far.

Story 144
Explore the new agenda
We live in a time of disruption but where others see difficulty, we see opportunity - not just to survive but to thrive. Subscribe to the new agenda and lead the way in business and beyond.

Story 145
A docker works in front of a container ship at Qingdao Port in Qingdao, Shandong Province of China. ChinaFotoPress | Getty Images
BEIJING — The U.S. is temporarily exempting more than 400 types of Chinese products from tariffs that President Donald Trump's administration imposed last year, CNBC has confirmed. That's according to three documents that were published on Friday by the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative. The news was first reported by Politico.
The exclusions include things like Christmas tree lights, plastic straws, dog leashes and printed circuit boards, for a total of 437 types of products. They are part of the $250 billion worth of Chinese goods that the U.S. hit with tariffs last year. It was not immediately clear how large a portion of the overall tariffs is covered by the exclusions. The exemptions stem from more than 1,100 exclusion requests made by companies and other entities in the United States, according to the documents.
This doesn't seem to be an immediate shift in US trade policy ... It's more in consideration of the trade war impact on the domestic U.S. economy than a concession to China. Nick Marro The Economist Intelligence Unit
The world's two largest economies have been locked in an escalating trade dispute for more than a year, in which both sides have levied tariffs on the other's goods. The release of the exemptions comes as mid-level U.S. and Chinese government officials meet in Washington in preparation for high-level talks expected in October. "The latest exemptions are a tacit acknowledgement by the US of the damage being done to domestic interests by the imposition of tariffs," Stephen Olson, research fellow at the Hinrich Foundation, said in an email. "The timing however is interesting," he said. "It suggests that both sides have determined that further escalations are not desirable right now, so they are trying to create positive atmospherics before the October round of negotiations, in the hopes that those talks will at least forestall any further deterioration," said Olson. The documents lay out three sets of exclusions: One set based on the Sept. 24, 2018, implementation of tariffs on $200 billion worth of goods. This exemption will expire on Aug. 7, 2020.
Another based on the Aug. 23, 2018, implementation of tariffs on $16 billion worth of goods. This exemption will expire one year from the publication of the notice, at this time next year.
The other set of exclusions is based on tariffs on $34 billion worth of goods that took effect July 6, 2018. This exemption will also expire this time next year. Last week, China's Ministry of Finance announced it would exempt 16 U.S. product lines from tariffs. Trump subsequently said he would delay increasing tariffs on $250 billion worth of Chinese goods by two weeks, to Oct. 15. China's Ministry of Commerce, Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not immediately respond to CNBC's request for comment.
"This doesn't seem to be an immediate shift in US trade policy, as the US had previously offered some type of tariff exemptions to qualified US goods,“ Nick Marro, global trade lead at The Economist Intelligence Unit, said in an email. "It's more in consideration of the trade war impact on the domestic US economy than a concession to China, but this could still help build some goodwill before the trade talks in October," he said, noting that protests in Hong Kong and tensions around China's Huawei still threaten any sort of agreement. The Trump administration has put Chinese telecommunications giant Huawei on a blacklist that effectively prevents U.S. suppliers from selling to the firm. Beijing, for its part, has threatened the announcement of its own "unreliable entities list." The Trump administration initially focused on reducing the large U.S. trade deficit with China, but the disagreement has expanded to U.S. companies' complaints about limited access to the domestic Chinese market and being forced to hand over proprietary technology to China. Companies in both U.S. and China can apply with the respective governments for exemptions from tariffs. Other items the Trump administration is set to free from tariffs include: A kind of paper filter for single-cup coffee brewing systems
Dog harnesses and retractable dog leashes
A certain kind of laminated wood flooring panel
Steel wire barbecue grills
Printed circuit assemblies for enhancing graphics performance of automatic data processing machines
Refrigerated and heated vending machines for dispensing live bait and fishing tackle
Aluminum radiators for motor vehicles
Miniature lighting sets for Christmas trees
Garden, patio and tabletop wick-burning torches for outdoor use
Plastic drinking straws
Certain electric-powered skateboards and motorcycles
Indoor tabletop water fountains
Pet water drinking fountains
Parts of swimming pool vacuum cleaners
Electronic scales for continuous weighing of quartz, powder and resin on conveyors
Animal feeding machinery
WATCH: How do tariffs work?

Story 146
Many observers have warned that the Chinese could dominate the field of artificial intelligence. Maybe it will dominate them. The potential impact of technology on the Chinese workforce could be driving Beijing to try again for a U.S. trade deal.
Lingling Wei and Chao Deng report in the Journal:
China is looking to narrow the scope of its negotiations with the U.S. to only trade matters, putting thornier national-security issues on...

Story 147
IT’S ONE thing to know that China runs a far-flung system of detention camps for Muslim Uighurs, a fact of which the world has been aware for the past two years. It’s quite another to see that system in operation. And now we have that kind of visual evidence, in the form of a clandestinely recorded video showing hundreds of Uighur men, handcuffed and gripped by armed guards, being marched through a train station in their native region of Xinjiang. The video has been authenticated by Nathan Ruser, a satellite analyst at the Australian Strategic Policy Institute, a government-supported think tank. Mr. Ruser said it was made in mid-2018 and depicts the transfer of prisoners from one center, in Kashgar, on China’s far western border, to a new facility near Korla, 600 miles deeper into the Chinese interior. Australia’s foreign minister, Marise Payne, called the newly released images “deeply disturbing,” and they certainly are that — as well as a powerful counter to the Beijing government’s claims that it is merely offering Uighurs educational and job-training opportunities to de-radicalize a population prone to terrorism.
Actually, China is engaged in a wide-ranging effort to root out and crush the ancient culture of the Uighurs, who are ethnically Turkic and religiously Muslim. In addition to mass detention, the means employed include arrests, torture and disappearance of political and cultural leaders, as well as technological surveillance of the general population. Xinjiang has always been a “restive” province, loath to submit to domination and colonization by the remote Communist Party authorities in Beijing. But the systematic crackdown occurring now goes well beyond what past isolated acts of anti-government violence might possibly justify.
Indeed, President Xi Jinping seems bent on ending or at least limiting any independent commitment to a belief system other than the one embodied in official Communist Party propaganda. His government’s next target appears to be the 10-million-member Muslim Hui minority, who live not in Xianjiang but in Gansu province, and who have no particular record of separatism or extremism. As The Post’s Gerry Shih reports, government agents have begun purging the Huis’ region of visible symbols of Islam, such as mosque domes and minarets. Arabic script signage has been banned in public spaces, as have sales of the Koran. Some liken what’s happening to the anti-religious frenzies of the Cultural Revolution, but Mr. Xi enforces ideological conformity bureaucratically, not via Red Guard mobs.
China’s systematic anti-Muslim campaign, and accompanying repression of Christians and Tibetan Buddhists, may represent the largest-scale official attack on religious freedom in the world. Other governments must not remain silent. The Trump administration’s condemnations have ebbed and flowed, depending on President Trump’s interest in courting Mr. Xi for trade concessions. Mr. Trump is not alone: Many Western countries’ economic interests dictate their China policies.
There was a welcome moment of U.S. toughness on the sidelines of the U.N. General Assembly on Tuesday, however, when the United States led more than 30 countries, along with nongovernmental organizations, in condemning what a State Department official called the “horrific campaign of repression.” Former Chilean president Michelle Bachelet, the United Nations’ top human rights official, is demanding unrestricted access to China. She should get it but probably won’t, because, when it comes to China’s official cover stories, seeing is disbelieving.

Story 148
Beijing (CNN) — China is poised to open a new mega-airport to the south of Beijing, already home to the world's second-busiest aviation hub, ahead of the 70th anniversary of the People's Republic.
Beijing Daxing International Airport (PKX) will see its first commercial flight take off around September 20, according to Chinese state media, with main tenant China Southern planning to deploy an Airbus A380, the world's biggest airliner, for the maiden journey.
The greatly anticipated airport ushers in a new era for air travel to and from the Chinese capital, which has been in desperate need of a second global gateway.
An aeriel view of the striking new Beijing Daxing International Airport, dubbed "starfish" by Chinese media. STR/AFP/Getty Images
The existing Beijing Capital International Airport (PEK) is hitting full capacity, making it nearly impossible for airlines to add flights at desirable times.
In 2018, more than 100 million travelers passed through its three terminals -- making it only the second airport in the world to cross that passenger traffic milestone, after Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta. China is projected to overtake the United States as the world's biggest air travel market by 2022.
The multibillion-dollar Daxing, designed by the late architect Zaha Hadid and her Chinese partners, is built for the future, boasting four runways and a terminal the size of 97 soccer pitches upon opening of the first phase -- as well as customer-service robots that will provide travelers with flight updates and airport information.
The "modest" initial operational target is to accommodate 72 million passengers and 2 million tons of cargo annually by 2025. The ambitious master plan calls for the building of a total of seven runways, and moving at least 100 million passengers and 4 million tons of cargo a year through the airport.
Construction for the $11.5 billion project began in 2014, with more than 40,000 workers on site at its peak. The terminal bears all the hallmarks of Hadid's signature contour lines, with plenty of natural light shining through its more than 8,000 distinct rooftop windows.
The terminal has more than 8,000 distinct rooftop windows. GREG BAKER/AFP/Getty Images
Nicknamed "starfish" by Chinese media for its shape of five concourses connected to a main hall, Daxing aims to reduce walking for passengers, long a complaint about many new mega-hubs. The airport authority has promised a distance of no more than 600 meters (650 yards) -- about eight minutes of walking -- between security checkpoints and the remotest gates.
Another passenger concern is Daxing's location. It's in the far south of Beijing, a city notorious for traffic jams. The new airport is some 50 kilometers (30 miles) from Tiananmen Square in the city center -- and even farther away from the main business districts in the east and north.
Brushing aside such worries, officials say they have built more than just an airport -- but rather a truly integrated transportation hub that will eventually see high-speed rail, inter-city services and downtown-to-airport express trains all stopping right beneath the terminal. The airport express trains, traveling at a top speed of 160 kilometers an hour (100 mph), promise to whisk arriving passengers to the city in less than 20 minutes.
Yet others say a new mammoth aviation hub will only worsen flight delays in Beijing, already ranked near the bottom of on-time performance lists among airports worldwide.
There is no indication that the Chinese military, which controls most of the country's airspace, will loosen its grip to give airliners more maneuver room. But aviation officials and airline executives predict reduced delays at Daxing thanks to its multi-directional runway design that improves operational efficiency in the air, as well as its location south of Beijing -- eliminating many flight detours aimed at avoiding the city's large "no-fly" zone.
Alliance shakeups, time slot shifts
Main Daxing tenant China Southern plans to deploy an Airbus A380 for its maiden journey from the new airport. STR/AFP/Getty Images
For frequent fliers around the world, though, it may take some time to figure out if Daxing will be their preferred gateway to the Chinese capital.
It was going to be a crown jewel for Skyteam, one of the three global airline alliances, with China-based members China Southern and China Eastern -- each assigned 40% of the new airport's departure and arrival time slots by the government -- moving all their Beijing flights to Daxing to become anchor carriers. Other Skyteam members such as Delta, Korean and Air France-KLM will move to the new airport in phases.
China Southern, however, will now leave Skyteam by the end of this year, having signed agreements with several members of rival Oneworld alliance, including American Airlines and British Airways, for closer cooperation.
Adding another twist to the confusing plot, Air China -- the country's flag carrier and a Star Alliance member -- was supposed to remain at the current Capital Airport along with other Star carriers. But it was recently given 10% of Daxing's time slots after authorities allowed China Eastern to keep its highly profitable Beijing-Shanghai shuttle flights at Capital.
All the tenant intrigue aside, Chinese officials are eager to showcase the country's newest mega-hub to the world upon its grand opening, announcing that flights from Daxing will cover 112 destinations around the globe by next spring.

Story 149
Beijing (CNN) — China is poised to open a new mega-airport to the south of Beijing, already home to the world's second-busiest aviation hub, ahead of the 70th anniversary of the People's Republic.
Beijing Daxing International Airport (PKX) will see its first commercial flight take off around September 20, according to Chinese state media, with main tenant China Southern planning to deploy an Airbus A380, the world's biggest airliner, for the maiden journey.
The greatly anticipated airport ushers in a new era for air travel to and from the Chinese capital, which has been in desperate need of a second global gateway.
An aeriel view of the striking new Beijing Daxing International Airport, dubbed "starfish" by Chinese media. STR/AFP/Getty Images
The existing Beijing Capital International Airport (PEK) is hitting full capacity, making it nearly impossible for airlines to add flights at desirable times.
In 2018, more than 100 million travelers passed through its three terminals -- making it only the second airport in the world to cross that passenger traffic milestone, after Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta. China is projected to overtake the United States as the world's biggest air travel market by 2022.
The multibillion-dollar Daxing, designed by the late architect Zaha Hadid and her Chinese partners, is built for the future, boasting four runways and a terminal the size of 97 soccer pitches upon opening of the first phase -- as well as customer-service robots that will provide travelers with flight updates and airport information.
The "modest" initial operational target is to accommodate 72 million passengers and 2 million tons of cargo annually by 2025. The ambitious master plan calls for the building of a total of seven runways, and moving at least 100 million passengers and 4 million tons of cargo a year through the airport.
Construction for the $11.5 billion project began in 2014, with more than 40,000 workers on site at its peak. The terminal bears all the hallmarks of Hadid's signature contour lines, with plenty of natural light shining through its more than 8,000 distinct rooftop windows.
The terminal has more than 8,000 distinct rooftop windows. GREG BAKER/AFP/Getty Images
Nicknamed "starfish" by Chinese media for its shape of five concourses connected to a main hall, Daxing aims to reduce walking for passengers, long a complaint about many new mega-hubs. The airport authority has promised a distance of no more than 600 meters (650 yards) -- about eight minutes of walking -- between security checkpoints and the remotest gates.
Another passenger concern is Daxing's location. It's in the far south of Beijing, a city notorious for traffic jams. The new airport is some 50 kilometers (30 miles) from Tiananmen Square in the city center -- and even farther away from the main business districts in the east and north.
Brushing aside such worries, officials say they have built more than just an airport -- but rather a truly integrated transportation hub that will eventually see high-speed rail, inter-city services and downtown-to-airport express trains all stopping right beneath the terminal. The airport express trains, traveling at a top speed of 160 kilometers an hour (100 mph), promise to whisk arriving passengers to the city in less than 20 minutes.
Yet others say a new mammoth aviation hub will only worsen flight delays in Beijing, already ranked near the bottom of on-time performance lists among airports worldwide.
There is no indication that the Chinese military, which controls most of the country's airspace, will loosen its grip to give airliners more maneuver room. But aviation officials and airline executives predict reduced delays at Daxing thanks to its multi-directional runway design that improves operational efficiency in the air, as well as its location south of Beijing -- eliminating many flight detours aimed at avoiding the city's large "no-fly" zone.
Alliance shakeups, time slot shifts
Main Daxing tenant China Southern plans to deploy an Airbus A380 for its maiden journey from the new airport. STR/AFP/Getty Images
For frequent fliers around the world, though, it may take some time to figure out if Daxing will be their preferred gateway to the Chinese capital.
It was going to be a crown jewel for Skyteam, one of the three global airline alliances, with China-based members China Southern and China Eastern -- each assigned 40% of the new airport's departure and arrival time slots by the government -- moving all their Beijing flights to Daxing to become anchor carriers. Other Skyteam members such as Delta, Korean and Air France-KLM will move to the new airport in phases.
China Southern, however, will now leave Skyteam by the end of this year, having signed agreements with several members of rival Oneworld alliance, including American Airlines and British Airways, for closer cooperation.
Adding another twist to the confusing plot, Air China -- the country's flag carrier and a Star Alliance member -- was supposed to remain at the current Capital Airport along with other Star carriers. But it was recently given 10% of Daxing's time slots after authorities allowed China Eastern to keep its highly profitable Beijing-Shanghai shuttle flights at Capital.
All the tenant intrigue aside, Chinese officials are eager to showcase the country's newest mega-hub to the world upon its grand opening, announcing that flights from Daxing will cover 112 destinations around the globe by next spring.

Story 150
(CNN) Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte said he has been offered a controlling stake in a joint energy deal by Chinese President Xi Jinping in exchange for ignoring an international arbitration in Manila's favor on the South China Sea.
In 2016, a tribunal in The Hague ruled in favor of the Philippines in a maritime dispute, concluding China has no legal basis to claim historic rights to the bulk of the South China Sea
Speaking to reporters in the Philippines on Tuesday, Duterte said that Xi had promised him a majority stake in a joint oil and gas exploration venture that could fall within Manila's Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ), if the Philippines ignores the decision by the Permanent Court of Arbitration, according to CNN affiliate CNN Philippines
"Set aside the arbitral ruling," Duterte said, quoting Xi. "Set aside your claim. Then allow everybody connected with the Chinese companies. They want to explore and if there is something, they said, we would be gracious enough to give you 60%, they will only get 40%. That is the promise of Xi Jinping," Duterte reportedly said.
An EEZ gives a country exclusive maritime rights to resources such as fish and oil and gas within 200 nautical miles of that land mass. Manila's EEZ, mandated by the United Nation's Convention on the Law of the Sea, overlaps with waters claimed by China and Vietnam.
Read More

Story 151
Become an FT subscriber to read:
Leverage our market expertise
Expert insights, analysis and smart data help you cut through the noise to spot trends, risks and opportunities.
Join over 300,000 Finance professionals who already subscribe to the FT.

Story 152
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 153
China's technological strategy and innovation are serious threats to US national security — now, according to retired Adm. William McRaven, the US has reached a 'holy s---" moment and needs to invest more significantly in technology research and development to keep its edge.
McRaven said that "as we talk about the rise of China, the gap" between American and Chinese innovation "is narrowing."
In some cases — like with 5G commercialization — China is already beating the US, and its intellectual-property theft of US technology only compounds the rapid pace at which it's developing new technologies, a report by the Council on Foreign Relations released Wednesday said.
Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.
The legendary former Navy SEAL Adm. William McRaven said at an event on Wednesday that China's technical and defense capabilities were quickly approaching — and sometimes surpassing — those of the US, representing what he called a "holy s---" moment for the US.
McRaven, who was the head of Joint Special Operations Command during the 2011 operation on the Al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden's Pakistan compound, said at the Council on Foreign Relations event that "we need to make sure that the American public knows that now is the time to do something" about China's rapid developments in research and technology that threaten US national security.
China is emerging as the most significant rival to the US, as outlined in a report by the Council on Foreign Relations released Wednesday. From hacking and intellectual-property theft to incursions in the South China Sea, China is asserting its dominance in the Pacific and its intention to compete militarily with the US.
But McRaven said that particularly in terms of technology and innovation, "as we talk about the rise of China, the gap" between American and Chinese innovation "is narrowing."
Read more: Navy SEAL admiral reveals his biggest fear during planning of the bin Laden raid
In some cases, China is surpassing the US, according to the report — for example, in the commercialization of 5G, a necessary component of high-speed communication. What's more, Chinese-built 5G networks could pose significant risks to US national security, as evidenced by the US's contentious relationship with the Chinese tech company Huawei.
China's intellectual-property theft is a significant cause for concern, and one that the US is confronting, the report said. Between October and December, the US Department of Justice indicted Chinese hackers and intelligence personnel on charges of intellectual-property theft three times.
But it's not just about IP theft — it's also about China out-innovating the US, and that as its economy grows, it will continue to do so. The report stressed the necessity of federal funding for tech research and urged the Pentagon to fast-track the adoption of tech innovation in its bureaucratic systems — a problem China doesn't have, thanks to its integration of military and civil technical innovation.
China's growing economy and investment in technical innovation has been a growing threat to the US's national security for years, but now is the US's "Sputnik moment," McRaven said, referring to US competition with Russia in the Cold War.
"If not now, when?" he said. "And oh, by the way, it's just going to get harder as we get further into the future."

Story 154
President Trump is a gumball machine of numbers when it comes to China. But his numbers are unchewable.
Whether the topic is Chinese job losses, foreign investment or trade, Trump has a habit of misleading audiences on the state of Asia’s largest economy. He also routinely exaggerates the effect of U.S. tariffs on China’s economy.
We rounded up some of the statistics Trump dishes out at campaign rallies, on Twitter and to reporters. The claims we’re fact-checking are all drawn from the president’s remarks at a campaign rally in Fayetteville, N.C., on Monday. But he has been repeating the same or similar figures for months. This is a roundup, so we won’t be awarding Pinocchios — but his claims are certainly misleading.
“China wants to talk. They want to talk. China’s lost 3 million jobs.”
It’s a mystery where Trump gets this number, which seems to grow or shrink with each telling.
At the end of July, Trump tweeted, “China has lost 5 million jobs and two million manufacturing jobs due to the Trump Tariffs.” In August, he said, “China has lost 2 million jobs in the last month and a half.” Later that month, the number was “2½ million.” Now it’s 3 million.
As the BBC reported, “there is no official Chinese data specifically on job losses as a result of the US-China trade war, but economic surveys carried out by two Chinese banks suggest a range of 1.2 [million] to 1.9 million jobs were impacted by the trade war in the industrial sector.”
The White House did not respond to our questions, but it previously sent the BBC an article from the South China Morning Post with some figures. Here’s what the BBC reported Aug. 30:
This article quoted a report from a Chinese investment bank, China International Capital Corp (CICC), with an estimate of trade war-related job losses in the manufacturing sector of up to 1.9 million between July 2018 and May 2019. When pressed further, Mr Trump's spokesperson said the CICC survey had not included data after May, when there had been a significant increase in tariffs on goods from China. However, no explanation was offered as to where the figure of three million — or the 2.5 million a week earlier — had been sourced.
When we asked Trump’s campaign about the 3 million figure, a spokesman sent the same article in the South China Morning Post and its estimate of almost 2 million job losses stemming from the trade war.
“I know of no reliable evidence that indicates that China has lost 3 million jobs because of the trade war,” Robert Daly, director of the Woodrow Wilson Center’s Kissinger Institute on China and the United States, wrote in an email. “China had embarked on a historic restructuring of its economy before the trade war began. Before Trump’s election, Beijing had committed to slower, more sustainable growth based on domestic consumption, stronger service industries, and moving up the manufacturing value chain from assembly work to high tech. A reduction in the manufacturing labor force (let’s say it is 3 million jobs) must therefore be measured against job growth in China’s tech and service sectors.”
Nicholas R. Lardy, an expert on the Chinese economy at the Peterson Institute for International Economics, says Trump’s claim of millions of Chinese job losses is “delusional.”
“Employment in broad manufacturing has been falling over the past year, but at a slower pace than in 2014-17, before the tariffs were imposed,” Lardy wrote in a blog post Aug. 29. “China’s exports to the rest of the world are growing enough to more than offset the lost sales to the United States, so employment losses due directly to the trade war seem to be de minimis.”
Derek Scissors, an expert on the Chinese economy at the American Enterprise Institute, said “300,000 jobs, not 3 million, could be a reasonable estimate for the U.S. tariff effect.”
“Chinese exports to the U.S. have begun falling,” Scissors said. “Through July, they’ve done about $25 billion [less] — goods and services — compared to 2018 through July. That is a concrete loss to China. It’s also a reversal of trend, so Chinese losses are larger as compared to what their exports could be without tariffs. But there is no way to get millions of jobs lost — the export decline is far too small for that given the size of China’s economy.”
David Dollar, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who studies the Chinese economy and served as an Obama administration economic official based in Beijing, said: “China’s overall exports so far this year are flat compared to 2018, so it seems unlikely that there are large employment changes.”
“Thousands of companies are leaving China. The supply chain is crumbling because they can’t pay the tariffs, and our country has taken over things that you would have never thought.”
Trump claims “thousands of companies” have been leaving China since his tariffs took effect, but neither his administration nor his campaign has offered proof.
The Trump campaign spokesman pointed to a July 14 article in the Wall Street Journal, which said the U.S. manufacturers behind “Crocs shoes, Yeti beer coolers, Roomba vacuums and GoPro cameras are producing goods in other countries to avoid U.S. tariffs of as much as 25% on some $250 billion of imports from China,” among others.
But China has more than half a million foreign-invested firms, according to the Peterson Institute. Multinational companies with Chinese operations in some cases say they’re leaving, or planning to leave, because of rising labor costs or lower costs in neighboring countries such as Vietnam. Those dynamics predated Trump’s tariffs.
Lardy, the Peterson Institute expert, wrote in a blog post Sept. 10 that “a handful of firms leaving China do not confirm a broad trend.” Many foreign companies are in China to access the sizable Chinese market, Lardy wrote, while some of the biggest exporters with Chinese operations, such as Taiwanese manufacturer Foxconn, a key supplier to Apple, are too entrenched in China to be able to relocate easily.
“Nonfinancial foreign direct investment (FDI) in China is currently running at an annual rate of almost $140 billion, meaning that thousands of new foreign firms are established in China every month,” Lardy wrote. “Since the tariff war broke out in mid-2018 FDI has expanded about 3 percent annually, roughly the same pace as in the previous five years. And the recent data do not reflect massive new investments in chemical plants. China recently approved wholly foreign-owned investments by both ExxonMobil and BASF, each at a record setting $10 billion. Since ground has not yet been broken, these two projects are not yet included in FDI data.”
A survey published in August by the U.S.-China Business Council found that 81 percent of members’ businesses had been affected by the trade tensions, up from 73 percent a year earlier.

(U.S.-China Business Council, August 2019)
But the same survey showed that 87 percent of members had no plans to leave China, while 95 percent said they were in the country to serve the Chinese market. “If you are there to serve the Chinese market, then the trade war provides more, not less, incentive to invest there,” said Dollar, the Brookings Institution researcher.
AEI’s Scissors said: “Tariffs are applied much more quickly than companies decide to exit a large market, so we don’t have useful data on this yet. We know thousands of companies are considering leaving China. It’s also possible that thousands of companies have left, as small East Asian companies may be relocating within the region.”
“Hundreds of billions of dollars have been and are coming into our country in the form of tariffs, and China’s eating the cost, which the fake news doesn’t want to tell you.”
Trump has imposed tariffs on hundreds of billions of dollars’ worth of Chinese imports, and the Chinese have retaliated with their own levies on U.S. goods.
In the last year, U.S. tariffs on imports worldwide produced $63 billion, nearly half of which, or $27 billion, came from Trump’s tariffs on Chinese imports and other products. (It’s important to note that China has retaliated in part by shunning U.S. agricultural products such as soybeans. Trump said at his North Carolina rally that his administration, as a result, has subsidized U.S. farmers to the tune of $28 billion. “We’ve given them $28 billion so that they’re whole,” he said.)
Economists widely agree that the cost of tariffs ultimately falls on manufacturers and consumers, as Trump recently acknowledged.
The Washington Post reported Aug. 2 that “Trump’s latest import tax would cost a typical family of four $350 a year in addition to $850 from existing China tariffs, according to the Tax Foundation.”
An analysis in May by Goldman Sachs found that “the costs of U.S. tariffs have fallen entirely on U.S. businesses and households, with no clear reduction in the prices charged by Chinese exporters” and that prices for nine categories of taxed goods — such as auto parts, furniture and floor coverings — were rising faster than inflation.
A paper published on March 2 by three prominent U.S. economists found “that the full incidence of the tariff falls on domestic consumers, with a reduction in U.S. real income of $1.4 billion per month by the end of 2018.” Another paper, published March 3 by a different set of economists, found similar results. “Tradable-sector workers in heavily Republican counties are the most negatively affected by the trade war,” the paper said.
“I want China to do well, and I hope they do well, but they’ve had now the worst year in 57 years.”
China’s second-quarter growth rate was the slowest in 27 years — not 57, as Trump repeatedly claims.
As The Post’s Anna Fifield reported in July: “Official figures from the National Bureau of Statistics — which economists tend to take with a grain of salt, viewing them as likely too rosy — showed that the annual growth rate slowed to 6.2 percent in the three months to the end of June, down from 6.4 percent the previous quarter.
“This is within the 6 to 6.5 percent band the government has set for this year and was in line with market expectations of a gradual slowdown. Still, it is China’s lowest growth rate since records began in March 1992.”
To jolt the slowing economy, the Chinese central bank said last week it is lowering the reserve requirement ratio for lenders by 0.5 percentage point on Monday, which essentially translates to injecting $126 billion into the country’s financial system, according to the New York Times.
“Many businesses are finding it increasingly difficult to stay open, unemployment is creeping up, and families are shouldering higher daily costs,” the Times reported.
(About our rating scale)
Send us facts to check by filling out this form
Sign up for The Fact Checker weekly newsletter
The Fact Checker is a verified signatory to the International Fact-Checking Network code of principles

Story 155
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 156
Office of the Iranian Supreme Leader via AP 2016
Secretary of State Mike Pompeo called violent attacks on Saudi oil infrastructure in Abqaiq and Khurais “an act of war,” as evidence suggests that Iran is the culprit. This marks the most dangerous escalation between the U.S. and Iran since the seizure of the American embassy in Tehran. However, this confrontation has major implications for the growing U.S. – China strategic rivalry.
Amidst historic U.S. – Iran tensions, Beijing is doubling-down on its strategic partnership with Tehran, ignoring U.S. efforts to isolate the Islamic Republic from global markets. Following an August visit by Iran Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif to Beijing, the two countries agreed to update a 25-year program signed in 2016, to include an unprecedented $400 billion of investment in the Iranian economy – sanctions be damned.
The capital injection, which would focus on Iran’s oil and gas sector, would also be distributed across the country’s transportation and manufacturing infrastructure. In return, Chinese firms will maintain the right of the first refusal to participate in any and all petrochemical projects in Iran, including the provision of technology, systems, process ingredients and personnel required to complete such projects. According to an exclusive interview with Petroleum Economist, a senior source in Iran’s petrochemical sector had this to say about the new agreement:
The central pillar of the new deal is that China will invest $280 billion developing Iran's oil, gas and petrochemicals sectors… there will be another $120 billion investment in upgrading Iran's transport and manufacturing infrastructure, which again can be front-loaded into the first five-year period and added to in each subsequent period should both parties agree.
This comes at a time when Washington is exerting its so-called ‘maximum pressure’ strategy against Iran, which aims to change its international behavior by bringing oil exports down to zero.
The Trump policy is a 180 degree U-turn form the sanctions relief granted by the previous administration’s Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). The Obama brainchild intended to temporarily freeze the Iranian nuclear program, but ignored its regional power projection and growing missile arsenal. Under the agreement, Iran’s economy rebounded by over 12% compared to when sanctions were in full force. However, Iran continued to build intermediate and short-range ballistic and cruise missiles and drones, and fund proxies from Lebanon and Syria, to Iraq, to Yemen.
The Trump Administration’s sanctions, however, have cut Iran’s economic growth down to a meager 3.7%. The country’s oil output – the lifeblood of the economy -- dropped from almost 4 million barrels per day (mbd) in 2018 to barely above 2.5 mbd in March of this year, and the exports declined to a trickle.
OPEC
Nowhere To Run But East
Given Iran’s precarious geopolitical and geo-economic position, it has little choice but to forge a closer relationship with China, despite the country’s reputation as a predatory lender. Russia, too, is a major Iranian partner, weapons and nuclear, rocket, and military technology supplier.
Like the other Eurasian economies involved in China’s massive Belt and Road initiative (BRI), mostly imported Chinese labor will be utilized to build factories, designed and managed by large Chinese manufacturers, with identical specifications to those in China. According to the Middle East Monitor, the agreement also confers “the right to delay the payment of these prices for two years in the Chinese national currency (Yuan).”
This presents an extremely favorable situation for the Chinese, as Beijing earns yuan from its projects across Africa and Central Asia – and therefore does not need to make oil trades in USD, diminishing the bite of sanctions. In return, Tehran gains an additional ally on the UN Security Council, and an economic lifeline with a secure oil and petrochemicals market. The deal facilitates Iran’s quest to become a regional and nuclear-armed hegemon, potentially threatening Europe and the U.S.
Debt-Diplomacy and The Changing World Oil Market
At a time when many nations are becoming more wary of Chinese investment – including companies across Europe, Greenland, and the Central Asian Republics – Iran is further embracing China and less savory actors like Russia, and Turkey.
Overall, this may not prove a financially sound endeavor by Beijing, as Chinese companies will come under U.S. sanctions – but it may end up as a shrewd geostrategic play by both parties. Profitability certainly hasn’t been China’s main motivation in many previous investment schemes, nor is it Iran’s. This case is no different. It is a geopolitical anti-American axis. China’s game here is clear: first, increase tensions between the U.S. and Iran by weakening the impact of American sanctions and increase their soft power leverage in the energy-dense Middle East. Then integrate Iran into the Belt-and-Road initiative and into the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, of which Tehran is an observer member.
Beijing’s gambit to cozy up with a terrorism-sponsoring state, however, may backfire. Iranian aggression is likely to end up in Tehran’s defeat. Regardless of how Saudi Arabia and the United States decide to proceed with retaliation for the Abqaiq-Khurais attacks, China may soon have a severe case of buyer’s remorse.
With Assistance From David Pasmanik

Story 157
“We have been Hong Kong’s home carrier for many decades,” a recent statement said. “This is our home. We have grown with this great city and are committed to remaining at the heart of its future growth and success.”
On Wednesday, citing a drop in August traffic, Cathay said it would trim its growth plans. In a memo to employees reviewed by The New York Times, it also announced a hiring freeze.
The problems could continue. While city leaders have canceled a bill that would have allowed extraditions of people suspected of crimes to the mainland, a catalyst for the protests, they have continued over other problems.
Hong Kong’s protests and Beijing’s growing willingness to intercede in the city’s affairs could profoundly change how people work and do business in the Asian financial capital. Cathay, for example, is controlled by Swire Pacific, one of a handful of conglomerates that can trace their history to Hong Kong’s early British colonial era, and have long been dominated by non-Chinese executives. Because it depends so much on business in China, it faces growing pressure to show its loyalty.
“If they want to gain better access to the Chinese market to do business better and easier, foreign companies want to satisfy the nationalistic preferences to the extent they can,” said Zhiwu Chen, a professor of economics at the University of Hong Kong. “Given that background, native Chinese executives are more likely to develop better personal connections on the mainland, either with officials or with other business executives.”
Last month, as Beijing piled pressure on the airline, the company named Augustus Tang, a 60-year-old longtime Cathay and Swire employee, as its new chief executive, replacing Rupert Hogg, the British-born executive who had led the company for only two years.

Story 158
China's proposed digital currency could trigger global use of the yuan, according to the CEO of American cryptocurrency financial services firm Circle. The People's Bank of China (PBOC) last month announced that it's close to launching its own digital currency, saying that the rationale behind the move is to "protect" its foreign exchange sovereignty.
This becomes a mechanism by which (the yuan) can be used in everyday transactions all around the world. Jeremy Allaire CEO of Circle
China's central bank plans to launch its digital token through a two-tier system, under which both the PBOC and commercial banks would be legitimate issuers. "I look at this really meeting several goals. But, I think the bigger opportunity here is this is a way for the Chinese yuan to be distributed globally," Circle CEO Jeremy Allaire told CNBC's "Squawk Box" on Wednesday. "This becomes a mechanism by which (the yuan) can be used in everyday transactions all around the world," added Allaire, an internet entrepreneur who also founded video streaming firm Brightcove. "It's ultimately a foundation for the internationalization" of the yuan.
Beijing has in recent years pushed hard to get more international entities to use the yuan outside China. The U.S. dollar is currently the world's "reserve currency" — about 58 percent of all foreign exchange reserves in the world are in U.S. dollars, according to the IMF, and about 40 percent of the world's debt is denominated in dollars. Mu Changchun, deputy director of the PBOC's payments department, said that the new digital currency will have similarities to Facebook's proposed Libra coin. It would be as safe as central-bank issued paper notes, he claimed, and could be used on platforms such as Tencent's WeChat and even without an internet connection. Libra, which was unveiled in June, will be backed by relatively stable government-backed money — unlike bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies, which can be highly volatile and speculative. Facebook says it's designed to enable anyone to securely store money for free on their phone and to allow people to securely send and receive Libra around the world.

Story 159
Growth of wind and solar in China is slowing as government funding for green energy falters and upgrades to the transmission infrastructure lag. With China’s CO2 emissions again on the rise, experts worry the world’s largest emitter may fall short of key climate goals.
At nearly 10,000 feet, the high deserts of Qinghai Province in northwestern China are an ideal place to tap the sun’s energy. Not much lives out in this moonscape of dust and rock on the Tibetan Plateau, a place so dry that snow evaporates before it hits the ground, only finding a place to rest on the north-facing rocky crags and glaciers that cap the Kunlun Mountains. An occasional Himalayan vulture, with a wingspan greater than 8 feet, can be seen soaring in the blue skies. Down at ground level, workers at a massive solar energy farm recently built here say they sometimes spot Tibetan wolves nosing among the hundreds of solar panels that march row upon row toward the mountains to the south. This new 1,900-acre, 500-megawatt solar farm, known as the Frontrunner Photovoltaic Project, was jointly developed by two Chinese energy companies, Sungrow Power Supply Co. and China Three Gorges New Energy. Thanks to the electricity generated by the installation, only one of the province’s 10 coal-fired power plants needed to be in operation this summer. And for 15 days in June, the rural province of 6 million people derived 100 percent of its electricity from renewable energy. While half of that was from hydropower, the rest came from the wind and solar projects that have been expanding in Qinghai in recent years. By the end of last year, the province was generating more than three-quarters of its electricity from renewable energy. When approved last year, the Frontrunner project not only had the lowest recorded bid price per kilowatt-hour for a solar photovoltaic project in China’s renewable energy history — lower than the price for coal-fired power in Qinghai. But the massive installation also became China’s first large-scale solar project developed without government subsidies. And in a striking example of how China’s mix of a command and capitalist economy can often work with remarkable speed and efficiency, the Frontrunner project was built in only three months, with approval coming in September 2018 and the first solar energy generated on December 29.
Solar installations are expected to drop by about half this year, from a peak of 53 gigawatts in 2017.
If the Frontrunner project bodes well for the future of renewable energy in China, it also illuminates important roadblocks that have recently slowed the nation’s green energy transition and led to an increase in CO2 emissions following several years when emissions had plateaued. Although major solar and wind power installations in China’s more far-flung provinces can produce large amounts of renewable energy, a lack of high-voltage transmission infrastructure means that a sizeable percentage of that green energy still goes unused.
In addition, as renewable energy prices have fallen and the central government has grown increasingly concerned about the impact of the U.S.-China trade war on China’s economy, renewable subsidies are being phased out. Wind and solar facilities must now compete directly at auction with other forms of power generation. China’s green energy sector seems increasingly capable of winning that competition, but solar energy installations are nevertheless expected to drop by about half this year, from a peak of 53 gigawatts in 2017. And while curtailing subsidies for wind and solar power, the central government has sharply increased financial support for what it calls “new energy” extraction, which includes fracking of shale gas and separating methane from coal. Those subsidies are an important reason behind China’s rising CO2 emissions.
Hundreds of wind turbines in China's northwestern Xinjiang Province in July 2016. PATRICK BAZ/AFP/Getty Images
What happens with China’s green energy transition has broader significance in the global climate fight, given that the country is the world’s largest emitter of greenhouse gases. With its renewable energy growth slowing and its fossil fuel use rising, analysts fear that China’s emissions may not level off by 2030, the target set in the Paris Climate Agreement, which would be a significant setback for efforts to slow global warming. Renewable energy proponents are now seeking to avert a continued slowdown in China’s alternative energy sector and spark new green energy growth. “Though China is the largest clean energy market in the world, wind and solar only accounted for 5.2 percent and 2.5 percent of China’s national power generation in 2018,” says Kevin Tu, former China program manager at the International Energy Agency and now a fellow with the Center on Global Energy Policy at Columbia University. “Against the backdrop of an ongoing U.S.-China trade war and a slowing Chinese economy, political priority of climate change in China is unlikely to become very high in the near future, indicating great difficulties for Beijing to further upgrade its climate ambitions.” A major issue, according to Tu and other experts, is the level of “curtailment,” or energy that is generated but not purchased because it cannot be absorbed by the electricity grid. The degree of curtailment has been falling — from 17 percent in 2016 to 7 percent last year — but Tu says that is still too high. Elevated solar curtailment rates in the provinces of Gansu and Xinjiang, as well as in Tibet, led China’s National Energy Agency to halt approvals for new solar projects in those regions for 2019. “Wind and solar curtailments have been a chronic policy challenge in China in recent years, indicating an urgent need for additional power sector reform,” says Tu.
By the end of 2018, the province of Qinghai was generating more than three-quarters of its electricity from renewable energy. Yale Environment 360
People in Golmud, population 200,000, take great pride in the Frontunner solar power installation. Golmud’s workers have a history of building grand projects, including the Qinghai-Tibet highway, which was constructed in the 1950s and is memorialized at a park in Golmud. More recently, workers in Golmud took part in the construction of the world’s highest railway, a 710-mile section running south from the city to Lhasa, Tibet. The line, which crosses Tangula Pass at 16,640 feet, was inaugurated in 2006.
Just like their brethren who built these earlier projects, workers at the Frontunner project had to deal with frequent dust storms, altitude sickness, and weather shifts from extreme cold to blazing sun. “I’m very excited because we managed to build such a big project out in the desert at an altitude like this,” Xu Rugang, project manager at Sungrow’s engineering department says while gazing out across an expanse of PV panels glinting in the sun. “Just imagine the difficulties our workers had to endure to make this happen.” To reduce the country’s CO2 emissions, experts say it is crucial that power produced in provinces like Qinghai be transmitted seamlessly to the industrial and population centers along China’s coast. Many larger renewable projects are located in remote landlocked provinces like Qinghai, Gansu, and Inner Mongolia. Until more transmission lines are built and government reforms are enacted that better enable power to be transferred to other provinces, far-western “battery provinces” like Qinghai will mainly end up generating power for themselves.
After plateauing from 2014 to 2016, China’s CO2 emissions have risen in the last several years.
What’s needed, Tu says, is for the central government to eliminate barriers of inter-provincial power trading and to simultaneously give renewables priority in the transfer and dispatching of electricity. Alvin Lin, an energy and climate expert with the Natural Resources Defense Council who has worked in China for more than a decade, says that an important near-term element in the climate battle is to sustain the momentum of China’s renewable energy drive so that the country’s CO2 emissions peak before 2030. Many experts increasingly argue that the 2030 target date is insufficient. “We and others would like to push for an earlier carbon peaking around 2025,” Lin says. “China would need to stop building new coal plants now and bring coal power capacity and generation down rapidly.” Should China’s emissions not peak until 2030 or even later, experts say that delay could contribute to global temperature increases that hit 3 or 4 degrees Celsius (5.4 to 7.2 degrees Fahrenheit) — far above the consensus international goal of 1.5 to 2 degrees C.
Total CO2 emissions from coal, gas, oil, and concrete production from 2012 to the first half of 2019. Courtesy of Carbon Brief
After plateauing from 2014 to 2016, China’s carbon dioxide emissions have risen in the last several years, with an estimated 4 percent increase in the first half of 2019. While coal consumption and production peaked in 2013, both have increased again since 2017 and are slowly creeping back to 2013 levels. Reliance on gas from fracking in the Sichuan basin, as well as coal-bed methane extraction and increased imports of natural gas (China is the second-largest natural gas importer in the world), are on the rise. Since China counts unconventional gases like shale gas and coal-bed methane as “new energy,” they are eligible for subsidies from the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology [MIIT]. Roughly $830 million — more than 80 percent of an MIIT new energy fund — went to subsidizing such projects in 2018, according to a recent report by the state-run China Energy News. While continuing to fund unconventional gas, China has now largely stopped providing national-level subsidies to wind and solar projects and is implementing reforms to its feed-in-tariff system, moving to replace it with auctions in which wind and solar power must compete directly with fossil fuels.
Some say they think China could install as much as 100 gigawatts of solar power annually, if renewables were given higher priority.
This process has started to slow the overall added capacity for wind and solar. While new solar photovoltaic installations hit an all-time high of 53 gigawatts [GW] in 2017, they slipped to around 41 GW last year and current figures put solar installations at slightly more than 11 GW for the first half of 2019. Projections are for about 25 GW of solar power to be installed this year and in succeeding years through 2025, an amount that would not sharply curtail fossil fuel use. Another problem is that renewable energy projects are facing land-use restrictions that protect agricultural, industrial, and urban land in provinces like Guangdong in South China, the country’s economic powerhouse, says Jonathan Luan Dong, a renewables analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance. While several non-subsidized renewable energy projects had been scheduled to start in Guangdong in 2019, few actually seem to be moving forward. When I attempted to visit renewable energy projects that were said to be in the works, government offices and companies in the Guangdong cities of Jiangmen, Meizhou, and Zhanjiang declined my requests because the projects hadn’t started.
The 1,900-acre, 500-megawatt Frontrunner Photovoltaic Project, located outside of Golmud, Qinghai Province. Courtesy of Zhong Yunfan
Some renewable energy analysts say they think China could install as much as 100 gigawatts of solar power annually — four times the current level — if renewables , including residential solar PV initiatives, were given higher priority. China has so far set a modest 3 GW quota in 2019 for residential solar, which would make subsidies available to about 600,000 households to install solar panels. “Stimulating ….. distributed energy projects in coastal provinces is another way to push renewables in China while bypassing existing barriers,” Tu says. Sungrow and Three Gorges recently won a bid for a new 100-megawatt solar farm in the deserts of Inner Mongolia, beating its own record bid price for the Frontrunner project. Asked how much solar power could expand in China’s desert regions, Sungrow’s Xu Rugang says it will come down to government planners in the end. The space is available, he says. The price is right. The environmental costs of coal-fired power are well-known.

Story 160
President Trump and lawmakers from both parties are increasingly anxious about the economic and technological ambitions of China, which has built cutting-edge global industries, including those that produce advanced surveillance technology. Those fears have prompted Washington to take an expansive view of potential risks, moving beyond simply trying to curtail Chinese imports.
In addition to slapping tariffs on $360 billion worth of Chinese products, the administration has banned Chinese companies like Huawei, the telecom giant, from buying sensitive American technology. It is moving to curb the ability of firms to export technology like artificial intelligence and quantum computing from the United States to China. And Congress has given the administration expansive power to block Chinese investment on national security grounds.
Now lawmakers have added a provision to a military spending bill that would prevent the use of federal grants to buy subway trains from state-owned or state-controlled companies, a measure that would effectively block CRRC’s business.
The bill has gained bipartisan support from lawmakers who say companies like CRRC pose a threat to the United States. Part of the concern is economic: Flush with cash from its rapid growth, China has pumped money into building globally competitive businesses, often creating overcapacity in markets like steel, solar panels and trains.

Story 161
NEW YORK -- Chinese electric vehicle maker NIO said it will lay off another 1,000 employees Tuesday, after reporting heavy losses, adding to growing uncertainty around the startup's future.
The New York-listed company's new round of restructuring will be conducted by the end of the third quarter. The Shanghai-based startup had already cut down from a staff of 9,100 in January to around 8,800 in August and shut down an office in Silicon Valley.
The company canceled its scheduled earnings call scheduled for Tuesday. It reported a worse-than-expected net loss of 3.29 billion yuan ($478 million) for the second quarter of 2019, an 83.1% deeper loss on the year and 25.2% deeper than in the first quarter.
NIO shares plunged over 25% Tuesday morning on the New York Stock Exchange.
Amidst the hemorrhage, the automaker said it will raise $200 million in convertible notes from major shareholder Tencent Holdings and NIO Chairman and CEO William Li, though the amount falls short of the company's cash burn rate.
NIO's revenue shrank to 1.51 billion yuan from 1.63 billion yuan in the previous quarter, as total deliveries slipped 10% to 3,553.
"In response to the overall tempered market conditions, we are also working hard to maximize returns on our resources and have implemented comprehensive efficiency and cost-control measures across the organization," Li said in a statement.
The company recalled 4,803 of its ES8 vehicles in July. But NIO's troubles also come amid China's phaseout of subsidies that aided the electric vehicle industry's meteoric rise and sustained its growth.
Subsidies for the ES8 model were cut this year to 11,500 yuan -- about $1,600 -- from 67,500 yuan in 2018. Consumers now pay nearly $8,000 more for the vehicle than they did a year ago.
Beyond its internal challenges, NIO faces tougher competition from American electric vehicle maker Tesla, which is poised to begin production at its Shanghai Gigafactory this year to deliver locally made cars to Chinese customers.
NIO is banking on a further capital injection from state-owned Beijing E-Town Capital, as the automaker incorporated a new entity in the city's economic-technological development area. The company said it would receive up to $1.5 billion in investment from E-Town, according to a framework agreement announced in May.

Story 162
Make informed decisions with the FT
Keep abreast of significant corporate, financial and political developments around the world. Stay informed and spot emerging risks and opportunities with independent global reporting, expert commentary and analysis you can trust.

Story 163
In preparations for the 70th anniversary of the People’s Republic of China, President Xi Jinping has laid down the law: there will be no alcohol, no kites, and no drones at the October 1 parade. And especially no demonstrations of dissent.
If there’s ever been a time Big Brother will be watching, it is now. And everywhere.
We know that China’s total surveillance state has been evolving, if not accelerating, for some time. Recent reports indicate that Chinese spies have been hacking iPhones for years on an industrial scale to monitor the Uighur ethnic group in the country’s Xinjiang region. You heard that right: the very same high-end mobile devices that lured users with promises of security and privacy are now being utilized for surveillance. And this is just the tip of the iceberg. What’s happening in Xinjiang is a sign of things to come. Orwell’s nightmare is being realized before our eyes and no technical quick fix will allow us to escape the Thought Police.
As China’s economy developed, many experts anticipated that democracy would follow. Instead China has turned into a full-bore police state with all the trimmings: a leader for life, censorship factories, sprawling re-education camps. In other words, real civil liberties and privacy do not exist. For example, American intelligence officers stationed in China, who must evade surveillance to do their jobs, have found the country’s digital networks so hazardous that they’ve actually considered falling back on Cold War tradecraft.
Advertisement
This should come as no surprise. Calling China’s internal security apparatus formidable is an understatement. Domestic security spending has exceeded the country’s military budget. There are armies of specialists thousands deep—the kinds of resources capable of DNA profiling an entire region.
Recently at DEFCON 27, the co-founder of the Tor Project, Roger Dingledine, confirmed that his Internet anonymity platform would not be able to safeguard users in a place like Xinjiang. Hence the people who claim that you can enjoy all the amenities of the online world in a high-risk environment with an allegedly “secure” mobile app (Signal, WhatsApp, Telegram, etc.) are highly deluded. The very act of using a mobile device in Xinjiang is tantamount to carrying around a pocket-size telescreen. Residents warn that if you crank up one of those trendy privacy apps, you’ll end up getting an early morning visit from government agents.
All of this leads to a common response: why don’t they just ditch their mobile devices?
If only it were that simple. Because it’s not just the smartphone: it’s everyone one else’s too. Forego a Xinjiang pocket telescreen and you’re still surrounded by technology that can, and will, betray you. Like drones that are disguised as doves. The public record shows that China, with its substantial investment in artificial intelligence, wishes to be on the forefront of this movement, to the point that they’re developing “smart” uniforms for schoolchildren.
Avenues of escape can be found by studying the field-tested countermeasures used by intelligence officers in days gone by—or, as spies refer to it, “going grey.” But that’s not an easy task in a country where automakers forward real-time location data to the Chinese government. Meeting this challenge involves finding ways to eliminate trace evidence in transit, vanishing into larger populations, and evading AI-based collection systems without generating statistical anomalies. It means setting up a nice mind-numbing baseline of harmless behavior to lull watchers asleep while identifying gaps in coverage that allow operators to maneuver and communicate.
Let’s not forget the ever-handy decoys: baiting security services with dummy equipment and streams of innocuous traffic while brandishing shielded gear and low-power ephemeral channels. Dead drops and short-range agent communication (SRAC) devices are back in fashion.
The idea is to force watchers into a zone where their big budgets and hacking suites don’t offer an edge. To employ tactics that preclude the sort of centralized aggregation, computer automation, and economies of scale that China has learned to depend on. To make observation and tracking as expensive as possible by focusing on autonomy. Taking back ownership and responsibility for data channels means regaining control. It means freedom.
Here are some key questions: can you guess at the kind of resources required to physically tail someone 24/7 for an entire month? One former federal investigator indicates that well over 40 agents would be necessary. How about a year? How does this practice scale? How much does it cost if the quarry doesn’t use existing infrastructure to send and receive sensitive messages? How long will counterintelligence officers monitor an inactive target until other high priority cases demand their attention?
Robert Hanssen once complained that his colleagues at the FBI took weekends off, allowing Soviet spies in New York City to work relatively unencumbered. As one associate lamented, “they didn’t want to work on a Sunday… and the Russians got away.” Thus does history inform us that even heavily funded intelligence agencies like China’s Ministry of State Security have their limits. This, I argue, is the key to gaming, if not escaping, the total surveillance state. Recall that memorable line from the movie THX 1138: “The T-H-X account is six percent over budget. The case is to be terminated.”
Bill Blunden is an independent investigator focusing on information security, anti-forensics, and institutional analysis. He is the author of several books, including The Rootkit Arsenal and Behold a Pale Farce: Cyberwar, Threat Inflation, and the Malware-Industrial Complex. Bill is the lead investigator at Below Gotham Labs.

Story 164
A picture, featuring (from left) the Four Heavenly Kings of Canto-pop Leon Lai, Jacky Cheung, Aaron Kwok and Andy Lau is circulated on LIHKG reading: October 1 is tuck-your-shirt-in day. Photo: LIHKG

Story 165
Earlier this month, on September 13, the U.S. Navy sailed a guided-missile destroyer, the USS Wayne E. Meyer, into the South China Sea near the Paracel Islands. The mission’s objective was to challenge Chinese territorial claims in the region. As Commander Reann Mommsen, spokesperson for the U.S. Navy’s Seventh Fleet explained, the destroyer “challenged the restrictions on innocent passage imposed by China, Taiwan, and Vietnam, and also contested China’s claim to straight baselines enclosing the Paracel Islands.” Why would the United States spend time contesting claims in the Pacific? Mommsen said all three powers have claimed sovereignty over the islands and require permission or notification for a foreign ship to sail through those waters. Such requirements are “not permitted by international law, so the United States challenged these requirements.”
It all sounds pretty familiar; but these days, America’s mission in the Pacific has become far more dangerous as tensions between China and the United States rise in nearly all domains – economic, political, and otherwise. Responding to the recent U.S. operation, the Chinese Ministry of Defense labeled the act “navigational hegemony” and accused the destroyer of “trespass[ing] into waters…without permission of the Chinese government.” Such operations, commonly known as freedom of navigation operations, are designed by the United States to weaken, contest, and challenge China’s dubious maritime and territorial claims, especially as the rising Asian power seeks to militarize islands and expand its naval presence.
The influence of sea power upon Chinese foreign policy should come as no surprise to American foreign policy leaders or the rest of the world. In his final speech as Chairman of the Communist Party, Hu Jintao spent most of the time extolling years of economic growth at the 18th Party Congress. But before handing the reins of power over to his successor, then-Vice President Xi Jinping, Hu articulated potential challenges and their solutions for China in the twenty-first century. For the military to confront and victoriously overwhelm adverse actors, Hu proposed a strategy of active defense and preparedness while noting that China “should enhance our capacity for exploiting maritime rights, resolutely safeguard China’s maritime rights and interests, and build China into a maritime power.” Less than a year later, President Xi Jinping furthered Hu’s vision at a high-profile study session when he argued that China should take more of “an interest in the sea, understand the sea, strategically manage the sea, and continually do more to promote China’s efforts to become a maritime power.” Hu and Xi’s public statements were integral to the creation of China’s 2015 defense white paper, which stressed that “[t]he traditional mentality that land outweighs sea must be abandoned, and great importance has to be attached to managing the seas and oceans and protecting maritime rights and interests.” The white paper further suggested that the construction of a “modern maritime military force” would align with China’s expansive and growing “national security and development interests.”
Seemingly, someone in the CCP has been reading Alfred Thayer Mahan, a famed nineteenth-century American naval strategist. But what does it all mean?
These statements seem to reflect a growing commitment among the Chinese political and military leadership toward amplifying and modernizing their country’s maritime power and exploiting the seas to protect and advance their maritime rights and interests—all under the umbrella of guaranteeing China’s overall economic and geopolitical development, achieving great power status, and actualizing Xi’s “China Dream.” These statements and actions all have serious consequences for the United States as well as China’s regional adversaries who typically double as America’s allies in the Pacific.
Rationale for Chinese Naval Modernization
The maritime aspect of Xi’s “China Dream” has been long in the making. Since the late 1980s, China’s naval strategy has shifted from a limited and defense disposition to one focused on global expansion and diverse geopolitical and geographical objectives. This change in mindset motivated the People’s Liberation Army Navy to mount a formidable presence in the Indo-Pacific region and conduct operations farther from China’s typical territorial reach. Both have these decisions have only been conceivable due to China’s persistent and comprehensive PLAN modernization program.
Most experts contend that the impetus for Chinese naval growth occurred during the 1991 Gulf War when Chinese officials were shocked by their disproportionate naval power compared to the United States and its allies. These same officials soon realized that China needed a vibrant navy to enforce and support China’s ambitious twenty-first century international economic and political interests and prevent other countries like the United States from thwarting those interests, all while maintaining China’s safety and national security. Consequently, an increase in the breadth and depth of Chinese interests was analogous to an increased demand for emphasizing and executing missions beyond China’s immediate periphery. The PLAN’s shift in focus from “offshore waters defense” to “far seas protection” demonstrates their interest in expanding their reach, influence, and control in order to protect their interests and become a superpower. The Chinese, however, realized that fulfilling this ambition could only come to fruition by modernizing, building, and funding their navy at extraordinary levels. And, for the past two decades, they have done exactly that.
In 1995, China had only 52 submarines (one strategic and 50 tactical with limited capabilities) and roughly 50 principal surface combatants (64 percent of which were low-grade frigates). Most of these naval assets were “old diesel-electric Soviet models.” The United States, at the same time, had 100 submarines—most of Los Angeles or Sturgeon class equipped with Tomahawks and Harpoons. The United States also had 137 principal surface combatants, which consisted of 12 aircraft carriers, 32 cruisers, and 46 destroyers—not to mention 49 Oliver Hazard Perry-class frigates with guided missile systems.
While the composition of the U.S. Navy has largely remained unchanged, China’s navy has undergone modernization at a rapid pace—mainly because it has shifted their focus from research to development. An article from The Diplomat argues that China acts as a second-mover in the naval sphere. Instead of researching and coming up with its own models, it simply purchases “foreign naval systems, push[es] licensed production well past contractual limits, and even engag[es] in cyber theft.” By essentially stealing years of research and development (R&D) conducted by the United States and other foreign countries, China can leap over pesky initial “startup” costs and focus on just building the actual ships. This gambit has paid off. In 1995, China had 52 submarines, 18 destroyers, and 32 frigates. Twenty years later, China had 70 submarines, 17 destroyers, 54 frigates, and 1 aircraft carrier.
These numbers can be deceptive. At first glance, the PLAN’s modernization can be confusing to onlookers since it has primarily been focused on improving the quality of its naval platforms and capabilities, not its size. While the number of surface combatants has remained relatively stagnant (and, in the case of destroyers, actually decreased) the aggregate combat capability has skyrocketed because the navy has replaced a larger quantity of older and technologically underdeveloped platform with a smaller, more elite quantity of modern and highly-capable platforms. Now that China has acquired and begun implementing this new technology, however, its navy has already begun increasing the number of ships commissioned each year.
According to Ryan Pickrell at Business Insider, China commissioned 18 and 14 ships in 2016 and 2017, respectively. In that same timeframe, the U.S. Navy only commissioned five and eight ships. By 2018, China had approximately 300 more ships than the U.S. Navy. At this rate, the PLAN could become “the world’s second largest navy by 2020.” More alarming, China could become “a combat fleet that in overall order of battle is quantitatively and even perhaps qualitatively on a part with that of the U.S. Navy by 2030.”
As one looks into the future, this present trend persists, especially when looking at specific warship development. The PLAN’s missiles (e.g. coastal defense cruise, ASBM, SBM, ASCM, submarine-launched torpedoes, and naval mines) allow them to counter an enemy invasion or intrusion with high-intensity attacks. The lethality of these missiles only increases when attacks are closer to China’s coast—essentially securing their anti-area/access-denial (A2/AD) superior capabilities, which prevent any foreign country from operating too close to China’s territorial and maritime borders. The PLAN has also prioritized the modernization and nuclearization of their submarine force. It already has five nuclear-powered attack submarines, four nuclear-powered ballistic missiles, and 54 diesel-power attack submarines. The majority of these platforms were built in the last 16 years and, in the next decade, China will continue to build nuclear-armed submarines that will contribute to PLAN’s ASW capability, nuclear deterrence, and power projection. As of now, China has a new facility that produces one SSN a year and one SSBN every two years—meaning there will be eight more SSNs and about four more SSBNs by 2030. Above water, China has also raced to improve the quantity and quality of its surface combatants, which will aid PLAN’s air defense abilities as it plans for operations beyond the scope of its immediate-range air defense systems and develop its blue-water naval capabilities in order to execute revanchist missions far from China’s shores. From 2010 to 2018, 24 destroyers were commissioned in China compared to the 10 destroyers produced from 1990 to 2010—a twenty-year period. As of now, China is ramping up production of its 055 and 052D class destroyers and will begin producing the 055 class destroyer by the early 2020s. Lastly, China’s first aircraft carrier, Liaoning, will play a dominant role in increasing China’s distant operability and power projection along with engaging more Humanitarian Aid/Disaster Relief (HA/DR) missions, Search and Rescue (SAR), and anti-submarine warfare (ASW) aircraft. And, once again, China is already making more. China’s second aircraft carrier is still undergoing sea trials—but does have some issues. China is also working on its third aircraft carrier, which will allegedly be far more advanced by enabling “additional fighter aircraft, fixed-wing early warning aircraft, and more rapid flight operations.”
Putting Naval Power To Use
China’s naval modernization program seems destined to fulfill the “Chinese Dream.” By building more ships and expanding its resilient A2/AD capabilities, China can transition from a regional and technologically-inadequate navy to one that is global, upgraded, and capable of multiple missions far from China’s ports. As the United States shows signs of wavering when it comes to defending its allied commitments in the Pacific or remain a pivotal power in the Indo-Pacific region, China is waiting to swoop in and fill the power vacuum the United States will inevitably leave open. As Sam Roggeveen at the Australian National University so aptly noted, “China is building a surface fleet not so much to challenge the United States as to inherit its position.” Of course, China may help push the United States to cede such superpower responsibilities over time. As Americans wish to “return home” and not spend so much money and manpower defending the Pacific, China will concurrently bolster its A2/AD system, grab more islands for air bases, and aggregate more power than any other historical power in the region. When the American defense budget and people can no longer match China’s growth and personal ambitions, the United States will slowly, ever so slowly, recede from the region. At a certain point, the Chinese will make a dangerous power play against one of America’s allies in the region. And when the American leadership runs a cost-benefit analysis and finds that their position as the Pacific hegemon is simply not worth getting into a war with China over a menial matter, China will become the superpower of the Pacific. America’s reign will be over.
Yet to achieve and ensure a dominant strategic posture, China needs far more than an A2/AD-oriented military. It requires surface naval assets to do two things: induce the United States not to fight and control the Pacific once the United States leaves. With their technologically-adept and modernized submarines, destroyers, and carriers, China would be able to sway local disputes in its favor, with no foreign power to stop them.
If the Monroe Doctrine proclaimed the Western Hemisphere to be “America’s backyard,” the Xi Doctrine seeks to make the Asia-Pacific region “China’s backyard” and it relies on the PLAN’s ability to deter any rival power from mounting a challenge. Under this doctrine, the South China Sea will no longer be in dispute—it will simply be the South China Sea.
A Pragmatic American Response
As Captain James Fanell (USN) told the U.S. House Intelligence Committee on May 2018, this modernization “position[s] China’s military forces…as the arbiters of a new global order—one that stands opposed to U.S. national interests and values.” Future estimates substantiate this hypothesis. As Stratfor Worldview concluded in 2018, “By 2030, the Chinese will likely be the dominant naval force up to an initial island chain that encircles the Yellow, East China and South China Seas” while also enjoying “significant advantages out to a farther limit running roughly from Japan to Indonesia through islands such as Guam and Palau.” Whether China forces the United States to recede from its superpower status in the Pacific either slowly or quickly, the United States should re-double its commitment and efforts in the region.
As American naval officials monitor the gap between American and Chinese naval capabilities, they have set “an expansion target of 355 combat ships by the end of the 2050s,” but leaders acknowledge that the United States “can’t build ships fast enough right now to keep up with the Chinese.” As the United States tries to come close to achieving parity with Chinese naval assets in terms of capability and capacity, it should work with its allies to keep China’s ambitions at bay.
The best recommendation so far has been Michael Beckley’s proposed “active denial” strategy, where the United States abandons “its efforts to command maritime East Asia” and pivots to “helping China’s neighbors deny China sea and air control in the region.” The strategy works by maintaining deterrence against China by “denying [them] the possibility of a decisive military victory while enhancing crisis stability by reassuring China that it will not suffer a massive attack on its homeland.” While I disagree with Beckley’s assessment that the United States needs to assuage China that it lacks the capabilities to swiftly invade their homeland, given the constraints of American naval modernization and funding, I believe an “active denial” strategy is a realistic solution.
The growth of China’s navy keeps me up at night, but I am most wracked by what the Chinese could do with this new navy. Annex Taiwan once and for all? Control the South China Sea in its entirety? Expand its territorial claims and prevent unfriendly foreign ships from navigating through these waters? I am reassured, however by the notion that if the United States works with its allies in the region, it can expand and utilize its A2/AD forces (just like China) to deter the Chinese from any revanchist behavior. To accomplish such a strategy, the United States should provide its allies “with loans, arms, training and intelligence” as well as create “buffers between U.S. and Chinese forces by stationing most U.S. forces in hardened bases scattered around the East Asian periphery, where they could be called upon in the event of war but otherwise kept beyond the reach of most of China’s forces.” For that to happen, however, the United States must come to terms with the fact that its previous decade of naval laggardness in the Pacific means it can no longer resolutely or effectively defend the East Asian sea close to China’s shores. It must, instead, help defend its closest allies.
The fear of future Chinese naval dominance seems to be a recurring American nightmare—and self-fulfilling prophecy. China is still a long way from challenging the American navy on equal footing. But what China lacks in ships it makes up for in determination and strategy. If the United States wants to remain a global superpower and ensure the safety and security of its allies in the Pacific, it can stop China by reiterating its commitment and acting on it.
Image Credit:”Three Chinese Navy Ships ready to sail” is licensed under CC BY-SA 2.0

Story 166
AUGUSTA, Maine — U.S. Sen. Susan Collins, R-Maine, joined two other GOP senators in criticizing the president this week after he publicly asked the Chinese government to investigate a political opponent while talking to reporters outside the White House this week.
The Maine senator was unequivocal in her statements, which came after a firefighters memorial service in Augusta on Saturday morning, joining Mitt Romney, R-Utah, and Ben Sasse, R-Nebraska, in breaking rank with GOP support for the president.
“I thought the president made a big mistake by asking China to get involved in investigating a political opponent,” Collins said. “It’s completely inappropriate.”
The president’s comments came days after House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-California, announced a formal impeachment probe into his attempt to solicit foreign help in an election, which is illegal and considered by many lawmakers to be a foundational threat to democracy.
Collins reiterated that she would not offer comment on the evidence, saying that not all of it is in yet, and that she hopes the impeachment process “will be done with the seriousness that any impeachment proceeding deserves.”
An impeachment probe would need to pass the House before it reaches Collins’ review, which is expected to do. House Democrats have issued subpoenas to the White House, including Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, and are in the process of gathering witnesses and evidence.
“Should the articles of impeachment come to the Senate — and right now I’m going to guess that they will — I will be acting as a juror as I did in the Clinton impeachment trial,” Collins said.
Collins also said that she was concerned that U.S. Rep. Adam Schiff, D-California, chair of the House Intelligence Committee, “misrepresented and misled people about what was in the transcript in the call,” joining Republican efforts to discredit the congressman.
A September whistleblower complaint uncovered a phone call the president made to newly elected Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky, in which Trump appeared to pressure the foreign leader to investigate Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden, his potential opponent in the 2020 election, while the U.S. was withholding $250 million in foreign aid to Ukraine for reasons unclear to that country’s government.
Along with his personal lawyer, Rudy Giuliani, the president has without evidence been attempting to drum up public scrutiny about the business dealings of Hunter Biden, the former vice president’s son, in Ukraine and China. Trump has called his phone call to Ukraine “perfect,” and said that he has an “absolute right” to ask foreign leaders to investigate corruption cases.
On Monday, Geng Shuang, a spokesman for China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs, called the allegation that Chinese government business gave Biden’s son $1.5 billion “totally groundless.”
On Friday, Ukraine’s top prosecutor said he was looking into several cases related to the Bidens’ business dealings in the country, adding that he was not aware of any wrongdoing from either Biden.
Watch: Susan Collins slams Adam Schiff over Ukraine probe
a

Story 167
Stocks closed modestly lower Monday, ahead of a fresh round of high-level tariff negotiations between Beijing and Washington that are scheduled to begin later this week.
How are benchmarks performing?
The Dow Jones Industrial Average DJIA, +0.57% fell 95.70 points, or 0.4%, to close at 26,478.02, while the S&P 500 index SPX, +0.64% gave up 13.22 points, or 0.5%, to end at 2,938.79. The Nasdaq Composite Index COMP, +0.60% lost 26.18 points, or 0.3%, to finish at 7,956.29.
Last week, the Dow lost 0.9% for a third weekly decline, while the S&P 500 ended 0.3% lower also posting a third down week, but the Nasdaq managed a gain of 0.5%, snapping a two week losing streak.
What’s driving the stock market?
Chinese officials have expressed reluctance to hammer out a broad agreement when they meet U.S. counterparts in Washington Thursday and Friday, Bloomberg News (paywall) reported on Sunday, citing people familiar with the situation. The report said Vice Premier Liu He, President Xi Jinping’s No. 2, would arrive for discussions in Washington with terms for a deal that won’t include “commitments on reforming Chinese industrial policy” or “government subsidies.”
Stocks recouped early morning losses after Larry Kudlow told reporters outside the White House Monday morning that the U.S. could be open to a short-term deal as long there is a plan to deal with “structural issues” at some point. He also praised China for being “a little more cooperative recently” as evidenced by increased purchases of U.S. agricultural goods.
Equities reversed course again in the final hours of trade after reports that the Chinese Commerce Ministry was prepared to strike a deal on areas where the U.S. and China agree, but that it will not make “changes to their laws to protect intellectual property,” according to Fox Business Network.
The Chinese Commerce Ministry says what is not in the table and never will be is changes to their laws to protect intellectual property. The Commerce Ministry telling us that the Chinese will deal with intellectual property theft through administrative regulations. #China #Trade — Edward Lawrence (@EdwardLawrence) October 7, 2019
The new round of Sino-American talks would come as the Trump administration is embroiled in an intensifying impeachment inquiry, which may not directly impact investment sentiment in the U.S., but may be been seen by Chinese officials as weakening the president’s negotiating position, experts told Bloomberg.
Meanwhile, a second whistleblower (paywall), with firsthand knowledge of Trump’s controversial July 25 discussions with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, has emerged, adding to pressure on the president’s administration.
The whistleblower complaint, which alleges that the Republican president sought to use the powers of the Oval Office to push Ukraine to investigate Democratic rival Joe Biden and his son Hunter, and that White House officials acted to conceal evidence of those actions, has been the subject of a House impeachment inquiry.
“A second whistleblower in the Trump-Ukraine scandal will embolden China even more. The optimism over these trade talks had already been washed away with last weeks’ market sell off,” wrote Jasper Lawler, head of research at London Capital Group in a Monday research report.
“News that China wants to restrict the topics covered by a trade deal with the US is another blow to getting the comprehensive deal desired by the US,” he said.
Those trade talks also come amid fresh clashes between protesters and Hong Kong law enforcement, following political leader Carrie Lam’s invocation of an emergency law banning face masks, adding fuel to animosities over the weekend in the monthslong protest.
Elsewhere, German manufacturing orders declined by 0.6% on the month, official data showed. Economists polled by The Wall Street Journal had forecast a small improvement of 0.2% growth. On an annual comparison, orders plunged by 6.7% adjusted to calendar and price effects.
The economic report follows a key reading of the U.S. labor market Friday, which showed the U.S. economy added 136,000 new jobs in September, slightly less than forecast, and the pace of job growth fell to the slowest in four months. But the U.S. unemployment rate dropped to 3.5%, the lowest rate since December 1969.
The report had calmed fears of a recession but provided enough evidence of a slowing economy to maintain market expectations for another Federal Reserve interest rate cut in late October.
Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell gave brief remarks at an event in Salt Lake City Utah after the central-bank boss on Friday in Washington, D.C. described the economy as healthy but facing challenge from low growth, low inflation, and low interest rates. He used the speech to reiterate the Fed’s independence from day-to-day political concerns.
Which stocks are in focus?
Shares of General Electric Co. GE, +1.20% fell 0.5% after the industrial conglomerate said it would freeze pensions for roughly 20,000 workers.
Contract talks between striking auto workers and General Motors Co. GM, +1.52% dragged into their fourth week and appear at an impasse, according to reports that the union and its employer cannot come to terms over product commitments at U.S. factories. Shares of the auto maker lost 0.1%.
Shares of the newly debuted SmileDirectClub Inc. SDC, -6.70% fell 8.4% Monday, even after JPMorgan and Stifel initiated coverage of the orthodontics company with buy ratings. JPMorgan put a price target on the company of $31 that is more than double its closing price Friday of $14.72, after a scathing short seller report put pressure on the stock Friday.
How are other markets trading?
The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note TMUBMUSD10Y, -0.87% rose about 4.2 basis points to 1.555%.
Gold for December delivery GCZ19, +0.16% fell $8.50, or 0.6%, to settle at $1,504.40 an ounce.
West Texas Intermediate crude-oil for November delivery CLX19, +1.96% gave up an early gain to end 6 cents lower at $52.75 a barrel, down 0.1%.
Meanwhile, the Turkish lira USDTRY, -0.1508% was under pressure against the dollar, falling around 1.7%. The dollar last bought 5.793 lira, compared with 5.696 lira late Friday in New York.
U.S. military personnel began pulling back from the Syria-Turkey border, according to The Wall Street Journal and other news outlets, after Trump ordered the Pentagon to clear the way for Ankara to launch an offensive against Kurdish fighters. The Kurds had spearheaded the U.S. campaign against Islamic State and have warned of all-out war with Turkey in northeastern Syria.
The lira extended its slump after Trump, in a tweet, said he would “destroy and obliterate the Economy of Turkey” if the country “does anything that I, in my great and unmatched wisdom” consider to be “off limits.”
In Asia, Japan’s Nikkei 225 NIK, +1.15% fell 0.2%. Stocks in Europe closed mostly higher Monday, with the Stoxx Europe 600 SXXP, +0.65% adding 0.7%.

Story 168
Source: Xinhua| 2019-06-02 11:19:01|Editor: Yang Yi
Video Player Close
BEIJING, June 2 (Xinhua) -- China's State Council Information Office on Sunday published a white paper titled "China's Position on the Economic and Trade Consultations."Â Â
Please see the attachment for the full text.

Story 169
Angry Nationalists Don’t Sell China’s Message
China analysts have always hoped that the next generation would bring change, especially as the elite headed overseas. But that’s not looking very likely. On Aug. 17, a group of Chinese students in their patriotic Ferraris, McLarens, Porsches, and Aston Martins adorned with five-starred flags, ran their dragsters alongside a pro-Hong Kong rally in Toronto, calling the Hong Kong protesters “poor garbage.”
The previous day, a shouting match erupted at a pro-Hong Kong rally at the University of South Australia in Adelaide. In response to chants of “Hong Kong, Stay Strong,” mainland Chinese students countered in unison, “Cao ni ma bi”—an obscene Chinese insult that’s made its way into the Urban Dictionary.
In the meantime, though, Hong Kongers are taking to the streets in defense of their rights — and seeing their young leaders arrested as a result. These clashes aren’t just about disparate politics. They’re the battle lines between two entirely different spheres of information, a form of warfare that will define the 21st century. Inside the world of mainland Chinese control, truth and fiction seem reversed. The Chinese students involved in this aggressive political messaging are pushing their country’s narrative—and getting praise for their behavior at home. But that same message is backfiring outside of the mainland, even among some Chinese communities elsewhere in Asia.
These two and other similar incidents were widely celebrated on China’s highly censored Weibo platform. Geng Shuang, a spokesman for the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs, defended the legitimacy of Chinese students’ counterprotests abroad. News about the protests was initially shielded outside China’s all-encompassing information firewall. But lately, China has launched a full-blown smear campaign against the protests, attempting to frame them as a secessionist conspiracy concocted by separatists and foreign “black hands” to overthrow the “one country, two systems” policy in place since the handover of Hong Kong by the British government to China in 1997.
That campaign has used every means possible, including mainland media, state-sponsored “party propagandists, and encouraging Chinese citizens to spread more covert messages. On Aug. 19, Facebook and Twitter, which are both blocked in China, announced removals of accounts linked to a “significant state-backed information operation” originating in China. The Chinese government disputed the two companies’ characterization, claiming that the purges were attempts to sabotage a different account of the Hong Kong debacle and the posts were merely expressing the opinions of Chinese citizens overseas.
Despite the chorus at home on the Hong Kong issues, there are dissenting voices out there. One Shenzhen-based writer using the name Li Wangsheng wrote an article titled “A Chilly Confession from a Mainland Supporter of the Hong Kong Protest” on an overseas Chinese website called BackChina.com.
Li’s opening statement reads:
“I am one of the very few people in mainland China who support the Hong Kong protesters. In mainland China, less than 1 percent of people are like me. Recently, when I looked at the people around me and heard my colleagues talking, they all toed the government line, that is, saying Hong Kong people were ‘thugs.’ They even hoped that all Hong Kong people would be suppressed and killed.”
Of course, it’s hard to know exactly what mainlanders feel in their hearts—especially when expressing support for the Hong Kong protesters is so costly. Yet it’s striking how ardent even those abroad have been in defending the government line.
But here’s the rub. The propaganda that works inside the bubble—and that clings to mainlanders even overseas—is part of what’s turning people off the very idea of Chinese-ness in Hong Kong.
Although the Hong Kong protests have drawn demonstrators from all walks of life and all age groups, a recent study shows that nearly 60 percent are 29 years old or younger. According to a survey conducted by the University of Hong Kong in 2017, only 3.1 percent of young Hong Kongers identified themselves as “Chinese,” the lowest since the handover to China. By mid-June of this year, in the wake of reportedly 2 million people marching on the streets to call for a complete withdrawal of the city’s controversial extradition bill, 71 percent said “No” when asked if they were proud of being a national citizen of China, while 27 percent said “Yes.” Most tellingly, 90 percent in the 18 to 29 age group answered “No.”
This finding is particularly striking in that even as China increasingly flexes its economic and military muscle, and as its propaganda becomes harder, young people of Chinese descent outside of the totalized infosphere of the mainland are turning sharply away from it. That’s not just the case in Hong Kong—in Taiwan, too, the young are far more opposed to Beijing than previous generations. A study released by Taiwan Foundation for Democracy in April 2018 found a significantly higher percentage of Taiwanese younger than 40 opposing reunification with the mainland than those 40 or older. In the age group 20 to 24, the percentage of Taiwanese who support authoritarian systems is lower than that in Europe and the United States.
Conversely, the internet has not made the youth in mainland China more accepting of the outside world. On the contrary, the Chinese government’s control of the internet seems to have made them more nationalist or patriotic, sometimes to the exclusion of the values of freedom.
To explain the bizarre uniformity of the discourse in China today, Li Wangsheng , the Shenzhen writer, explained: “Our news commentaries can only be displayed after filtering. Any opinion departing from the official line will be deleted. So even if someone has a different view and wants to support Hong Kongers, you don’t get to see these messages or posts on the mainland websites.”
This messaging doesn’t have to be the case. Many Hong Kongers and Taiwanese were once able to find reasons to be proud of China, such as their cultural heritage and the vision of people lifting themselves out of poverty. And, importantly, none of the five demands propounded by the Hong Kong protesters actually pertains to independence or challenging China’s sovereignty. It’s not just wrong, but actively counterproductive to try to reduce the entire protest movement to a secessionist conspiracy—even if you deplore the actions of the small number of protesters who have used violence. Rather than painting with a broad brush to demonize the pro-Hong Kong students, if Beijing really wanted to win them over, it would be thinking about how best to make them feel part of the story of a greater China.
Boastful rich kids and abusive students do not represent the best China can offer to the future of the world. A manufactured dichotomy and patriotic indoctrination will not help China to win over Hong Kongers. The free exchange of ideas will.

Story 170
Hong Kong (CNN Business) Costco has built a cult following in the United States — now it's China's turn. The country's first Costco store is so popular that it had to shut down early on its first day because of too many shoppers.
The retailer opened its first physical outlet in Shanghai on Tuesday morning, and it quickly got too crowded to stay open.
"The store has been clogged up with crowds," Costco said in a text message alert to its members in China. "To provide you with better shopping experience, Costco will suspend business in the afternoon. Please don't come."
Costco's first store in Shanghai opened to massive crowds on Tuesday.
Police were deployed to restore order and manage traffic jams around the store, with law enforcement urging people to remain calm.
"For your safety, we hope citizens who want to go to Costco can maintain a rational attitude about consumption and avoid going out during rush hours. Those who have already gone there, you must follow orders," the Shanghai police said in a statement on its verified account on Chinese social network Weibo.
Read More

Story 171
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Tiananmen's tank man: The image that China forgot
China has defended the crackdown on the 1989 Tiananmen Square protests in a rare public acknowledgement of events.
Defence Minister Wei Fenghe told a regional forum that stopping the "turbulence" was the "correct" policy.
In spring 1989, students and workers occupied Beijing's Tiananmen Square in a massive pro-democracy protest. Many were killed in a brutal clampdown by the communist authorities.
Reporting on the events is heavily censored in China.
Tuesday marks 30 years since six weeks of demonstrations ended with the Beijing massacre of 3-4 June.
What did the minister say?
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Workers and students shouted pro-democracy slogans
Public discussions of the 1989 pro-democracy protests and their suppression are strictly taboo in China.
But after a wide-ranging speech about trade and security at a regional forum in Singapore, General Wei Fenghe was asked about Tiananmen by a member of the audience.
Mr Wei questioned why people still said China had not handled the events properly.
"That incident was a political turbulence and the central government took measures to stop the turbulence, which is a correct policy," he told the forum.
"The past 30 years have proven that China has undergone major changes," he said, adding that because of the government's action at that time "China has enjoyed stability and development".
His remarks came after Twitter issued an apology for suspending a number of accounts posting about China ahead of the Tiananmen Square anniversary.
A tweet on their public policy account said the company was working to challenge accounts that engage in "platform manipulation, including spam and other inauthentic behaviours".
"Sometimes our routine actions catch false positives or we make errors," the tweet read, adding that Twitter was trying to correct the mistakes.
Users had criticised the platform for blocking the accounts, using the hashtag #TwitterMassacre. Republican Senator Marco Rubio accused the company of becoming a Chinese government censor.
'Acts of forgettance'
There are no official acts of remembrance for the events of 1989 in Beijing. But that statement, although factually correct, is far too neutral.
In truth, what happened in Tiananmen Square is marked faithfully each year by a massive, national act of what might more properly be called "forgettance".
In the weeks leading up to 4 June, the world's biggest censorship machine goes into overdrive as a huge dragnet of automated algorithms and tens of thousands of human expurgators cleanse the internet of any reference, however oblique.
Those deemed to have been too provocative in their attempts to evade the controls can be jailed - with sentences of up to three and a half years recently handed down to a group of men who had tried to commemorate the anniversary with a product label.
Read more from John
What happened in 1989?
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Kate Adie reports as Chinese troops fire on protesters
More than one million pro-democracy protesters occupied Tiananmen Square in April 1989 and began the largest political demonstration in communist China's history. It lasted six weeks.
Protests spread to cities and universities across the country.
The demonstrators called for greater freedom and democracy and an end to what they called dictatorship - others complained about inflation, salaries and housing.
On the night of 3 June tanks moved in and troops opened fire, killing and injuring many unarmed people in and around Tiananmen Square.
Afterwards the authorities claimed no-one had been shot dead in the square itself.
The Chinese government has never said how many protesters were killed, although estimates range from the hundreds to thousands.

Story 172
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The BBC's John Sudworth meets Uighur parents in Turkey who say their children are missing in China
China is deliberately separating Muslim children from their families, faith and language in its far western region of Xinjiang, according to new research.
At the same time as hundreds of thousands of adults are being detained in giant camps, a rapid, large-scale campaign to build boarding schools is under way.
Based on publicly available documents, and backed up by dozens of interviews with family members overseas, the BBC has gathered some of the most comprehensive evidence to date about what is happening to children in the region.
Records show that in one township alone more than 400 children have lost not just one but both parents to some form of internment, either in the camps or in prison.
Formal assessments are carried out to determine whether the children are in need of "centralised care".
Alongside the efforts to transform the identity of Xinjiang's adults, the evidence points to a parallel campaign to systematically remove children from their roots.
Image caption The Hotan Kindness Kindergarten, like many others, is a high security facility
China's tight surveillance and control in Xinjiang, where foreign journalists are followed 24 hours a day, make it impossible to gather testimony there. But it can be found in Turkey.
In a large hall in Istanbul, dozens of people queue to tell their stories, many of them clutching photographs of children, all now missing back home in Xinjiang.
"I don't know who is looking after them," one mother says, pointing to a picture of her three young daughters, "there is no contact at all."
Another mother, holding a photo of three sons and a daughter, wipes away her tears. "I heard that they've been taken to an orphanage," she says.
In 60 separate interviews, in wave after wave of anxious, grief-ridden testimony, parents and other relatives give details of the disappearance in Xinjiang of more than 100 children.
They are all Uighurs - members of Xinjiang's largest, predominantly Muslim ethnic group that has long had ties of language and faith to Turkey. Thousands have come to study or to do business, to visit family, or to escape China's birth control limits and the increasing religious repression.
But over the past three years, they have found themselves trapped after China began detaining hundreds of thousands of Uighurs and other minorities in giant camps.
The Chinese authorities say the Uighurs are being educated in "vocational training centres" in order to combat violent religious extremism. But evidence shows that many are being detained for simply expressing their faith - praying or wearing a veil - or for having overseas connections to places like Turkey.
For these Uighurs, going back means almost certain detention. Phone contact has been severed - even speaking to relatives overseas is now too dangerous for those in Xinjiang.
With his wife detained back home, one father tells me he fears some of his eight children may now be in the care of the Chinese state.
"I think they've been taken to child education camps," he says.
New research commissioned by the BBC sheds light on what is really happening to these children and many thousands of others.
Dr Adrian Zenz is a German researcher widely credited with exposing the full extent of China's mass detentions of adult Muslims in Xinjiang. Based on publicly available official documents, his report paints a picture of an unprecedented school expansion drive in Xinjiang.
Campuses have been enlarged, new dormitories built and capacity increased on a massive scale. Significantly, the state has been growing its ability to care full-time for large numbers of children at precisely the same time as it has been building the detention camps.
And it appears to be targeted at precisely the same ethnic groups.
In just one year, 2017, the total number of children enrolled in kindergartens in Xinjiang increased by more than half a million. And Uighur and other Muslim minority children, government figures show, made up more than 90% of that increase.
As a result, Xinjiang's pre-school enrolment level has gone from below the national average to the highest in China by far.
In the south of Xinjiang alone, an area with the highest concentration of Uighur populations, the authorities have spent an eye watering $1.2bn on the building and upgrading of kindergartens.
Mr Zenz's analysis suggests that this construction boom has included the addition of large amounts of dormitory space.
Image caption Xinhe County Youyi Kindergarten has space for 700 children, 80% of whom are from Xinjiang's minority groups
Xinjiang's education expansion is driven, it appears, by the same ethos as underlies the mass incarceration of adults. And it is clearly affecting almost all Uighur and other minority children, whether their parents are in the camps or not.
In 2018 work began on a site for two new boarding schools in Xinjiang's southern city of Yecheng (known as Kargilik in Uighur).
Yecheng County Middle Schools 10 and 11
Dragging the slider reveals the pace of construction - the two middle schools, separated by a shared sports field, are each three times larger than the national average and were built in little more than a year.
In April last year, the county authorities relocated 2,000 children from the surrounding villages into yet another giant boarding middle school, Yecheng County Number 4.
Government propaganda extols the virtues of boarding schools as helping to "maintain social stability and peace" with the "school taking the place of the parents." And Mr Zenz suggests there is a deeper purpose.
"Boarding schools provide the ideal context for a sustained cultural re-engineering of minority societies," he argues.
Just as with the camps, his research shows that there is now a concerted drive to all but eliminate the use of Uighur and other local languages from school premises. Individual school regulations outline strict, points-based punishments for both students and teachers if they speak anything other than Chinese while in school.
And this aligns with other official statements claiming that Xinjiang has already achieved full Chinese language teaching in all of its schools.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The BBC visits the camps where China’s Muslims have their "thoughts transformed"
Speaking to the BBC, Xu Guixiang, a senior official with Xinjiang's Propaganda Department, denies that the state is having to care for large numbers of children left parentless as a result.
"If all family members have been sent to vocational training then that family must have a severe problem," he says, laughing. "I've never seen such a case."
But perhaps the most significant part of Mr Zenz's work is his evidence that shows that the children of detainees are indeed being channelled into the boarding school system in large numbers.
There are the detailed forms used by local authorities to log the situations of children with parents in vocational training or in prison, and to determine whether they need centralised care.
Mr Zenz found one government document that details various subsidies available to "needy groups", including those families where "both a husband and a wife are in vocational training". And a directive issued to education bureaus by the city of Kashgar that mandates them to look after the needs of students with parents in the camps as a matter of urgency.
Schools should "strengthen psychological counselling", the directive says, and "strengthen students' thought education" - a phrase that finds echoes in the camps holding their parents.
It is clear that the effect of the mass internments on children is now viewed as a significant societal issue, and that some effort is going into dealing with it, although it is not something the authorities are keen to publicise.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The BBC has found new evidence of the increasing control and suppression of Islam in China
Some of the relevant government documents appear to have been deliberately hidden from search engines by using obscure symbols in place of the term "vocational training". That said, in some instances the adult detention camps have kindergartens built close by, and, when visiting, Chinese state media reporters have extolled their virtues.
These boarding schools, they say, allow minority children to learn "better life habits" and better personal hygiene than they would at home. Some children have begun referring to their teachers as "mummy".
We telephoned a number of local Education Bureaus in Xinjiang to try to find out about the official policy in such cases. Most refused to speak to us, but some gave brief insights into the system.
We asked one official what happens to the children of those parents who have been taken to the camps.
"They're in boarding schools," she replied. "We provide accommodation, food and clothes… and we've been told by the senior level that we must look after them well."
Image caption Hotan Sunshine Kindergarten, seen through a wire fence
In the hall in Istanbul, as the stories of broken families come tumbling out, there is raw despair and deep resentment too.
"Thousands of innocent children are being separated from their parents and we are giving our testimonies constantly," one mother tells me. "Why does the world keep silent when knowing these facts?"
Back in Xinjiang, the research shows that all children now find themselves in schools that are secured with "hard isolation closed management measures." Many of the schools bristle with full-coverage surveillance systems, perimeter alarms and 10,000 Volt electric fences, with some school security spending surpassing that of the camps.
The policy was issued in early 2017, at a time when the detentions began to be dramatically stepped up. Was the state, Mr Zenz wonders, seeking to pre-empt any possibility on the part of Uighur parents to forcibly recover their children?
"I think the evidence for systematically keeping parents and children apart is a clear indication that Xinjiang's government is attempting to raise a new generation cut off from original roots, religious beliefs and their own language," he tells me.
"I believe the evidence points to what we must call cultural genocide."

Story 173
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Dramatic rescues after typhoon Lekima causes floods in China
At least 28 people have been killed and more than a million forced from their homes as Typhoon Lekima hit China, according to state media.
Officials said the deaths were caused by a landslide triggered by the storm. Ten others have been reported missing.
Lekima made landfall in the early hours of Saturday in Wenling, between Taiwan and China's financial capital Shanghai.
The storm was initially designated a "super typhoon", but weakened slightly before landfall.
The fatal landslide happened in Wenzhou, near where the storm made landfall, state media said. It occurred after a barrier lake - or natural dam - formed, pooling water from the heavy rains before collapsing.
Lekima is now slowly winding its way north through the Zhejiang province, and is expected to hit Shanghai, which has a population of more than 20 million.
Emergency crews have battled to save stranded motorists from floods and searched for survivors in the rubble of damaged buildings. Fallen trees and power cuts are widespread.
Image copyright AFP Image caption Rescue workers have been searching for survivors in the rubble of damaged buildings
Authorities have cancelled more than 1,000 flights and cancelled train services in preparation for the storm. Shanghai Disneyland was also shut for the day.
The storm is expected to weaken further by the time it reaches the city, but will still bring a high risk of dangerous flooding.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption The typhoon has brought heavy rain to Shanghai
"Now the disaster zones are mainly in the rural-urban integration zones," said Fu Songliang, head of a rescue team for Ningbo City's fire service.
"These are low-lying areas. When the flooding from mountainous areas converges and comes down, these areas are quite seriously affected," he told Reuters news agency.
Shanghai evacuated some 250,000 residents, with another 800,000 in Zhejiang province also being taken from their homes.
An estimated 2.7 million homes in the region lost power as power lines toppled in the high winds, Chinese state media said.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Typhoon Lekima inches towards China
It is the ninth typhoon of the year, Xinhua news said - but the strongest storm seen in years. It was initially given China's highest level of weather warning but was later downgraded to an "orange" level.
Chinese weather forecasters said the storm, which had winds of 187km/h (116mph) when it made landfall, was moving north at 15km/h.
It earlier passed Taiwan, skirting its northern tip and causing a handful of injuries and some property damage.
Coming just a day after a magnitude six earthquake, experts warned that the combination of earth movement and heavy rain increased the risk of landslides.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Typhoons Lekima and Krosa in Asia
Lekima is one of two typhoons in the western Pacific at the moment.
Further east, Typhoon Krosa is spreading heavy rain across the Northern Mariana Islands and Guam. It is moving north-west and could strike Japan some time next week, forecasters said.

Story 174
On the surface, the people of Hong Kong are fighting their political leaders over a seemingly bland set of amendments to a longstanding law. But what’s really motivated people to flood the city’s streets in record numbers is something much grander: the future of democracy in China.
Last week, hundreds of thousands in Hong Kong held a candlelight vigil for the victims of the Tiananmen Square massacre 30 years ago. And on Sunday, roughly 1 million people demonstrated in the semi-autonomous Chinese city-state against amendments to an extradition law that would allow a person arrested in Hong Kong to face trial elsewhere, including in mainland China.
That peaceful protest — one of the largest in the city’s history, featuring about one in every seven residents — turned violent the next day when a few hundred citizens clashed with police.
The passion is understandable. For many, the amendments would all but cement Beijing’s authority in a city that’s supposed to be allowed to operate mostly on its own for three more decades. The problem for demonstrators is that the measures will likely pass as soon as Wednesday, due to a legislature and leader that answer to Beijing.
“We were doing it, and we are still doing it, out of our clear conscience, and our commitment to Hong Kong,” Carrie Lam, the city’s chief executive, told reporters on Sunday in her first comments after the protests began.
The extradition law fight, then, is the latest one in Hong Kong residents’ years-long effort to stave off Beijing’s creeping authority. And while the newest push is among the largest in the city’s history, it still may not be enough to save democracy in its nearly last Chinese refuge.
“Hong Kong will just become another Chinese city ruled by the Communist Party,” Jimmy Lai, a local pro-democracy leader and media mogul, wrote for Nikkei Asian Review last week.
Hong Kong’s extradition law amendments, explained
After taking over Hong Kong in a war in the 1800s, Britain returned it to China in 1997 with an important stipulation: The city would partly govern itself for 50 years before fully falling under Beijing’s control. So until 2047, the expectation was that the city and the mainland would operate under the principle known as “one country, two systems.”
But Beijing clearly isn’t waiting that long. “In recent years, the Hong Kong government has disqualified elected lawmakers, banned activists from running for office, prohibited a political party, jailed pro-democracy leaders, expelled a senior foreign journalist, and looked the other way when Beijing kidnapped its adversaries in Hong Kong,” Ben Bland, a Hong Kong expert at the Lowy Institute in Australia, told me.
Those actions, among others, have animated many in the city to resist. “Being here reminds me that the Chinese government is so inhumane and, recently, they are tightening the rule of law in Hong Kong,” Tiffany, a 23-year-old university student who attended the candlelight vigil last week, told the Asia Times on June 5.
Critics view proposed amendments to the extradition law as part of that “tightening.”
The Hong Kong government first discussed them in February, prompted by a shocking case. Chan Tong-kai, a local, was suspected of killing his pregnant girlfriend while the two were on vacation in Taiwan. But the city was unable to send him back to the island because they don’t share an extradition agreement.
The reason? When Hong Kong’s extradition accords were being finalized in 1997, Taiwan and China weren’t included because the mainland has a “fundamentally different criminal justice system operating in the mainland” and because of “concerns over the mainland’s track record on the protection of fundamental rights,” according to an April statement by the Hong Kong Bar Association.
That reality doesn’t sit well with Hong Kong’s current government. Lam, the chief executive, cited Chan’s case among two reasons she wants the amendments passed. “One is of course to provide a legal basis for us to deal with the Taiwan case; the other is to plug a loophole in the existing arrangements for the return or the surrender of fugitive offenders,” she told reporters in April before a government meeting.
The amendments would give the chief executive the authority to decide on a case-by-case basis if a suspected criminal should be extradited to a place with which the city has no formal extradition agreement. That on its own is already a problem for critics, as the city’s leader isn’t elected, but rather is picked by a committee appointed by the government in Beijing.
What’s more, while the city’s courts would get to review the chief executive’s decision, they will have “very little power to reject any extradition request,” M.K. Tam, director of the human rights group Amnesty International Hong Kong, told Al Jazeera on Tuesday. “It’s not a formal prosecution so you cannot examine the evidence presented by the other side.”
The bill also would apply retroactively, meaning thousands of people who may have angered mainland China with a supposed past crime could be at risk of facing trial in mainland China.
As a result, many fear the amendments will allow Beijing to target any person in Hong Kong that it wants.
“We all know that if they want to prosecute someone — a human rights defender or activist — actually in mainland China, the charges are political in nature but they use other laws to prosecute them,” Tam continued.
However, supporters of the law contend that certain financial crimes won’t be included in the bill, potentially saving the city’s influential business leaders from extradition. They also say that no one will be sent away if they might be tortured or killed as part of their punishment, and that the offense must be illegal both in Hong Kong and wherever the suspect is extradited.
That’s still not enough to assuage those who’ve long championed the city’s judicial values. “Both Hong Kong and China knew very well that there had to be a firewall between our different legal systems,” Hong Kong’s last British governor, Chris Patten, told the South China Morning Post in May, adding that Lam’s position is “absurd.”
So the people of Hong Kong are fighting back to curb mainland China’s growing clout in the city. The problem is that effort has been going on for years — and it’s seemingly failing.
Mainland China versus Hong Kong
China is an authoritarian state. Its political leadership and law enforcement officials don’t like anyone protesting against the government in Beijing and have no tolerance for democratic movements. That, in part, is what makes Hong Kong’s status as a quasi-democracy so unique in China — and so threatening to Beijing.
Little by little, mainland China has gained more power in the city. But every move has only compelled the citizenry to resist even harder.
Here are just two recent examples: Thousands of protesters surrounded Hong Kong’s government headquarters in 2012 after an announced proposal to include more pro-China materials in the school curriculum.
Two years later, even more demonstrators overran Hong Kong’s financial district after a new election law allowed a Beijing-backed committee to name the city’s chief executive — the same law that brought Lam to power in 2017.
Experts say the newest flare-up is part of the long-term resistance movement to keep the city as independent as possible.
“The proposed change to the extradition law, which would open up Hong Kongers and others passing through the city to the vicissitudes of mainland Chinese justice, is the latest in a long list of actions that undermine democratic freedoms and the rule of law,” says Bland, who also wrote a book about life in post-handover Hong Kong.
There’s also a dark history behind this specific extradition issue. China has increasingly begun kidnapping people it views as criminals, either for their pro-democracy views or for other perceived crimes, but who are outside of its legal jurisdiction. Beijing’s authorities sometimes hold prisoners for years without a proper trial.
In January 2017, for instance, billionaire business executive Xiao Jianhua was forcibly taken out of Hong Kong’s Four Seasons hotel, even though mainland Chinese officials legally can’t do so without the city’s say so. Xiao is now in mainland China, and his fate remains unclear.
This is why the extradition law fight is so personal and so widespread: It’s for the future of human rights and democracy in the city. And if Beijing wins, Hong Kong’s millions of citizens could lose both.
“When the legislation passes — which now seems near certain, and imminent — it will spell the death of Hong Kong as the world has known it,” Ray Wong Toi-yeung, a political activist from the city, wrote for the New York Times last week.

Story 175
BEIJING — As China considers ways to retaliate against President Trump’s mounting tariffs, it has increasingly acknowledged that it must first address its main obstacle to punching back: its own slumping economy.
Chinese officials have vowed to respond with measures of their own if Mr. Trump follows through on his threat to put 10 percent tariffs on $300 billion in Chinese imports a year. If Mr. Trump enacts the tariffs next month, as he said he would do on Thursday, the costs would rise for nearly everything China ships to the United States, from shoes to car parts to the latest gadgets.
On Friday, China’s Ministry of Commerce, which is heavily involved in the country’s trade policy, said it would “take necessary counter measures to resolutely defend the core interests of the country and the fundamental interests of the people.”
The question is how. China’s imports from the United States only a fraction of the trade going the other way, so it cannot match Washington tariff for tariff. Much of that trade consists of agriculture goods like soybeans, as well as specialized products like Boeing jetliners or the American-made chips for the smartphones China makes.

