Story 0
The code has been copied to your clipboard.

Story 1
Ce matin, BNP Paribas a convié ses actionnaires pour leur présenter les performances du groupe pour le compte du troisième trimestre. La banque en a profité pour donner quelques indications sur sa stratégie numérique, et sur les performances de ses trois pépites – Compte Nickel, Hello bank! et Lyf Pay.
De manière très globale, BNP Paribas se félicite d’avoir « amplifié les usages mobiles des particuliers avec plus de 78 millions de connexions aux apps, soit une hausse de 35% par rapport au troisième trimestre 2018 ». La banque fait de réels efforts pour adapter la souscription à ses produits directement sur internet, à l’instar du crédit immobilier qui bénéficie désormais d’un parcours digital « de bout-en-bout en France, Belgique et Italie ».
Hello bank!, 20% d’utilisateurs en plus
Alors que la banque en ligne fait face à l’arrivée des néo-banques sur le marché français, la croissance enregistrée par Hello bank! se renforce encore au fil du temps. Elle compte désormais 485 000 clients à la fin du mois de septembre, soit une hausse de 20% dans les 12 derniers mois. Selon toute vraisemblance, la banque en ligne devrait franchir le cap du demi million de clients d’ici à la fin 2019.
Il faut dire que la banque en ligne bénéficie de sérieux atouts pour se distinguer de la concurrence : une gamme de produits parmi les plus larges du marché, un compte et une carte bancaire gratuite, la possibilité de se rendre dans les agences physiques BNP Paribas pour déposer ses espèces et chèques ou encore un support client réactif à tout moment via différents canaux.
Hello bank! a également fait des progrès sur le mobile, et les résultats ne se sont pas faits attendre : « il enregistre une hausse de 29% des utilisateurs actifs mobiles avec une moyenne de 14 connexions par utilisateur et par mois ». Vous pouvez retrouver notre avis Hello bank! avec tout le détail de son offre ici.
Visiter Hello bank!
Nickel mise sur son réseau
Si Hello bank! est un projet qui est né en interne en 2013, le Compte Nickel est une activité qui a été rachetée par BNP Paribas en 2017. Depuis, sa croissance s’est encore accélérée – tant sur le nombre de clients actifs que sur le nombre de buralistes partenaires de la société. Pour rappel, Nickel permet aux français d’accéder à un « compte bancaire sans banque » depuis un buraliste partenaire. Il faudra débourser 2€ par mois pour bénéficier d’un compte courant (avec un IBAN) et d’une carte bancaire.
Aujourd’hui, ce sont plus de 1,4 million de comptes qui ont été ouverts, ce qui représente une hausse de 35% sur la dernière année. Le Compte Nickel se positionne ainsi comme la fintech la plus populaire en France, devant ses homologues étrangers N26 ou Revolut. Pour continuer à se renforcer, Nickel mise sur une couverture toujours plus importante du territoire français. Elle compte désormais 5 745 buralistes partenaires, soit une hausse de 49% par rapport au 30 septembre 2018.
Lyf Pay, 2,4 millions de téléchargements
Pour ceux qui ne connaissent par encore Lyf Pay, il s’agit d’une application mobile qui permet à la fois de payer avec son smartphone, faire des cagnottes entre amis ou encore bénéficier d’offres exclusives via des cartes de fidélité enregistrées. Cette solution a été imaginée par BNP Paribas et le Crédit Mutuel en 2017, et elle connait depuis une forte hausse de sa popularité.
Aujourd’hui, l’application a été téléchargée 2,4 millions de fois dans l’Hexagone (soit 140% de croissance en 12 mois) et son réseau ne cesse se s’étoffer : lors du dernier trimestre, elle a signé de nouveaux partenaires tels que franprix ou le Groupe Etam, qui lui permettent d’être acceptée dans 1 200 points d’encaissement en plus.

Story 2
By Bjorn Biel M. Beltran
Special Features Writer
A taste of co-living ‘lyf’ for millennials in Singapore 1 of 2
SINGAPORE — The concept of co-living is nothing new, but the newest addition to CapitaLand’s global real estate empire is trying its best to redefine it.
The Ascott Limited (Ascott), CapitaLand’s lodging business unit, launched the first property under its new “lyf” co-living brand. Lyf Funan Singapore is touted as the largest co-living property in Southeast Asia.
Seeking to offer a unique and dynamic live-work-play experience, lyf Funan Singapore was designed with community in mind — from the collaborative spaces, social programs to the strategic location at the heart of the city’s Civic and Cultural District.
Mindy Teo, Ascott’s deputy managing director for lyf, told reporters that lyf aims to address the younger generations’ need for open, collaborative spaces where they can interact, learn about new cultures, and become part of a community of like-minded people.
“The booming millennial segment, which is the fastest-growing travel demographic, already forms a quarter of Ascott’s customer base and is expected to grow. Our lyf properties are specially designed to cater to millennials’ craving for social connections, collaboration and co-creation” she said.




“It’s about creating a space where people feel like they belong, where they’re part of a bigger community. A social hub that offers a new way to belong, we see lyf playing a key role in bringing people together to discover new possibilities, spark creative ideas and contribute to the region’s innovation landscape.”
Lyf Funan Singapore spans about 121,000 square feet in gross floor area, with 412 rooms across 279 apartments. Catering to both short and long-term tenants, the nine-storey property will have easy access, via a sheltered underground walkway, to the City Hall Mass Rapid Transit.
It is also part of CapitaLand’s Funan integrated development in the district, which comprises of two office blocks and a mall offering innovative and experiential retail concepts, co-working spaces, urban farm, theatre, cinema, artisan shops, craft workshops, gymnasium, rock climbing, and futsal facility.
The development of the co-living property started in 2017, when Ascott, through its serviced residence global fund with Qatar Investment Authority, acquired the land from CapitaLand’s Mall Trust for S$90.5 million.
The fund has invested an estimated S$103 million to develop lyf Funan Singapore. Set up through a fifty-fifty joint venture with QIA in July 2015, Ascott’s private equity fund has committed total equity of US$600 million. The fund’s five other properties are La Clef Champs-élysées Paris, Citadines Islington London, Somerset Shinagawa Tokyo, Quest NewQuay Docklands Melbourne and Ascott Sudirman Jakarta.
A NEW WAY TO BELONG
The lyf brand, Ms. Teo said, was in part Ascott’s answer to the growing sharing economy around the world. In light of rising housing prices, as well as a preference for unique experiences instead of material things, millennials are much more open towards renting and sharing spaces than their predecessors.
“I think attitudes among the younger millennials are changing, not just in Singapore, but other countries in Asia as well” she said. “I mean, traditionally, Asia is always about home ownership. But I think people are shifting away from that mindset.”
For such guests, lyf Funan Singapore offers Instagrammable “Connect” social zones such as co-working spaces and an arena for activities such as hackathons, innovation talks, music jamming sessions, cooking sessions, or workshops with artisans.
Its “Bond” social kitchen is a collaborative space where people can prepare home-cooked meals together, take cooking classes and socialize while learning more about global cuisines from other residents. There are also places to work out and have fun with quirky design and interactive elements such as a giant ball pit, a giant-sized Connect Four set and the “Burn” social gymnasium with a human-sized hamster wheel.
Even the “Wash & Hang” laundromat is set to be a conversation starter, with the area placed right at the front of the property with a vending machine that dispenses beer.
This emphasis on facilitating community bonding and enhancing personal and professional growth is at the core of lyf Funan Singapore. Weekly social programs are held to build connections and inspire the exchange of new ideas, providing guests with the opportunity to co-organise and co-create community programs or take part in TED talks, craft workshops and hackathons, while a staff of ‘lyf Guards’ — who are also community managers, city and food guides, barkeepers, and event organizers — are there to provide help to guests who need it.
A mobile app for lyf Funan Singapore is available on the Apple App Store and the Google Play Store for easy booking, payment and seamless access throughout the property with just a tap or swipe. The lyf app can also enable communication with the lyf Guards, as well as provide guests with discounts at various shops at Funan by showing their mobile key.
The lyf Funan Singapore offers five interchangeable apartment types ranging from 18 sq.m. to 105 sq.m. to accommodate single, dual or group bookings, with room rates beginning at S$150. They include “One of a Kin” (18 sq.m.), a studio unit with an en suite bathroom for individuals and couples who enjoy their own space; “Two of a Kin” (43 sq.m.), featuring two private rooms with a shared kitchenette; “lyf Styl” (18 sq.m.), a gaming-themed studio unit equipped with a PlayStation console, en suite bathroom and a pull-down sofa bed, and also the “Up & Dow” apartments (18 sq.m.) which come with bunk beds.
The “All Together” apartments (41 sq.m. to 105 sq.m.), which are ideal for groups of up to nine, are business suites featuring two to six rooms with a shared kitchen, a Samsung Flip interactive smart screen to facilitate discussions, as well as a large table that doubles up as a workspace and dining area.
In late 2017, Ascott signed a serviced residence management agreement with local developer Cebu Landmasters Inc. to bring lyf to Cebu City with a 153-room serviced residence.
“Co-living is going to be a growing phenomenon. It’s here to stay” Ms. Teo said.
“I think there’s a lot of untapped demand in that market. For us, when we look at our plans in Asia, we see a lot of opportunity in cities like Manila or Jakarta, where there’s a rising class of millennials who have spending power. And they’re not looking for cookie-cutter hotels or service apartments. They want something more unique.”

Story 3
Show must go on. Як влада у Маріуполі вигаданими здобутками хвалилася

Story 4
Show must go on. Як влада у Маріуполі вигаданими здобутками хвалилася

Story 5
The URL has been copied to your clipboard

Story 6
Media playback is unsupported on your device

Story 7
The URL has been copied to your clipboard

Story 8
Ascott Reit's maiden development project and co-living project lyf one-north Singapore is on track to open in 2021.
ASCOTT Residence Trust's (Ascott Reit) third-quarter distribution per unit (DPU) rose 5 per cent to 1.91 Singapore cents versus 1.82 cents a year ago.
Excluding the divestment of Ascott Raffles Place Singapore, DPU for the quarter ended Sept 30 would have been 1.73 cents compared with 1.72 cents.
Ascott Reit units closed up S$0.02 or 1.4 per cent to S$1.42 on Tuesday.
The hospitality trust's net income before changes in fair value was S$46.2 million, a slight rise from S$46.1 million last year.
sentifi.com Market voices on:
Distribution to unitholders, which includes a one-off partial distribution from the Raffles Place divestment, grew 6 per cent to S$41.6 million from S$39.4 million.
Stay updated with
BT newsletters Terms & conditions Sign up
Revenue slipped 2 per cent to S$132.4 million from S$134.5 million mainly due to a S$2.3 million revenue decrease from the Raffles Place divestment.
Gross profit edged up 1 per cent to S$65 million from S$64.2 million, while revenue per available unit declined 2 per cent to S$155 per day mainly due to weaker exchange rates in Q3 2019.
The proposed combination of Ascott Reit and Ascendas Hospitality Trust (A-HTrust), first announced in July, is expected to complete by the end of 2019.
The new Ascott Reit-Business Trust stapled units under the combined entity will begin trading on the Singapore Exchange on Jan 2, 2020.
Beh Siew Kim, CEO of Ascott Reit's manager Ascott Residence Trust Management Limited, said: "With a debt headroom of about S$1.1 billion, we have the capacity to pursue yield-accretive acquisitions, development and conversion projects.
"Post-combination, we will continue to have the mandate to acquire lodging assets in any part of the world. Besides Asia-Pacific, we will also keep a lookout for quality assets in Europe and the US.
"lyf one-north Singapore, our maiden development project and co-living property, is on track to open in 2021. Post-completion of Ascott Reit’s combination with A-HTrust, we will review the combined portfolio to assess opportunities for asset enhancements to maximise returns."

Story 9
The URL has been copied to your clipboard

Story 10
copy link
Link has been copied to clipboard

Story 11
Международная группа ученых и операторов снимает в эти дни научно-популярный фильм о подводных обитателях. Работая в Индийском океане, участники экспедиции Five Deeps отправили аппаратуру в одну из его глубочайших точек, Зондский жёлоб . Это впадина, которая простирается на 4-5 тысяч километров, начинаясь от материкового склона Мьянмы в направлении Явы. Максимальная глубина составляет 7729 метров.По словам исследователей, Индийский океан – самый «населенный» из числа всех мировых океанов, но исследован он мало. Недавняя встреча – удивительное «желатиновое» существо, похожее на воздушный шар – подтверждает это мнение.«Воздушный шар» напоминает встреченную 20 лет назад в акватории Японии асцидию (лат.), но лишь отчасти: у той «нити» спускались с верхней части желеобразного тела. Между тем класс асцидий насчитывает 2000 видов, и руководитель экспедиции Алан Джеймисон (Alan Jamieson) не исключает, что найден их новый вид: до настоящего времени не существует никаких записей о живых организмах, населяющих глубины более 6500 метров в Индийском океане.Асцидии на стадии личинки асцидии свободно плавают в воде. После нескольких дней странствий они находят подходящее место и становятся оседлыми, прикрепляясь к поверхности. Так, вероятно, произошло и с «воздушным шариком»: для жизни он выбрал сейсмически активную зону и «нить-нога» удерживает его «дома». При этом ее длина позволяет существу подниматься на метр выше дна.Следующая остановка The Five Deeps Expedition произойдет в районе Марианской впадины. Она изучена лучше: оттуда даже ведутся видеотрансляции

Story 12
Not Acceptable!
An appropriate representation of the requested resource could not be found on this server. This error was generated by Mod_Security.

Story 13
sport, local-sport,
Morisset reinsman Jack Callaghan is turning his focus to metropolitan racing after a dominant first full season of driving and he hopes Power Surge and Laceys Lad can kick-start his campaign on Saturday night. Callaghan won the Newcastle premiership with 45 victories in 2018-19, eight ahead of Josh Gallagher. The 18-year-old was one of the youngest ever to take the title and he hopes to continue the run at Menangle Park this season. "I had a really good season," Callaghan said. "I didn't expect it to go that good but I got a lot of good support from a lot of good trainers and owners, who trusted me with the reins, so I've been pretty lucky. "Hopefully this season I can just focus on the city a bit more and improve off last season." He will chase a first Saturday city win in race two with Laceys Lad and in the fifth with Power Surge. Both are trained by his father, Mark. "Power Surge's drawn well and she's in pretty good form," he said. "She raced really well last week at Newcastle and won in pretty slick time for the 2000m, so if she repeats with a similar effort I'm sure she'll be in the mix. "Laceys Lad is going pretty good. He raced on Sunday at Menangle and went pretty good behind Takara Truffle and Hedges Avenue. He hit the line sharp and had good sectionals." On Friday night at Newcastle, Callaghan has a strong book of drives with London Delight (race two), Return Ace (three), Second Major (four), last-start winner Glenn Ford (five) and Lembongan Lyf (10). "Glenn Ford is going really good at the moment," he said. "He seems to be really thriving at the 2000m distances or further, so it's a 2500m race again this week, which should suit him. It's probably a bit stronger race than last week, but he should go good and I think he'll be in the mix. "Return Ace ran second at Penrith last start, just beaten on the line, and it's got a good draw. We should get a forward position, it's got good gate speed, so hopefully it will go well. "London Delight is going good but it's a strong race for her and she's got a bit of an awkward draw. I'll probably have to drive her conservatively, but she should hit the line well if she's held up, so hopefully we'll be in the money. "Second Major is in a strong race and is first up as well ... he'll probably need the run."
https://nnimgt-a.akamaihd.net/transform/v1/crop/frm/ChN2GeGbsrYvYqhWaZEXS7/fa8c1560-f18b-4a6c-b1e9-5ad50074adb1.jpg/r0_143_5145_3050_w1200_h678_fmax.jpg

