Story 0
A recent survey conducted with consumers in Canada finds that contactless transactions are conducted just as frequently with credit cards as debit cards, with the convenience factor winning out over the payment type:
Contactless payment transaction volume is soaring in Canada to the point where total credit card transaction volume is edging out debit card transactions for the first time because many consumers are using credit cards to tap and pay.
The difference is slight—6.047 billion credit card transactions were conducted in Canada in 2018 compared with 6.042 billion debit card transactions, according Technology Strategies International, a Toronto-based payments research firm. TSI based its research on the public statistics plus a survey conducted among 2,000 Canadian consumers.
Momentum has shifted significantly with the rise of small-ticket contactless payments linked to credit cards, and last year marked the first time credit card transaction volume has exceeded debit card transactions since 1997, when Canada’s Interac national debit scheme began to see strong gains in payments volume, TSI said.
Contactless card usage has been accelerating in Canada for several years, and the majority of transactions in the U.K. and Australia are conducted using tap and pay technology. This year several major U.S. banks including Bank of America and Chase are rolling out contactless credit and debit cards, as several major U.S. transit authorities recently opened their turnstiles to contactless payment technology.

Story 1
Volkswagen Financial Services has placed an asset backed securities transaction with a volume of €1bn (£863m) by leasing receivables.
As there was a high demand from investors, the volume was increased by €250m compared to the originally targeted transaction amount.
In the book building process tranche A was placed at a price of 1-month Euribor plus 17 basis points. Tranche B was placed at plus 78 basis points.

Transaction VCL 29 will receive the STS (simple, transparent and standardized securitisations) status for high-quality securitisations introduced at the beginning of the year.
Alongside the transaction a provisional diversified pool of receivables was securitized from nearly 76,000 leasing contracts.
The average financed value per vehicle amounts to approximately EUR 11,000. The transaction holds the “certified by TSI – German Securitisation Standard” seal of quality of True Sale International GmbH.
The transaction was marketed by BNP Paribas and LBBW, two joint leaders.
Volkswagen Financial Services recently backed the UK launch of Heycar, an online marketplace for the used car market.
It launched in August with an inventory of more than 100,000 listed vehicles from over 50 automotive brands at 1,400 dealerships.
Every vehicle listed on the platform comes with a warranty, has less than 100,000 miles on the clock and is less than eight years old.
Mat Moakes, chief executive of Heycar said: “The UK car industry is worth £50bn, yet it works inefficiently for consumers and dealers. Buying a used car can be like a lottery, you don’t know what you’ll get. Existing websites are often cluttered with ads, eroding consumer trust. Dealers are burdened with rising fees for listing used cars online, which squeezes their margins without a guarantee of leads or sales being generated.”
He said Heycar solves these “pain points” with a simpler, more effective solution for used car buyers and dealers.

Story 2
The report on ‘Modest recovery in emerging Global Air Velocity Monitor Market‘ with in-depth focused approach on subjective research, describing product Scope and elaborating industry insights and outlook to 2029’ introduced by Market.us states about the product considering price level, demand, and supply, nature of transaction and market trend of product. The report helps stakeholders and business people to know the demand of customers or consumers for efficient marketing of products or services.
The report provides a complete evaluation of the market. Also, it does so via total historical data, qualitative insights, and valid projections about market size. The projections highlighted in the report have been concluded using proven analysis methods and assumptions. Hence, the research report works as a repository of analysis and information for all aspects of the market, including just not limited to Regional markets, Innovative technologies, product types/applications. A distinctive analysis of popular trends in the air velocity monitor market, microeconomic pointers, and regulations and mandates are included under the knowledge of the study. By doing so, the report forecasts the attractiveness of every significant segment over the forecast period, 2020-2029.
Click To Download And Get The Sample PDF File of the report:https://market.us/report/air-velocity-monitor-market/request-sample/
Important factors analyzed in global Air Velocity Monitor market report
– Revenue and Sales Estimation: Historical Revenue and sales volume are specified in order to prepare an accurate budget. Further, the data is split up with top-down and bottom-up approaches to predict complete market share and to calculate forecast numbers for key regions focused in the report along with classified and well-known Types and Applications.
– Manufacturing Analysis: The report is currently analyzed regarding various product types and applications. The air velocity monitor market provides the highlights of manufacturing process analysis verified via primary information collected through Industry Professionals and Key Representatives of profiled companies to prepare courses of action to support estimated growth effectively.
– Competition: Top vital players have been studied based on their company profile, product portfolio, product/service price, capacity, sales, and cost to find out the current and potential competitor’s strengths and weaknesses.
– Demand & Supply and Effectiveness: Air Velocity Monitor report also provides distribution, production, break-even point & marginal revenue, consumption & export/ import). ** If applicable
Have any doubt? Place An Inquiry Before Acquiring the report (Use Corporate Details Only): https://market.us/report/air-velocity-monitor-market/#inquiry
Pricing Details For Air Velocity Monitor Market Report Here: Single User $3,495.00 | Multi-User $5,100.00 | Corporate Users $7,200.00
What is Single User, Multi-User and Corporate Users license?
Single user, multiple users, and corporate licenses are differentiated on the basis of the number of users permitted to use the ordered reports. For a single user license, the distribution of a report copy will be restricted to only one user. Understood by its term, a multiple-user license will be restricted to more than one user, typically five users only. Corporate license holders, on the other hand, will be able to distribute a report copy across their organization.
Market Segment by Companies, this report covers
Dwyer Instruments
TBJ INC
Kestrel
Sensocon
Extech
TSI Alnor
Envirocon
Market Segment by Type, covers
Analog Air Velocity Monitor
Digital Air Velocity Monitor
Market Segment by Applications, covers
HVAC Systems
Clean Room Monitoring
Process Control
Graphically, this report is segmented into various key Regions, with production, supply and demand, consumption, market share and growth rate of air velocity monitor Market in these regions, from 2020 to 2029 (forecast), covering:- North America, Europe, Asia Pacific, Latin America and Middle East & Africa
Brief introduction about Air Velocity Monitor Market:
Section 1. Global Air Velocity MonitorMarket Size (Sales) Market Share by Type (Product Category) in 2020
Section 2. Air Velocity Monitor Market by Application/End Users 2020
Section 3. Global Air Velocity Monitor Sales (Volume) and Market Share Comparison by Applications
Section 4. Global Air Velocity Monitor Sales and Growth Rate (2020-2029)
Section 5. Air Velocity Monitor Market Competition by Players/Suppliers, Region, Type and Application
Section 6. Air Velocity Monitor (Volume, Value and Sales Price) structure specified for each geographic region included.
Section 7. Global Air Velocity Monitor Players/Suppliers Profiles and Sales Data
Section 8. Additionally, Company primary Information, Manufacturing Base and Top Competitors list are being provided for each vendor listed in the report.
Section 9. Market Sales, Revenue, Price and Gross Margin (2020-2029) table for each product type which includes Cost Structure Analysis, Key Raw Materials Analysis & Price Trends
Section 10. Supply Chain, Sourcing approach and Downstream Buyers, Industrialized Chain Analysis
……..and view more in complete table of Contents.
View Full report details of Global Air Velocity Monitor Market with complete TOC @ [email protected]
Address: 420 Lexington Avenue, Suite 300 New York City, NY 10170, United States
Tel: +1 718 618 4351
Website: https://market.us

Story 3
EL SEGUNDO, Calif., Oct. 15, 2019 /PRNewswire/ -- Williams Aerospace and Manufacturing ("WAM"), a Kellstrom Defense company, has completed the acquisition of metal forming equipment, formerly employed by Titanium Specialties, Inc. ("TSI") and leased a fabrication facility in Taft, California. The former TSI business has a long history of being tooled to manufacture a wide range of legacy aerospace formed metal assemblies.
This transaction has enabled WAM to add specific equipment and tooling that enables the in-house manufacture of complex formed sheet metal assemblies. This capability includes drop-hammer, hydroforming, and hot forming equipment that will be used to transform aerospace grades of aluminum, carbon, stainless steel, and titanium into aircraft integrated assemblies. WAM's Chula Vista, California business team will administer the operation of this fabrication center and coordinate forming for current and future business.
WAM President Scott Wooden comments, "The addition of these manufacturing capabilities to our existing Engineered Products business increases our control of mission-critical assemblies and helps ensure that the Kellstrom Defense Advantage includes respecting customer lead times for new and existing products."
KDA was represented by Christine Shin and Jacob Agi of the Los Angeles based law firm Russ August & Kabat to complete the asset purchase and lease agreement for this exclusive transaction, which was originated by the Kellstrom Defense internal deal team. Financial terms of the transaction have not been disclosed.
About Kellstrom Defense Aerospace, Inc.:
Kellstrom Defense Aerospace, Inc. ("KDA") is a respected global leader for defense aircraft sustainment, deploying an experienced team and complete capabilities to solve customer challenges, with a focus on OEM strategic distribution, component repair services, and the manufacture of engineered products for military transports, fighter, and rotary wing platforms. KDA is headquartered in El Segundo, California and serves the US military and customers in over 60 partnering nations. Current operating locations include Camarillo, CA; Miramar, FL; Macon, GA; Chula Vista, CA; Cambridge, UK; Windsor, AU; Singapore; and United Arab Emirates. KDA is committed to compliance, with hundreds of active export licenses and dedicated contract, export, and security personnel.
The Kellstrom Defense Engineered Products operating segment includes Williams Aerospace and Manufacturing and TAVCO Inc. businesses that are focused on the design and manufacture of proprietary and licensed products for the aerospace and defense market.
Further information is available at: kellstromdefense.com, c130.com, and wam-inc.com.
Media Contact:
Kellstrom Holding Corporation
Ruth Garcia
Director, Marketing & Communications
PR@kellstromdefense.com
Related Images
image1.png
SOURCE Kellstrom Defense
Related Links
http://kellstromdefense.com


Story 4
Credit: Dreamstime
Cloudten has closed the 2019 financial year with revenues of $4.5 million, or an 18 per cent increase compared to last year's $3.8 million.
The numbers were revealed on 26 August by Cloudten's parent company Transaction Solutions International (TSI), who acquired Cloudten in February for a total consideration of $8.6 million.
Cloudten has posted profit before tax of $1.5 million for the year ended 30 June 2019. Net profit after tax has not been made public by TSI.

Decipher Works, which was acquired by publicly-listed TSI in August 2017 had revenues of $4.4 million for the year ended 30 June, and profit before tax of $1.1 million.
TSI told shareholders that moving forward the plan is for the business to deliver profitable organic growth, develop new products to create new, recurring revenue stream, later focus on complementary acquisitions and lastly evaluate opportunities to monetise investment in India.
The company is currently focused in R&D with four products in its pipeline.
On 30 July, TSI had unveiled plans to change its name to Vortiv Limited. The Western Australia technology for financial services provider, which owns and operates Decipher Works and Cloudten Industries, said both business would remain operating under their current brands.
The company told shareholders at the time that since 2017, following the acquisition of Decipher Works, its focus changed to cyber security now backed by cloud services with Cloudten.
With a transformation in its business focus, the company saw it fit to propose a name change which is subject to shareholder approval.



Story 5
News coverage about ATSG stock has been trending extremely negative this week, according to InfoTrie Sentiment. The research group identifies negative and positive media coverage by analyzing more than six thousand news and blog sources. The firm ranks coverage of companies on a scale of -5 to 5, with scores nearest to five being the most favorable. Air Transport Services Group earned a media sentiment score of -4.0 on InfoTrie's scale. They also gave headlines about the transportation company a news buzz of 0.0 out of 10, meaning that recent media coverage is extremely unlikely to have an impact on the stock's share price in the near term. View News Stories for Air Transport Services Group.

Story 6
Credit: Dreamstime
Cloudten has launched operations in the UK as the newly acquired cloud specialist targets global expansion through Amazon Web Services.
Designed to capitalise on cloud adoption growth in Europe, the provider’s London-based business will be spearheaded by Malcolm Duncanson as CEO.
As reported by ARN, the consultancy firm was acquired by Transaction Solutions International (TSI) in early February, in an agreement totalling up to $8.6 million.
The UK launch follows the opening of a Singapore office in May 2018, as part of TSN’s wider international expansion plans.
“We serve an increasingly international community of customers,” Duncanson said. “With demand for cloud services growing in Europe, a London office will allow us to deliver more tailored cloud solutions to our customers and partners across Europe.”
In 2018, Cloudten was selected by the UK Government to join G-Cloud 10, the new government digital marketplace for IT products and services.
Specialising in the provision of “diverse and flexible” cloud and technology solutions, as part of G-Cloud 10, Cloudten was able to offer its cloud-based government services on an increasingly international scale.
“Cloudten brings some of the best AWS capabilities which are required by our clients in DWX, and vice versa,” added Jeffrey Lai, managing director of TSN. “Combining the expertise of both companies will also help us to strengthen our cloud and security offering.”
Headquartered in Sydney, Cloudten - an Advanced Consulting Partner of AWS - specialises in security, DevOps, big data and artificial intelligence, providing cloud solutions to enterprise customers across banking, finance, health and government sectors.
The acquisition is designed to align with TSN’s cyber security subsidiary Decipher Works, building on potential synergies within the wider suite of technologies.

Story 7
LEXINGTON, Ky. – Tempur Sealy International announced today that it has entered into a supply agreement with Mattress Firm to reintroduce Tempur-Pedic, Stearns & Foster and Sealy branded products to approximately 2,500 Mattress Firm stores across the U.S.
“We are pleased that this agreement reunites some of the industry’s strongest brands with the largest bedding retailer in the U.S.,” said Scott Thompson, TSI’s chairman and CEO. “The largest bedding manufacturer in the world should do business with the largest specialty mattress retailer in the world.”
The reintroduction of TSI products into Mattress Firm stores is expected to commence in the fourth quarter of 2019 and be completed early in the first quarter of 2020, TSI said.
TSI officials said the new agreement “represents a significant opportunity for both companies,” bringing its brands to the more than three million people a year who buy beds at Mattress Firm.
TSI said that two new third-party retail relationships and the expansion of an existing retail relationship are expected to bring in more than $400 million in net sales on an annual run rate basis once the product launches are completed.
The company announced the recent expansion of its long-term supply agreement with Big Lots and also extended its European retail distribution network by reaching a supply agreement with Beter Bed Holding, one of Europe’s leading bedding retailers.
“The expansion of our distribution is a testament to the strength of our brands, coupled with reliable manufacturing and quality service,” Thompson said. “Our premium brands and innovative products have allowed us to service a growing customer base. We expect these newly reported transactions will have a positive impact on expanding our brands’ share of voice in the market and in leveraging our cost structure. Aligning with quality third-party retailers in a win-win structure is consistent with our distribution strategy.”

Story 8
LAKE FOREST, Ill., March 29, 2019 /PRNewswire/ -- Transworld Systems Inc. ("TSI" or the "Company") – the leading analytics-driven provider of accounts receivable management, healthcare revenue cycle and loan servicing solutions – announced today it has entered into a definitive agreement with subsidiaries of Altisource Portfolio Solutions S.A. to purchase its Financial Services business for $44 million.
TSI will acquire the Altisource Financial Services business, including Nationwide Credit, Inc. (NCI), a provider of collections, customer relationship management and call center outsourcing for financial, retail credit, mortgage servicing, insurance, utility, and hospitality industries, with approximately 2,300 employees and operations centers in the United States, India, and the Philippines.
"The acquisition of the Altisource Financial Services business broadens TSI's customer base, expands our offerings into customer relationship management, and grows our global operations in India and the Philippines. This carve out is a perfect example of our strategy to leverage acquisitions to add new technological capabilities while improving scale in our core businesses. We look forward to partnering with the Altisource management team to affect a smooth transition and we welcome the Altisource Financial Services customers and employees to the TSI family," said Chief Executive Officer Joseph Laughlin.
The acquisition is expected to close before the end of the third quarter of 2019 and is subject to customary closing conditions including regulatory consents.
About Transworld Systems Inc.
Transworld Systems Inc. (TSI) is the leading provider of outsourced accounts receivable management, healthcare revenue cycle management and loan servicing solutions. TSI uses proprietary predictive analytics to collect on consumer and business debt to help its clients accelerate cash flow and improve operational efficiency. TSI's clients include Fortune 100 corporations, hospitals, financial institutions, governmental organizations, and small businesses.
Media Contact:
David Zwick
Chief Financial Officer
Transworld Systems Inc.
David.Zwick@tsico.com
(847) 969-7977
SOURCE Transworld Systems Inc. (TSI)

Story 9
CARLSBAD, Calif., June 3, 2019 /PRNewswire/ -- Callaway Golf Company (NYSE:ELY) announced today that its Tokyo-based subsidiary, Callaway Golf K.K., acquired the remaining 48% stake in Callaway Apparel K.K., an apparel joint venture between Callaway and its long-time partner, TSI Groove & Sports Co, Ltd. Effective June 1st, Callaway Golf K.K. owns 100% of Callaway Apparel K.K., which designs, manufactures and sells Callaway branded apparel, footwear, and headwear in Japan.
Callaway Golf K.K. acquired the 48% minority interest for 2 Billion Yen, or approximately $18 million based upon a 109 US Dollar to Yen exchange rate. This purchase price values Callaway Golf K.K. at approximately 9 times 2019 projected EBITDA.
"We are pleased with the success of our apparel business in Japan," commented Chip Brewer, President and Chief Executive Officer of Callaway Golf Company. "We have a great relationship with TSI Groove & Sports, but acquiring full ownership of this business provides our Asia team with a platform and the flexibility to support a fully integrated, multi-branded soft goods business in Asia. This acquisition is consistent with our strategy to accelerate growth in our soft-goods business across brands and geographies."
The joint venture began operations on July 1st, 2016 with its headquarters in Tokyo, Japan. Callaway owned 52% of the joint venture and TSI Groove & Sports Co, Ltd. owned 48%. TSI had previously partnered with Callaway as a licensee, helping to successfully launch and grow that business since 2002.
Callaway Golf Company reported that this transaction would not affect the Company's prior financial guidance for 2019.
About Callaway Golf
Callaway Golf Company (NYSE: ELY) is a premium golf equipment and active lifestyle company with a portfolio of global brands, including Callaway Golf, Odyssey, OGIO, TravisMathew and Jack Wolfskin. Through an unwavering commitment to innovation, Callaway manufactures and sells premium golf clubs, golf balls, golf and lifestyle bags, golf and lifestyle apparel and other accessories. For more information please visit www.callawaygolf.com, www.odysseygolf.com, www.OGIO.com, www.travismathew.com, and www.jack-wolfskin.com
Contacts:
Brian Lynch
Patrick Burke
(760) 931-1771
SOURCE Callaway Golf Company

Story 10
HOUSTON, Sept. 25, 2019 /PRNewswire/ -- Cooper Machinery Services ("Cooper"), a portfolio company of Arcline Investment Management and the former Reciprocating Compression division of Baker Hughes, today announced the strategic acquisitions of Epic International and Reciprocating Technology Services, as well as the appointment of John Sargent as Chief Executive Officer, effective immediately. These actions advance Cooper's position as the leading manufacturer and service provider of mission-critical compression and engine systems.
Epic International's ("Epic") energy services business is a provider of OEM-quality parts, expert repair and responsive field services on prominent engine and compressor brands, including many Cooper OEM brands. The acquisition includes the company's facilities in Houston, Texas and Ponca City, Oklahoma.
Reciprocating Technology Services ("RTS") provides agility, innovation and experience delivering modernization, optimization, aftermarket parts and high quality field services to their reciprocating engine and compressor clients. The company is headquartered in and provides these services from its Houston, Texas facility.
John Sargent is a compressor industry veteran with over 25 years of domestic and international experience. Most recently, John served as Chief Executive Officer of Epic and spent the last two decades in various sales and operations roles.
"I am proud and honored to be leading the new Cooper," said Mr. Sargent. "The acquisitions of RTS and Epic bring together the best technical people in the industry and world-class facilities but more importantly it signals a strong commitment to our customers: that we will keep their existing equipment running, better than ever."
About Cooper Machinery Services
Cooper Machinery Services, the former Reciprocating Compression division of Baker Hughes, is the original equipment manufacturer and supplier of parts and aftermarket services to a large installed base of highly respected brands. The company's brands include Cooper-Bessemer, Ajax, Superior, Gemini, Enterprise, TSI, CSI, TXC, and Joy. Manufacturing is conducted in its facilities in Houston, TX and Salina, KS, while on-site services are delivered through its extensive network of field technicians operating out of fully equipped repair and overhaul shops strategically located around the U.S.
Contact (For Press Inquiries Only):
Julie Oakes
Joele Frank, Wilkinson Brimmer Katcher
(212) 355‐4449
SOURCE Cooper Machinery Services

Story 11
LAKE FOREST, Ill., July 1, 2019 /PRNewswire/ -- Transworld Systems Inc. ("TSI" or the "Company") – the leading analytics-driven provider of accounts receivable management, healthcare revenue cycle and loan servicing solutions – announced today it has completed its purchase of the Altisource Financial Services business – including Nationwide Credit, Inc. (NCI) – from Altisource Portfolio Solutions S.A.
The Altisource Financial Services business and NCI is a leading provider of collections, customer relationship management, and call center outsourcing for financial, retail credit, mortgage servicing, insurance, utility, and hospitality industries, with approximately 2,300 employees and operations centers in the United States, India, and the Philippines.
"The acquisition of the Altisource Financial Services business broadens TSI's customer base, expands our offerings into customer relationship management, and grows our global operations in India and the Philippines. We welcome the Altisource Financial Services and NCI customers and employees to the TSI family," said Chief Executive Officer Joseph Laughlin.
About Transworld Systems Inc.
Transworld Systems Inc. (TSI) is the leading provider of outsourced accounts receivable management, healthcare revenue cycle management and loan servicing solutions. TSI uses proprietary predictive analytics to collect on consumer and business debt to help its clients accelerate cash flow and improve operational efficiency. TSI's clients include Fortune 100 corporations, hospitals, financial institutions, governmental organizations, and small businesses.
Media Contact:
David Zwick
Chief Financial Officer
Transworld Systems Inc.
David.Zwick@tsico.com
(847) 969-7976
SOURCE Transworld Systems Inc. (TSI)

Story 12
SHOREVIEW, Minn., Sept. 28, 2019 /PRNewswire/ -- OSHA has accepted two newly Modified Ambient Aerosol Condensation Nuclei Counter (CNC) Quantitative Respirator Fit Test Protocols. The new protocols go into effect on September 26, 2019.
The Modified CNC protocols reduce the time needed to complete a CNC fit test from just over seven to under two and a half minutes. They also reduce the number of test exercises from eight to four. They are based on three studies, published in a peer-reviewed journal, demonstrating equivalency to the original Ambient Aerosol CNC QNFT 8-exercise protocol.
PortaCount Respirator Fit Testers compatible with new Modified CNC Protocols
Effective immediately, PortaCount Respirator Fit Tester models 8030, 8038, 8040 and 8048 are uniquely positioned to run these modified CNC protocols. The protocols will be available via a simple, free software upgrade available for all users of these models.
"We are proud to say the best respirator fit test is now the fastest," said TSI Business Director Troy Tillman. "With the shorter protocols, our customers can perform more tests in less time without compromising safety or compliance."
Learn more about how PortaCount instruments meet the faster protocol at www.tsi.com/ModifiedCNCProtocol.
About TSI Incorporated
TSI Incorporated serves a global market by investigating, identifying, and solving measurement problems. As an industry leader in the design and production of precision instruments, TSI partners with research institutions and customers around the world.
SOURCE TSI Incorporated
Related Links
http://www.tsi.com


Story 13
JOHNS CREEK, Ga., Oct. 22, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- EbixCash, the Financial Exchange Division of Ebix, Inc. (NASDAQ: EBIX), a leading international supplier of On-Demand software and E-commerce services to the insurance, financial, healthcare and e-learning industries, today announced a number of key initiatives as a part of its plans to aggressively grow its Via Travel business.

The Company announced that it has decided to further invest in the growth of its B2B business under the leadership of travel industry veteran Mr. Praveen Chugh, who has immediately taken over as Via – Chief Operating Officer, Agency Sales. As a part of the hiring, Mr. Chugh’s existing travel company Business Travels Private Limited assets was also acquired by Via.
While being given the mandate to grow the B2B business of Via through multiple sales and acquisition channels, Mr. Chugh has been empowered by the Company to recruit as many as one hundred domain specific travel sales executives besides opening up new travel locations across the length and breadth of the country. The appointment of Mr. Chugh also follows a number of key senior sales leadership hires in the Corporate travel sector by EbixCash, for its Corporate & Luxury Travel initiative - Mercury.
Seen as one of the doyens of the Indian travel industry, Mr. Praveen Chugh has spent more than four decades in the travel sector, not only providing leadership and guidance to the industry but also in creating some of India’s largest travel companies. He is credited for having led one of the travel industry’s most successful growth stories TSI-Yatra, increasing the company’s turnover more than 300% in a span of 3 years. He is presently the President of Travel Agents Federation of India (TAFI) besides being the Vice Chairman of the World Travel Agents Association Alliance (WTAAA) amongst other key industry leadership affiliations.
He also has the distinction of serving as a Member of APJC - Agency Programme Joint Council (IATA), since its inception. APJC comprises a distinguished list of 7 agents & 7 airlines as its members in India. He also serves as a Member of PAPGJC - Passenger Agency Programme Global Joint Council (IATA) since 2008. PAPGJC comprises a short list of 12 eminent Global agency representatives and 12 Global airlines as its members.
Elected President of TAFI in 2016 & 2018, Mr. Chugh has also held several key positions over the years like Vice President (TAFI) 2004 – 2006, President of TAFI 2006 – 2008, President of SKAL International – Delhi, President of SKAL International – India and Vice-President of SKAL - West Asia.
Mr. Praveen Chugh started his career by joining the hotel industry in 1974. Driven by a desire to venture into the world of travel, he joined the travel trade in 1976. He worked for 15 years from 1976 to 1991 with President Travels and was instrumental in making the company one of the top 5 Travel agencies in North India under his leadership. Subsequently, he started Pearl International in 1991 along with its promoters and took the company from a startup venture to becoming the largest travel agency in North India and one of the top three in the country.
In 1999, he started Travel Services International (TSI) which went on to become one of the largest Online B2B consolidation companies in North India with a turnover of $94 million. Yatra Online acquired TSI in 2010 which led to the creation of TSI-Yatra. Mr. Chugh successfully managed TSI-Yatra and took the company’s turnover from $94 million to $396 million in a span of 3 years, before exiting in 2014.
“We are simply excited to have Mr. Praveen Chugh on our side. His vast experience, success record and contacts in the world travel industry provide us with an industry veteran who can lead Via B2B sales to new heights. He has the ability and drive to grow our Via Travel Division business at high double-digit rates.” Ebix Inc. Chairman, President and CEO Robin Raina said, “We believe that the strength of our vast retail network, end-to-end enterprise travel technology & functionality, coupled with strong sales leadership; positions us to grow our travel business aggressively internationally.”
Via is recognized as a leader in the travel space in India, besides being the only profitable Travel exchange out of India’s leading travel companies of similar or large size. The Via distribution network encompasses over 85,000 agents in India, 14,700 agents in Indonesia, 9,900 agents in Philippines, 600 agents in Singapore and 350 agents in UAE and Oman. Besides being one of the leaders in the space in India, the Company has emerged as the largest travel solutions provider in Philippines also. With a hotel inventory of over 500,000 hotels and one of the largest ticketing platforms expanding across corporates and distribution outlets, Via has a significant share of the domestic & international airline ticketing business. Via has more than 5% share in both domestic & international airline ticketing in India, 10% in Philippines, 2.7% in Indonesia, 2.1% in Singapore.
Ebix considers the size of the Business Travels assets acquisition immaterial and thus did not disclose the financial details of the transaction. Ebix funded this transaction through internal sources using its own cash reserves. No Ebix shares were issued and no investment bankers were involved in the transaction.
About Ebix, Inc.
With 50+ offices across 5 continents, Ebix, Inc., (NASDAQ: EBIX) endeavors to provide On-Demand software and E-commerce services to the insurance, financial, healthcare and e-learning industries. In the Insurance sector, the Company’s main focus is to develop and deploy a wide variety of insurance and reinsurance exchanges on an on-demand basis, while also, providing Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") enterprise solutions in the area of CRM, front-end & back-end systems, outsourced administrative and risk compliance, across the world.
With a "Phygital” strategy that combines 260,000 physical distribution outlets in many Southeast Asian Nations (“ASEAN”) countries, to an Omni-channel online digital platform, the Company’s EbixCash Financial exchange portfolio encompasses leadership in areas of domestic & international money remittance, Forex, travel, pre-paid & gift cards, utility payments, lending etc., in an emerging country like India. The Company’s Forex Exchange has an approximate 70% market share of India’s airport Foreign Exchange business encompassing 25 international airports like Delhi, Mumbai, Bangalore, Chennai and Kolkata International airports, while conducting over 1 million transactions per annum. EbixCash, through its travel portal Via.com, is also one of Southeast Asia’s leading travel exchanges with over 110,000 distribution outlets and 8,000 corporate clients processing over 24.5 million transactions every year. For further details, visit www.ebixcash.com
Through its various SaaS-based software platforms, Ebix employs thousands of domain-specific technology professionals to provide products, support and consultancy to thousands of customers on six continents. For more information, visit the Company’s website at www.ebix.com
About Via
Incorporated in February 2007 in Bangalore, India, the Company is one of the fastest growing & profitable travel companies in Asia's online space driven by technology. The Company is a leading distributor of transportation ticketing, accommodation reservation, packaged tours, corporate travel management, travel ancillaries, retail and financial services. The company offers its services through a robust, highly scalable cloud based technology platform consisting of mobile apps, websites, corporate platform, and a centralized, toll-free, 24-hour customer service center.
VIA's Corporate Travel Management Business unit helps corporate clients effectively manage their travel needs and significantly reduce travel expenses. VIA expanded its footprints to Philippines, Indonesia, Singapore and UAE. Today, Via's network includes over 110,000 active travel partners across 2,700 towns and cities & over 13,000 pin codes across Asia and over 7000+ signed SMEs. For more information, visit the Company’s website at http://www.via.com
About EbixCash
An Ebix Group initiative, EbixCash is emerging as one of the leading Financial Exchanges in India. With a ‘Phygital” strategy that combines 224,000 physical distribution outlets to a Omni-channel online digital platform, EbixCash has established an enterprise financial exchange portfolio that encompasses leadership in Forex, money remittance (domestic & international), travel, wealth & asset management software, enterprise lending software, pre-paid & gift cards, utility payments etc. Ebix’s joint venture initiative with Bombay Stock Exchange positions it strongly in India’s insurance sector. EbixCash’s portfolio of products can be accessed digitally anywhere as also across its distribution outlets spread over 5,500+ cities and towns. For further details, visit www.ebixcash.com
SAFE HARBOR REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
As used herein, the terms “Ebix,” “the Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to Ebix, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries as a combined entity, except where it is clear that the terms mean only Ebix, Inc.
The information contained in this Press Release contains forward-looking statements and information within the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. This information includes assumptions made by, and information currently available to management, including statements regarding future economic performance and financial condition, liquidity and capital resources, acceptance of the Company's products by the market, and management's plans and objectives. In addition, certain statements included in this and our future filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), in press releases, and in oral and written statements made by us or with our approval, which are not statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. Words such as "may," "could," "should," "would," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "estimate," "intend," "seeks," "plan," "project," "continue," "predict," "will," "should," and other words or expressions of similar meaning are intended by the Company to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain these identifying words. These forward-looking statements are found at various places throughout this report and in the documents incorporated herein by reference. These statements are based on our current expectations about future events or results and information that is currently available to us, involve assumptions, risks, and uncertainties, and speak only as of the date on which such statements are made.
Our actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause such a difference, include, but are not limited to those discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent reports filed with the SEC, as well as: the risk of an unfavorable outcome of the pending governmental investigations or shareholder class action lawsuits, reputational harm caused by such investigations and lawsuits, the willingness of independent insurance agencies to outsource their computer and other processing needs to third parties; pricing and other competitive pressures and the Company's ability to gain or maintain share of sales as a result of actions by competitors and others; changes in estimates in critical accounting judgments; changes in or failure to comply with laws and regulations, including accounting standards, taxation requirements (including tax rate changes, new tax laws and revised tax interpretations) in domestic or foreign jurisdictions; exchange rate fluctuations and other risks associated with investments and operations in foreign countries (particularly in Australia, UK and India wherein we have significant operations); equity markets, including market disruptions and significant interest rate fluctuations, which may impede our access to, or increase the cost of, external financing; and international conflict, including terrorist acts.
Except as expressly required by the federal securities laws, the Company undertakes no obligation to update any such factors, or to publicly announce the results of, or changes to any of the forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect future events, developments, changed circumstances, or for any other reason.
Readers should carefully review the disclosures and the risk factors described in the documents we file from time to time with the SEC, including future reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K, and any amendments thereto. You may obtain our SEC filings at our website, www.ebix.com under the "Investor Information" section, or over the Internet at the SEC's web site, www.sec.gov.
CONTACT: Gautam Sharma or Darren Joseph on David Collins or Chris Eddy, Catalyst Global +1- 212-924-9800 or

Story 14
NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--EY announced that Patrick Walsh, Chairman and Chief Executive of Town Sports International Holdings Inc., (“TSI,” “Town Sports” or the “Company”) (NASDAQ:CLUB) received the Entrepreneur Of The Year® 2018 Award in the Transformational category in New York. Entrepreneur of The Year is the world’s most prestigious business award for entrepreneurs, and it’s the only competitive awards program for leaders of high-growth companies. To be eligible, nominees must be the manager or owner of a private or public company and be primarily responsible for the company’s recent performance. Walsh was selected by an independent panel of judges, and the award was presented at a special gala event at the Marriott Marquis on June 12.
“I think Entrepreneurs are the lifeblood of this country and it’s great to be recognized,” said Walsh in his acceptance speech. “To all the TSI employees, you are amazing and no one can take this away from us. I’ve had the time of my life so far but I’m more excited about what we’re going to do in the years ahead."
Mr. Walsh has played a major role in several turnarounds, but none have been as remarkable as Town Sports’. Walsh was faced with imminent bankruptcy in the first year he took over management of the Company. During a period when most industry expects predicted a bankruptcy or sale, Walsh vowed to TSI shareholders to turn TSI into a thriving enterprise. In 2018, the company’s stock traded over $11.00 an increase of over 1000% from a low of 92 cents in 2016. Walsh has led a strategic and calculated approach to increasing shareholder value while growing the Company’s portfolio. In just the past year, TSI has purchased Lucille Roberts, Total Woman Gym and Spa and TMPL Gym.
Since 1986, EY has honored entrepreneurs whose ingenuity, spirit of innovation and discipline have driven their companies’ success, transformed their industries and made a positive impact on their communities. Now in its 32nd year, the program has honored the inspirational leadership of such entrepreneurs as:
Howard Schultz of Starbucks Corporation
Pierre Omidyar of eBay, Inc.
Reid Hoffman and Jeff Weiner of LinkedIn
Jeff Bezos of Amazon.com, Inc.
As a New York award winner, Walsh is now eligible for consideration for the Entrepreneur Of The Year 2018 national program. Award winners in several national categories, as well as the Entrepreneur Of The Year National Overall Award winner, will be announced at the Entrepreneur Of The Year National Awards gala in Palm Springs, California, on November 10, 2018. The awards are the culminating event of the Strategic Growth Forum™, the nation’s most prestigious gathering of high-growth, market-leading companies.
Sponsors
Founded and produced by EY, the Entrepreneur Of The Year Awards are nationally sponsored in the US by SAP America, Merrill Corporation and the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation.
In New York, sponsors also include Marsh, Empire Valuation Consultants, Kirkland & Ellis LLP, Pine Hill Group, DLA Piper and SolomonEdwards Group.
About Entrepreneur Of The Year®
Entrepreneur Of The Year®, founded by EY, is the world’s most prestigious business awards program for entrepreneurs, chosen from an independent panel of judges including entrepreneurs and prominent leaders from business, finance, and the local community. The program makes a difference through the way it encourages entrepreneurial activity among those with potential and recognizes the contribution of people who inspire others with their vision, leadership and achievement. As the first and only truly global awards program of its kind, Entrepreneur Of The Year celebrates those who are building and leading successful, growing and dynamic businesses, recognizing them through regional, national and global awards programs in more than 145 cities in more than 60 countries. ey.com/eoy
About EY’s Growth Markets Network
EY’s worldwide Growth Markets Network is dedicated to serving the changing needs of high-growth companies. For more than 30 years, we’ve helped many of the world’s most dynamic and ambitious companies grow into market leaders. Whether working with international mid-cap companies or early stage, venture-backed businesses, our professionals draw upon their extensive experience, insight and global resources to help your business succeed. For more information, please visit us at ey.com/sgm or follow news on Twitter @EY_Growth.
About EY
EY is a global leader in assurance, tax, transaction and advisory services. The insights and quality services we deliver help build trust and confidence in the capital markets and in economies the world over. We develop outstanding leaders who team to deliver on our promises to all of our stakeholders. In so doing, we play a critical role in building a better working world for our people, for our clients and for our communities.
EY refers to the global organization, and may refer to one or more, of the member firms of Ernst & Young Global Limited, each of which is a separate legal entity. Ernst & Young Global Limited, a UK company limited by guarantee, does not provide services to clients. For more information about our organization, please visit ey.com.
This news release has been issued by Ernst & Young LLP, a member of the global EY organization that provides services to clients in the US.
For more information, please visit ey.com.
About Town Sports International Holdings, Inc.
Town Sports International Holdings, Inc. is a diversified holding company with subsidiaries engaged in a number of business and investment activities. The Company’s largest operating subsidiary has been involved in the fitness industry since 1973 and has grown to become one of the largest owners and operators of fitness clubs in the Northeast region of the United States. TSI’s corporate structure provides flexibility to make investments across a broad spectrum of industries in order to create long-term value for shareholders.
For more information, please visit townsportsinternational.com.

Story 15
House prices up by 13.24% y-o-y in Q2 2019
Puerto Rico’s seasonally-adjusted (and inflation-adjusted) purchase-only house price index soared by 13.24% during the year to Q2 2019, a sharp improvement from the previous year’s minuscule growth of 0.38%. Quarter-on-quarter, house prices rose by 3.76% in Q2 2019.
Demand is rising, but housing market remains fragile
Demand is rising again, as insurance and federal aid money pours in, coupled with growing interest from Americans looking for bargain. During 2018, sales of newly built houses surged 78% from a year earlier while existing home sales rose by 17%, according to Estudios Técnicos, Inc. (TSI). Home sales are expected to continue rising this year.
Despite this, the housing market is expected to remain fragile, given the island’s continued economic woes, massive debt, and population losses.
Puerto Rico filed for the equivalent of bankruptcy protection in May 2017, unable to pay its massive debt or provide its citizens with effective services. With US$70 billion in debt and US$50 billion in pension liabilities, Puerto Rico’s bankruptcy filing is the biggest in the history of the United States, dwarfing Detroit’s US$18 billion bankruptcy filing in 2013.
Rents, rental yields: no yields data available for Puerto Rico.
Recent news. The wider economy is still struggling and is projected to contract by 1.1% this year and by another 0.7% in 2020, after 14 years of depression, according to the IMF.

Story 16
Cboe Global Markets, Inc. with ticker code (CBOE) have now 14 analysts covering the stock. The analyst consensus points to a rating of ‘Buy’. The range between the high target price and low target price is between 133 and 106 with the average target price sitting at 121. With the stocks previous close at 116.16 this indicates there is a potential upside of 4.2%. The 50 day moving average now sits at 117.4 and the 200 moving average now moves to 108.78. The market cap for the company is $12,765m. Find out more information at: http://www.cboe.com
Cboe Global Markets, Inc., through its subsidiaries, operates as an options exchange in the United States. It operates in five segments: Options, U.S. Equities, Futures, European Equities, and Global FX. The Options segment trades in listed market indexes. The U.S. Equities segment trades in listed cash equities; and offers exchange-traded products (ETP) transaction and ETP listing services. The Futures segment trades in futures, bitcoins, and other products. The European Equities segment trades in pan-European listed equities transaction services, ETPs, exchange-traded commodities, and international depository receipts that occur on the recognized investment exchange. It also provides listed cash equities and ETPs routed transaction services, as well as listing services. The Global FX segment provides institutional foreign exchange (FX) and non-deliverable forward FX transactions services. Cboe Global Markets, Inc. has strategic relationships with S&P Dow Jones Indices, LLC; FTSE International Limited; Frank Russell Company; MSCI Inc.; DJI Opco, LLC.; and Cboe Vest Financial Group, Inc. The company was formerly known as CBOE Holdings, Inc. and changed its name to Cboe Global Markets, Inc. in October 2017. Cboe Global Markets, Inc. was founded in 1973 and is headquartered in Chicago, Illinois.

Story 17
Resources CLE Center Legal Compass Events Webcasts Lawjobs Professional Announcements
It’s easy for eDiscovery costs to quickly get out of control. Learn how you can keep budgets in line time and time again.
Data is everywhere and messy data means poor business decisions, not to mention compliance and data breach risks. Discover how a digital filing cabinet can expedite your compliance, legal and tax filings.
Is your organization ready to comply with the CCPA on January 1, 2020? This white paper is your comprehensive guide on the key differences between GDPR and CCPA and where you need to focus for compliance.
Premium Subscription With this subscription you will receive unlimited access to high quality, online, on-demand premium content from well-respected faculty in the legal industry. This is perfect for attorneys licensed in multiple jurisdictions or for attorneys that have fulfilled their CLE requirement but need to access resourceful information for their practice areas. View Now
Team Accounts Our Team Account subscription service is for legal teams of four or more attorneys. Each attorney is granted unlimited access to high quality, on-demand premium content from well-respected faculty in the legal industry along with administrative access to easily manage CLE for the entire team. View Now
Bundle Subscriptions Gain access to some of the most knowledgeable and experienced attorneys with our 2 bundle options! Our Compliance bundles are curated by CLE Counselors and include current legal topics and challenges within the industry. Our second option allows you to build your bundle and strategically select the content that pertains to your needs. Both options are priced the same. View Now

CLE Center →

Story 18
With rising labor costs and nurse workloads, Virtual Nursing Assistant Market is becoming increasingly popular to help alleviate these problems. Patients are looking for ways…

Story 19
Access Denied - Sucuri Website Firewall
If you are the site owner (or you manage this site), please whitelist your IP or if you think this block is an error please open a support ticket and make sure to include the block details (displayed in the box below), so we can assist you in troubleshooting the issue.
Block details:

Story 20
Members of the Gen Z and millennial generations have bolstered nationwide housing confidence during the past year. Among those who rent a home, eight in ten are confident or somewhat confident that they will be able to afford homeownership someday; two-thirds of them expect to buy a home within five years; six in ten believe that buying a home is the best long-term investment a person can make and that owning a home provides more freedom than renting one.


The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 has elevated homeownership affordability concerns for about one in four households nationwide, but it appears to have had little or no impact on long-term expectations for home values, including those of residents who live in metropolitan areas with higher-priced properties. Consumers expect home values in their local real estate market will increase by an average of 6.1 percent in the coming 12 months, and by an average of 31.1 percent over the next decade.
Pulsenomics® today released the latest updates to the U.S. Housing Confidence Index ™ (HCI) and Transaction Sentiment Index ™ (TSI), unique gauges of homeowner and renter mindsets concerning real estate market conditions, price expectations, homeownership affordability and aspirations. These attitudes, which vary by geographic market and household profile, affect consumer economic behavior and can signal future changes in home prices and transaction volume. These indices summarize and track responses to the biannual U.S. Housing Confidence Survey ™ (HCS), completed by 15,500 households across the country.
"Moderating home price growth, falling mortgage rates, and solid wage gains in Q1 have stoked housing expectations and homeownership aspirations," said Pulsenomics® founder, Terry Loebs. Home sales volume has been sluggish so far this year, but Loebs suggested that recent attitudinal shifts recorded among homeowners and renters are healthy and likely foreshadow a pick-up in transactions. "Although our research confirms significant variation in housing confidence and transaction sentiments by market and household category, overall, these latest index data point to an improving balance of power between real estate buyers and sellers. Across the larger markets we track, home-selling sentiment has weakened a bit in recent months, but the majority of homeowners still believe that, where they live, now is a good time to sell a home. At the same time, a years-long downward trend in home-buying sentiment has come to a halt, as prospective purchasers have been encouraged by the combination of slower price growth and low mortgage rates," Loebs said.
The latest Pulsenomics index data also reveal that housing confidence among prospective first-time homebuyers has been resilient in the face of significant financial hurdles such as student loan debt. "Contrary to some popular narratives, the majority of Gen Z and millennial renters are looking forward to homeownership, are confident they'll be able to afford it, and say that when the time comes to buy, they will favor living in suburbia," Loebs explained.
Despite limited inventory of entry-level homes and concerns that the 2017 tax act might dent home-buying enthusiasm this year, overall, consumer assessments of local real estate market conditions, and their outlook for home price appreciation and affordability remains upbeat nationwide. Compared to last spring, more U.S. households expect price increases in their local real estate market will easily exceed the rate of inflation in the broader economy over the coming decade, and more of them are optimistic that in the long run, homeownership will be affordable and deliver significant investment value.
Pulsenomics adviser Robert Shiller was struck by the robust outlook consumers have for near-term and long-run home value appreciation. The Nobel laureate and Yale professor of economics opined, "At an average rate of more than six percent, household expectations for home prices over the next twelve months are remarkably high. But the expectations over the next ten years--at 2.7 percent a year nationwide--are entirely tame and reasonable, just a little over the 2 percent target inflation rate set by the Federal Reserve." Shiller concluded, "I would say that households nationwide are showing here a healthy optimism, but none of the extreme expectations seen in the runup to the 2008-9 financial crisis."
About the Housing Confidence Index™ (HCI)
HCI quantifies and tracks consumer confidence in housing markets across the United States. HCI is a weighted average of three sub-indices: The Housing Market Conditions Index™ (HMCI), The Housing Expectations Index™ (HEI), and The Homeownership Aspirations Index™ (HAI). Attitudes that comprise these measures affect economic behavior, and they can foreshadow changes in home prices and transaction volume. Pulsenomics produces HCI series for the U.S., each of the four U.S. Regions, and 25 of the largest U.S. metropolitan areas by tenure category (i.e., homeowners, renters) and generation cohort (e.g., millennials). HCI is a diffusion index, with values on a scale of 0 to 100 (readings above 50 are favorable or positive). The source data for HCI are compiled from the biannual U.S. Housing Confidence Survey™ (HCS).
About the Transaction Sentiment Index™ (TSI)
TSI quantifies and tracks prevailing consumer attitudes concerning home-buying and home-selling in the context of a household's local real estate market. TSI has two components, the Buying Sentiment Index™ ("BSI", which measures the difference between the number people who say that "now is a good time to buy a home" and those who say that "now is a bad time to buy a home"), and the Selling Sentiment Index™ ("SSI", which measures the difference between the number people who say that "now is a good time to sell a home" and those who say that "now is a bad time to sell a home"). Pulsenomics produces TSI series for the U.S., each of the four U.S. Regions, and 25 of the largest U.S. metropolitan areas by tenure category (i.e., homeowners, renters) and generation cohort (e.g., millennials). TSI values are on a scale of -100 to +100. The source data for TSI are compiled from the biannual U.S. Housing Confidence Survey (HCS).
About the U.S. Housing Confidence Survey™ (HCS)
HCS is a biannual study of 15,500 adult heads of household in the United States focused on the consumer mindset concerning housing in the context of local real estate markets. Pulsenomics administers HCS via the internet and uses the credibility interval as its standard measure of estimated sampling error. A credibility interval is an estimate of an interval around a measured percentage within which the true percentage, if all eligible respondents were to be interviewed, would have a 95% chance of falling. Indicative credibility intervals for HCS are 1.1% for Composite 25 data (n=12,500), 1.2% for Composite 20 data (n=10,000), 2.2% for national data (n=3,000) and 5.3% for metro area data (n=500); credibility intervals are larger for subgroups. The Q1 2019 edition of HCS was conducted between March 13, 2019 and March 20, 2019.
About Pulsenomics
Pulsenomics LLC is an independent research firm that specializes in data analytics, opinion research, and index development for institutional clients in the financial and real estate arenas. Pulsenomics also designs and manages expert surveys and consumer polls to identify trends and expectations that are relevant to effective business management and monitoring economic health. Pulsenomics®, Housing Confidence Survey™, Housing Confidence Index™, Housing Market Conditions Index™, Housing Expectations Index™, Homeownership Aspirations Index™, Transaction Sentiment Index™, Buyer Sentiment Index™, and Seller Sentiment Index™ are trademarks of Pulsenomics LLC. Additional information, including index calculation methodologies, survey questionnaires, credibility intervals, metro area rankings, infographics, and dashboards are available at pulsenomics.com.
SOURCE Pulsenomics LLC
Related Links
http://www.pulsenomics.com


Story 21
The flagship Manhattan location will continue to operate under the TMPL brand and will remain committed to excellence and unparalleled member services under the TSI umbrella. Since taking the role of CEO of TSI in 2016, Patrick Walsh has transformed its range of offerings within the portfolio utilizing acquisitions and overhauls to enhance and further the portfolio as well as the trajectory of the company.
"David Barton is an iconic name in the fitness industry and acquiring TMPL was an obvious decision. It fits into our continued growth strategy and gives TSI a new foothold in the luxury market," says Walsh. "David is a visionary, and we're excited to see what the future holds working together."
TMPL fuses innovation and luxury for an intelligent approach to fitness that is effective and addictive. TMPL's metabolic analysis delivers each member individualized exercise and nutrition programming to condition each person's metabolism to more efficiently alter body composition. Additional TMPL amenities include a 25-meter saltwater pool with dedicated aqua classes, 20 tons of free weights, digitally programmed equipment, virtual reality cycle studio with immersive 30-foot video wall, steam room and sauna.
"Reimagining the health club and refining the workout has been the heartbeat of my career and I believe that TMPL is the future," explains Barton. "Working with TSI will allow TMPL to achieve its full potential and grow into a household name."
With the closing of this acquisition, TSI expands its footprint in the luxury fitness market with plans to open a second location in the West Village in Manhattan in summer 2018. The symbiotic relationship will allow Barton to focus on the design, customer experience and personal training at TMPL while using TSI's vast resources and operating expertise.
About Town Sports International Holdings, Inc.
Town Sports International Inc., is a diversified holding company owning subsidiaries engaged in a number of business and investment activities. The Company's largest operating subsidiaries have been involved in the fitness industry since 1973 and have grown to become the largest owner and operator of fitness clubs in the Northeast. Town's corporate structure provides flexibility to make investments across a broad spectrum of industries in order to create long-term value for shareholders. Additional information can be found at www.townsportsinternational.com
About David Barton
David Barton is a disruptor and visionary within the gym industry. Deemed by The New York Times as "the man who made working out cool," David is widely respected as the person who first breathed life, sexiness and celebration into fitness. Prior to TMPL, Barton founded his namesake David Barton Gym, distinguished across the country for its intense personal training, cutting-edge design, charged environment and provocative advertising with locations in New York, Miami, Chicago, Los Angeles, Las Vegas and Seattle. Additional information can be found at www.tmplgym.com
SOURCE Town Sports International Holdings Inc.
Related Links
http://www.townsportsinternational.com


Story 22
illuminating the markets®
Notice: By accessing this site you agree that you will not copy or reproduce any part of its contents (including, but not limited to, single prices, graphs or news content) in any form or for any purpose whatsoever without the prior written consent of the publisher.

Story 23
The retailer said it would enter into talks with the new bidder, which it didn't identify, according to a report in The Street​​. As part of that agreement, Vitamin Shoppe had been seeking competing bids from what it said was a range of strategic and financial entities, a so-called go-shop period, which was part of the acquisition agreement with Liberty Tax Inc.
In early August, Vitamin Shoppe said it had definitively agreed to be acquired by Liberty Tax for $6.50 a share, or $208 million. That’s a 59% premium over the company’s 30-day weighted average stock price. That sales price, while welcome news for those who recently bought the stock, represents a steep discount from the company’s heyday. In early 2013 they were trading above $60 a share.
The Vitamin Shoppe went public in 2009. After an initial honeymoon, the company has struggled with falling earnings for years. The Vitamin Shoppe reported $1.11 billion in sales in 2018. For 2017, the figure was $1.15 billion and in 2016 sales were $1.29 billion.
Liberty Tax is the parent company of Liberty Tax Service, a chain of franchise tax preparation outlets. Last summer the company announced a plan for strategic acquisitions. The first of these was the purchase of Buddy’s Home Furnishings, a rent-to-own furniture store chain. As of 2017, Buddy’s had 255 stores owned by franchisees and 31 company-owned stores.
Liberty says it intends to finance The Vitamin Shoppe transaction with up to about $170 million in debt financing and a combination of available cash and/or through the issuance of common stock of Liberty Tax. In connection with the execution of the merger agreement, Liberty Tax entered into debt commitment letters with institutional lenders and an equity commitment letter with an affiliate of Vintage Capital Management, LLC.
But the anonymous bidder could throw a wrench into Liberty’s plans.
Vitamin Shoppe said the new buyout offer is “reasonably likely” to lead to a “superior proposal” to the Liberty Tax deal and that it will continue to negotiate with the secret bidder. But for now, Vitamin Shoppe says it has not changed its recommendation in favor of its pending merger with Liberty Tax.
The new bid is subject to a number of conditions, including the completion of a due-diligence inquiry and negotiation of a definitive deal agreement. Vitamin Shoppe gave no guarantees that talks with the new bidder would lead to a more lucrative deal.
Vitamin Shoppe operates more than 750 stores under the banners Vitamin Shoppe and Super Supplements as well as through its website.

Story 24
Resources CLE Center Legal Compass Events Webcasts Lawjobs Professional Announcements
Today, banking and investing are anything but traditional, according to a recent Forbes Insights and K&L Gates survey of 200 U.S.-based business and legal executives within the broad financial services industry.
Discover how your firm can efficiently navigate the challenges of high-stakes multilingual litigation to generate value and success for your clients.
An expert witness can make or break a case. What if you could determine in minutes how many times a potential expert has testified, how many times his or her testimony has been excluded, the verdicts associated with the testimony, and more? This info brief explains how.
Premium Subscription With this subscription you will receive unlimited access to high quality, online, on-demand premium content from well-respected faculty in the legal industry. This is perfect for attorneys licensed in multiple jurisdictions or for attorneys that have fulfilled their CLE requirement but need to access resourceful information for their practice areas. View Now
Team Accounts Our Team Account subscription service is for legal teams of four or more attorneys. Each attorney is granted unlimited access to high quality, on-demand premium content from well-respected faculty in the legal industry along with administrative access to easily manage CLE for the entire team. View Now
Bundle Subscriptions Gain access to some of the most knowledgeable and experienced attorneys with our 2 bundle options! Our Compliance bundles are curated by CLE Counselors and include current legal topics and challenges within the industry. Our second option allows you to build your bundle and strategically select the content that pertains to your needs. Both options are priced the same. View Now

CLE Center →

Story 25
The Company announced that it has decided to further invest in the growth of its B2B business under the leadership of travel industry veteran Praveen Chugh, who has immediately taken over as Via – Chief Operating Officer, Agency Sales.
EBIXCASH ANNOUNCED a number of key initiatives as a part of its plans to aggressively grow its Via Travel business.
The Company announced that it has decided to further invest in the growth of its B2B business under the leadership of travel industry veteran Praveen Chugh, who has immediately taken over as Via – Chief Operating Officer, Agency Sales. As a part of the hiring, Mr. Chugh’s existing travel company Business Travels Private Limited assets was also acquired by Via.
While being given the mandate to grow the B2B business of Via through multiple sales and acquisition channels, Chugh has been empowered by the Company to recruit as many as one hundred domain specific travel sales executives besides opening up new travel locations across the length and breadth of the country. The appointment of Chugh also follows a number of key senior sales leadership hires in the Corporate travel sector by EbixCash, for its Corporate & Luxury Travel initiative - Mercury.
Seen as one of the doyens of the Indian travel industry, Praveen Chugh has spent more than four decades in the travel sector, not only providing leadership and guidance to the industry but also in creating some of India’s largest travel companies. He is credited for having led one of the travel industry’s most successful growth stories TSI-Yatra, increasing the company’s turnover more than 300% in a span of 3 years. He is presently the President of Travel Agents Federation of India (TAFI) besides being the Vice Chairman of the World Travel Agents Association Alliance (WTAAA) amongst other key industry leadership affiliations.
He also has the distinction of serving as a Member of APJC - Agency Programme Joint Council (IATA), since its inception. APJC comprises a distinguished list of 7 agents & 7 airlines as its members in India. He also serves as a Member of PAPGJC - Passenger Agency Programme Global Joint Council (IATA) since 2008. PAPGJC comprises a short list of 12 eminent Global agency representatives and 12 Global airlines as its members.
Elected President of TAFI in 2016 & 2018, Chugh has also held several key positions over the years like Vice President (TAFI) 2004 – 2006, President of TAFI 2006 – 2008, President of SKAL International – Delhi, President of SKAL International – India and Vice-President of SKAL - West Asia.
Praveen Chugh started his career by joining the hotel industry in 1974. Driven by a desire to venture into the world of travel, he joined the travel trade in 1976. He worked for 15 years from 1976 to 1991 with President Travels and was instrumental in making the company one of the top 5 Travel agencies in North India under his leadership. Subsequently, he started Pearl International in 1991 along with its promoters and took the company from a startup venture to becoming the largest travel agency in North India and one of the top three in the country.
In 1999, he started Travel Services International (TSI) which went on to become one of the largest Online B2B consolidation companies in North India with a turnover of INR 500 Crore. Yatra Online acquired TSI in 2010 which led to the creation of TSI-Yatra. Chugh successfully managed TSI-Yatra and took the company’s turnover from INR 500 crores to INR 2100 crores in a span of 3 years, before exiting in 2014.
“We are simply excited to have Praveen Chugh on our side. His vast experience, success record and contacts in the world travel industry provide us with an industry veteran who can lead Via B2B sales to new heights. He has the ability and drive to grow our Via Travel Division business at high double-digit rates.” Ebix Inc. Chairman, President and CEO Robin Raina said, “We believe that the strength of our vast retail network, end-to-end enterprise travel technology & functionality, coupled with strong sales leadership; positions us to grow our travel business aggressively internationally,”
Via is recognized as a leader in the travel space in India, besides being the only profitable Travel exchange out of India’s leading travel companies of similar or large size. The Via distribution network encompasses over 85,000 agents in India, 14,700 agents in Indonesia, 9,900 agents in Philippines, 600 agents in Singapore and 350 agents in UAE and Oman. Besides being one of the leaders in the space in India, the Company has emerged as the largest travel solutions provider in Philippines also. With a hotel inventory of over 500,000 hotels and one of the largest ticketing platforms expanding across corporates and distribution outlets, Via has a significant share of the domestic & international airline ticketing business. Via has more than 5% share in both domestic & international airline ticketing in India, 10% in Philippines, 2.7% in Indonesia, 2.1% in Singapore.

Story 26
FRANKFURT, Germany, Sept. 30, 2019 /PRNewswire/ -- Enterprises in Germany are quickly adopting Internet-of-Things technologies, with the manufacturing and automotive industries taking the lead, according to a new report published today by Information Services Group (ISG) (Nasdaq: III), a leading global technology research and advisory firm.
The 2019 ISG Provider Lens™ IoT — Transformational Services, Technology, Solutions, Platforms and Industries Report for Germany finds German businesses looking to IoT service providers to help them roll out IoT-driven analytics and other Industrial IoT tools.
"The German market is adopting IoT technologies quickly and in multiple application scenarios," said Andrea Spiegelhoff, partner, ISG DACH. "In addition to the manufacturing and automotive industries, we see growing activity in retail and building automation in Germany."
The report sees the German IoT solutions market driven by midmarket providers that offer excellent solutions for specific use cases.
Meanwhile, the established German automotive industry is embracing IoT to build and enhance solutions related to vehicle maintenance, passenger infotainment, automated driving assistance and vehicle-to-vehicle communications, the report says. These automotive IoT systems will become increasingly connected, with automobile makers seeing navigation and automated trip planning, based on the preferences of drivers and passengers, as a way to create additional value for customers.
The report also sees interest in the use of IoT for smart city projects, but most cities lack the resources to proceed. The German public sector suffers from personnel and budget shortages, while it often lacks ownership of the networks and grids needed to set up a smart city solution, the report suggests.
Meanwhile, security concerns about the IoT are impeding some deployments, the report says. Ensuring secure data transfer and payment transactions remain major challenges for the IoT, and while the blockchain technology may improve security, cybersecurity efforts need more dedicated development and support knowledge, the report says.
The 2019 ISG Provider Lens IoT — Transformational Services, Technology, Solutions, Platforms and Industries Report for Germany evaluates the capabilities of 25 providers across three quadrants: Consulting and Services, Managed Services and Solutions, and Smart Building and Infrastructure.
The report names Atos, Capgemini and IBM as leaders in all three quadrants, and Bosch SI, Cognizant, Deutsche Telekom/TSI and Siemens as leaders in two. Accenture and HCL are named as a leader in one quadrant.
The 2019 ISG Provider Lens IoT — Transformational Services, Technology, Solutions, Platforms and Industries Report for Germany is available to ISG Insights™ subscribers or for one-time purchase on this webpage.
About ISG Provider Lens™ Research
The ISG Provider Lens™ Quadrant research series is the only service provider evaluation of its kind to combine empirical, data-driven research and market analysis with the real-world experience and observations of ISG's global advisory team. Enterprises will find a wealth of detailed data and market analysis to help guide their selection of appropriate sourcing partners, while ISG advisors use the reports to validate their own market knowledge and make recommendations to ISG's enterprise clients. The research currently covers providers offering their services globally, across Europe and Latin America, as well as in the U.S., Germany, the U.K., the Nordics and Brazil, with additional markets to be added in the future. For more information about ISG Provider Lens research, please visit this webpage.
The series is a complement to the ISG Provider Lens Archetype reports, which offer a first-of-its-kind evaluation of providers from the perspective of specific buyer types.
About ISG
ISG (Information Services Group) (Nasdaq: III) is a leading global technology research and advisory firm. A trusted business partner to more than 700 clients, including more than 70 of the top 100 enterprises in the world, ISG is committed to helping corporations, public sector organizations, and service and technology providers achieve operational excellence and faster growth. The firm specializes in digital transformation services, including automation, cloud and data analytics; sourcing advisory; managed governance and risk services; network carrier services; strategy and operations design; change management; market intelligence and technology research and analysis. Founded in 2006, and based in Stamford, Conn., ISG employs more than 1,300 digital-ready professionals operating in more than 20 countries—a global team known for its innovative thinking, market influence, deep industry and technology expertise, and world-class research and analytical capabilities based on the industry's most comprehensive marketplace data. For more information, visit www.isg-one.com.
SOURCE Information Services Group, Inc.
Related Links
http://www.isg-one.com


Story 27
CHICAGO, March 27, 2019 /PRNewswire/ -- CME Group, the world's leading and most diverse derivatives marketplace, today announced it will expand its metals offering with the introduction of a new U.S. Midwest Hot-Rolled Coil Steel (Platts) Futures contract to begin trading on April 15, 2019.
"Increased volatility of steel markets and uncertainty around regional prices has led to a growing demand for risk management tools across the steel supply chain," said Young-Jin Chang, Global Head of Metals Products, CME Group. "This new contract will complement our existing steel and ferrous metals product suite, and provide customers with another tool to manage regional price risk."
"The introduction of this new ferrous contract by CME Group is timely given the ongoing uncertainties around steel prices. We believe this contract has the potential to grow as participants become more familiar with managing price risk in their business and get informed about daily price changes," Phillip Price, CEO of Ferrometrics LLC.
The U.S. Midwest Hot-Rolled Coil Steel (Platts) Futures contract will be 20 short tons in size and will be financially settled against the Platts TSI HRC U.S. EXW Indiana price assessment.
Ian Dudden, Global Content Director, Metals and Agriculture at S&P Global Platts said: "We are pleased that CME Group and their customers recognize the crucial role our independent steel price assessment plays in creating price transparency, which in turn provides opportunities for the provision of risk management tools that bring greater efficiency to the global metals markets."
Ferrous metals futures and options trading volumes have increased more than 80 percent since the start of the year to nearly 1,500 contracts traded on average per day. Open interest reached nearly 37,000 contracts at the end of February.
Pending relevant regulatory review periods, the new contract will be available for trading on CME Globex and for submission for clearing through CME ClearPort, and will be listed with and subject to the rules and regulations of COMEX.
For more information on CME Group's ferrous metals futures and options, please visit www.cmegroup.com/ferrous.
As the world's leading and most diverse derivatives marketplace, CME Group ( www.cmegroup.com ) enables clients to trade futures, options, cash and OTC markets, optimize portfolios, and analyze data – empowering market participants worldwide to efficiently manage risk and capture opportunities. CME Group exchanges offer the widest range of global benchmark products across all major asset classes based on interest rates , equity indexes , foreign exchange , energy , agricultural products and metals . The company offers futures and options on futures trading through the CME Globex ® platform, fixed income trading via BrokerTec and foreign exchange trading on the EBS platform. In addition, it operates one of the world's leading central counterparty clearing providers, CME Clearing. With a range of pre- and post-trade products and services underpinning the entire lifecycle of a trade, CME Group also offers optimization and reconciliation services through TriOptima, and trade processing services through Traiana.
CME Group, the Globe logo, CME, Chicago Mercantile Exchange, Globex, and, E-mini are trademarks of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. CBOT and Chicago Board of Trade are trademarks of Board of Trade of the City of Chicago, Inc. NYMEX, New York Mercantile Exchange and ClearPort are trademarks of New York Mercantile Exchange, Inc. COMEX is a trademark of Commodity Exchange, Inc. BrokerTec, EBS, TriOptima, and Traiana are trademarks of BrokerTec Europe LTD, EBS Group LTD, TriOptima AB, and Traiana, Inc., respectively. Dow Jones, Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500 and S&P are service and/or trademarks of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC, Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC and S&P/Dow Jones Indices LLC, as the case may be, and have been licensed for use by Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
CME-G
SOURCE CME Group
Related Links
http://www.cmegroup.com


Story 28
Checking your browser before accessing hellenicshippingnews.com.
This process is automatic. Your browser will redirect to your requested content shortly.
Please allow up to 5 seconds…

Story 29
Charter Court Financial Services Group PLC (LON:CCFS) today announced that its subsidiary Charter Mortgages Limited has agreed to sell its residual economic interest in the Precise Mortgage Funding 2019-1B plc securitisation to J.P. Morgan Securities plc for cash consideration of £6.2 million, payable on completion. The Transaction, which is expected to complete on 31July 2019, will involve the sale of the RC2 residual certificates to the securitisation. JPM managed the sale process and purchased the Certificates for onward sale.
The Transaction will generate a pre-tax gain of £28.8 million, which will be recognised in the 2019 financial year. It will also result in a reduction in the gross assets of the Group of c. £389.1 million1 and a reduction in risk weighted assets of c. £206.7 million. The associated increase in common equity tier 1 capital ratio through the reduction in risk weighted assets and the gain on sale will be reinvested to support new loan originations in Charter Court’s specialist lending segments and ongoing business activities. During the period between the issuance of the securitisation and 30 June 2019 the assets being disposed of contributed c. £1.3 million in profit before tax.
Commenting on the Transaction, Sebastien Maloney, CFO of Charter Court, said: “This transaction demonstrates our proactive approach to asset-liability and capital management and our ability to execute capital markets transactions when we judge conditions to be right to generate incremental shareholder value. The demand for the Certificates and the final terms achieved further reflect investor confidence in the quality of our underwriting and our track record of strong loan book growth while maintaining a market-leading cost of risk.”
Background on PMF 2019-1B
PMF 2019-1B was issued on 31 May 2019 and securitised approximately £734 million of prime buy-to-let mortgages originated by Charter Court Financial Services Limited (‘CCFSL’). At the time of issuance, PMF 2019-1B sold all of the rated notes (classes A1, B, C, D, E and X notes to third parties independent of the Group, and the A2 notes to CCFSL), and Charter Mortgages Limited, a Charter Court group company, purchased the residual certificates pertaining to the transaction. It subsequently sold a sub-component of the residual certificates (the ‘RC1’s) earlier in July 2019 to a third-party investor independent of the Group. The Transaction will result in the de-recognition of the securitised mortgages and, as a liability, the rated notes (classes A1, B, C D, E and X notes) from the Group balance sheet.
The Transaction has been agreed today and will settle on 31 July 2019.
A copy of this announcement will be available on Charter Court’s website at: http://www.chartercourtfs.co.uk/
1 Includes £20.3 million of non-mortgage assets in PMF 2019-1B and reflects the recognition on balance sheet of £359.0 million of PMF 2019-1B class A2 notes retained by CCFSL

Story 30
Can Do: From Missoula Startup To International Manufacturer
"Challenges can be construed as opportunities. Challenges can also be construed as obstacles. The one thing that I learned when we first started this company was that everything was an opportunity, and every opportunity we needed to chase."
That’s Larry Kolb, the co-founder and U.S. president of TSI Health Sciences, a manufacturer of functional health care products sold in over 35 countries across the world. In this episode of "Can Do," Larry shares how he co-founded and grew a multifaceted, international business from Missoula, Montana.
Larry’s background is in sales and marketing strategies in personal care, dietary supplements and pharmaceuticals. Twenty-two years ago he and his business partner, Joe Zhou, a Chinese national working as a research scientist at Amway, teamed up to form TSI Health Sciences. The company now manufactures, distributes and performs analytical tests on a variety of health care supplements for consumers of all ages. On this episode of "Can Do," Larry Kolb talks about his trailblazing experience in the world of global health and business.
This week you’ll learn about how to choose the perfect business partner; how to manage a company that spans several cultures; and how to self-finance growth and innovation.
This podcast is made possible with support from the Greater Montana Foundation.

Story 31
16.08.2019 / MaP
Having started the export business in 2013, Daimler India Commercial Vehicles (DICV) has now produced a remarkable 25,000 export units. The milestone truck, a FUSO FJ 1823R was recently shipped to Saudi Arabia. The plant in Oragadam near Chennai is an integral part of Daimler’s global production network for trucks and buses. In fa more >>
Direct route to multi-million bestseller: over 13.6million Corsas sold in 37 years Pioneer: Opel introduces top technologies from higher classes in small car Ready for the future: Corsa “Number 6” also with electric version for first time World premiere: new Corsa and Corsa more >>
McLaren Automotive expands its Australian retail network with addition of McLaren Adelaide Fourth location in the country extends the McLaren luxury ownership experience to South Australian customers Officially opened by George Biggs, Managing Director, McLaren Automotive Asia Pacific and China more >>
Global pilot charging program began in Germany in 2018. U.S. test limited to 200 pilot program vehicles available to eligible California residents. Special 2019 530e PHEV Sedan Induction Charging lease package. more >>
Another celebration took place at the traditional MINI plant with a rich heritage punctually heralding the 60th anniversary of the British premium brand – the anniversary vehicle is a model of the MINI 60 Years Edition.MINI Fans all o more >>
• Kia Motors successfully operates school for five years before handover• Kia’s volunteers working in Ethiopia to support the country’s education and renovation efforts• Green Light Project aids mobility and self-sufficiency in Africa more >>
Total Lubrifiants, a leading player in the global lubricants market, announces the acquisition from Houghton International of its aluminum hot rolling oil (AHRO), steel cold rolling oil (SCRO) and tinplate rolling oil (TPRO) activities in the North American and European Economic Area markets. The transaction includes the associated technical support services in both regions. more >>
All-round safety: Opel Surround Rear Vision provides complete visibility Accident prevention: pedestrians and cyclists in full view during right turns Cost-saving: assistants like Flank Guard and Park Assist protect against dents more >>
Porsche subsidiary continues to expand global networkPorsche Digital has opened a second site in the US in Atlanta (Georgia) to extend the company’s business portfolio for North America. The team of business experts, designers and software engi more >>
The BMW Group announced that Lorenz Makeschin has been named Vice President of the BMW Group Technology Office USA, where he will lead several research and development teams working to bring new technological innovation, products, a more >>
Audi e-tron Scooter: functionality and style for the last mile The rider has one hand free, can look around and give hand signals Production and sales planned for late 2020 more >>
Automobili Lamborghini officially opens its exclusive lifestyle Lounge in Porto Cervo on Sardinia’s Costa Smeralda for the 2019 summer season. Situated on the Promenade du Port, linked to Porto Vecchio (Old Port) and the num more >>
Process and qualification programme adjustedNew technologies require new ways of thinking and working, including in quality management: that’s why, in preparation for its next step into electromobility, Porsche has created an extensive new training programme and adapted its processes. Further drivers are digitalisation and smart mobility: Alongside more >>
The master stroke Fernando Belasteguín, first-ranked world padel champion for 16 straight years and CUPRA ambassador, faces one of the biggest challenges of his career 36 metres high, a 70X50 cm target and a swing executed with pinpoint accuracy The CUPRA Ateca, the best ally for a fea more >>
....to explore Norway's Lofoten Islands Norway has become the latest destination for Lamborghini Avventura, the series of Lamborghini expeditions organized to discover the most spectacular places and roads in the world. more >>
For Lower Emissions and Higher Efficiency Model of aerodynamics: class-leading drag coefficient of only 0.29 Every detail counts: active aero shutter, smooth underbody, rear roof spoiler&nb more >>
Taycan example becomes a secret agent carElectric secret agent car: the Porsche Mission E sports car has a role in the new animated family film from Playmobil. The concept car is the prototype for the first all-electric Porsche, the Taycan, which will be launched in more >>
• Germany, Spain and the UK, the main markets of the Leon• The third generation changed the recent history of the brand This week the third generation SEAT Leon has achieved the million unit more >>
Personnel change in the sales organisationHolger Gerrmann (49), currently Financial Director at Porsche Lizenz-und Handelsgesellschaft (PLH), will assume the position as CEO of Porsche Korea starting from 16 September 2019. more >>
All new-McLaren Paris announced as the 26th retailer in the McLaren European retail network French automotive retailer LS Group appointed to launch all-new McLaren Paris dealership Servicing of McLaren cars to commence at new location from August 1 more >>
For the third consecutive year, Lexus is a sponsor of the Venice International Film Festival – La Biennale di Venezia Lexus UX Hybrid, the first full hybrid electric compact SUV in the premium segment, among the cars at the Biennale Cinema 2019 Actors, directors, and guests will arrive in about 35 Lexus more >>
- Investment of around ten million US dollars in production of fourth-generation batteries - Production of new BMW X5 Plug-in Hybrid to begin in August 2019 BMW Group Plant Spartanburg in the US state of South Caroli more >>
• The Software House announced at the Mobile World Congress will be called SEAT:CODE• New structure led by brand CIO Sebastian Grams, and Carlos Buenosvinos as CTO of the new software centre• This centre of excellence will be located in Barcelona• O more >>
The Touareg “ONE Million” model with special Sechura Beige paintwork. Stylish “ONE Million” model with new special paintwork, perfectly coordinated interior and exclusive details more >>
• Eating right is key when sitting at the wheel for hours• Driving consumes between 1,000 and 1,350 kilocalories a day• Pasta, rice, onions and tomatoes do not make good driving companions• Dehydration is just as dangerous for a driver as being under the more >>
– Fact sheet including quotes by Britta Seeger: The most important facts on "Best Customer Experience 4.0" of Mercedes-Benz Mercedes-Benz is developing its global sales network on a co more >>
Fresh start: Lubinski Group has taken over as importer Lubinski successfully sells Peugeot, Citroën and DS Automobiles vehicles in Israel Profitable sales growth outside Europe important pillar of PACE! plan more >>
The Coscharis Group plant will start assembling Renault Logan and Renault Duster and will distribute the cars through their sales network throughout the country starting October 2019. Groupe Renault is leader in Africa with 18% market share. more >>
Immense spectrum: maximum comfort or outstanding agility The electromechanical suspension system can actuate each wheel individually First-class travel experience: intelligently reduced longitudinal and transverse forces more >>
Mitsubishi Motors Corporation (MMC) announces that it will open its new brand center, MI-Garden GINZA (pronounced "My Garden"), to showcase the combination of inspired design, time-tested engineering, and pioneering technologies that the Mitsubishi Motors brand and its brand message "Drive your Ambition" represent. more >>
- improved aerodynamics and driving dynamics Anyone who wanted to drive an innovative BMW i3 with alternative drive had to do this without sporty accents. This is now changing: the Aachen tuning experts from AC Schnitzer have developed a tuning pr more >>
Durchwachsene Halbjahresbilanz bei LIQUI MOLY –erhebliche Schwierigkeiten durch neue Software Photo: Geschäftsführer Ernst Prost ist wütend wegen der Computerprobleme. more >>
• The SEAT Componentes plant is now making the MQ281 transmission• The maximum annual capacity of the new gearbox totals 450,000 unitsSEAT Componentes, one of the Spanish brand's three production centres more >>
MQ281 manual transmission More efficiency for the volume segment thanks to the new manual gearbox MQ281 Initially installed in the new Passat; other Volkswagen models to follow suit more >>
Following the announcement made by United Autosports to run an Oreca chassis in the World Endurance Championship, Ligier Automotive terminates its exclusive distribution agreement in the United Kingdom with United Autosports and takes back direct control of the distribution of its racing cars in this territory. more >>
Strategic development of the proving ground for future mobility testingAn important milestone dedicated to the vehicle testing of tomorrow: The renovation of the 12.6 kilometer long iconic car circular track and car dynamic platform of the Nardò Technical Center in Apu more >>
· Automated vehicle with safety driver will drive in Brussels city centre· Purpose is to study impact of diversity of human behaviour on automated driving systems· Adding European conditions to the car’s understanding, after successful drives in Japan and the US more >>
• Groupe PSA and VINCI Autoroutes have tested new autonomous vehicle features in Saint-Arnoult-en-Yvelines (France), following on from the trial carried out in July 2017, which led to the crossing of a tollgate in full autonomous mode for the firs more >>

Story 32
MARTINSVILLE, Va. — June 1, 2016 — TSI Yarns (formerly Texturing Services Inc.) joins Atlanta-based industrial fiber distributor Hamilton International group. The transaction combines Hamilton’s fiber sourcing expertise with TSI Yarns’ manufacturing and development, expanding the range and capabilities of both companies.
“TSI can produce 450,000 pounds of textured yarns per week at its modern, ISO 9001 certified, Martinsville facility,” said Art Hamilton, CEO, Hamilton International. “Access to raw materials available through other Hamilton businesses expands the range of solutions that TSI Yarns can provide to its customers.”
“The investment and enthusiasm that comes from being part of an organization committed to growth and American manufacturing gives TSI Yarns a unique opportunity to expand our products and services solutions,” said Ken Carder, TSI Yarns’ general manager and CFO.
Posted June 2, 2016
Source: Hamilton International


Story 33
Aditya Birla Capital Limited ("ABCL" or "the Company"), is the holding company of the financial services businesses of the Aditya Birla Group.

ABCL has received approval from its Board of Directors to raise primary equity capital of Rs 2,100 crores through a preferential allotment to certain marquee investors and the Promoter / Promoter Group entities. The equity capital will be raised at Rs 100 per share, which is at a 10.62% premium to the ABCL closing price of Rs 90.40 as of 4th September 2019, and is subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory and shareholder approvals. The extraordinary general meeting of shareholders ("EoGM") is scheduled for October 5, 2019. The primary equity capital will be raised through an investment of:

- Rs 1,000 crores by an entity affiliated with Advent International ("Advent"),
- Rs 100 crores by an entity affiliated with Premji Invest, and

- Rs 1,000 crores in aggregate by the Promoter, Grasim Industries Limited (Rs 770 crores) and by Promoter Group entities (Rs 230 crores). This is in proportion of the Promoter's and Promoter Group entities' inter-se shareholding in ABCL. The subscription price of Rs 100 per share is at a premium of 5.79% over the floor price as per SEBI ICDR Regulations.

ABCL has entered into definitive share subscription agreements with Jomei Investments Limited, an affiliate of Advent International ("Advent"), one of the largest and most experienced global private equity investors, and PI Opportunities Fund, an affiliate of Premji Invest. Upon the completion of the issuance, Advent, through its affiliate, will hold approximately 4.15% of ABCL's equity capital, while Premji Invest, through its affiliates will hold approximately 4.11% of ABCL's equity capital. The Promoter and Promoter Group entities will hold about 70.54% in ABCL upon the completion of the issuance. The funds raised will be utilised to fund the future growth of the Company's businesses as well as to repay outstanding debt.

ABCL, through its subsidiaries, has created a large and high quality financial services franchise with a track record of consistent execution. In the current market environment, this transaction is testament to the quality and size of business created by ABCL, and its consistent and solid performance over the years. With aggregate AAUM (across asset management and insurance businesses) of over Rs 3 lakh crores, a lending book of Rs 62,000 crores across its NBFC and Housing Finance businesses, and gross written premium of over 8,000 crores, ABCL, through its subsidiaries, is a significant fund manager, lender and insurer in India.

ABCL, through its subsidiaries, enjoys a strong presence across NBFC, asset management, life insurance, housing finance, health insurance, general insurance broking, wealth management, equity, currency and commodity broking, pension fund management and asset reconstruction businesses.

ABCL Chief Executive Ajay Srinivasan, said: "This investment reflects not only the commitment of the Aditya Birla Group to our financial services business, but also the partnership and recognition of a marquee global investor such as Advent International and the continued commitment and conviction of Premji Invest. We recognize and value the trust being placed on us and are committed to remaining focused on creating value for all our shareholders."

Advent International Managing Director and Head of India Shweta Jalan, said: "Advent International's long-term commitment to India remains robust and today, we believe that there is an exciting opportunity to invest into the financial services sector. ABCL is a leading financial services company in India, operating across four key verticals - insurance, lending, asset management and advisory. We are excited about investing in the strong platform created by ABCL, which offers a unique and diversified model to serve the Indian financial services consumer."

Premji Invest Managing Partner & CIO T. K. Kurien said: "Premji Invest is pleased to enhance and deepen its existing partnership with ABCL, a company that has remained focused on creating a unique franchise through a profitable and scalable business model. We are confident about the value that the Company is creating for all stakeholders."

Advent International has been investing in India since 2007 and opened its Mumbai office in 2009. Over the past 12 years, the firm has deployed more than $1 billion in several companies with headquarters or operations in India across sectors such as financial services, consumer products, healthcare, industrial and technology. Advent also has significant investment experience in the business and financial services sector. In the past 28 years, the firm has invested more than $9 billion in over 75 companies in the sector worldwide.

Shares of Aditya Birla Capital Ltd was last trading in BSE at Rs.90.4 as compared to the previous close of Rs. 87.55. The total number of shares traded during the day was 253573 in over 2467 trades.

The stock hit an intraday high of Rs. 91.35 and intraday low of 88.35. The net turnover during the day was Rs. 22757686.

Story 34
SHOREVIEW, Minn., Nov. 9, 2016 /PRNewswire/ -- TSI Incorporated, a global leader in precision instrumentation, today announced that it has acquired MSP Corporation (Shoreview, MN).
MSP Corporation is an instrumentation and equipment company creating products for scientific research and industrial applications. They are known worldwide for their expertise in micro- and nano-particles and their creative use in research and manufacturing. MSP is the world leader in cascade impactor technology with products serving the pharmaceutical and aerosol research markets, as well nano-particle generation and measurement technology serving the semiconductor device fabrication market.
TSI President Tom Kennedy stated, "We are pleased to welcome MSP to the TSI Group. We see exciting long-term collaboration opportunities between the companies in addition to the immediate gains that can be realized by moving MSP's research products through TSI's global sales and distribution network. MSP's founder, Dr. Ben Liu, has been a visionary for many years and built MSP into a world-class organization. We are proud that he has entrusted TSI to grow MSP into the future as a member of the TSI Group."
About TSI Incorporated
TSI Incorporated serves a global market by investigating, identifying and solving measurement problems. As an industry leader in the design and production of precision instruments, TSI partners with research institutions and customers around the world to set the standard for measurements relating to aerosol science, air flow, health and safety, indoor air quality, fluid dynamics and biohazard detection. With headquarters based in the U.S. and field offices throughout Europe and Asia, TSI has established a worldwide presence in the markets we serve. Every day, our dedicated employees turn research into reality.
For more information on TSI Incorporated, visit our website: www.tsi.com, check out our page on Facebook: www.facebook.com/TSIIncorporated, or follow us on Twitter: www.twitter.com/TSIIncorporated.
Media contact:
Danielle Ziemer
TSI Incorporated
800-874-2811
http://www.tsi.com
SOURCE TSI Incorporated
Related Links
http://www.tsi.com


Story 35
Quilter PLC Strategic Review in relation to Old Mutual Wealth Life Insurance Ltd
Quilter plc (LON: QLT) has today confirmed it is undertaking a strategic review in relation to Old Mutual Wealth Life Assurance Limited, the Heritage life assurance business, including the possibility of a disposal of this business.
No decision has been taken by the Board of Quilter plc on any particular option, including whether to effect a disposal of Old Mutual Wealth Life Assurance Limited. Accordingly, there can be no certainty that any transaction will be concluded, or if so, its timing or terms.
A further announcement will be made if and when appropriate.
Quilter plc is a leading wealth management business in the UK and internationally, helping to create prosperity for the generations of today and tomorrow.
Quilter plc oversees £114.9 billion in investments (as at 31 March 2019).
It has an adviser and customer offering spanning: financial advice; investment platforms; multi-asset investment solutions; and discretionary fund management.
The business is comprised of two segments: Advice and Wealth Management and Wealth Platforms.
Advice and Wealth Management encompasses the financial planning network, Quilter Financial Planning; Quilter Private Client Advisers; the discretionary fund management business, Quilter Cheviot; and Quilter Investors, the Multi-asset investment solutions business. Wealth Platforms includes the Old Mutual Wealth UK Platform; Old Mutual International, including AAM Advisory in Singapore; and Old Mutual Wealth Life Assurance, the Heritage life assurance business.
The Quilter plc businesses are being re-branded to Quilter over a period of approximately two years:
• The Multi-asset business is now Quilter Investors
• Intrinsic is now Quilter Financial Planning
• The private client advisers business is now Quilter Private Client Advisers
• The UK Platform to Quilter Wealth Solutions
• The International business to Quilter International
• The Heritage life assurance business to Quilter Life Assurance
• Quilter Cheviot will retain its name.

Story 36
Improving the customer experience is something that almost every marketer is focused on. While many of the headlines are about how Amazon has changed the way we experience the B2C world, the B2B world has taken notice and is taking action to improve the customer experience. However, while e-commerce was once considered to be merely a transactional process, it has evolved into more of a content-driven experience. The goal is to create better experiences for customers based on delivering personalized content that is tailored to each customer’s unique interests.
What impact can customer experience have on your company? According to a report from PwC, Experience is everything: Here’s how to get it right, “73% of all people point to customer experience as an important factor in their purchasing decisions. Yet only 49% of U.S. consumers say companies provide a good customer experience today.”
So why the disconnect? For marketers, the key is to leverage technology that can help deliver the right content to the right customer on the right channel at the right time. Taking a content-driven approach differentiates you from your competitors.
Here are three examples of companies that took a content-driven approach, which resulted in increased revenue and improved the customer experience.
Empowering Digital Marketers
TSI Holdings, one of Japan’s largest fashion retailers with revenue approaching $1.5 billion, has grown at a rapid pace. As with many ecommerce retailers, the growth caused new challenges for the digital marketing team. With 20 of the company’s 38 brands selling online, TSI Holdings launches new digital storefronts at a rapid rate, which means that its digital marketers need the autonomy to create their own web content without relying on the IT team to implement site updates. The company needed to find a way to reduce the content bottleneck to react to customers’ needs in real-time and deliver brand-specific content, such as product images and descriptions, that meets each customer’s needs.
“We work with many brands within our company, and all of the brands have different rules for creating content,” explains Maho Takahashi, Manager for Digital Business Development Division at TSI Holdings. “We wanted to give the brands themselves more power over what kind of content they could upload to their own websites.”
TSI Holdings devised a strategy where marketers within each brand could quickly create content that fit each customer’s unique interests. This included managing the text and images for all types of digital experiences without needing any help from the IT staff. Executing on that strategy meant that each digital marketer could customize and maintain brand identifies on multiple storefronts and campaigns, as well as provide support for multiple languages.
As a result of this strategy, TSI Holdings tackled many of the issues that multi-brand
e-commerce companies face, such as adherence to corporate messaging, image guidelines, and language consistency. Reducing time-to-market is critical for TSI Holdings. By giving digital marketers the freedom and flexibility they need to address changes to content in real-time, content editors can now create new content 2.5x faster and update site content 1.5x faster.
Tailoring Content Based on Customer Preferences
For many large retailers that have multiple technology platforms, it can be hard to tap into customer data to get a truly complete view of each customer. What are the customer’s preferences for shipping? What was their last order? Did they have to call customer service to complain about a late shipment? With all of the power that today’s technology offers, why is it so difficult to get a unified view of the customer?
For GROHE, the challenge went beyond simply getting a better view of its customers. The key was finding a way to make product content more engaging and e-commerce experiences more relevant. GROHE, one of the world’s leading providers of sanitary fittings for water products, has over 60 websites in 80 countries. The company face a challenge that many international companies do — fragmented data across multiple silos that don’t communicate optimally with each other. This includes GROHE’s own internal customer systems, data from wholesalers, retailers, dealers, and sales agencies.
GROHE knew that it needed to help its digital marketers get a 360-degree view of its customers to improve its e-commerce experience. As a result, GROHE combined over 60 websites into one global website with one customer interface. Why is this important? The digital marketers in each region can change images, messages, and promotions based on a holistic view of the customer. Plus, customers can view this type of personalized information across any mobile channel.
Personalizing Content Spurs Purchasing
One company I spoke with, which is one of the largest retailers of baby and children’s clothing in the United States, had to find a better way to personalize content. The marketing team had a very specific requirement—find a way to produce multiple versions of the same content based on each individual’s unique interests. Simply put, they weren’t equipped to deliver the right content to the right person on the right device in real-time.
A few months prior to the 2017 holiday season, the company moved forward with a new content management platform that was tightly integrated with its e-commerce platform. The company quickly pinpointed the importance of having a system in place that could manage the vast amount of content in real time based on each customer’s specific interests. The key was to ensure that the digital marketing team had full control over the content without enlisting the help of the IT team, which would slow down the entire process.
The company implemented the new content-based strategy, which gave digital marketers the ability to manage and change content, rather than relying on the technical team. This reduced the time to market for its product line.
Superior Content Means Superior Customer Experience
Taking a content-driven approach helps digital marketers improve the customer experience by providing them with the personalized content they need and want to make informed decisions. Empowering digital marketers to execute content strategies in real-time also saves time. Understanding each customer, what their preferences are, and tailoring offers to their needs, goes a long way to increasing customer loyalty and raising revenue. It’s a win-win for everyone.

Story 37


This crawler or robot has been disallowed from visting our site.
If you feel this has been in error, please contact our webmaster
Disallowed Crawler User Agents:

Story 38
London Stock Exchange Group plc (LON:LSE) today announced that it has agreed definitive terms with a consortium including certain investment funds affiliated with Blackstone as well as Thomson Reuters to acquire the Refinitiv business in an all share transaction for a total enterprise value of approximately US$27 billion. Blackstone’s consortium includes an affiliate of Canada Pension Plan Investment Board, an affiliate of GIC and certain co-investors. The Transaction will result in the Refinitiv Shareholders ultimately holding an approximate 37 per cent economic interest in LSEG and less than 30 per cent of the total voting rights of LSEG.
The Transaction brings together two highly complementary businesses (the “Combined Business”) to create a leading, UK headquartered, global financial markets infrastructure (“FMI”) provider with a leading data and analytics business, significant capital markets capabilities across multiple asset classes, and a broad post-trade offering, well positioned for future growth in a fast evolving landscape.
The Transaction will enhance LSEG’s existing customer offering by bringing together:
· LSEG’s diversified global business focused on: Information Services through its financial indexing, benchmarking and analytical services, FTSE Russell; Post-Trade services through its leading global multi-asset CCPs, LCH and CC&G, and custody and settlement business; and Capital Markets through its broad range of international equity, fixed income and derivatives markets; and
· Refinitiv’s market data, analytics and execution capabilities are across asset classes and focus on four core customer segments; trading, investment and advisory, wealth, and risk management. In Data and Analytics, where Refinitiv is a leading provider of company, economic, deal, pricing and reference data, low latency real-time data and desktop analytics; in Venues, including the FXall and Matching Foreign Exchange (“FX”) trading platforms and the Tradeweb fixed income trading platform (in which Refinitiv owns a majority interest); and in Risk, where a range of products supports compliance and regulatory needs for a broad number of financial and corporate clients.
The Combined Business will be well positioned in all key geographies and will offer significant customer benefits across the full range of LSEG’s businesses by: extending its trading capabilities across asset classes; expanding its data content, management and distribution capabilities; increasing its global footprint and range of customer offerings; and enabling LSEG, Refinitiv and their customers to benefit from future data and technology-enabled innovation and growth opportunities.
Together, LSEG and Refinitiv generated combined annual revenue of over £6 billion in 2018 (1,3), which would have made the Combined Business the largest listed global FMI provider by revenue last year.
Strategic highlights
The LSEG board (the “Board”) believes the Transaction will:
· Transform LSEG’s position as a leading global FMI group, strengthening its global footprint and accelerating its strategy;
· Significantly enhance LSEG’s customer proposition in data and analytics, accelerating opportunities using intellectual property (“IP“) to provide innovative new services;
· Create a global multi-asset capital markets business with the addition of high-growth foreign exchange and fixed income venues; and
· Deepen and expand LSEG’s and Refinitiv’s shared core principles of customer partnership and open access.
Financial highlights and outlook (2,4)
· Combined Business targeting delivery of revenue compound annual growth rate (“CAGR”) of 5 to 7 per cent over the first three years following completion of the Transaction (“Completion”), achieved through the continued performance of LSEG’s current businesses, the completion of the ongoing transformation of Refinitiv, future growth drivers across both businesses and targeted annual run-rate revenue synergy benefits in excess of £225 million by the end of year five following Completion.
· Improved business mix with recurring revenue increasing from approximately 40 per cent for LSEG standalone to around 70 per cent for the Combined Business based on combined annual revenue for 2018.
· Targeting annual run-rate cost synergies in excess of £350 million by the end of year five following Completion, and significant additional benefits from refinancing Refinitiv’s existing debt.
· Targeting combined adjusted EBITDA margin of around 50 per cent in the medium term following Completion.
· Enhanced returns for LSEG shareholders, with expected returns on invested capital in excess of investment criteria in the third year following Completion and expected adjusted earnings per share accretion of over 30 per cent in the first full year following Completion, increasing in years two and three.
· High level of recurring revenue and strong cash generation to support the maintenance of LSEG’s progressive dividend per share policy, balanced by a focus on returning LSEG’s leverage to its target range of 1.0-2.0x in the 24 to 30 months following Completion, consistent with LSEG’s existing capital management policy.
Other Key Transaction Terms
Governance and management
· The Combined Business will be chaired by Don Robert, LSEG’s Chairman, and led by David Schwimmer as Chief Executive Officer, with David Warren as Chief Financial Officer. David Craig will join LSEG’s Executive Committee and continue as Chief Executive Officer of Refinitiv.
· Refinitiv Holdings Ltd (“Refinitiv Holdings”), which is a company owned by the Refinitiv Shareholders and that currently owns Refinitiv, will be entitled to nominate, subject to, among other considerations, certain regulators not having objected to the proposed nominees:
(i) three non-executive Board members (any such nominee being a “Refinitiv Director”) for as long as they hold at least 25 per cent of LSEG;
(ii) two Refinitiv Directors for as long as they hold at least 17.5 per cent but less than 25 per cent of LSEG; and
(iii) one Refinitiv Director for as long as they hold at least 10 per cent but less than 17.5 per cent of LSEG.
For so long as the Refinitiv Shareholders are entitled to nominate three Refinitiv Directors, one such nominee will be a representative of Thomson Reuters. The other two nominees will be representatives of Blackstone. LSEG will remain in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code following Completion.
· LSEG’s global business will continue to be headquartered in London with a premium listing on the official list of the FCA (the “Official List“) and traded on the London Stock Exchange’s Main Market for listed securities as London Stock Exchange Group plc under ticker symbol LSE.L.
Lock-up and standstill
· The Transaction will result in Refinitiv Holdings and BCP York Holdings (Delaware) L.P. (“ConsortiumCo“), a vehicle owned by the Blackstone Consortium, ultimately holding an economic interest in LSEG equal to approximately 37 per cent and less than 30 per cent of the total voting rights of LSEG (5).
· The Refinitiv Shareholders will, through their interests in Refinitiv Holdings, have an important investment in the Combined Business and will be supportive long-term shareholders after Completion. Accordingly, Refinitiv Holdings and ConsortiumCo have agreed to be subject to a lock-up for the first two years following Completion. The lock-up arrangements will apply to all of the consideration shares issued by LSEG, with the exception of 5,781,285 shares, which will be tradeable at any time after 30 days from Completion to allow the Refinitiv Shareholders to fund certain Transaction-related expenses. In each of years three and four following Completion, Refinitiv Holdings and ConsortiumCo will become entitled to sell in aggregate one-third of the shares issued to them. The lock-up arrangement will terminate on the fourth anniversary of Completion. Once Refinitiv Holdings and ConsortiumCo are released from the lock-up, any disposals of shares will be subject to orderly marketing restrictions. A standstill restriction will also apply to Refinitiv Holdings, ConsortiumCo and the Refinitiv Shareholders (under which they will agree not to, among other matters, acquire further shares in, or make a takeover offer for, LSEG) until the third anniversary of Completion (and thereafter for so long as Refinitiv Holdings and ConsortiumCo hold 10 per cent or more of LSEG or have a Refinitiv Director appointed to the Board). For the duration of the standstill, Refinitiv Holdings and ConsortiumCo have committed to vote in line with the Board’s recommendation on resolutions to be voted on by LSEG shareholders at a general meeting (including an annual general meeting) subject to certain exceptions.
Steps to Completion
· The Transaction is conditional, among other things, upon:
(i) approval of the Transaction by LSEG shareholders (by ordinary resolution) at a general meeting (the “General Meeting“) of LSEG;
(ii) given the Transaction is classified as a Reverse Takeover under the Listing Rules of the FCA, the publication by LSEG of a prospectus (the “Prospectus“) and the FCA and London Stock Exchange agreeing to admit LSEG’s enlarged ordinary share capital to the premium listing segment of the Official List and to trading on the London Stock Exchange’s Main Market for listed securities;
(iii) there having been no breach of the representations and warranties that has had a material adverse effect on LSEG or Refinitiv between signing and Completion;
(iv) relevant competition approvals being obtained, including in the EU and the US; and
(v) relevant financial regulatory approvals being obtained, including in the UK, France, Italy and the US.
· The approval of LSEG shareholders will be sought at the General Meeting, which will be convened before the end of 2019. Completion is expected to occur during the second half of 2020.
Commenting on the Transaction, Don Robert, Chairman, LSEG, said: “This transaction is a defining moment for LSEG in terms of its strategic importance. It will create substantial value for our shareholders and important benefits for our customers, employees and other stakeholders. The Board and I look forward to welcoming Blackstone and Thomson Reuters as supportive, long-term shareholders as we work together to realise the compelling benefits of this transaction.”
Commenting on the Transaction, David Schwimmer, CEO, LSEG, said: “With the acquisition of Refinitiv, we will transform our position as a leading global Financial Markets Infrastructure group. Refinitiv brings highly complementary capabilities in data and capital markets, as well as deep customer relationships across a truly global business. We share a commitment to open access and to partnering with our customers to deliver innovative solutions across the financial markets value chain. Our shareholders and customers will benefit from attractive top line growth prospects, substantial cost and revenue synergies, as well as ongoing efficiency initiatives, and this transaction will ensure we are well positioned for future growth in an evolving landscape.”
Commenting on the Transaction, Martin Brand, Senior Managing Director at Blackstone, said: “Refinitiv has been an outstanding performer for Blackstone and our partners Thomson Reuters, CPPIB, and GIC. We believe the combination announced today creates a strongly positioned leader in financial markets infrastructure, and we are excited about the continued prospects of Blackstone’s investment as a long-term partner of LSEG.”
Commenting on the Transaction, David Craig, CEO, Refinitiv, said: “LSEG’s business is highly complementary with Refinitiv’s leading global data platform, transaction and distribution network. Our aim is to capture the opportunity of data which we believe is driving unprecedented change in the global financial community. The combined business will allow us to better serve customers across all regions. Our two companies both have strong heritages, a shared approach to open access and partnership, and we are excited to work with the LSEG team to create a leading financial markets infrastructure group and to continue to invest in our business.”
Conference call details
LSEG will host a conference call for investors and analysts today at 09:30am (UK time).
To access the telephone conference call please pre-register using the following link and instructions below: http://emea.directeventreg.com/registration/5664169
· Please register in advance of the conference using the link above. Upon registering with your full name, company name and email address, you will be provided with participant dial-in numbers, Direct Event passcode and unique registrant ID.
· In the 10 minutes prior to the call start time, you will need to use the conference access information provided in the email received at the point of registering.
Due to regional restrictions some participants may receive operator assistance when joining this conference call and will not be automatically connected.
Participants will be able to access the presentation slides by going to LSEG’s website using the following link: https://www.lseg.com/investor-relations/financial-reports-and-key-documents
A recording of the conference call will be available later today, after the conclusion of the call, available on the same section of LSEG’s website as above.

Story 39
A look at some of today's biggest risers and fallers in London
Parkmead plans to install wind turbines, a solar farm and a biomass production facility on the acquired land
Shares in independent oil and gas firm Parkmead Group PLC ( ) moved lower after announcing the acquisition of Pitreadie Farm Limited, the owner of extensive farmland and sites in Scotland.
Parkmead said it will use the deal to move into renewable energy with plans to install wind turbines, a solar farm and a biomass production facility on the acquired land, which totals 2,230 acres.
The company will buy Pitreadie for £4.9mln, which will be paid for through the issue of shares. Parkmead will also assume £3.6mln of debt held by Pitreadie.
Its shares fell 5.7% to 47.9p.
URU Minerals Ltd PLC ( ) shares edged up 10% to 275p after saying South Africa accepted an application for three prospecting rights that form the Zebediela project.
The application, submitted by URU’s subsidiary Lesego Uitloop, included areas in the Limpopo Province of South Africa.
URU said the South African Department of Mineral Resources will now process the application and the company “looks forward to receiving the mining right in due course”.
2.00pm: shares fall on wider full-year loss
PLC ( ) shares dipped 10% to 0.135p after posting a wider full-year loss.
The AIM-listed investment firm said its pre-tax loss rose to £2.6mln in the year to the end of March from £768,851 last year as revenue fell to £262,000 from £2.6mln.
Two Shields recorded a loss on the disposal of financial assets at fair value of £691,428 and an impairment charge of £820,503.
"Following the completion of our strategic review, we continue to implement our strategy of focusing on rapidly growing, disruptive markets including social e-commerce and cyber security," said chairman Andrew Lawley.
( ) shares rose 14.7% to 0.10p after its judicial restructuring plan to recover and restart operations at the Amapa iron ore project in Brazil was approved.
The plan was submitted to the commercial court of Sao Paulo and was approved on Thursday, allowing
Cadence said once preconditions relating to the railway licenses and bank creditor arrangements have been met, a US$2.5mln investment it placed in a judicial trust account will be released and Cadence will own 20% of Amapá.
Cadence plans to invest a further US$3.5mln on the grant of all operational and environmental licenses for Amapá, giving it a 27% stake in the project.
11.30am: Jaywing shares fly lower after delaying 2019 results as it seeks funding
( ) shares slid 41% to 3.5p after saying it would delay the publication of its results as it holds talks with lenders and two major shareholders to secure much-needed funds.
The marketing company said it expects to publish its 2019 financial year results by the end of September instead of the end of August as previously planned.
Jaywing, which warned in July that the first quarter was “very weak”, said trading has improved since the end of June but conditions remain “challenging with client activity adversely impacted by the uncertain economic and political outlook”.
Shares in Mr Kipling maker Premier Foods PLC ( ) sweetened after it ended a nine-month search for a chief executive.
Premier named Alex Whitehouse, its UK managing director, as chief executive.
It also appointed the former boss of FTSE 250 industrial group Essentra, Colin Day, as chairman.
The news comes amid a strategic review and pressure from activist investors to turnaround the heavily indebted company.
Shares rose 1.2% to 33.4p.
9.40am: Global Resources Investment Trust shares jump as it agrees to sell stake in Anglo African Minerals
Global Resources Investment Trust PLC ( ) shares surged 187% to 4.75p after saying it agreed to sell its stake in Anglo African Minerals PLC to Makar Navis.
The trust will receive US$5.2mln, including US$3.3mln for shares and at least US$1.9bn for debt.
Global Resources said the disposal would result in a “material uplift” to its net asset value per share.
( ) share shot up 11.6% to 2.15p after the cyber security firm’s parent company SecurEnvoy signed a distribution agreement with EMT Distribution.
EMT Distribution will act as a distribution partner for SecurEnvoy’s products in the Middle East, Turkey and Africa.
PLC ( ) shares took a kicking as its chief executive stood down and the group issued a profit warning due to the “tough high street”.
The AIM-listed footwear retailer said it now expected its full-year performance to be “below its expectations” as a result of the difficult trading conditions, adding that its Big Box and Digital elements of its growth strategy were being offset by the slowdown despite “progressing strongly”.
Chief executive, Nick Davis, has resigned from the board to pursue other business interests and would be leaving the group with immediate effect, it said.
Shares plunged 30% to 134p.
Ltd ( ) shares dropped 14.5% to 2.65p after saying it could be suspended from trading on AIM as it has become a cash shell following its decision to relinquish the retention licence over the Salmon Gums lignite tenements in Australia.
The company relinquished the licence after a review into the economic feasibility of the project.
The review considered the current and long term forecast for the continued “relatively low oil prices” and the continuing costs of maintaining the retention licence.
“With the relinquishment of this licence, Spitfire becomes an AIM Rule 15 cash shell,” it said.
“As such, the company will be required to make an acquisition (or acquisitions) which constitutes a reverse takeover under AIM Rule 14 on or before 29 February 2020.
“If no such acquisition is completed by 29 February 2020, the company's shares would then be suspended from trading on AIM pursuant to AIM Rule 40.”
Proactive news headlines:
Polymer maker ( ) has promoted its finance and operations director to the role of chief financial officer. Laura Denner, who joined Itaconix as its financial controller in 2013, will take over from the departing Michael Norris on 1 September.
Ltd ( ) has completed the second stage of a joint investment in a luxury ski resort development in Japan.
( ) said it will ask shareholders to approve the sale of its interest in Circum Minerals Ltd as part of a possible fundraise.
Alba Minerals Resources Plc ( ), in its interim results, highlighted the Clogau Welsh gold project and the Horse Hill oil project as key assets with the shortest route to success.


Story 40
Ranchi/Dhanbad: Tata Power, India’s largest integrated power company has always been committed to deliver value added services to its consumers backed by innovation. Being a front-runner in customer centricity, Tata Power Mumbai has developed a unique customer loyalty programme – ‘Power Rewards’, the first by any power utility in India.
All customers who pay their Tata Power bills either through offline or online payment methodswould qualify to be awarded loyalty points through the Power Rewards app. Consumers can also earn additional bonus points by making payments through digital or electronic modes and other interactions with Tata Power.
The entire process of points being credited to customers would be automated. Consumers would have options to redeem their “Power Loyalty Points” across different merchant brands/categories in the form of exclusive discounts/vouchers/offers/services.
Commenting on the launch, Praveer Sinha, CEO & Managing Director, Tata Power said, “The introduction of the Loyalty Rewards programmewill revolutionize customer service and strengthen consumerloyalty. In a fast-paced, competitive and technology-driven world, Tata Power has pioneered to become the first power utility in India to provide these services. It willensure that our customers get the best-in-the-class experience hassle-free at their fingertips.”
Customers will be able to enroll for the loyalty programme by simply using their mobile number and Consumer Account (CA) Number. Tata Power has collaborated with Transactions Solutions International (TSI) India Private Limited – a Company specializing in transaction related solutions and customising them.
Like this: Like Loading...

Story 41
TORONTO, May 30, 2019 /CNW/ - This week, 30 high-needs elementary schools across Canada learned that they would benefit from the Indigo Love of Reading Foundation's annual $1.5 million in Literacy Fund grants. Indigo, Chapters and Coles stores across the country hosted community celebrations at their local grant school, where they revealed the grant amount and honoured the school's achievements and dedication to literacy.
From sparking imagination to developing literacy skills at an early age, books play a crucial role in the lives of children and help them achieve future success. Many students across Canada have limited access to books at home and they rely on their schools to provide early exposure to books and ignite a love of reading. Unfortunately, due to inadequate public funding, Canadian elementary schools struggle with offering healthy libraries that contain new and engaging material.
"The pervasive lack of books in Canadian high-needs elementary schools creates a devastating roadblock for many educators as they strive to teach their students to read," said Ariel Siller, Executive Director of the Indigo Love of Reading Foundation. "Our goal is to bridge the public funding gap and offer Canadian teachers and students the books and literacy resources they need to create powerful and enriching learning environments. Thanks to the support of Indigo employees and customers, we have the incredible opportunity to make a difference in the lives of thousands of children and inspire them to fall in love with reading."
The Indigo Love of Reading Foundation's grants provide high-needs schools with an opportunity to grow their libraries and place more books in the hands of children in their communities. In addition to replacing resources that are damaged beyond repair as well as books with outdated material that are often 20 or more years old1, teachers and students can choose books that reflect the needs of their classrooms and communities, thereby strengthening a love of reading, as well as impacting their educational and future successes.
As a result of this year's Literacy Fund grants, over 9,000 students across the country will attend schools that have funds for more than 150,000 books over the next three years.
The 2019 Indigo Love of Reading Foundation Literacy Fund grant recipients:
Abbott School, Alberta
Ashmont School, Alberta
Ted Harrison School, Alberta
Airport Elementary School, British Columbia
Gwa'sala-'Nakwaxda'xw School, British Columbia
Lord Roberts Elementary, British Columbia
Pearson Road Elementary, British Columbia
Lord Nelson School, Manitoba
Victor Mager School, Manitoba
École Soleil Levant, New Brunswick
Port Elgin Regional School, New Brunswick
Larkhall Academy, Newfoundland and Labrador
Charles Tetcho School, Northwest Territories
Chief Julius School, Northwest Territories
Fairview Heights Elementary, Nova Scotia
Leo Ussak Elementary School, Nunavut
Blaydon Public School, Ontario
Grenoble Public School, Ontario
Gulfstream Public School, Ontario
Killaloe Public School, Ontario
King George School, Ontario
Prince Edward Public School, Ontario
Westwood Primary School, Prince Edward Island
École Victor-Côté, Québec
École primaire Sainte-Bibiane, Québec
Flemming Elementary School, Québec
St. Gabriel, Québec
Tsi Snaihne School, Québec
Seven Stones Community School, Saskatchewan
St. Michael School, Saskatchewan
Now in its 15th year, the Indigo Love of Reading Foundation has committed more than $31 million to over 3,000 high-needs elementary schools across the country through all of its programs, impacting over one million Canadian children. Schools interested in applying for the 2020 Literacy Fund grant can learn more at www.loveofreading.org.
Indigo Love of Reading Foundation & First Book Canada Grant Day Partnership
In addition to the 2019 Literacy Fund grants, the Indigo Love of Reading Foundation has once again partnered with First Book Canada, which provides new books to children in need, addressing one of the most important factors affecting literacy – access to books. As part of this partnership, the Indigo Love of Reading Foundation and First Book Canada will provide more than 1,500 new books to each of the 30 runner-up schools that applied for the Literacy Fund grant, a donation of more than 45,000 books in total. This year, books will be generously donated from Bayard, Les Editions Heritage, Disney Worldwide Publishing, Marvel Press, Disney Press, Lucasfilm Press, and Hyperion Press.
About the Indigo Love of Reading Foundation
Indigo Books & Music Inc. founded the Indigo Love of Reading Foundation in 2004 to address the underfunding of public elementary school libraries. To date, the Foundation has committed over $31 million to more than 3,000 high-needs schools, impacting over one million children. The Foundation runs two signature programs each year. In May 2019, the Indigo Love of Reading Foundation Literacy Fund grants committed $1.5 million to 30 high-needs elementary schools that lack the resources to build and maintain healthy school libraries. Additionally, each fall, the Foundation's annual grassroots Adopt a School program unites the Foundation with Indigo, its employees, its customers and their communities to raise funds to support high-needs elementary schools across Canada and put even more books into the hands of children. In October 2018, the Indigo Adopt a School program contributed over $1.1 million to more than 600 schools across Canada, impacting more than 200,000 children. To learn more about the Foundation, visit www.loveofreading.org
_____________________________ 1 Source: Love of Reading Literacy Fund grant applications.
SOURCE Indigo Love of Reading Foundation
For further information: For media requests please contact: Kathleen McGoldrick, MSL Canada, kathleen.mcgoldrick@mslgroup.com; Melissa Perri, Indigo Books & Music Inc., mperri@indigo.ca

Story 42
HOUSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Virtus Partners, LLC (“Virtus”), a market leader in technology-enabled, alternative asset collateral administrative services and Trade Settlement, Inc. (“TSI”), a New York-based primary and secondary loan trading settlement and documentation service provider and the industry leader in automated loan closings, announced today the completed strategic acquisition of TSI’s business and assets by Virtus.
“We are excited about the opportunities this acquisition provides to our clients and the ever-evolving loan market,” stated Kelly Faykus, Co-Founder and Managing Partner of Virtus. “The combination of Virtus’ expansive database of loan market information and TSI’s strong settlement capabilities will create substantial opportunities to reduce trade settlement times while providing more robust management reporting and a framework to enhance market liquidity.”
Virtus provides a comprehensive, integrated suite of front, middle, and back office alternative asset administrative and analytical services. Its global offering extends across collateral administration services for structured transactions, middle office outsourcing, global loan data, loan agency, accounting and analytics. Today, the company administers over $180 billion in assets across its platform.
“Virtus Partners is an ideal fit for our company in terms of client services, global relationships, and a culture of growth with the ability to meet the execution and processing needs of our clients in the syndicated loan space,” said Pat Loret de Mola, TSI’s Founder and CEO. “Our companies have a similar history in supporting loan investors, traders and agent banks by providing key infrastructure and services required to grow their businesses.” Ms. Loret de Mola will continue as President of TSI.
Mr. Faykus added, “By expanding Virtus’ product offering to include TSI’s electronic settlement platform we can provide our clients and the marketplace with a complete suite of solutions for their middle and back office administrative needs while continuing to focus on greater liquidity, transparency and control within the loan asset class.”
About Trade Settlement, Inc. (TSI)
Established in June 2000, Trade Settlement, Inc.® is the premier industry leader in automated loan closings. TSI introduced the first integrated, post-trade loan settlement platform serving the $3.0 trillion Primary and Secondary syndicated loan markets. The Company supports all of the major Agent banks and well over 600 buy-side firms. TSI's cloud-based platform brings efficiency, speed, seamless data integration, and high-speed connectivity to the loan closing process. For more information please visit: www.trade-settlement.com
About Virtus Partners Holdings, LLC
Virtus provides alternative asset administrative and middle office services and data to funds and various investment vehicles, including hedge and private equity funds, separate accounts, total return swaps and collateralized loan obligations (CLOs). With offices in Houston, Austin, New York, Shanghai and London, Virtus specializes in tailored middle office solutions for managers looking to outsource their fixed-income requirements. For more information please visit: www.virtusllc.com.

Story 43
Pursuant to Listing Rule 9.6.14(2) Micro Focus International (LON:MCRO) today announced that Kevin Loosemore, Executive Chairman, has been appointed to the Board of De La Rue plc as a non-executive director and chairman designate with effect from 2nd September 2019. At the same time he has relinquished the Chairmanship of IRIS Software Group to ensure that he can continue to fulfil his obligations as Executive Chairman of Micro Focus. Kevin will succeed the incumbent De La Rue chairman on 1 October 2019.
Micro Focus also announces that Darren Roos, non-executive director, will be leaving the Board with immediate effect. Darren joined the Board as a Director nominated by HPE as part of the HPE transaction. The period for HPE to nominate directors has now expired and Darren is stepping down to focus on his growing executive commitments. The Board would like to thank Darren for his commitment and contributions over the past two years and wish him well.

Story 44
Zacks Investment Research upgraded shares of Town Sports International (NASDAQ:CLUB) from a sell rating to a hold rating in a research note published on Tuesday morning, Zacks.com reports.
According to Zacks, “TOWN SPORTS INTERNATIONAL, INC. health club company is the largest in the Northeastern United States. TSI owns and operates the Sports Clubs Network of clubs, which includes New York Sports Clubs, Boston Sports Clubs, Washington Sports Clubs and Philadelphia Sports Clubs. There are also three locations in Switzerland: the Forum and the Joggeli Fitness Clubs in Basel and the Luxor Club in Zurich. All Sports Clubs locations offer a multitude of options for everyone, including a wide range of group exercise and fitness programs. Select facilities also offer racquet sports, pools, basketball courts and other recreational activities. All Clubs are fully equipped with tons of strength training equipment, cardiovascular machines and other exercise equipment. Additional services such as personal training, massage, steam room and sauna, Sports Clubs for Kids and fitness assessments are also available. “
Get Town Sports International alerts:
A number of other research firms also recently commented on CLUB. ValuEngine raised Town Sports International from a sell rating to a hold rating in a research note on Thursday, August 1st. Imperial Capital set a $3.00 target price on Town Sports International and gave the stock a buy rating in a report on Tuesday, August 20th.
CLUB opened at $1.92 on Tuesday. Town Sports International has a one year low of $1.11 and a one year high of $9.29. The stock’s fifty day moving average is $1.78 and its 200-day moving average is $2.43.
Town Sports International (NASDAQ:CLUB) last posted its quarterly earnings data on Thursday, July 25th. The company reported ($0.05) EPS for the quarter, missing the Zacks’ consensus estimate of ($0.02) by ($0.03). The firm had revenue of $118.70 million during the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $119.57 million. On average, research analysts forecast that Town Sports International will post -0.29 EPS for the current year.
In other Town Sports International news, CEO Patrick Walsh purchased 216,266 shares of the stock in a transaction dated Monday, August 26th. The shares were acquired at an average price of $1.52 per share, for a total transaction of $328,724.32. Following the completion of the acquisition, the chief executive officer now owns 2,304,967 shares of the company’s stock, valued at approximately $3,503,549.84. The acquisition was disclosed in a document filed with the Securities & Exchange Commission, which can be accessed through this link. Also, insider Pw Partners Atlas Fund Iii, Lp purchased 395,126 shares of the stock in a transaction dated Wednesday, August 28th. The shares were acquired at an average price of $1.68 per share, for a total transaction of $663,811.68. The disclosure for this purchase can be found here. Insiders purchased a total of 696,549 shares of company stock worth $1,153,274 over the last 90 days. Insiders own 13.30% of the company’s stock.
Several hedge funds have recently modified their holdings of the company. Meeder Asset Management Inc. grew its holdings in shares of Town Sports International by 3,383.1% during the third quarter. Meeder Asset Management Inc. now owns 20,376 shares of the company’s stock valued at $34,000 after buying an additional 19,791 shares in the last quarter. Jane Street Group LLC purchased a new position in shares of Town Sports International during the second quarter valued at $154,000. D. E. Shaw & Co. Inc. purchased a new position in shares of Town Sports International during the second quarter valued at $104,000. Jefferies Group LLC purchased a new position in shares of Town Sports International during the second quarter valued at $39,000. Finally, Morgan Stanley grew its holdings in shares of Town Sports International by 6,018.2% during the second quarter. Morgan Stanley now owns 270,606 shares of the company’s stock valued at $587,000 after buying an additional 266,183 shares in the last quarter. Institutional investors and hedge funds own 66.35% of the company’s stock.
About Town Sports International
Town Sports International Holdings, Inc, together with its subsidiaries, owns and operates fitness clubs in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions of the United States. The company's clubs offer special purpose rooms for group fitness classes; and other exercise programs, as well as accommodate cardiovascular and strength-training equipment.
Featured Story: How does a reverse stock split work?
Get a free copy of the Zacks research report on Town Sports International (CLUB)
For more information about research offerings from Zacks Investment Research, visit Zacks.com
Receive News & Ratings for Town Sports International Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Town Sports International and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter.

Story 45
By: AJOT | May 22 2019 at 05:12 AM | Air Cargo News
Self-serve air cargo booking platform SkySpace Cargo is “not for sale.”
Miami-based startup SkySpace Cargo developed the first online booking platform for air cargo, allowing freight forwarders to compare routes, get quotes and coordinate vendors in real time. The startup has enjoyed rapid growth since its founding in 2016, opening three new locations this year to serve its expanding customer base.
The innovative technology has garnered attention from customers and investors alike. On April 25, 2019, Beijing-based Sino VC submitted an offer to buy 100 percent of the company’s shares for $21 million, according to records filed with the Chinese Securities Regulatory Commission. SkySpace rejected the early venture firm’s un-solicited acquisition offer.
A representative from the startup said its board of directors “carefully considered the proposal, noting that the company has not conducted and is not conducting a sale process.” Though the online freight marketplace has received other attractive offers, they concluded that “the company is not for sale.”
SkySpace CEO Toby Raworth believes it is too soon in the startup’s trajectory for a sale or significant change in the company structure. He emphasized that he did not start this project in pursuit of a quick exit, but rather intends to build long term and lasting partnerships in the industry.
An industry veteran himself, Raworth founded SkySpace to address some of the inefficiencies in international freight forwarding logistics. The company partners with more than 100 airlines to offer 50,000 searchable flight options, with prices updated daily. It represents significant time savings and cost predictability for freight forwarders, which has fueled the startup’s growth. Over the last 12 months, SkySpace has opened customer service centers in Miami, Mexico and Buenos Aires, and has announced intentions to expand to Poland and China in the coming year.
Despite modest returns, the company’s large subscriber base and low-cost model present an enticing opportunity for investors. The technology could be leveraged by companies with peer-to-peer or user-centric platform management needs.
Though not currently looking to sell, the company representative said SkySpace will provide would-be investors notice of any potential acquisition opportunities should the situation change.
“Any future determination of whether to pursue a sale or other strategic transaction would be made by the board of directors and senior management based on the particular facts and circumstances and an evaluation of whether any such transaction would be in the best interests of our stakeholders,” records show.

Story 46
A look back at some of this week's more interesting stories from London's junior market
Press reports on Sunday suggested ASOS was aiming to cut around 100 jobs
While the business pages this week were dominated by news that will be slashing its employee numbers, one of AIM’s big hitters, ( ), also seems to be sharpening its redundancy axe.
Press reports emerged on Sunday that the online clothing giant and former ‘King of AIM’ was looking to serve P45’s to around 100 employees at its London office, most of which are expected to come from its marketing department.
The chatter around a jobs cull follows a difficult year so far for the e-commerce giant, which reported an 87% drop in first-half profits in April amid rising warehousing costs, savage discounting and a struggling retail environment.
Investors, however, seemed to shrug off the speculation, with the shares rising 1.4% in the week to 2,644p.
Elsewhere on the junior market, Neil Woodford got some good news (for a change) after Mercia Asset Management PLC ( ), which his Woodford Patient Capital Trust PLC ( ) (PCT) had previously bailed out to improve its liquidity, rose 2.8% to 33.1p over the week after a strong set of final results that saw profits rise 62%.
There was also some good investment news during the week for a trio of AIM-listed backers of social shopping platform WeShop after it boasted of “considerable momentum” in its second quarter.
The news sent shares in PLC ( ) up 14.3% to 0.1p while fellow investors PLC ( ) and PLC ( ) climbed 26% to 0.1p and 33% to 0.2p respectively.
One of the week’s biggest risers was biotech firm Redx Pharma PLC ( ), which rocketed 92% higher to 12p after selling one of its cancer research programmes to US-based Jazz Pharmaceuticals in a deal worth up to $203 million.
Among the miners, PLC ( ) bounced 9.5% to 23p after securing a partnership with two Chinese power firms to develop a coal and power project in north-west Bangladesh.
Elsewhere, ( ) surged 55% higher to 10.2p as it received a patent for a filter that captures microplastic particles shed by washing clothes as part of an effort to reduce plastic pollution.
Fellow tech firm ( ) also jumped 17.6% higher to 6.4p on the back of follow up orders for its products from leading Indian infrastructure group Power and Toshiba Information Systems (UK).
Meanwhile, small cap legal eagle Knights Group Holdings PLC ( ) charged 4.9% higher to 280p following its maiden full-year results which saw pre-tax profits more than double.
Overall, the AIM All-Share index was barely moved over the week, falling 0.01% to 916.6. Although this was better than the FTSE 100, which was down 0.27% at 7,533.
In the fallers corner, divine intervention failed to save PLC ( ) as news that it had acquired the publishing and writer’s share of income for Christian pop hit 'God’s Not Dead' was overshadowed by a 21% fall in half-year profits. The shares tumbled 14.3% to 6p.
( ) shed 2.8% to 68.5p after the termination of its management contract for the Hodges Bay Resort & Spa in Antigua, however, there was one silver lining in the form of a $1.5 million loan repayment.
There was no such bright spot for consulting business ( ), which nosedived 28.3% to 8.5p after issuing a profit warning for the year ahead, blaming political and economic uncertainty for a sharp drop in client spending.
Telematics group ( ) hit the buffers, sinking 15.5% to 19p after its full-year results revealed a swing to a loss alongside a 35% fall in revenues.
Joining the descent was gold explorer ( ), which sank 18.9% to 10.8p after a legal dispute with the government of Rajasthan was delayed by the courts.
Finally, it looks like it’s going to be a busier than average summer for London’s bankers and brokers as the number of stock market listings starts to crank up after a Brexit-inspired hiatus early in the year.
So, keep a weather eye open for a company called Zaim Credit Systems.
The Russia-focused fintech styles itself as a micro-finance specialist.
Here in the UK, we’d describe it as a payday loans specialist.
Word is it will take a fast-track stock exchange listing sometime towards the end of the holiday period.

Story 47
Seat is adding a plug-in hybrid powertrain to the Tarraco line-up and the sporty FR trim.
With a 13kWh battery pack, the Tarraco PHEV will offer an all-electric range of more than 30 miles and CO2 below 50g/km.
Seat sold a record 369,500 vehicles in the first seven months of the year, with 55,200 vehicles sold in July alone, a 7.8% increase over 2018.
The Tarraco is contributing to increase the company’s presence globally, and the introduction of both the FR trim and plug-in hybrid technology will be key components in achieving its targets, said Seat.
Luca de Meo, Seat president, explained:“The Tarraco plug-in hybrid perfectly illustrates our move towards a more sustainable mobility, yet maintaining the dynamism and fun-to-drive, typical of any SEAT.
“The Tarraco will be one of the few options with a plug-in hybrid powertrain on the large SUV segment, and we believe that it has a great potential.”
The plug-in hybrid powertrain system comprises of a 1.4 litre TSI 110 kW petrol engine, 85 kW electric motor and a 13 kWh lithium-ion battery pack.
Total output for the system is 245PS (180kW)/400Nm giving the plug-in hybrid Tarraco a top speed of 135mph and the ability to reach 62mph in 7.4 seconds.
Meanwhile, Seat says introducing the FR trim to the Tarraco will enhance the large SUVs desirability yet further, and bring new levels of sportiness to its character.
The exterior design has been enhanced, with wider wheel arches, a sporty rear spoiler and FR-specific 19” alloy wheels, with an option to have machined 20” wheels available.
New options include trailer assist – which makes towing considerably easier, and reduce the likelihood users will encounter difficulties when parking, and the Parking Heater, a system that allow you to warm the engine and vehicle faster in extremely cold weather.
Inside, there’s a new navigation system with 9.2 inch screen, while front occupants now benefit from electric sports bucket seats with memory function (for the driver side).
In addition, there are aluminium pedals and a new sports steering wheel with FR logo.
The introduction of the FR trim and advanced plug-in hybrid powertrain, according to Seat, positions the Tarraco as one of the sportiest, most efficient models in the large SUV segment.
Start of production of the FR trim and of the PHEV version will take place during the course of 2020.
The Tarraco FR PHEV will make its world debut at this year’s IAA Frankfurt International Motor Show.

Story 48


This crawler or robot has been disallowed from visting our site.
If you feel this has been in error, please contact our webmaster
Disallowed Crawler User Agents:

Story 49
North Carolina-based The Dilweg Cos. has acquired a four-building office complex in the Westshore area of Tampa for $52 million, bringing its Gulf Coast holdings to nearly 1.2 million square feet.
The purchase of Concourse Center represents the latest in a wave of acquisitions by the firm since it expanded to the Sunshine State in 2017. In addition to Westshore, Dilweg also owns office buildings in downtown Sarasota, Lakewood Ranch, Northeast and Northwest Tampa and on Rocky Point.
In all, the company has invested more than $200 million to buy 11 office assets.
Dilweg bought the series of three-story buildings, at 3501-3507 E. Frontage Road, from CRA Advisors in late April.
The 295,000-square-foot project was 90% occupied at the time of the sale, to BayCare Medical Group, the State of Florida’s Attorney General’s Office, Enterprise and Pegasus TSI, among others.
TCM Bank is slated to move into roughly 22,000 square feet in the complex by the end of the year. BayCare is the center’s largest tenant, with about 75,000 square feet.
As it has elsewhere in Florida, Dilweg intends to invest significant capital to upgrade Concourse Center, which was constructed between 1982 and 1984.
Elizabeth Madzula, Dilweg’s Florida managing director, says the company plans to spend about $4 million to improve the buildings’ common areas, operating systems and amenity package.
“We view this as a core-plus acquisition,” Madzula says. “We believe in the fundamentals in Tampa and this presented a good opportunity to buy a quality project below replacement costs.”
Dilweg’s purchase also marks the latest activity on East Frontage Road in Westshore.
Last month, Tampa-based Zons Development unveiled plans for a 13-story, mixed-use development that will contain 100,000 square feet of office space and a 138-room Cambria Hotel, together with retail space and parking on a once-acre site.
Skyview Plaza, at 3413 E. Frontage Road, will commence construction early next year. The hotel will be only the third in Florida to carry the Cambria flag, after properties in Dania Beach and Miami.
Zons anticipates completing the $90 million project in the first half of of 2021, and possibly developing another 100,000 square feet of office space after the end of that year.

Story 50
118 companies offering healthcare RCM services
Revenue cycle management is essential to any business's strategy. These processes are only growing in importance in healthcare as every dollar is expected to stretch further than before.
Here are 118 companies that provide revenue cycle management solutions specific to the healthcare industry.
3M Health Information Systems (Salt Lake City). 3M Health Information Systems offers a number of RCM products and services. The company's 3M Ambulatory Revenue Management Software is designed to reduce compliance risks and achieve maximum reimbursement in the outpatient setting. The company also offers the 3M APCfinder with medical necessity validation, which focuses on CMS' Outpatient Prospective Payment System. The solution allows users to apply medical necessity at the point of coding.
Access Healthcare (Dallas). Created in 2011, Access Healthcare leverages best practices for revenue cycle management to help healthcare systems and billing companies reach their goals. Access helps organizations drive sustainable excellence by using a three-step operating model that involves creating a best practice process, applying the right technology and recruiting and retaining the right people. Access has experience in all hospital and physician billing platforms and is legally compliant in all 50 U.S. states.
Accretive Health (Chicago). Accretive Health offers revenue cycle management services, physician advisory services and value-based managed services. Operating together, Accretive Health partners with hospitals and health systems to reduce administrative costs, enabling providers to focus on their core mission: delivering high quality care. The company's revenue cycle management services portfolio includes creating a distinctive operating partnership model, aligning financial relationships and providing propriety technology and data science.
Acustream (Lafayette, Colo.). Acustream's proprietary RevBuilder enterprise solution uses both client hospital billing and/or professional billing data, facility specific rules (FSR's) and predictive analytics to find reimbursable "never billed" charges. Not a collections tool, RevBuilder finds dollars in the data that were missed for any number of reasons. The business model is 100 percent contingency-based.
Adreima (Downers Grove, Ill.). Adreima has solutions that address the front, middle and backend of the revenue cycle process. The company's services include eligibility, medical prior authorization review, charge description master, charge capture, receivables management, clinical denials and appeals, clinical audit support and post payment recovery.
Advanced Patient Advocacy (Richmond, VA). Advanced Patient Advocacy is a patient-centric organization specializing in revenue cycle solutions that drive reimbursement to hospital clients. Core services include eligibility enrollment, disability (SSI/SSDI) services, resolution of workers’ compensation and third-party liability claims, insurance recovery, legacy account receivable resolution and out-of-state Medicaid.
AdvantEdge Healthcare Solutions (Lombard, Ill.). AdvantEdge Healthcare Solutions is a medical billing and practice management company. The company offers revenue cycle management and business management solutions to hospitals, hospital-based physicians, office-based physicians, behavioral health providers and surgery centers. AdvantEdge's portfolio includes medical coding and billing, revenue optimization, informatics, compliance and more.
The Advisory Board Company (Washington, D.C.). The Advisory Board Company is a global research, technology and consulting firm that provides performance improvement services for healthcare and higher education. The company's revenue cycle services include denial and bad debt management, documentation optimization and more. The Advisory Board Company partners with more than 230,000 leaders at 5,200 organizations.
AGS Health (New York). AGS Health offers medical billing, coding and business analytics services. The company includes more than 2,500 employees in the United States and India. AGS Health manages approximately $1.1 billion in receivables each year.
Allscripts (Chicago). Health IT vendor Allscripts offers an analytics toolset geared toward revenue cycle challenges. The company has a 99 percent net collections rate, 98 percent first pass clean claims rates and a 5 percent average increase in collections. Allscripts Revenue Suite and Services offers pre-claim solutions, claims submission, inbound processing, A/R management and more.
Alltran (Sartell, Minn.). Alltran, a solutions provider of advanced revenue cycle, accounts receivable management and contact center solutions, has been in business for more than 39 years. The company has more than 2,200 employees and operates facilities in Sartell; Gaithersburg, Md.; Woodridge, Ill.; Bryan, Texas; Tulsa, Okla.; and Houston. Last August, United Recovery Systems announced it is now marketing under the Alltran name.
Alvarez & Marsal (New York). Alvarez & Marsal is a global consulting firm with headquarters not only in New York, but also London, Sao Paulo and Hong Kong. Amongst its many services, the company offers revenue cycle optimization and financial services to the healthcare industry. Guy Sansone, based in New York, is the head of the company's healthcare industry group.
AmkaiSolutions (New York). AmkaiSolutions is a software company that caters to the ambulatory surgery center, surgical hospital and specialty practice industries. The company offers an EMR, billing software and more. The company's product AmkaiEnterprise is designed to reduce operating costs, enhance analytics capabilities and improve quality of care.
Anthelio Healthcare Solutions (Dallas). The company offers IT services, EHR and optimization services and its Pyramid HALO RCM services. Anthelio acquired RCM company Pyramid Healthcare Solutions in July 2015 to expand its revenue cycle offerings. The company's RCM portfolio includes HIM outsourcing and optimization, medical coding, coding audit and education, revenue assessment and analytics, patient financial services, clinical documentation improvement, transcription and voice recognition, ICD-10 support and more.
athenahealth (Watertown, Mass.). athenahealth offers cloud-based services from electronic health records and population health management to patient care coordination and revenue cycle management. The company's revenue cycle tool is athenaCollector. Each quarter, the company submits approximately 27 million claims, and 94 percent of these claims are resolved on first submission.
Availity (Jacksonville, Fla.). Availity caters to physician practices, hospitals, health plans and vendors. The company's revenue cycle solutions address patient access issues, as well as the full spectrum of revenue cycle functions. The company also offers add-on modules that range from advanced claims editing and comparative analytics to self-pay eligibility verification and workers' compensation.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch (Charlotte, N.C.). Bank of America Merrill Lynch offers a number of healthcare solutions including revenue cycle solutions, employee benefits integration, profit enhancement, streamlining operations and more. In addition to financial solutions, Bank of America Merrill Lynch offers mergers and acquisitions services and transaction services.
BESLER Consulting (Princeton, N.J.). BESLER has provided financial and operational consulting to the healthcare industry since 1986. The firm offers transfer DRG revenue recovery and software solutions, coding and compliance, readmissions analytics tools, comprehensive revenue cycle assessment and more.
Bolder Healthcare Solutions (Louisville, Ky.). Bolder Healthcare Solutions has a number of revenue cycle management services. The company's Avectus Healthcare Solutions resolves third-party liability claims for the hospital and trauma center market. Bolder's ROI Companies is a full suite of RCM services for hospitals. The company's portfolio also includes Bolder Anesthesia Management, Bolder Billing Services and Bolder Outreach Solutions.
The Camden Group (El Segundo, Calif.). The Camden Group is a national healthcare business advisory firm. Services include financial advisement, clinical integration, business planning, operations improvement and more. In the realm of financial advisement, the firm offers payer contracting support and value-based payment modeling, amongst other services.
Cardon Outreach (The Woodlands, Texas). Cardon Outreach manages $10 billion in accounts on an annual basis. The company provides eligibility services, accounts receivable services, disability solutions and services to increase revenue recovery of patient self-pay. Cardon also has technology solutions including its integrated proprietary technology platform MPOWER.
CareCloud (Miami). CareCloud aims to offer an all-in-one RCM solution, which encompasses claims submission, payment posting, payer follow-up and patient billing. In addition to RCM services, CareCloud offers practice management, EHR, patient engagement, mobile app and healthcare analytics services.
Cerner (Kansas City, Mo.). Cerner is the world’s largest publicly traded health information technology company providing leading-edge solutions and services for health care organizations worldwide. In addition to its core revenue management solutions, the company provides billing and coding services including charge processing, A/R follow up, eligibility checking, denials management, cash posting, self-pay and early out as well as full business office management for acute and ambulatory venues.
Change Healthcare (Nashville, Tenn.). Change Healthcare, formerly Emdeon, focuses solely on revenue cycle management and clinical information exchange solutions. The company serves providers, payers and pharmacy service providers. Emdeon's network includes 340,000 providers; 1,200 government and private payers; 5,000 hospitals; 105,000 dentists; 60,000 pharmacies and 600 vendors.
Citadel Outsource Group (Hendersonville, Tenn.). Citadel Outsource Group is an outsourced business office financial services company. The company's revenue cycle services include billing, claims resolution, denial management, discrepancy management, business office management, interim revenue cycle consulting, cash posting, revenue cycle assessment and more.
Citi's Money2 for Health (New York). Money2 for Health focuses on the patient payment process function of the revenue cycle. This service from Citi Group allows patients to pay healthcare bills easily by linking to checking accounts, health savings accounts and flexible spending accounts. The platform was launched in 2013 in partnership with Aetna and Parallon, a subsidiary of HCA.
The Claro Group (Chicago). The Claro Group, a healthcare consulting firm, has a RCM unit. The firm's solutions address admissions, cash collections, A/R days and more. The Claro Group focuses on hospital clients ranging from academic medical centers to community hospitals.
Cognizant (Teaneck, N.J.). Cognizant offers providers a comprehensive suite of revenue cycle management solutions, from patient access platforms to contract management tools. TriZetto, a subsidiary nestled within Cognizant's healthcare arm, develops health IT platforms to improve revenue cycle operations for Cognizant's provider and payer clients.
Coker Group (Alpharetta, Ga.). Coker Group, a national healthcare advisory firm, offers a wide range of services from accountable care organization preparation to executive search capabilities. The firm also offers healthcare-specific revenue cycle support including revenue cycle staffing, pay mix analysis, national benchmarking, processes review and more.
Conifer Health Solutions (Frisco, Texas). Conifer, a subsidiary of Tenet Healthcare, has more than 13,000 employees and processes more than $26 billion in net revenue each year. The company, which has 20 service locations through the country, caters to hospitals and health systems, physician groups and employers. Conifer offers revenue cycle management services such as scheduling, eligibility and enrollment, denials prevention, patient financial services and revenue cycle operations management to both the hospital and physician markets.
Connance (Waltham, Mass.). Connace is a healthcare predictive analytics platform. The company's platform aims to eliminate 20 percent to 30 percent of the work associated with revenue cycle management. Services the platform can provide include vendor performance, self-pay segmentation, claims optimization, revenue optimization and more.
Convergent (Atlanta). Convergent is a process outsourcing, revenue cycle and receivables management company with 14 locations in North America. The company's revenue cycle management offerings include patient access services, third party reimbursement services, self-pay services and bad debt services.
The Corridor Group (Overland Park, Kan.). The Corridor Group has served more than 2,000 clients, including hospitals and health systems, since 1989. The company offers consulting services, regulatory compliance support, ICD-10 solutions and more. In January, the company acquired revenue cycle management company Healthcare Management Solutions, which expands the company's revenue cycle management services portfolio.
Craneware (Atlanta). Craneware offers patient access, charge capture and pricing, coding integrity, revenue recovery and retention, professional services and ICD-10 solutions. The company's automated revenue cycle solution was named No. 1 for the 2015/2016 Best in KLAS Awards: Software and Services. Additionally, the company's Chargemaster Toolkit ranked first in the "revenue cycle — chargemaster management" category.
Crowe Horwath (Chicago). Crowe Horwath is a public account, consulting and technology firm serving multiple industries. The firm's healthcare division offers finance, revenue cycle, reimbursement, tax, risk and compliance, audit and mergers and acquisitions services. Crow Horwath's revenue cycle management program includes credit balance management, denials management, observations services and outpatient charge capture.
Dell (Round Rock, Texas). Dell Healthcare Solutions serves hospitals, health systems, physician practices and health plans. The company provides business process outsourcing, including revenue cycle management. Dell can take on coding, remittance processing, accounts receivable follow-up and denial analysis for its clients.
drchrono (Mountain View, Calif.). drchrono offers a number of services include an EHR, medical billing and a platform for patients to view their health record. The company's revenue cycle solutions include Apollo and Apollo+. Apollo allows drchrono EHR users to manage billing from the EHR, while Apollo+ gives users access to the company's fully managed billing services.
Experian Health (Austin, Texas). Experian is a global information services company with a focus on data and analytics. The company's revenue cycle services can automate up to 80 percent of processes. Its services suite includes patient access, claims, contract management and collections products.
FTI Consulting (Chicago). FTI Consulting serves multiple industries, including healthcare. The consulting firm's revenue cycle division offers a wide range of services including benchmarking, cash flow performance improvement, managed care contracting, denial management improvement and more.
G4 HealthSystems (Tulsa, Okla.). G4 HealthSystems provides healthcare technology solutions for claims billing and management, audit appeals and management, denial management, work flow, patient statements, patient estimates, payer tracking, clearinghouse services, eligibility verification and more. More than half the company's clients, 51 percent, are hospitals. Forty-seven percent of its clients are physicians and 2 percent are specialty clients. The company has had 100 percent client retention for three-plus years.
GeBBS Healthcare Solutions (Marina del Rey, Calif.). GeBBS offers HIM solutions, insurance billing services, patient access solutions and end-to-end RCM solutions. The company has a number of technology platforms supporting its services. Technology includes the enterprise-wide coding solution iCode, coding compliance platform iCode Assurance, business process management tool iP2P and EOB to ERA conversion tool iERA.
GE Healthcare (Little Chalfont, United Kingdom). GE Healthcare, a subsidiary of General Electric, offers a wide range of services including revenue cycle management. GE Healthcare provides software solutions for full revenue cycle management support, billing support, analytics and more. The company's RCM software systems include Centricity Business, Centricity Group Management, Centricity Practice Solution and Centricity EDI.
Global Healthcare Alliance (Houston). Global Healthcare Alliance is a full-service, revenue cycle management company. Its offerings include a medical billing and collection outsourcing solution to physician practices, medical practice management software and bundled payments administration. Global Healthcare Alliance has three decades of experience and has operated as both a payer and provider.
Greenway Health (Carrolton, Ga.). Greenway offers a wide array of solutions for the healthcare industry, including revenue cycle management. The Greenway suite of RCM solutions includes claims management, secondary claim filing, denial management and more. The company's clients have a more than 99 percent claims acceptance rate and an average decrease of 31 percent in A/R days.
Halley Consulting Group (Westerville, Ohio). Halley Consulting Group offers consulting services exclusively to the healthcare industry. The group's revenue cycle division offers services including the creation of a revenue cycle management work group, documentation improvement, best practice education, transitioning central billing to central processing, establishing accountability standards and more.
Harmony Healthcare (Tampa, Fla.). Harmony provides revenue cycle management staffing, coding support, HIM leadership, ICD-10 support, HIM offshore services and more. The company offers temporary, temporary-to-permanent and permanent staffing solutions. Harmony has worked with a number of healthcare providers including Ascension Healthcare based in St. Louis, John's Hopkins based in Baltimore, Yale-New Haven (Conn) Hospital and more.
Hayes Management Consulting (Newton Center, Mass.). Hayes Management Consulting focuses on partnering with healthcare organizations to streamline operations, improve revenue cycle management and enhance technology. The company's revenue cycle consulting services include assessment, optimization and interim management.
Healthcare Business Insights (Milwaukee). Healthcare Business Insight's core focuses are revenue cycle, supply chain, cost and quality and information technology. HBI's Revenue Cycle Academy addresses each element of revenue cycle management. The academy is designed to be a collection of best practice resources to support healthcare revenue cycle leaders.
Healthcare Resource Group (Spokane Valley, Wash.). HRG focuses on providing the healthcare industry a full suite of revenue cycle management services. Services include business office outsourcing, revenue cycle department management, consulting and staffing.
HGS (Lisle, Ill.). HGS has a wide range of services including claims benefit management, medical cost management, revenue cycle management and more. The company's revenue cycle offerings include patient access support, patient financial services and health information management, as well as technologies designed to support various RCM functions. HGS manages more than $6.9 billion in client accounts receivables. The company has processed more than 60 million claims for hospitals, physicians and other clients.
Human Arc (Cleveland). Human Arc, founded in 1984, provides hospitals and health plans with revenue cycle services with a focus on eligibility determination and program enrollment. The company offers a number of technology services, such as its business-wide information management system COMPASS or its IQualify web-based tools designed for hospital patient financial counselors.
Huron Consulting Group (Chicago). Huron Consulting Group offers a specific healthcare revenue cycle solution. The solution aims to provide an annual 3 percent to 6 percent increase in revenue. Bruce Lemon serves as the managing director of the group's revenue cycle service. Huron's healthcare division also offers Epic implementation and optimization services.
IMMI (Las Vegas). IMMI has been offering billing and collections services for more than 20 years. The company days has just 8 percent A/R days more than 90. In addition to its billing and collections offerings, IMMI has consulting, credentialing, financial services and scheduling services.
Impact Advisors (Naperville, Ill.). Impact Advisors is a healthcare consulting firm offering expertise in a broad range of areas, including strategic IT planning, clinical optimization, meaningful use, revenue cycle management and more. The company's RCM optimization services include patient access, charge services, case management, health information management and patient financial services. In the 2015/2016 Best in KLAS rankings, Impact Advisors was named the Best in KLAS Overall IT Services Firm and the top firm in the IT Advisory Services market segment.
Intermedix (Fort Lauderdale, Fla.). Intermedix is a technology and analytics company serving the healthcare, business and government sectors. Under the umbrella of its healthcare offerings, the company provides EMS revenue cycle management services. Additionally, the company offers RCM services for hospitalists, anesthesiologists and primary care providers. Intermedix handles coding and billing services for more than 12,000 providers.
Jacobus Consulting (Irvine, Calif.). Jacobus Consulting bases its revenue cycle management services on the core areas of patient access, case management, revenue integrity/charge capture, health information management and business office performance improvement. The consulting group also offers interim leadership for revenue cycle leadership roles.
Kaufman Hall (Chicago). The healthcare management and consulting experts at Kaufman Hall help healthcare providers across the country realize improvements in their revenue cycle operations. Kaufman Hall provides hospitals and health systems with a variety of resources to assess revenue cycle performance, pinpoint pain points and devise and implement solutions and processes that drive efficiency.
KeyBank (Cleveland). KeyBank's healthcare solutions are utilized by more than 10,000 healthcare organizations. The bank's KeyPatient POS is designed to streamline collections, reduce bad debt, decrease days in accounts receivable and more. KeyBank also offers a payment management solution design to track financial performance and overall improve revenue cycle management processes.
Kraft Healthcare Consulting (Nashville, Tenn.). Kraft Healthcare Consulting, a part of KraftCPAs, includes reimbursement and operations insight, coding and compliance support and advisory services. Within these categories the consulting firm targets revenue cycle management, coding and documentation, ICD-10 preparation, underpayment recovery and more.
Leidos (Reston, Va.). Leidos focuses on national security, engineering and health. The company employs 19,000 people worldwide. Leidos Health's revenue cycle solutions are designed for assessment and optimization. The company focuses on patient access, revenue integrity and patient financial services. Leidos Health also lends support in the form of interim leadership, initiative support and project management.
McKesson (San Francisco). McKesson offers healthcare providers revenue cycle management optimizations services, as well as several products. The company's service portfolio includes access management improvement, healthcare consumerism support, cash collection acceleration and payer performance improvement. McKesson's revenue cycle management product portfolio includes solutions for medical billing and revenue cycle management, the McKesson Performance Analytics system, McKesson Intelligent Coding and Paragon Hospital Information System.
MedAssets (Alpharetta, Ga.). MedAssets has solutions driven toward reducing the cost of care, enhancing efficiency, aligning clinical delivery and improving revenue performance. The company's revenue cycle management solutions are driven to reduce total cost by approximately 10 percent and increase net revenue by up to 5 percent. MedAssets provides revenue performance improvement consulting for all RCM processes, as well as ICD-10 readiness services.
MedAssist Healthcare Solutions (Louisville, Ky.). MedAssist is a patient engagement company focused on revenue cycle solutions. The company services more than 700 hospitals and health systems. MedAssist's revenue cycle solutions include several patient access technologies, such as a patient bill estimator, and several business office services, such as denial management and tracking.
MedData (Brecksville, Ohio). MedData has been around for more than 36 years. The company offers various technology-enabled healthcare services. These services include billing, coding, patient balances, eligibility and enrollment, third party liability and patient satisfaction. MedData has a network of more than 1,000 hospital sites nationwide.
MedeAnalytics (Emeryville, Calif.). MedeAnalytics' services are tailored for both healthcare providers and health plans. The company's revenue cycle offerings aim to accelerate cash flow, limit bad debt and denials, automate collections workflow, evaluate service line profitability and streamline monthly reserves. MedeAnalytics also offers ICD-10 and patient access solutions.
MedHelp (Baltimore). MedHelp offers several revenue cycle management services including professional fee billing, physician billing and credentialing services. The company specializes in emergency department MCO denial appeals. Additionally, the company developed an internal scrubbing program that allows for expanded medical coding review and scrubbing.
MediGain (Dallas). In 2002, MediGain broke into the healthcare market as a full-service revenue cycle management company. The firm provides revenue cycle management, medical billing and reimbursement services and solutions to physicians practices, ambulatory surgical centers and hospitals. Since its founding, MediGain has grown into a global company with an integrated portfolio of IT and process solutions.
MediRevv (Coralville, Iowa). MediRevv specializes in helping hospitals, health systems, academic medical centers and physician groups improve their cash flow and grow their revenue. The company offers self pay and insurance extended business office services, coding and denials management services and more. The company has clients such as Bon Secours Health System, based in Richmond, Va., and Dignity Health, based in San Francisco.
MEDITECH (Westwood, Mass.). Health IT vendor MEDITECH's revenue cycle management solution offers automated claim tracking, denial management, integrated charge capture and more. The solution offers support for centralized and decentralized billing. MEDITECH's RCM offering is designed to provide integration between hospital and office settings and to consolidate all revenue cycle functions.
MedSynergies (Irving, Texas). MedSynergies, acquired by Optum last year, offers healthcare providers financial and operational insight and support. The company's product MSIGHT helps providers streamline revenue cycle processes from appointment scheduling all the way through to patient check out.
Meridian Medical Management (Windsor, Conn.). Meridian Medical Management services more than 40,000 healthcare providers each year and processes more than $5 billion in revenue for medical practices. The company was acquired by GE Healthcare in 2005, but reestablished as a private entity. The company provides medical billing services on a number of different platforms, such as Allscripts, eClinicalWorks, GE Centricity, NextGen EPM and VertexDr. Additionally, Meridian Medical Management will operate on the Epic platform for its academic medical center clients.
MiraMed Global Services (Jackson, Mich.). MiraMed began as a small practice management company in 1979 and grew into a large-scale healthcare business process outsourcing provider. The company offers hospitals and physicians patient services, billing services and reimbursement solutions, as well as practice management and consulting options.
National Medical Billing Services (Grover, Mo.). NMBS is a revenue cycle outsourcing company catering specifically to the ambulatory surgery center market. The company offers a full suite of revenue cycle solutions including complete outsourcing, coding, coding and billing audits and managed care contracting.
Navicure (Duluth, Ga.). Navicure's portfolio includes cloud-based healthcare claims management and patient payment solutions. The company has several product lines tailored for specific RCM functions. Naviure ClaimFlow includes solutions for eligibility verification, coding, claims management, remittance management and denials and appeals management. All of the company's solutions are backed by its 3-Ring Client Service, which guarantees a service representative will answer each client call in three rings or less.
Navigant Cymetrix (Irvine, Calif.). Navigant Cymetrix, a fully-owned subsidiary of Navigant Consulting, was formed this year by the consolidation of Alleviant, Cymetrix and legacy RCM businesses. Navigant Cymetrix provides comprehensive RCM services, consulting services, eligibility and financial counseling, self-pay services, clinical documentation integrity, coding support and auditing, payment processing, accounts receivable management and more.
NaviNet (Boston). NaviNet is a healthcare communications network designed to facilitate payer and provider collaboration. NaviNet has more than 40 health plan partners and 420,000 active users. NaviNet's revenue cycle resource focuses on determining patients' out-of-pocket costs. The group's Payment Estimator allows providers to verify eligibility and providers an accurate estimate of a patient's financial responsibility.
Nearterm (Houston). Nearterm offers interim management, healthcare executive search capabilities, project staffing and revenue cycle consulting. The company's core RCM offering is Nearterm 360°. The solution incorporates health information management, consulting, permanent executive search and temporary staffing.
NextGen Healthcare (Horsham, Penn.). NextGen Healthcare offers ambulatory solutions, population health management, interoperability solutions, consulting solutions, revenue cycle management and more. The company's revenue cycle division offers consulting and outsourcing for physician billing, collections and claims. NextGen Healthcare's revenue cycle management services are driven by technology and proprietary solutions.
Ni2 Health (Bothell, Wash., and Cary, Ill.). Ni2 offers revenue cycle management and expense reduction services to hospitals and healthcare organizations. The company offers no risk assessments which typically identify 3 percent to 6 percent of total net patient revenues as the performance improvement opportunity. Ni2 said it also partners with hospitals and healthcare organizations to instill the resources, expertise and technologies required to ensure successful implementation of identified opportunities.
Nordic (Madison, Wis.). Nordic is a healthcare consulting company offering implementation solutions, optimization tools and Epic services. Among its many advisory options, the company offers RCM services. The company focuses on creating revenue cycle efficiencies to maximize charge capture, decrease days in A/R, improve staff productivity and streamline the entire process.
NueMD (Marietta, Ga.). NueMD offers a cloud-based platform that offers healthcare providers practice management services, an EHR and medical billing services. NuedMD's medical billing software and EHR work together to decrease outstanding claims, provide customized reposts and more. The company's practice management services aim to reduce patient cancellations and boost claims acceptance.
Ontario Systems (Muncie, Ind.). Ontario Systems is a software and services company focused on the healthcare industry. The company's product Artiva Healthcare is designed to enhance providers' patient accounting system. The company also offers Revenue Performance Optimization, a portfolio of consulting services.
Optum 360 (Eden Prairie, Minn.). Optum 360 is a patient-focused revenue cycle management service provider for hospitals and physicians. Services include revenue cycle management consulting, health IT and systems, medical coding and documentation, claims and reimbursement, denial management and recovery, financial compliance, ICD-10 readiness and more.
Parallon (Franklin, Tenn.). Parallon offers revenue cycle management insight and customized solutions. The company, which employs 14,500 plus people, is partnered with more than 700 facilities and 6,000 physician practices. Parallon offers full-service revenue cycle outsourcing, consulting, payment compliance, collections, physician billing, extended business office services and more.
ParrishShaw (Houston). ParrishShaw, an Advanced Patient Advocacy company, provides insurance benefit recovery services for every segment of the insurance billing and revenue collections cycles. Services provided to all healthcare providers include small balance insurance resolution, aged insurance account management, denial management, third-party liability, out-of-state Medicaid provider enrollment, and legacy accounts receivable management.
Patientco (Atlanta). Patientco focuses directly on the revenue cycle portion involving the patient. The company provides a cloud-based, online platform that automates the entire patient payment process. The system is designed up automate up to 80 percent of patient payment tasks, including payment reconciliation and automatically posting files to health information and practice management systems.
Physicians Group Management (Lyndhurst, N.J.). PGM, founded in 1981, offers physician billing services, facility billing services and EMR solutions. The company offers billing solutions specifically tailored to a number of different specialties including allergy and immunology, anesthesiology, cardiology, chiropractic, dermatology, emergency medicine, gastroenterology, mental health, nephrology, oncology, orthopedics, pain management, primary care and urology.
PNC Healthcare (Chicago). PNC Healthcare, a division of PNC Bank, offers healthcare providers a number of revenue cycle management resources. PNC Healthcare's products range from claims submission services and electronic remittance to a patient estimator and denial challenger.
Precyse (Wayne, Pa.). Precyse's solutions include health information management, medical coding and computer assisted coding, clinical documentation improvement, medical transcription, ICD-10 education and more. That company's services have been used by more than 4,000 healthcare facilities and providers across the country.
Prism Healthcare Partners (Chicago). Prism offers financial, operational and clinical performance improvement services to hospitals, health systems and academic medical centers. The company's revenue cycle solutions hone in on identifying any inefficiencies and boosting net revenues. Prism's solutions include registration, insurance verification, financial counseling, charge capture, coding, collections, managed care contracting, clinical documentation and more.
PwC (New York). PricewaterhouseCoopers, a large business intelligence consulting firm, has consulting services for a wide range of areas, such as strategy, operations, risk and finance. PwC's revenue cycle services are offered through its financial management branch. Its core offering is its Virtual Business Office, which serves as an extension of clients' physician business office. The VBO offers third-party aged accounts receivable remediation, insurance verification, claims volume management, customer service support and more.
Quadax (Middleburg Heights, Ohio). Quadax has revenue cycle solutions customized for hospitals, physician practices, vendors and laboratories. The company's line of solutions aims to increase cash flow, maximize productivity and reduce paper processing dependency. Quadax specializes in electronic transaction management, emergency department business services and laboratory revenue cycle management.
Quest Diagnostics (Madison, N.J.). Quest Diagnostics is a clinical laboratory services company. The company, along with Inovalon, offers a Data Diagnostics solution, which provides physicians with real-time analytics at the point of care to improve value-based care efforts. Data Diagnostics provides patient-specific analyses that help physicians align clinical management strategies with quality, utilization, risk and financial performance goals in the pursuit of value-based care. The data solution is integrated with nearly 600 EHR platforms.
Quorum Health Resources (Brentwood, Tenn.). QHR, founded in 1977, offers a number of brands including QHR Management Services, QHR Consulting Services, Quorum Purchasing Advantage and The QHR Learning Institute. The company's revenue cycle solution focuses on providing cash flow solutions from coding and billing to patient access and customer service.
Recondo Technology (Greenwood Village, Colo.). Recondo Technology aims to connect providers, patients and payers with cloud-based revenue cycle management solutions. Recondo's patient access services included integrated payer authorization, accurate patient estimation, analytics-driven denial avoidance and more. The company's business office portfolio includes automated claims workflow, claims status data, denial management, claims submission and more.
Regent Revenue Cycle Management (Westchester, Ill.). Regent RCM is an independent division of ambulatory surgery center management and development company Regent Surgical Health. The company offers billers and collectors with an average of more than 17 years of revenue cycle management each. The company offers a number of automated services including insurance verification, electronic claims processing, electronic payer payments and patient remittance posting, digitally stored contracts, outsourced patient statement generation and report formatting.
RelayHealth (Emeryville, Calif.). RelayHealth, owned by McKesson, offers analytics-driven revenue cycle management solutions. The company's products include RelayAnalytics Acuity, RelayAnalytics Pulse and RelayAnalytics Spectrum. The Acuity product focuses on providing data to support decisions in areas ranging from ICD-10 compliance to reimbursement. The Pulse product helps create meaningful benchmarks. The Spectrum product is an iPad application designed to allow mobile access to data.
RSM US LLP (Chicago). RSM US offers advisory services to several industries, including healthcare. The firm's revenue cycle services suite includes research and management reports, supporting analytics, performance indicator summaries, executive presentations to leadership and more.
re|solution (Louisville, Colo.). re|solution offers services for the full range of revenue cycle processes. Services include a revenue improvement program, cash acceleration, days in accounts receivable reduction, interim staffing, business office insourcing and coding and compliance services.
RevClaims (Jackson, Miss.). RevClaims focuses on injury claims billing. The company partners with providers to increase claims recovery related to workers' compensation, automobile accidents and catastrophic injuries. The company works with hospitals, health systems and trauma centers.
RevenueXL (Cupterino, Calif.). RevenueXL is a healthcare solutions and EMR company focused on small- to mid-sized practices. The company not only provides EMR and EHR solutions, but also medical transcription, coding compliance and document indexing. RevenueXL's medical billing portfolio also includes billing software options, billing services, coding services, insurance follow up and denial management.
RevSpring (Wixom, Mich.). RevSpring focuses on customized revenue cycle solutions. The company offers business process outsourcing. RevSpring applies data analytics, patient centered communications and more to improve providers' revenue cycle processes.
RPM Healthcare (Charleston, S.C.). RPM focuses on delivering customized solutions to help healthcare organizations keep their revenue cycles healthy in a rapidly changing reimbursement environment. The company considers an organization's particular payer mix, specialties and demographic environment to create operational and management solutions that drive RCM improvement.
Rycan (Minneapolis). Rycan, recently acquired by Healthland, is a healthcare revenue cycle software company. Rycan's solutions address revenue cycle issues including patient liability, eligibility verification, claim submission, remittance management, denial management, contract management, reporting and data mining and more.
SCI Solutions (Campbell, Calif.). SCI Solutions provides business process software for more than 550 hospitals, imaging centers, physician practices and post-acute care providers. SCI Solutions offers the Provider Network Manager that is designed to boost outpatient volumes, referrals and revenues. The company also offers a scheduling platform and client performance optimization services.
SourceMed (Birmingham, AL). SourceMed solutions capture, exchange and analyze data that that enable outpatient facilities to optimize revenue, increase operational efficiency and improve compliance. The company’s integrated software, analytics, revenue cycle management and professional services are used by more than 35,000 healthcare professionals in over 6,500 ambulatory surgery centers, specialty hospitals and rehabilitation therapy clinics nationwide. SourceMed’s team of certified coders, billers and collectors ensures that claims are continually worked so that customers realize earned revenue more quickly and stay compliant with changing regulations.
Specialty Billing Solutions (Lakewood, Colorado). Specialty Billing Solutions, a wholly owned subsidiary of ASC management company PINNACLE III, provides coding, claims submission, denial management and patient financial services for ambulatory surgery centers. The company’s team includes certified professional coders, experienced billing & collection professionals and is 100 percent United States-based. The company performs “forensic collections” on new client accounts with existing A/R to capture proper reimbursement for old claims. ASCs making the switch to Specialty Billing Solutions have realized increases in net revenue per case of at least 10 percent.
The SSI Group (Mobile, Ala.). SSI focuses on claims management technology and electronic data interchange platforms. The company's financial performance service options include denial management, audit management, contract management, analytics and SSI Medibis. Medibis is a solution designed for the ambulatory surgery center market. SSI's claims management service portfolio includes billing, claims status and the Cerner HIS Solution.
SymMetric Revenue Solutions (Fort Meyers, Fla.). SyMetric Revenue Solutions offers a diverse services suite ranging from revenue cycle management and physician practice management to real-time reporting and value-based medicine. The company's revenue cycle options include emergency department coding and billing, hospitalist coding and billing, urgent care coding and billing, documentation improvement, auditing, collections and more.
TD Bank (Toronto, Ontario). TD Bank's healthcare and not-for-profit banking group offers liquidity solutions and financing solutions in addition to revenue cycle management. TD Healthcare Remittance Management offers a comprehensive solution for healthcare revenue cycle management processes.
Trace by The White Stone Group (Knoxville, Tenn.). Trace is a communication management solution designed to support scheduling, coordination and reimbursement functions. The system offers revenue protection, enhanced communication, compliance support and operational performance enhancement.
TransUnion (Chicago). TransUnion provides solutions for several industries including healthcare. The company's revenue cycle solutions serve both hospitals and physician practices. TransUnion's revenue cycle management services and technologies focus on patient access, reimbursement and data breaches.
TSI (Lake Forest, Ill.). With a focus on compliance, TSI, formerly Transworld Systems, aims to ensure clients, patients and their data are protected. The company's revenue cycle solution MDeverywhere aims to streamline hospital and physician practice revenue cycle management processes. The MDeverywhere system includes practice management software, a claim expert, a contract expert and business services. The system decreases denials up to 90 percent.
TruBridge (Mobile, Ala.). TruBridge is a business and IT services consulting company focused on rural and community hospitals. The company's revenue cycle management services include accounts receivable management, private pay collections, insurance follow-up, contract management, statement processing, online bill pay and medical coding.
United Collection Bureau (Toledo, Ohio). UCB, founded in 1959, provides revenue cycle services to more than 400 healthcare providers. UCB's revenue cycle solutions include pre-registration services, eligibility assistance, presumptive charity, pay analytics, self-pay collections, insurance follow-up and bad debt recovery.
VisiQuate (Santa Rosa, Calif.). VisQuate offers a number of products including an enterprise performance management platform, visual operating system, business analytics engine, knowledge distribution engine, business rules management and data integration studio. In 2014, VisiQuate partnered with Ovation Revenue Cycle Services to offer its healthcare clients a combination of revenue cycle software and services.
VitalWare (Yakima, Wash.). VitalWare offers RCM services and tools powered by cloud-based technologies, identifying and simplifying challenges in an ever changing and regulated industry. The company offers best in class documentation, coding, billing and auditing services for a powerful user experience. VitalWare's products include VitalCDI, iDocuMint, VitalCoder, VitalCDM, VitalCharges and VitalAuditor.
VHC (Oakbrook Terrace, Ill.). Vaughn Holland Consulting focuses on revenue cycle consulting. The firm's services include revenue recovery, Medicare underpayments, software solutions, health information management solutions, revenue cycle consulting and more.
Xifin (San Diego, Calif.). In 2001, health IT technology company Xifin launched an accounts receivable and financial management solution aimed at using a financial framework specifically to address the problems that undermine the effectiveness and efficiency of laboratories' revenue cycle management. Today, the company's billing solutions service diagnostic service providers of all types — including clinical, hospital outreach, anatomic pathology, molecular diagnostics, toxicology and radiology providers. XIFIN processes more than 200 million claims annually on behalf of its clients, and has realized over $2 billion in cumulative net cash collection gains for them.
Xtend Healthcare (Hendersonville, Tenn.). Xtend Healthcare focuses on financial performance improvement. The company aims to improve revenue cycle functions, offers staff extension and IT assets and focuses on bottom line improvements. The company's revenue cycle management solutions include on-site accelerated recovery, extended business office services, automated follow-up, consultation, HIM consulting, coding services, ICD-10 education and self-pay services.
ZirMed (Louisville, Ky.). ZirMed, founded in 1999, provides services to more than 8,000 healthcare organizations and nearly 300,000 providers. The company's key service offerings are patient access, charge integrity claims and accounts receivable management, cost and utilization, population risk management and patient engagement.
Zotec Partners (Carmel, Ind.). Zotec is a specialty-driven company with a focus on anesthesiology, emergency medicine, pathology and radiology. The company's medical billing services include customized billing protocols, contract variance, integrated imaging, a patient portal, automated appeals and more.
More articles on finance and revenue cycle management:
Washington state continues efforts to curb balance billing
Heart hospitals waiting for Valeant price breaks
Physicians Realty Trust closes $324M deal with CHI: 6 things to know
© Copyright ASC COMMUNICATIONS 2019. Interested in LINKING to or REPRINTING this content? View our policies by clicking here.

Story 51
Photo: Walmart Canada
Walmart has had a tough time getting customers to adopt scan-and-go technology, despite its success with Sam’s Club shoppers. Now Walmart Canada is piloting a layout that re-brands the technology and reroutes shoppers in a way that could change how customers think about it.
Walmart Canada announced the pilot of a “fast lane” in its new urban supercenter concept in the Toronto Stockyards. Store visitors use scan-and-go technology with their mobile device as they shop. Then at the end of their visit, rather than going to any open checkout lane, they go through a designated fast lane. An associate checks their generated barcode receipt and customers complete their transaction via a credit card associated with their account. Fast lane associates are specially trained to manage issues that might arise during scan-and-go transactions.
Moving scan-and-go traffic into its own lane seems to bring together tactics used in earlier iterations of checkout optimization — express lanes and dedicated self-checkout — with the new tech innovation.
Retailers of all sizes have been experimenting with in-store checkout as they try to streamline an often frustrating part of the shopping experience.
Amazon.com’s automated checkout concept, Amazon Go, represents perhaps the most radical rethinking of the checkout process. Questions remain, however, about the extent to which the company’s Just Walk Out technology can scale.
Amazon announced in May that it would be opening a fourth Amazon Go location in San Francisco, according to the San Francisco Chronicle.
Other smaller retailers have likewise been exploring innovations to stop the in-store point of sale from bottlenecking. Global sporting goods retailer Decathlon, for instance, recently opened a concept store in California — its first in the U.S. — in which associates walk the store equipped with Apple devices that allow customers to check out without waiting at a central cash wrap.
Meanwhile at Sam’s Club, where the Scan & Go app has proven successful, the chain is trying to reduce transaction times. Earlier this year, Sam’s began piloting a solution that identifies a product without a customer needing to search for a barcode.
DISCUSSION QUESTIONS: Will Walmart’s new checkout approach overcome the retailer’s previous difficulties with getting customers to adopt scan-and-go? Do you see this front-end layout replacing self-scan checkout entirely or will “fast lanes,” self-checkouts and regular checkouts all coexist?

Story 52
By: Tatiana Darie | Jul 18 2019 at 09:08 AM | Air Cargo News
As Delta Air Lines Inc.’s share price soared to record highs, company President Glen Hauenstein sold $3.15 million worth of his holdings this week.
Hauenstein sold 50,000 shares at an average price of $63.03 on July 16, according to a filing. The transaction reduced his direct ownership by 16% to 267,526 shares, representing a 0.04% stake, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Delta Air Lines shares have rallied 24% this year so far, significantly outperforming the Bloomberg World Airlines Index. Robust appetite for plane trips in the U.S. and higher fares prompted the company to boost its profit forecast for 2019 last week.
“We expect margins to rise almost 200 bps in 2019 and revenue to increase about 3% on capacity growth, higher load factors and stronger fares,” Bloomberg Intelligence analysts George Ferguson and Francois Duflot wrote in a research note Thursday.
Macquarie reiterated the stock’s top-pick status last week, with analyst Susan Donofrio citing good cost-controls and margin expansion

Story 53
Shares of London Stock Exchange Group Plc with ticker code: LON:LSE has gained 1.58% or 114 points during today’s session so far. Traders have so far held a positive outlook while the stock has been in play. Range high for the period so far is 7370 and hitting a low of 7202.04. Volume total for shares traded during this period was while the average shares exchanged is 854,245. The 52 week high is 7370 equating to 162 points difference from the previous days close and putting the 52 week low at 3842 which is a variance of 3366 points. London Stock Exchange Group Plc now has a 20 SMA at 6988.33 and a 50 day SMA of 6443.07. This puts the market capitalisation now at £25,607.89m at the time of this report. The stock is traded in GBX. Mcap is measured in GBP. This article was written with the last trade for London Stock Exchange Group Plc being recorded at Friday, September 6, 2019 at 4:35:26 PM GMT with the stock price trading at 7322 GBX.
Shares of Mediclinic International PLC with ticker code: LON:MDC has gained 1.23% or 4.3 points throughout the session so far. Investors have so far held a positive outlook during this period. The period high has peaked at 354 dropping as low as 344.4. The total volume traded so far comes to 1,167,552 whilst the daily average number of shares exchanged is just 689,324. A 52 week high for the stock is 494.7 about 145 points in difference to the previous days close of business and a 52 week low sitting at 288.3 making a difference of 61.4 points. Mediclinic International PLC now has a 20 SMA of 327.87 and a 50 day moving average now of 330.09. The current market cap is £2,609.84m at the time of this report. The currency for this stock is Great British pence.Market cap is measured in GBP. This article was written with the last trade for Mediclinic International PLC being recorded at Friday, September 6, 2019 at 4:38:28 PM GMT with the stock price trading at 354 GBX.
Shares of Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc with company EPIC: LON:RBS has moved up 1.49% or 2.8 points in today’s trading session so far. Traders have remained optimistic during this period. Range high for the period has seen 192.45 dipping to 187.83. The total volume of shares exchanged so far has reached 4,404,314 with the daily average traded share volume around 20,343,187. The stock 52 week high is 274.2 which is 86.1 points difference from the previous close and the 52 week low at 176.55 a difference of some 11.55 points. Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc has a 20 SMA of 189.38 and the 50 day MA at 210.62. The current market cap is £23,082.60m at the time of this report. The share price is in Great British pence. Mcap is measured in GBP. This article was written with the last trade for Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc being recorded at Monday, September 9, 2019 at 12:22:16 PM GMT with the stock price trading at 190.9 GBX.

Story 54
We have used your information to see if you have a subscription with us, but did not find one. Please use the button below to verify an existing account or to purchase a new subscription.

Story 55
Proposed demerger of Wolseley UK
The Board of Ferguson plc (LON: FERG) today announced its intention to demerge its UK operations subject to shareholder approval. The decision marks the conclusion of a detailed review of the Group’s assets over several years. On completion of the transaction Wolseley UK will become an independent listed Company serving residential and commercial trades people and customers. The separation will further simplify the Group and will enable Wolseley UK to focus exclusively on customers in the UK market. Following the demerger Ferguson will be wholly focused on serving customers in North America.
John Martin, Chief Executive said:
“The demerger will enable both Wolseley UK and Ferguson to focus on accelerating the execution of their independent plans, providing clear investment propositions for each business. Wolseley UK has a strong market position, leading customer propositions and an experienced management team with significant opportunities for development in the large and fragmented plumbing, heating and infrastructure markets. Ferguson will continue to execute its successful strategy, building on a strong track record of profitable growth, market outperformance and generating attractive returns for shareholders.”
CEO succession
The Company is also announcing today that John Martin, Group CEO, will step down on 19 November 2019. John joined the Board as CFO in 2010 before being appointed to the position of CEO in 2016 based in the UK. During his tenure the Group has been significantly simplified and strengthened, substantially improving its market positions and generating excellent returns for shareholders.
The Board is pleased to announce that Kevin Murphy will succeed John as Group CEO. Kevin is a US national based in Virginia who joined the Board in August 2017 when he was appointed CEO of Ferguson’s US operations. Before that Kevin was Chief Operating Officer for 10 years after having joined Ferguson in 1999 following the acquisition of his family’s business, Midwest Pipe and Supply. The business has generated strong, profitable growth and continued to take market share under Kevin’s leadership and he has continued to rapidly execute Ferguson’s successful strategy.
Gareth Davis, Chairman of Ferguson plc said:
“John’s contribution to Ferguson over nearly 10 years has been outstanding, as is evident from the market-leading positions of our businesses, the strength of our management team and the excellent financial performance of the business over that period. He leaves the business in great shape and I would like to thank him for the significant contribution he has made to Ferguson.” “I am delighted that Kevin Murphy will take over as Group CEO. Kevin is a very capable and highly respected leader, he has unparalleled experience of our industry and an excellent track record of delivery at Ferguson. The Board is confident that he will provide the strong leadership required to capitalise on the substantial opportunities in these large, attractive and fragmented markets.”
John Martin Chief Executive of Ferguson plc said:
“It has been a huge honour to serve Ferguson for nearly 10 years. I am extremely proud of the achievements of the Company which are wholly attributable to our talented and dedicated associates. I am also delighted that I will be succeeded by an executive as talented as Kevin Murphy, under whose leadership I am confident that the Company will continue to go from strength to strength.”
Listing structure
The Board has kept listing structure under review over several years. Following the significant simplification of the Group over that period and the demerger of Wolseley UK, Ferguson will be wholly focused on attractive markets in North America. In light of this, the Board is again considering the most appropriate listing structure for the Group going forward. A range of options and associated costs and benefits will be assessed and the Company will further consult with shareholders in due course.

Story 56
Croda International Plc (LON: CRDA), the speciality chemical company that creates high performance ingredients and technologies relied upon by industries and consumers globally, has today announced its half year results for the six months ended 30 June 2019.
Group highlights (adjusted, constant currency):
Core Business sales in line with prior year, despite subdued market conditions and strong prior year comparators
Operating profit unchanged, with stronger gross margin
Profit before tax slightly lower, due to higher interest charge, following special dividend and previous investments
Improving cash generation – free cash flow up more than 50%, capital investment reducing
Healthy innovation pipeline – New & Protected Product (NPP) sales increased to 28.3% (2018: 27.7%)
Significant new capacity on stream over next 12 months to support organic growth – North America biosurfactant plant to add significant capacity later in Q3
Recent technology acquisitions progressing well.
Sector performance (adjusted, constant currency):
Reported results (IFRS) Half year ended 30 June 2019 2018 % change Sales £million 714.7 702.8 +1.7% Operating profit £million 175.0 174.3 +0.5% Profit before tax £million 166.2 170.8 (2.7)% Basic earnings per share (EPS) Pence 95.6 97.5 (1.9)% Ordinary dividend per share Pence 39.5 38.0 +3.9%
Excellent performance in Life Sciences, driven by strength of Health and Crop Care platforms – sales up 13.0% and return on sales improved to 30.6% (2018: 29.9%)
Personal Care weakness in US and North Asia, primarily due to the trade dispute, with continued growth across rest of sector. Sales 3.6% lower with modest decline in return on sales to 33.3% (2018: 34.1%)
Performance Technologies lower due to soft markets in automotive and polymers – sales reduced by 6.0% and return on sales declined to 18.0% (2018: 19.3%).
Group reported results (IFRS, reported currency):
Sales up 1.7% – favourable benefit from weaker Sterling
Operating profit broadly flat
Interim dividend increased by 3.9% to 39.5 pence.
Commenting on the results, Steve Foots, Croda International Plc Chief Executive Officer, said:
“We have delivered a resilient performance in challenging market conditions and against strong prior year comparatives, testament to Croda’s focused strategy. Although Personal Care was significantly impacted by the US/China trade dispute and new sales legislation in China, we saw growth across the rest of the sector. An excellent performance in Life Sciences ensured overall progress in consumer markets, whilst Performance Technologies slowed in line with the wider industry, due to softer end markets in automotive and polymers. “We have a strong pipeline, a robust business model and a strategy to leverage innovation, customer intimacy and sustainability. Life Sciences is expected to show continued progress and in Personal Care we anticipate the US remaining subdued while Asia recovers progressively. Performance Technologies is likely to remain softer until end markets improve. Based on the current challenging economic conditions remaining unchanged, overall we expect a slight improvement in performance in the second half of the year versus the prior year comparator.”
Sector financial summary
Sales Half year ended 30 June 2019 2018 % changereported rate % changeconstant rate Personal Care £m 246.8 247.7 (0.4)% (3.6)% Life Sciences £m 184.3 158.6 +16.2% +13.0% Performance Technologies £m 226.8 235.9 (3.9)% (6.0)% Core Business £m 657.9 642.2 +2.4% (0.4)% Industrial Chemicals £m 56.8 60.6 (6.3)% (7.4)% Group £m 714.7 702.8 +1.7% (1.0)%
Adjusted operating profit Half year ended 30 June 2019 2018 % changereported rate % changeconstant rate Personal Care £m 82.1 84.4 (2.7)% (4.6)% Life Sciences £m 56.4 47.4 +19.0% +19.0% Performance Technologies £m 40.8 45.6 (10.5)% (11.2)% Core Business £m 179.3 177.4 +1.1% +0.0% Industrial Chemicals £m 0.1 1.1 (90.9)% (100.0)% Adjusted operating profit £m 179.4 178.5 +0.5% (0.6)% Interest £m (8.8) (3.5) (151.4)% (142.9)% Adjusted profit before tax £m 170.6 175.0 (2.5)% (3.5)%
Notes
1Adjusted results are stated before exceptional items, acquisition costs and amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition, and tax thereon. The Board believes that the adjusted presentation (and the columnar format adopted for the Group income statement) assists the reader by providing a meaningful basis upon which to analyse underlying business performance and make year-on-year comparisons. The same measures are used by management for planning, budgeting and reporting purposes and for the internal assessment of operating performance across the Group. The adjusted presentation is adopted on a consistent basis for each half year and full year results.
2Reported currency results reflect current year performance translated at reported rates (actual average exchange rates). Constant currency results reflect current year performance for existing business translated at the prior year’s average exchange rates. For constant currency profit, translation is performed using the entity reporting currency. For constant currency sales, local currency rates are translated into the most relevant functional currency of the destination country of sale (for example, sales in Latin America are primarily made in US dollars, which is therefore used as the functional currency). Sales in functional currency are then translated into Sterling using the prior year’s average rates for the corresponding period. Constant currency results are reconciled to reported results in the Finance Review.
3The Core Business comprises Personal Care, Life Sciences and Performance Technologies.
4Return on sales is adjusted operating profit divided by sales.
5Free cash flow is cash generated before acquisitions, dividends and other cash movements, as set out in the Finance Review.
Other non-statutory terms are defined in the ‘Alternative performance measures’ section of the Finance Review.
GROUP PERFORMANCE REVIEW
Resilient performance despite subdued market conditions
Sales and operating profit in the first half of the year were unchanged despite subdued market conditions, significantly impacted by the major trade dispute between China and the US and increased macroeconomic uncertainties. An excellent performance in Life Sciences reflects the strength and appeal of our growing platforms in Health and Crop Care and the success of our organic and acquisition strategies. Against a strong comparative period, Personal Care slowed in the US and North Asia due to the uncertainty caused by the ongoing US/China trade dispute, with customers becoming much more cautious in purchasing. Sales continued to grow in the rest of the sector. In line with the wider industry, Performance Technologies was impacted by slower end markets in automotive and polymers, whilst continuing to innovate towards higher technology, sustainable markets.
Despite these subdued market conditions, sales in the Core Business rose by 2.4% in reported currency to £657.9m (2018: £642.2m) and reduced by 0.4% in constant currency. Adjusted operating profit in the Core Business increased by 1.1% in reported currency to £179.3m (2018: £177.4m) and was unchanged in constant currency.
Gross margin continued to increase, offsetting lower volume. This was supported by our continued focus on innovation, with NPP sales reaching 28.3% (2018: 27.7%); the current project pipeline is exciting. We have invested for future growth, with significant new capacity in high return projects due on stream over the next 12 months. These include expanding in high purity excipients in Health Care, growing our industry leading Beauty Actives platform and increasing our Smart Materials facility, as well as commissioning our North America biosurfactant plant later in the third quarter and which creates significant opportunities by creating sustainable ingredients for our customers. We are also developing our recent technology acquisitions, to deliver shareholder value in future years. The fundamentals of the markets in which we operate are strong and we are aligned with the key megatrends driving future growth.
Cash generation continues to improve; free cash flow was up over 50% to £94.5m (2018: £62.2m), as capital investment normalised with completion of construction of our North American biosurfactant project. With low leverage and strong cash generation, this creates opportunities for investment for future growth and returns.
Return on sales, in reported currency, remained solid, declining by 30 basis points to 25.1% (2018: 25.4%). With a higher interest charge, following the increased investment, acquisition of Biosector and special dividend to shareholders, in reported currency adjusted profit before tax reduced by 2.5% to £170.6m (2018: £175.0m) and adjusted basic earnings per share (EPS) were 2.0% lower at 98.2 pence (2018: 100.2p).
We paid a special dividend of over £150m in May and have increased the interim dividend by 3.9% to 39.5 pence (2018: 38.0p).
Reported results (IFRS)
The weakening of Sterling benefitted results on a reported currency basis. Sales at reported rates increased 1.7% to £714.7m (2018: £702.8m), whilst profit before tax on an IFRS basis decreased by 2.7% to £166.2m (2018: £170.8m). This was after a charge for exceptional items, acquisition costs and amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition of £4.4m (2018: £4.2m). IFRS basic EPS decreased by 1.9% to 95.6p (2018: 97.5p).
First half sector performance
The standout performance was in Life Sciences, with excellent sales growth accompanied by a stronger margin. Sales grew by 13.0% and adjusted operating profit by 19.0% in constant currency. Our Health Care platform grew in double digit percentage terms, benefitting from its leading position in drug delivery systems, responding to the more complex demands of the biologic and oncology-driven drug development pipeline. This was supported by the recent vaccine adjuvancy acquisition, our first inorganic investment in Health Care. Growth in Crop Care was also robust in the first half year, growing mid single digit percentage, a testimony to our innovation and global platform in a challenging agricultural market.
Personal Care demand slowed, against particularly strong comparators in 2018, with sales in constant currency 3.6% lower. This was due to weakness in the US and China where the trade war between the two countries has created significant uncertainty, weighing heavily on consumer confidence, together with new legislation on ‘Daigou’ cross-border selling in China. Away from these geographies, Personal Care sales growth was positive; Western Europe grew by 4% and our industry leading margin remained resilient, with return on sales at 33.3% (2018: 34.1%). We expect the adverse impact to be relatively short-lived, with the sector’s strong fundamentals underpinned by innovation, continued proliferation of local, niche brands and consumer demand for sustainable products.
Performance Technologies was adversely affected by significantly weaker automotive and polymer end markets, with constant currency sales 6.0% lower and adjusted operating profit 11.2% lower. This particularly impacted our Smart Materials business, whilst the Energy Technology business was broadly flat in more resilient markets. Despite this short term weakness, the fundamentals for Performance Technologies remain attractive, with a progressive shift in the business towards renewable technologies, greater innovation and sustainable solutions.
Regional performance
Regional performance was mixed. Market conditions in North America were notably tougher, reflecting the US/China trade dispute and lower automotive and consumer product demand. A slow first quarter in Asia reflected uncertainties over macroeconomic growth and changes to selling legislation in China, replaced by modest signs of improvement in the second quarter. By contrast, Latin America delivered strong growth, driven by Crop sales to customers substituting for US production and an improving regional macroeconomic environment. Europe proved resilient, with good consumer growth away from the weak automotive market.
Our purpose – ‘Smart Science to Improve LivesTM’
Despite current market conditions, Croda is well placed to continue to drive sales and profit growth across the cycle. We are focused on delivering robust top line growth, above the market rate, at industry-leading margins, with a ‘capital light’ model. We achieve this through a powerful business model – sustainable products, with over 60% of our raw materials sourced from naturals; a balanced global footprint, with 33 manufacturing plants and sales operations in 38 countries; a dynamic innovation engine, where we have invested in 34 customer innovation centres globally; and an unrivalled local direct selling capability, serving over 17,000 customers, both multinational and local.
As announced in our 2018 full year results, we have adopted a new purpose – ‘Smart Science to Improve LivesTM’ to better reflect Croda and our strategy. We contribute towards global environmental and social challenges by applying science to create new, better and sustainably sourced solutions. Building on our heritage of producing sustainable ingredients from natural resources, Croda aims to be a leading sustainable speciality ingredients company, building rich technologies and deep knowledge, offering irresistible innovation and service to our customers, and creating positive change for the planet and society. This will drive superior returns to our shareholders and allow us to set ambitious sustainability goals – for example, in climate action, customer benefit, using even less petrochemical feedstocks, improving health and liberating land for crops.
We are fully aligned with the megatrends which shape our markets and which will drive growth. Life Sciences delivers good health and well-being, through its focus on sickness prevention and cure, and improved crop yields, through more targeted delivery systems to feed a growing population from the same land with less environmental impact. Personal Care is meeting the expectations of consumers with growing incomes demanding clean and natural beauty, whilst protecting the health of consumers through more effective sun screens. Performance Technologies is focusing on renewable technologies, delivering affordable and clean energy, and helping customers meet their climate action goals.
For our businesses, our strategy shapes our investments. We are investing in biosurfactants to replace petrochemicals. We are expanding our high purity health care capacity to meet growing drug demands. Through acquisition, we have created a number of new technology platforms, including sustainable plant and marine organisms for Personal Care, novel surfactants with Enza and biostimulants through Plant Impact. In July we completed our latest technology acquisition, Rewitec, with novel lubricant technology to extend the life of wind turbines, a growing global market addressing renewable energy needs.
We will continue to strengthen Personal Care, expanding our Beauty Actives business and broadening technologies in Beauty Effects, whilst helping customers develop new products through our Beauty Formulation business. Life Sciences will expand to grow. As our fastest growing business, we will continue to scale it through geographic expansion, capital investment and acquisition in adjacent markets and technologies. Performance Technologies will be refined, transforming into a high-tech business with improved margins and growth.
Outlook
We have a strong pipeline, a robust business model and a strategy to leverage innovation, customer intimacy and sustainability. Life Sciences is expected to show continued progress and in Personal Care we anticipate the US remaining subdued while Asia recovers progressively. Performance Technologies is likely to remain softer until end markets improve. Based on the current challenging economic conditions remaining unchanged, overall we expect a slight improvement in performance in the second half of the year versus the prior year comparator.
FIRST HALF SECTOR PERFORMANCE REVIEW
Growth in Personal Care offset by weak US and North Asia
Personal Care demand slowed, against particularly strong comparators in 2018 and trade headwinds impacting the two largest markets. Sales declined by 3.6% and adjusted operating profit by 4.6% in constant currency. In reported currency, sales were broadly flat at £246.8m (2018: £247.7m) with adjusted operating profit 2.7% lower at £82.1m (2018: £84.4m). IFRS operating profit was £81.8m (2018: £83.7m). Return on sales declined modestly to 33.3% (2018: 34.1%), due to the impact of a 6% fall in volume. Sales price/mix continued to improve, up 2 percentage points, reflecting the continued growth of prestige and innovation-driven products.
The trade war between the US and China significantly impacted demand, as customers cut inventories due to the uncertain tariff situation. In the US, consumer spending was squeezed and, in North Asia, new legislation restricting Daigou cross-border selling impacted some local customers. Asia has begun to show some modest recovery and sales with multinational customers continue to grow, as they expand in the region. Away from these short term macro issues in the US and North Asia, which saw local sales 10% lower, Personal Care sales continued in growth, up 4% in Western Europe, 2% in Latin America and 1% in South Asia in constant currency.
The fundamentals for Personal Care are strong with good structural growth, driven by greater consumer spending in emerging markets, supported by our continued resource expansion in Asia, the proliferation of niche and ‘Indie’ brands targeted at more local and personalised consumer needs, and increasing brand and ingredient innovation. Beauty Actives continues to grow in developed markets, with the prestige cosmetic market remaining confident. This is being supported by recently commissioned additional R&D and manufacturing capacity in Sederma, with a strong innovation pipeline. Beauty Effects, which targets millennial generation consumers, grew sales across Europe and Latin America, and is expanding its range of technologies. Whilst Beauty Formulation, our heritage ingredient portfolio, experienced subdued sales in the first half year, it is partnering to win, with strong multinational relationships, greater formulation capability for regional and local customers and opportunities to leverage sustainability through the new biosurfactant facility. This will be supported by our digital programme, with our increased investment in consumer devices through Cutitronics opening up possibilities in personalisation of products for consumers, whilst accessing significant data on skin health. We are also piloting ‘live chat’ to help smaller, ‘Indie’ customers learn about how to formulate with Croda’s leading ingredients, increasing our access to an ever growing numbers of customers.
Our innovation pipeline remains exciting, demonstrated through NPP sales of 42% (2018: 42%). Beauty Actives continues to generate greater scientific data to support new product claims. A new generation of peptides supported a major customer’s anti-ageing product. IRB by Sederma has launched a sustainable anti-ageing technology created from plant cell culture and Crodarom launched Banana Flower EC, a collaboratively sourced tropical ingredient boosting mood and delivering prebiotic properties. Coupled with organic sourcing of plant extracts, these innovations support the drive towards green beauty and sustainability. In Beauty Effects sensory impact and sustainability are key trends. Crodabond CSA was launched, delivering on-trend claims, reducing colour fade in hair colour applications and creating longer wear benefits in colour cosmetics. As ingredient partner to a major multinational company, we reformulated their entire range of hair colourants to improve consumer experience and colour retention. Our partnership in Moonshine Effect pigments continues to expand our position in colour cosmetics, with the launch of four new products creating striking colour with extraordinary visual impact.
Excellent performance in Life Sciences
Life Sciences delivered an excellent performance, with double digit percentage sales growth accompanied by a stronger margin. Sales grew by 13.0% and adjusted operating profit by 19.0% in constant currency. Health Care was the standout performer, with constant currency sales up 24%, including the Biosector acquisition completed at the end of 2018. Crop Care was also strong, with constant currency sales up 4%. NPP increased to 29% of sector sales, supporting price/mix growth of 9%.
In reported currency, sales increased by 16.2% to £184.3m (2018: £158.6m) and adjusted operating profit was 19.0% higher at £56.4m (2018: £47.4m). IFRS operating profit was £53.1m (2018: £44.9m). Return on sales improved to 30.6% (2018: 29.9%), despite the dilutive impact of recent acquisitions, reflecting the technology-rich, attractive platforms that we have developed in Health and Crop Care.
Life Sciences is a strong business getting stronger. Our strategy is to grow through expansion, delivering exciting sales and margin growth. We are moving to faster growth markets – in delivery systems for Health and Crop Care, in vaccine delivery, in seed enhancement and bio-stimulants, and into other adjacencies where we are looking to invest organically and inorganically. This sector is wholly aligned with UN sustainability goals, whether by ensuring healthy lives through new drugs and vaccines or by supporting zero hunger by creating better agriculture yields and crop protection systems.
Health Care continued to build on its leading market position in high purity excipients, where the removal of impurities eliminates adverse interaction with drug actives, and where demand is driven by the drug development pipeline, rather than macroeconomic conditions. Organic investment will double manufacturing capacity in the US, due to come on stream in 2020. We are also investing in new purification technologies to support a wider range of drugs, broadening our customer base. We are adding sales and technical resource in Asia and continue to obtain monograph approvals conforming with the Chinese Pharmacopeia, allowing us to expand our presence in this key drug market. Our equity investment in SiSaf has seen the launch of ProSilic®, increasing stability, targeting and controlled release of drug actives.
We are also integrating the Biosector acquisition. With 80 years experience in delivering safe and effective vaccine adjuvants for human and veterinary applications, the industry-leading products are widely recognized for their unmatched track record and are manufactured in the only aseptic and GMP compliant adjuvant manufacturing facility in the world. R&D capability has been strengthened through the combination with Croda, where the vaccine and blood products of tomorrow will require new and innovative adjuvants. NanoQuil® is a next generation nanoparticle adjuvant solving customers’ issues of stability and production.
Global market conditions were mixed for Crop Care, with the US/China trade dispute adversely impacting sales in both countries, aggravated by severe US weather. However, our investment in creating a global footprint in Crop Protection resulted in significant sales growth in other regions, most notably Latin America, where sales more than doubled.
Crop Care is growing through both organic and inorganic investment. Alongside being the ‘go to’ company for crop delivery systems, this has led to adjacencies in seed enhancement and biostimulants. Our formulation capability is helping crop science customers better deliver their new actives; in the first half year, we launched a range of capsule suspension formulations which use microcapsules to reduce operator hazards and risks to the natural habitat. Incotec is developing a growing organic product portfolio, including Promotor Organic priming treatments. Its latest innovation in seed upgrading, X-ray eXpress, uses artificial intelligence to automate seed sorting to improve the quality of tomato and pepper seed lots, cutting nursery production time by three weeks. Plant Impact continues to develop new biostimulants for yield enhancement. One of these, BanzaiTM, enhances the yield of cocoa, supporting greater farm incomes and sustainable crop production in West Africa.
Mixed markets in Performance Technologies
Performance Technologies was adversely impacted by the recent decline in automotive and polymer end-markets and a more cautious inventory position adopted by European and US customers. This primarily impacted our Smart Materials business, with demand in Energy Technologies solid. Sales declined by 6.0% and adjusted operating profit by 11.2% in constant currency. At reported currency, sales declined to £226.8m (2018: £235.9m) while adjusted operating profit fell to £40.8m (2018: £45.6m). IFRS operating profit was £40.0m (2018: £44.6m). Return on sales decreased to 18.0% (2018: 19.3%), with volume 8% lower.
Sales into developing markets in Asia and Eastern Europe were strong. Energy Technologies was also broadly flat, with resilient markets in marine lubricants, renewable energy and the automotive after-market. Smart Materials, which improves the performance of polymer and coatings systems particularly in the automotive sector, was most impacted by the slowdown, with sales 7% lower in constant currency. The smaller Home Care & Water business saw reduced demand in oil exploration.
Although impacted by short term weakness in some markets, the fundamentals for Performance Technologies are good with changes in our end markets continuing to create significant opportunities. Its strategy is to grow by refining the business, progressively moving towards new and high technology markets, with a strong sustainability focus. Reflecting an increasing investment in innovation, NPP increased to 19% (2018: 18%), its highest ever level. Innovation includes improving transmission performance and heat management in electric vehicles and extending lifetime performance of wind turbines. We are also well positioned for 5G cellular developments using adhesives for electronics. The forthcoming commissioning of our North American biosurfactant plant will see new sales into customers’ sustainable home care products. Our technology acquisition JD Horizons, with its FlowsolveTM technology, which prevents asphaltenes precipitating in oil exploration and keeps oil flowing, has reached critical mass, with sales having grown ten fold since acquisition in 2014.
Sustainability is a key driver in the technology change which is driving Performance Technologies. Croda is a world leader in Environmentally Acceptable Lubricants, positioning us to meet tighter regulations for better biodegradable marine lubricants. We are also growing through new technology acquisitions; in July 2019, we acquired Rewitec, whose lubricant additives extend the life of wind turbines, a fast growing market in renewable energy. Ionphase, acquired in December 2017, has launched rSTAT3, a permanent anti-static offering excellent UV stability in polymer applications, supplementing its innovative range of electrostatic dissipative solutions for electronic and polymer applications.
Continued portfolio development in Industrial Chemicals
We continued to refine the product portfolio in Industrial Chemicals, reducing volumes of low value co-product and tolling business. In constant currency, sales declined by 7.4%. Our China manufacturing joint venture, Sipo, saw an encouraging improvement in domestic sales and profitability. In reported currency, Industrial Chemicals sales reduced to £56.8m (2018: £60.6m) and adjusted operating profit decreased to break-even (2018: £1.1m). IFRS operating profit was £0.1m (2018: £1.1m).

Story 57
At the moment market research firms don’t seem to have a good handle on how to quantify these sales. Some of the public companies involved in the sector, such as GNC, have published some figures about how their online sales platforms are doing. But for the most part those companies are using the channel to support their brick and mortar operations, not as an end in itself.
Guessing at the size of the market
The estimates I’ve heard are that anywhere from 5% to as much as 20% of overall dietary supplement sales might be made online. But it is really a rough guess.
Paul Jarrett, CEO of sampling and market research firm BuluBox, confirmed for me the difficulty of sizing this market. In doing research for a presentation he made to investors, he said he found that about 18% of all consumer packaged goods purchases are now made online.
Jarrett said that that figure seems to be growing at about a 3% to 5% yearly clip. If the 5% figure is correct, and other factors of the market remain more or less the same, that means the online share of all CPG sales could be between 30% and 40% in 15 years, if we use the old ‘Rule of 72’ rule of thumb investment calculation.
Of that 18% of all CPG sales, Jarrett said he found that 60% or so of those shoppers made their purchases on Amazon. In doing more research on Amazon supplement sales specifically, Jarrett said he found that there are about 3 times to 4 times as many products for sale online as in brick and mortar outlets.
This fits in with what I’ve gleaned from contract manufacturers who cater to this trade. One such manufacturer with whom I spoke at a trade show said he had many clients who entered the dietary supplement industry by bringing a concept to him, and then going straight to online sales with the resulting finished goods that the contract manufacturer private labeled for them. Some of these brand holders started with as few as several hundred bottles and went on to become major customers, he said.
Why bother with brick and mortar?
Jarrett said one brand holder he met at a recent retailer conference said he is doing $40 million in sales on a lone dietary supplement product that he launched exclusively online. “After going to the event, he couldn’t understand the concept of paying for speed dating with retailers. He scoffed at the idea of having to ask a retailer to carry his product,”​ Jarrett told me.
Jarrett said he now advises entrepreneurs that going online first can be a lower cost way to bring in some revenue and hone product concepts without the delay, difficulty and risks associated with a brick and mortar launch.
In another anecdotal account, I met an entrepreneur in a plane whose sole activity was selling things on Amazon. Pretty much anything he could get a supply of, including ingestible products. While we were in line for takeoff his phone beeped repeatedly with transactions.
The growth of the online sales world has many implications for society as a whole. The hollowing out of sales tax receipts, the destruction of local businesses, boarded up retail districts, etc.
For the stakeholders in the dietary supplement industry, the question is who are these entrepreneurs, and how can they be engaged for the good of the industry as a whole? Few of these brands seem to be interested in joining trade associations, contributing to industry initiatives or negotiating with regulators.
“They are making so much money, growing so fast and doing so well that they don’t really care how things have been done up to now,” ​Jarrett said.
There is nothing inherent in the online sales platform that might lead one to conclude that these brands are cutting corners. But as they are currently flying pretty much under the radar, there’s no way to know.
No tidal wave of snake oil
That constitutes a major point of risk for the industry, or it seems to me. Trade organizations and educational groups are going to have to find a way to provide services specific to these kinds of companies, so that becoming members, and therefore taking a seat at the table, is seen as something that’s valuable for their brands. That looks to be a hard sell at the moment.
On the bright side, Jarrett said being online means that website reviews conducted by FDA would be fairly simple in the future. And if most of these products are made at a fairly small cadre of contract manufacturers, on site inspections might be simplified. So the fear that the online world might unleash a new tidal wave of snake oil salesmen on unsuspecting consumers might be overblown.
Nevertheless, it can’t help industry stakeholders to sleep at night to know that there is a whole army of companies that have pitched their tents in a far off field yet are still flying the banners of the dietary supplement industry.

Story 58
Dallas-Fort Worth ranked No. 11 for patent activity out of 250 metros. Patents granted include: • The Pure Company Global's air purifier • Integrity Bio-Chemicals' stabilization of clay-containing soils • STMicroelectronics audio playback using RFID • IBM's signatures to manage "derelict assets" of an IT environment • Secure Access' authentication of electronic content • an unassigned patent for an eye-tracking wearable computer • an unassigned patent for treating oncological disorders using Coenzyme Q10
Dallas Invents is a weekly look at U.S. patents granted with a connection to the Dallas-Fort Worth-Arlington metro area. Listings include patents granted to local assignees and/or those with a North Texas inventor. Patent activity can be an indicator of future economic growth, as well as the development of emerging markets and talent attraction. By tracking both inventors and assignees in the region, we aim to provide a broader view of the region’s inventive activity. Listings are organized by Cooperative Patent Classification (CPC).
THIS WEEK, BY THE NUMBERS
Week of July 16, 2019 | Dallas-Fort Worth-Arlington (19100)
156 patents granted
Ranked No. 11 in patent production out of 250 metros
NO. OF PATENTS BY CLASSIFICATION
TOP LOCAL ASSIGNEES (NO. OF PATENTS)
Sandisk Technologies LLC (Addison) 17
Texas Instruments Inc. (Dallas) 14
Futurewei Technologies Inc. (Plano) 10
Toyota Motor Engineering Manufacturing North America Inc. (Plano) 8
STMicroelectronics (Coppell) 5
CPG Technologies, LLC (Italy) 3
Bell Helicopter Textron Inc. (Fort Worth) 2
UNASSIGNED 13
TOP LOCAL INVENTOR (NO. OF PATENTS)
NA
FIRST SEEN
(COMPANIES THAT MAY BE ORIGINATING A PATENT IN DFW FOR THE FIRST TIME IN 2019, ACCORDING TO PATENT INDEX.)
Innovation Collective
Patent No. 10354288
System for apportioning revenue for media content derived from an online feedback community
Integrity Bio-Chemicals
Patent No. 10351770
Compositions and methods for the stabilization of clay-containing soils
Omega Acquisition
Patent No. 10355431
Consolidated automotive pigtail connector and replacement parts kit
Taiga Coolers
Patent No. 10350801
System and method for production of customized food and beverage coolers
The Pure Company Global
Patent No. D0854134
Air purifier
WoundKair Concepts
Patent No. D0854174
Cast shoe for a walking heel
Don’t miss Dallas Invents: Sign up for the Dallas Innovates e-newsletter. Patent information is provided by Joe Chiarella, founder of patent analytics company Patent Index and publisher of The Inventiveness Index.
For additional details on the patents granted below, search the USPTO Patent Full-Text and Image Database.
UTILITY PATENTS
H U M A N N E C E S S I T I E S
Thumb brace
Patent No. 10349692
Inventor(s): Hugh Allen Frederick (Dallas, TX)
Assignee(s): UNASSIGNED
Law Firm: Conley Rose, P.C. (3 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15284768 on 10/04/2016 (1015 days app to issue)
Abstract: A thumb brace comprising a glove having a thumb portion disposed between a palm side and a back side and comprising a first attachment region positioned adjacent a base of the thumb portion and a second attachment region positioned on the back side of the glove; a first elastic strap having a first end, a mid-portion, and a second end, wherein the mid-portion is disposed within a cradle of the glove between the thumb portion and an index finger portion of the glove, the first end is releasably attached to the first attachment region, and the second end is releasably attached to the first attachment region, whereby the first strap extends a distal end of a thumb metacarpal bone of a user of the brace; and a second elastic strap having a first end, a mid-portion, and a second end, wherein the first end is attached to the palm side of the glove and the second end is releasably attached to the second attachment region, whereby the second strap reduces a proximal end of a thumb metacarpal bone of a user of the brace.
[A41D] OUTERWEAR; PROTECTIVE GARMENTS; ACCESSORIES (eye or ear protectors A61F 9/00, A61F 11/00; sweating suits A61H 36/00)
Shaving razor tray
Patent No. 10349719
Inventor(s): Craig A. Provost (Boston, MA), John W. Griffin (Moultonborough, NH), William E. Tucker (Attleboro, MA)
Assignee(s): ShaveLogic, Inc. (Dallas, TX)
Law Firm: Leber IP Law (2 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 16115157 on 08/28/2018 (322 days app to issue)
Abstract: A tray is disclosed for securely holding a shaving razor and a shaving cartridge magazine when not in use.
[A45D] HAIRDRESSING OR SHAVING EQUIPMENT; MANICURING OR OTHER COSMETIC TREATMENT (wigs, toupees, or the like A41G 3/00, A41G 5/00; hairdressers’ chairs A47C 1/04; hair cutting appliances, razors B26B)
Methods of designing and manufacturing customized dental prosthesis for periodontal or osseointegration and related systems
Patent No. 10350030
Inventor(s): Lea Ellermeier Nesbit (Dallas, TX)
Assignee(s): NATURAL DENTAL IMPLANTS AG (Berlin, , DE)
Law Firm: Bracewell LLP (3 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15376051 on 12/12/2016 (946 days app to issue)
Abstract: Methods of manufacturing dental prosthesis/implants each to replace a non-functional natural tooth positioned in a jawbone of a specific pre-identified patient are provided. An example method includes the steps of receiving imaging data such as x-ray image data and surface scan data of a dental anatomy and/or a physical impression of the dental anatomy of a specific preidentified patient. The steps can also include forming a three-dimensional virtual model of at least portions of a non-functional natural tooth positioned in the jawbone of the specific pre-identified patient based on the imaging and surface scan data, virtually designing a dental implant based upon the virtual model, exporting the data describing the designed dental implant to a manufacturing machine, and custom manufacturing the dental implant for the specific patient.
[A61C] DENTISTRY; APPARATUS OR METHODS FOR ORAL OR DENTAL HYGIENE (non-driven toothbrushes A46B; preparations for dentistry A61K 6/00; preparations for cleaning the teeth or mouth A61K 8/00, A61Q 11/00)
Medicinal drops
Patent No. 10350232
Inventor(s): Peter D. Jaillet (Lewisville, TX)
Assignee(s): UNASSIGNED
Law Firm: Chalker Flores, LLP (Local)
Application No., Date, Speed: 14527870 on 10/30/2014 (1720 days app to issue)
Abstract: The present invention includes a concentration of at least 7.5% w/w saccharide other than trehalose, a preservative, in a buffered solution, wherein the composition is formulated for optic or otic administration. In certain embodiments, the composition is used to treat dry eyes, presbyopia, eye pain, blurred vision, confused mental function, scotoma, allergies, reduced craving for sugar, blocked tear ducts, tremors, vision and cognitive changes due to concussion, vertigo, TBI, loss of cognitive function as a result of traumatic brain injury, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson”s disease, Alzheimer”s disease, attention deficit disorder, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, or Guillain-Barre syndrome.
[A61K] PREPARATIONS FOR MEDICAL, DENTAL, OR TOILET PURPOSES (devices or methods specially adapted for bringing pharmaceutical products into particular physical or administering forms A61J 3/00; chemical aspects of, or use of materials for deodorisation of air, for disinfection or sterilisation, or for bandages, dressings, absorbent pads or surgical articles A61L; soap compositions C11D)
Methods of preparing ophthalmic formulations and uses of same
Patent No. 10350309
Inventor(s): Gerald D. Cagle (Fort Worth, TX), Haresh Bhagat (Fort Worth, TX)
Assignee(s): Cognoptix, Inc. (Concord, MA)
Law Firm: Hamilton, Brook, Smith Reynolds, P.C. (2 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15864679 on 01/08/2018 (554 days app to issue)
Abstract:
[A61K] PREPARATIONS FOR MEDICAL, DENTAL, OR TOILET PURPOSES (devices or methods specially adapted for bringing pharmaceutical products into particular physical or administering forms A61J 3/00; chemical aspects of, or use of materials for deodorisation of air, for disinfection or sterilisation, or for bandages, dressings, absorbent pads or surgical articles A61L; soap compositions C11D)
Amphibious aircraft fire fighting enhancement
Patent No. 10350441
Inventor(s): Marc A. Gerth (Keller, TX), Michael C. Story (Mansfield, TX), Reagan G. Bullock (Poolville, TX), Victor D. Trotter (Fort Worth, TX)
Assignee(s): GelTech Solutions, Inc. (Jupiter, FL)
Law Firm: McHale Slavin, P.A. (1 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15243367 on 08/22/2016 (1058 days app to issue)
Abstract: The instant invention relates to an apparatus and method for enhancing the fire extinguishing properties of water for use with fire fighting aircraft. The apparatus and method includes the steps of, and equipment for, transferring media into a holding tank in aircraft; filling a reservoir hopper with water in the aircraft; calculating the amount of media to be added to the reservoir; drawing the calculated amount of media into the reservoir to form an enhanced fire fighting admixture while the aircraft is in flight, wherein the admixture is offloaded by a controlled discharge for use in fighting forest fires.
[A62C] FIRE-FIGHTING (fire-extinguishing compositions, use of chemical substances in extinguishing fires A62D 1/00; spraying, applying liquids or other fluent materials to surfaces in general B05; fire-fighting aircraft B64D 1/16; alarm arrangements G08B, e.g. fire alarms actuated by smoke or gases G08B 17/10)
Golf club head with molded cavity structure
Patent No. 10350465
Inventor(s): Eric Larson (Arlington, TX), Randy Garrido (Fort Worth, TX)
Assignee(s): Karsten Manufacturing Corporation (Phoenix, AZ)
Law Firm: No Counsel
Application No., Date, Speed: 15815438 on 11/16/2017 (607 days app to issue)
Abstract: A golf club head includes a strike face, a crown, and a sole, and is formed from a forward section and a body section that are coupled together. The forward section includes the strike face, and the body section includes an upper shell defining a portion of the crown, a lower shell defining a portion of the sole, and an internal wall extending between the upper shell and the lower shell. The internal wall is molded from a polymeric material and is integrally formed with one of the upper shell and the lower shell. At least one of the upper shell and the lower shell defines an opening that is in communication with a cavity provided between the upper shell and the lower shell and at least partially defined by the internal wall.
[A63B] APPARATUS FOR PHYSICAL TRAINING, GYMNASTICS, SWIMMING, CLIMBING, OR FENCING; BALL GAMES; TRAINING EQUIPMENT (apparatus for passive exercising, massage A61H)
O P E R A T I O N S & T R A N S P O R T
Magnetic attachment for shaving cartridge
Patent No. 10350774
Inventor(s): Craig A. Provost (Providence, RI), John W. Griffin (Moultonborough, NH), Robert A. Wilson (Dallas, TX)
Assignee(s): SHAVELOGIC, INC. (Dallas, TX)
Law Firm: Leber IP Law (2 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 14270792 on 05/06/2014 (1897 days app to issue)
Abstract: Shaving systems are disclosed that include a replaceable shaving assembly and a cartridge connecting structure for connecting the shaving assembly to a handle. In preferred implementations, the cartridge connecting structure has a magnetic portion configured to help draw the cartridge onto the handle and retain the cartridge in place when the razor is not in contact with the skin, and a mechanical engagement that provides the necessary retention forces required to keep the system intact during shaving.
[B26B] HAND-HELD CUTTING TOOLS NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR (for harvesting A01D; for horticulture, for forestry A01G; for butchering or meat treatment A22; for manufacturing or repairing footwear A43D; nail clippers or cutters A45D 29/02; kitchen equipment A47J; for surgical purposes A61B 17/00; for metal B23D; cutting by abrasive fluid jets B24C 5/02; plier-like tools with cutting edges B25B 7/22; pincers B25C 11/02; handles for hand implements, in general B25G; guillotine-type cutters B26D; for erasing B43L 19/00; for textile materials D06H)
Method of manufacturing a tray table
Patent No. 10350800
Inventor(s): William H. Maslakow (Lewisville, TX)
Assignee(s): Reliant Worldwide Plastics, LLC (Plano, TX)
Law Firm: Braxton Perrone, PLLC (1 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15178386 on 06/09/2016 (1132 days app to issue)
Abstract: Disclosed embodiments relate to trays typically comprising a composite internal structure, a thermoplastic frame typically located about the composite internal structure, and two cover sheets forming the upper and lower tray surfaces. The composite internal structure may be a corrugated composite structure in some embodiments. In other embodiments, the composite internal structure may comprise a series of composite elements (which might act a beams or struts). The cover sheets may comprise thermoplastic material, and in some embodiments, the cover sheets may comprise composite material (for example the same as for the corrugated composite structure). In some exemplary embodiments, the thermoplastic frame and the composite internal structure may have the same thermoplastic material, and they may be joined together to have a plurality of homogeneous connective attachments.
[B29C] SHAPING OR JOINING OF PLASTICS; SHAPING OF MATERIAL IN A PLASTIC STATE, NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR; AFTER-TREATMENT OF THE SHAPED PRODUCTS, e.g. REPAIRING (making preforms B29B 11/00; making laminated products by combining previously unconnected layers which become one product whose layers will remain together B32B 37/00-B32B 41/00) [4]
System and method for production of customized food and beverage coolers
Patent No. 10350801
Inventor(s): John S. Hohenshelt (Arlington, TX)
Assignee(s): Taiga Coolers, LLC (Arlington, TX)
Law Firm: Griggs Bergen LLP (Local)
Application No., Date, Speed: 14982836 on 12/29/2015 (1295 days app to issue)
Abstract: A system and method for production of a customizable food and beverage cooler are disclosed. In one embodiment of the system, a mold includes two primary halves configured to produce an injection molded part that is a component of the food and beverage cooler. An aperture intersects one of the primary halves of the mold to accommodate an insertion block that includes a reverse image thereon such that molten plastic flow around the reverse image produces an integrally molded image on the component of the food and beverage cooler. Further, the aperture accommodates a combination insertion block and insertion plate having the reverse image thereon. One of the insertion block or combination insertion block and insertion plate is selected for disposing in the aperture based on the desired production run of the injection molded part.
[B29C] SHAPING OR JOINING OF PLASTICS; SHAPING OF MATERIAL IN A PLASTIC STATE, NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR; AFTER-TREATMENT OF THE SHAPED PRODUCTS, e.g. REPAIRING (making preforms B29B 11/00; making laminated products by combining previously unconnected layers which become one product whose layers will remain together B32B 37/00-B32B 41/00) [4]
Apparatus and method for forming a polymeric web
Patent No. 10350806
Inventor(s): Brad A. Cobler (Irving, TX), Gregory James Wood (Carrollton, TX)
Assignee(s): Poly-America, L.P. (Grand Prairie, TX)
Law Firm: No Counsel
Application No., Date, Speed: 15075689 on 03/21/2016 (1212 days app to issue)
Abstract: The present invention is directed to an apparatus for forming a multi-layer web formed from at least two polymeric film tubes in intimate contact with each other but not bonded to each other. The apparatus and method includes the use of a blown film extrusion die that extrudes two separate blown film polymeric tubes via two separate annular die lips. A fluid cooling system applies cooling fluid across a plurality of surfaces of the two blown film tubes. One of the die lips may be at a different height from the other die lip. The frost line of one blown film tube may be at a different height from the other blown film tube.
[B29C] SHAPING OR JOINING OF PLASTICS; SHAPING OF MATERIAL IN A PLASTIC STATE, NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR; AFTER-TREATMENT OF THE SHAPED PRODUCTS, e.g. REPAIRING (making preforms B29B 11/00; making laminated products by combining previously unconnected layers which become one product whose layers will remain together B32B 37/00-B32B 41/00) [4]
Plastic processing screw
Patent No. 10350809
Inventor(s): Robert F. Dray, Sr. (Dallas, TX)
Assignee(s): UNASSIGNED
Law Firm: No Counsel
Application No., Date, Speed: 15134768 on 04/21/2016 (1181 days app to issue)
Abstract: An improved screw has a shaft having a surface and a central axis and at least one flight extending helically along the surface of the shaft in successive turns. A continuous groove is formed in the surface of the shaft and extends between successive, pushing and trailing, turns of the flight at a selected angle greater than zero. The groove defines at least one generally triangular land having a base aligned with a pushing turn of the flight and an apex between successive turns of the flight. The groove also defines another generally triangular land having a base aligned with a trailing turn of the flight. Barriers or dams may be provided on the lands and in the grooves. A second continuous groove may also be formed in the surface of the shaft.
[B29C] SHAPING OR JOINING OF PLASTICS; SHAPING OF MATERIAL IN A PLASTIC STATE, NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR; AFTER-TREATMENT OF THE SHAPED PRODUCTS, e.g. REPAIRING (making preforms B29B 11/00; making laminated products by combining previously unconnected layers which become one product whose layers will remain together B32B 37/00-B32B 41/00) [4]
Cloaking devices constructed from reflection boundaries and half-mirrors and vehicles comprising the same
Patent No. 10351062
Inventor(s): Chengang Ji (Ann Arbor, MI), Debasish Banerjee (Ann Arbor, MI), Kyu-Tae Lee (Ann Arbor, MI), Songtao Wu (Ann Arbor, MI)
Assignee(s): TOYOTA MOTOR ENGINEERING MANUFACTURING NORTH AMERICA, INC. (Plano, TX)
Law Firm: Dinsmore Shohl LLP (14 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15813830 on 11/15/2017 (608 days app to issue)
Abstract: A cloaking device includes an object-side, an image-side, and a cloaked region (CR) between the object-side and the image-side. An object-side CR reflection boundary, an object-side half-mirror, and an object-side external reflection boundary are positioned on the object-side, and an image-side CR reflection boundary, an image-side half-mirror, and an image-side external reflection boundary are positioned on the image-side. The object-side half-mirror and the object-side external reflection boundary are spaced apart and generally parallel to the object-side CR reflection boundary, and the image-side half-mirror and the image-side external reflection boundary are spaced apart and generally parallel to the image-side CR reflection boundary. Light from an object located on the object-side of the cloaking device and obscured by the CR is redirected around the CR via two optical paths to form an image of the object on the image-side of the cloaking device.
[B60R] VEHICLES, VEHICLE FITTINGS, OR VEHICLE PARTS, NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR (fire prevention, containment or extinguishing specially adapted for vehicles A62C 3/07)
License plate tag method and apparatus
Patent No. 10351079
Inventor(s): Andrey Korneev (Arlington, TX)
Assignee(s): UNASSIGNED
Law Firm: Law Office of Jeff Williams PLLC (Local + 690 other metros)
Application No., Date, Speed: 14967296 on 12/12/2015 (1312 days app to issue)
Abstract: A method of attaching a vehicular identification member to a vehicle performed by obtaining a vehicle identification member having selectively identifying information regarding the vehicle. Locating the identification member adjacent a surface of the vehicle. Using an attachment member to secure the vehicle identification member to the vehicle. The attachment member is at least one of or both an adhesive layer and a fastener slot. The vehicle identification member may be secured through the application of force through a fastener within the slot and bonding via the removable adhesive layer to an interior or exterior surface.
[B60R] VEHICLES, VEHICLE FITTINGS, OR VEHICLE PARTS, NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR (fire prevention, containment or extinguishing specially adapted for vehicles A62C 3/07)
Automatic brake application for one pedal driving
Patent No. 10351111
Inventor(s): Mariano Hernandez (Los Angeles, CA)
Assignee(s): TOYOTA MOTOR ENGINEERING MANUFACTURING NORTH AMERICA, INC. (Plano, TX)
Law Firm: Snell Wilmer LLP (5 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15493016 on 04/20/2017 (817 days app to issue)
Abstract: Methods, systems, and apparatus for controlling the braking of a vehicle. The brake control system includes a first sensor for detecting motion data of the vehicle and an electronic control unit connected to the first sensor. The electronic control unit is configured to determine that the vehicle is not in motion based on the motion data. The electronic control unit is configured to predict a brake application event that requires application of a braking force to prevent the vehicle from moving and cause brakes of the vehicle to apply the braking force to prevent the vehicle from moving based on the brake application event.
[B60T] VEHICLE BRAKE CONTROL SYSTEMS OR PARTS THEREOF; BRAKE CONTROL SYSTEMS OR PARTS THEREOF, IN GENERAL (control of electrodynamic brake systems B60L 7/00; conjoint control of brakes and other drive units of vehicles B60W); ARRANGEMENT OF BRAKING ELEMENTS ON VEHICLES IN GENERAL; PORTABLE DEVICES FOR PREVENTING UNWANTED MOVEMENT OF VEHICLES; VEHICLE MODIFICATIONS TO FACILITATE COOLING OF BRAKES [2006.01]
Apparatuses and methods for testing vehicle stone chipping
Patent No. 10351112
Inventor(s): Kevin C. Nevaux (Ann Arbor, MI)
Assignee(s): TOYOTA MOTOR ENGINEERING MANUFACTURING NORTH AMERICA, INC. (Plano, TX)
Law Firm: Dinsmore Shohl LLP (14 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15421670 on 02/01/2017 (895 days app to issue)
Abstract: An apparatus for testing vehicle stone chippings is disclosed. The apparatus includes a stone chipping rig having a chassis. The chassis includes a first end, a second end, and a longitudinally extending tongue extending from the second end. A rolling fixture is coupled to the first end of the chassis. A stone chipping test device is coupled to the first end of the chassis adjacent to the rolling fixture for measuring an impact force of a stone that strikes the stone chipping test device. The apparatus further includes a pilot vehicle used to receive the stone chipping rig so as to measure the impact force of the stone launched off the pilot vehicle wheels when the pilot vehicle travels on a road with loose gravel. The stone chipping rig is defined as a test vehicle towed at a fixed distance behind the pilot vehicle.
[B60T] VEHICLE BRAKE CONTROL SYSTEMS OR PARTS THEREOF; BRAKE CONTROL SYSTEMS OR PARTS THEREOF, IN GENERAL (control of electrodynamic brake systems B60L 7/00; conjoint control of brakes and other drive units of vehicles B60W); ARRANGEMENT OF BRAKING ELEMENTS ON VEHICLES IN GENERAL; PORTABLE DEVICES FOR PREVENTING UNWANTED MOVEMENT OF VEHICLES; VEHICLE MODIFICATIONS TO FACILITATE COOLING OF BRAKES [2006.01]
Electrically powered downlock actuation system
Patent No. 10351227
Inventor(s): Adam J. Ditzler (Fort Worth, TX)
Assignee(s): GOODRICH CORPORATION (Charlotte, NC)
Law Firm: Snell Wilmer, L.L.P. (3 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15224161 on 07/29/2016 (1082 days app to issue)
Abstract: A locking linkage system may comprise a lockable assembly comprising an upper brace, a lower brace coupled to the upper brace, and a linkage coupled to the upper brace and the lower brace. The locking linkage system may further comprise a downlock actuator comprising an electric motor coupled to the upper brace, a rotary output shaft coupled to the electric motor, a connecting output coupled to the rotary output shaft, wherein the connecting output shaft is configured to rotate between a fixed locked position and a fixed unlocked position, and a link rod having a distal end coupled to the linkage and a proximal end comprising a lost-motion joint, the lost-motion joint being coupled to a connection pin of connecting output shaft. The downlock actuator may be configured to toggle the linkage, the upper brace, and the lower brace between an unlocked position and a locked position.
[B64C] AEROPLANES; HELICOPTERS (air-cushion vehicles B60V)
Rotor assembly having collective pitch control
Patent No. 10351232
Inventor(s): John Richard McCullough (Fort Worth, TX), Paul K. Oldroyd (Fort Worth, TX)
Assignee(s): Bell Helicopter Textron Inc. (Fort Worth, TX)
Law Firm: Lawrence Youst PLLC (Local)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15606257 on 05/26/2017 (781 days app to issue)
Abstract: A rotor assembly for an aircraft operable to generate a variable thrust output at a constant rotational speed. The rotor assembly includes a mast rotatable at the constant speed about a mast axis. A rotor hub is coupled to and rotatable with the mast. The rotor hub includes a plurality of spindle grips extending generally radially outwardly. Each of the spindle grips is coupled to one of a plurality of rotor blades and is operable to rotate therewith about a pitch change axis. A collective pitch control mechanism is coupled to and rotatable with the rotor hub. The collective pitch control mechanism is operably associated with each spindle grip such that actuation of the collective pitch control mechanism rotates each spindle grip about the respective pitch change axis to collectively control the pitch of the rotor blades, thereby generating the variable thrust output.
[B64C] AEROPLANES; HELICOPTERS (air-cushion vehicles B60V)
Process for making a capsule containing a dosing agent
Patent No. 10351277
Inventor(s): Dennis Dwight Paynter (Grapevine, TX)
Assignee(s): 2266170 Ontario Inc. (Mississauga, ON, , CA)
Law Firm: Manelli Selter PLLC (2 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15224706 on 08/01/2016 (1079 days app to issue)
Abstract: A capsule is provided containing a dosing agent and a system and process is provided for making capsules containing a dosing agent. The capsule includes a body defining an interior space and an opening, the capsule having ingredients and a dosing agent disposed in the interior space and a cover to seal the opening. The process and system includes depositing ingredients and the dosing agent in the interior space of the capsule and then covering the opening.
[B65B] MACHINES, APPARATUS OR DEVICES FOR, OR METHODS OF, PACKAGING ARTICLES OR MATERIALS; UNPACKING (bundling and pressing devices for cigars A24C 1/44; devices for tensioning and securing binders adapted to be supported by the article or articles to be bound B25B 25/00; applying closure members to bottles, jars or similar containers B67B 1/00-B67B 6/00; concurrent cleaning, filling and closing of bottles B67C 7/00; emptying bottles, jars, cans, casks, barrels or similar containers B67C 9/00)
Method of manufacturing fiberglass filtration media
Patent No. 10351462
Inventor(s): Charles Douglas Spitler (Southlake, TX)
Assignee(s): Superior Fibers, LLC (Reedsville, WV)
Law Firm: Bakos Kritzer (2 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15255136 on 09/01/2016 (1048 days app to issue)
Abstract: The manufacture of fiberglass filtration media, and particularly paint arrestance fiberglass media, is disclosed. Fiberglass filtration media is formed in part by controlling the speed of a melter traversing a drum. The fiberglass media passes through rollers and water sprays before it enters a curing apparatus. Progressive density changes from the air intake side to the air exit side of the media result in increased filtration qualities.
[B01D] SEPARATION (separating solids from solids by wet methods B03B, B03D, by pneumatic jigs or tables B03B, by other dry methods B07; magnetic or electrostatic separation of solid materials from solid materials or fluids, separation by high-voltage electric fields B03C; centrifuges B04B; vortex apparatus B04C; presses per se for squeezing-out liquid from liquid-containing material B30B 9/02) [5]
System and method for detection of vehicle lane departure
Patent No. 10352704
Inventor(s): Vladimeros Vladimerou (Whitmore Lake, MI)
Assignee(s): Toyota Motor Engineering Manufacturing North America, Inc. (Plano, TX)
Law Firm: Darrow Mustafa PC (2 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 16018686 on 06/26/2018 (385 days app to issue)
Abstract: A lane departure detection computing device for a roadside device is disclosed. The computing device is configured to execute instructions stored in a memory to: calculate a first path geometry relating to a first vehicle traveling in a first lane; calculate a second path geometry relating to a second vehicle traveling in a second lane different from the first lane; evaluate coextensive portions of the first path geometry and the second path geometry for parallelism; if the coextensive portions of the first path geometry and the second path geometry evaluated for parallelism are not parallel, determine that one of the first vehicle and the second vehicle is executing a lane departure; and operate a vehicle configured for autonomous operation responsive to the determination that one of the first vehicle and the second vehicle is executing a lane departure.
[B60W] CONJOINT CONTROL OF VEHICLE SUB-UNITS OF DIFFERENT TYPE OR DIFFERENT FUNCTION; CONTROL SYSTEMS SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR HYBRID VEHICLES; ROAD VEHICLE DRIVE CONTROL SYSTEMS FOR PURPOSES NOT RELATED TO THE CONTROL OF A PARTICULAR SUB-UNIT [2006.01]
Process for forming PZT or PLZT thinfilms with low defectivity
Patent No. 10354858
Inventor(s): Asad Mahmood Haider (Plano, TX), John Britton Robbins (McKinney, TX)
Assignee(s): TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED (Dallas, TX)
Law Firm: No Counsel
Application No., Date, Speed: 14467688 on 08/25/2014 (1786 days app to issue)
Abstract: Use of a non-solvent for the edge bead removal of spin-coated PZT or PLZT thinfilms, eliminates swelling of the exposed edges of the PZT or PLZT thinfilms and eliminates delamination and formation of particle defects in subsequent bake and anneal steps.
[B05D] PROCESSES FOR APPLYING LIQUIDS OR OTHER FLUENT MATERIALS TO SURFACES, IN GENERAL (conveying articles or workpieces through baths of liquid B65G, e.g. B65G 49/02) [2]
C H E M I S T R Y & M E T A L L U R G Y
Composition and method for inhibiting corrosion
Patent No. 10351453
Inventor(s): Lyle H. Steimel (Flower Mound, TX), Marta Drewniak (Carrollton, TX)
Assignee(s): NCH Corporation (Irving, TX)
Law Firm: Ross Barnes LLP (1 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15273158 on 09/22/2016 (1027 days app to issue)
Abstract: A composition and method of inhibiting corrosion and white rust on metal components in a water system. The composition preferably comprises an amino-acid based polymer (most preferably a polyaspartic acid or a salt thereof), hydroxyphosphonoacetic acid, and a second phosphonic acid (preferably a phosphonocarboxylic acid), and does not require the use of regulated metals. The composition is effective even in the presence of biocides. A preferred method of inhibiting white rust comprises adding an amino-acid based polymer or hydroxyphosphonoacetic acid or both to the water system. A preferred method of inhibiting corrosion or white rust comprises adding an amino-acid based polymer, hydroxyphosphonoacetic acid, and a phosphonocarboxylic acid to the water system. Preferably the active concentrations are at least 3 ppm each of the amino-acid based polymer and hydroxyphosphonoacetic acid when added to a volume of water in the water system.
[C02F] TREATMENT OF WATER, WASTE WATER, SEWAGE, OR SLUDGE (processes for making harmful chemical substances harmless, or less harmful, by effecting a chemical change in the substances A62D 3/00; separation, settling tanks or filter devices B01D; special arrangements on waterborne vessels of installations for treating water, waste water or sewage, e.g. for producing fresh water, B63J; adding materials to water to prevent corrosion C23F; treating radioactively-contaminated liquids G21F 9/04) [3]
Graphite oxide entrainment in cement and asphalt composite
Patent No. 10351473
Inventor(s): Richard Stoltz (Plano, TX)
Assignee(s): Garmor Inc. (Orlando, FL)
Law Firm: Chalker Flores, LLP (Local)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15792322 on 10/24/2017 (630 days app to issue)
Abstract: A method of producing dispersed of high quality graphene/graphite oxides in a powder matrix to then be reacted to form a composite. Where the powders have similar hydrophobicity and the graphene/graphite oxides has minimal surface oxidation or minimal epoxy group and where the powders are sonically mixed.
[C01B] NON-METALLIC ELEMENTS; COMPOUNDS THEREOF (fermentation or enzyme-using processes for the preparation of elements or inorganic compounds except carbon dioxide C12P 3/00; production of non-metallic elements or inorganic compounds by electrolysis or electrophoresis C25B)
Engineered composite structure using graphene oxide
Patent No. 10351711
Inventor(s): Richard Stoltz (Plano, TX)
Assignee(s): UNASSIGNED
Law Firm: Chalker Flores, LLP (Local)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15559741 on 03/18/2016 (1215 days app to issue)
Abstract: This is generally a method of producing dispersed high quality engineered composite structures using flat flakes of graphene/graphene oxides/reduced graphene oxides in a host as the reinforcing additive of the composite.
[C09C] TREATMENT OF INORGANIC MATERIALS, OTHER THAN FIBROUS FILLERS, TO ENHANCE THEIR PIGMENTING OR FILLING PROPERTIES (preparation of inorganic compounds or non-metallic elements C01; treatment of materials specially adapted to enhance their filling properties in mortars, concrete or artificial stone C04B 14/00, C04B 18/00, C04B 20/00); PREPARATION OF CARBON BLACK [4]
Method of improving the accuracy when quantifying fluorescence markers in fuels
Patent No. 10351789
Inventor(s): Jeffrey L. Conroy (Allen, TX), Philip B. Forshee (McKinney, TX)
Assignee(s): Authentix, Inc. (Addison, TX)
Law Firm: Conley Rose, P.C. (3 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15632532 on 06/26/2017 (750 days app to issue)
Abstract: A method of increasing the accuracy of the quantification of an analyte in a hydrocarbon, the analyte containing a marking compound, by obtaining a first sample containing (a) the hydrocarbon and (b) the marking compound, obtaining a homogeneity inducing material, contacting the homogeneity inducing material with an aliquot of the first sample in a volumetric ratio of greater than or equal to about 5:1 to produce a second sample, and determining an amount of the marking compound in the second sample using an analytical technique based on the marking material.
[C10L] FUELS NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR; NATURAL GAS; SYNTHETIC NATURAL GAS OBTAINED BY PROCESSES NOT COVERED BY SUBCLASSES C10G OR C10K; LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS; USE OF ADDITIVES TO FUELS OR FIRES; FIRE-LIGHTERS [5]
Methods for treatment of oncological disorders using an epimetabolic shifter (Coenzyme Q10)
Patent No. 10351915
Inventor(s): John Patrick McCook (Frisco, TX)
Assignee(s): UNASSIGNED
Law Firm: McCarter English, LLP (7 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15862856 on 01/05/2018 (557 days app to issue)
Abstract: Methods and formulations for treating onocological disorders in humans using Coenzyme Q10 are described.
[C12Q] MEASURING OR TESTING PROCESSES INVOLVING ENZYMES OR MICROORGANISMS (immunoassay G01N 33/53); COMPOSITIONS OR TEST PAPERS THEREFOR; PROCESSES OF PREPARING SUCH COMPOSITIONS; CONDITION-RESPONSIVE CONTROL IN MICROBIOLOGICAL OR ENZYMOLOGICAL PROCESSES [3]
F I X E D C O N S T R U C T I O N S
Compositions and methods for the stabilization of clay containing soils
Patent No. 10351770
Inventor(s): Ashoka V. R. Madduri (Belmont, MA), Charles E. Milliron, III (Columbus, GA), Curtis J. Rodencal (Cresson, TX), Matthew B. Blackmon (Columbus, GA), Sameer S. Vhora (Columbus, GA), Sanket Gandhi (Columbus, GA)
Assignee(s): Integrity Bio-Chemicals, LLC (Cresson, TX)
Law Firm: Vorys, Sater, Seymour and Pease LLP (5 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 16054259 on 08/03/2018 (347 days app to issue)
Abstract: Polysaccharides may be partially oxidized by oxidative opening of a monosaccharide unit while still retaining glycosidic bonds. Such polysaccharides may be further functionalized with an amine moiety at a site of oxidative opening. Polysaccharides that are partially oxidized and amine-functionalized in this manner may be combined with an aqueous liquid to form compositions suitable for stabilizing clays in clay-containing formations. Clay stabilization may promote reduced swelling of the clays in the presence of water.
[E02D] FOUNDATIONS; EXCAVATIONS; EMBANKMENTS (specially adapted for hydraulic engineering E02B); UNDERGROUND OR UNDERWATER STRUCTURES [6]
Formation aids for use in forming swimming pools and associated method
Patent No. 10352055
Inventor(s): Brian Claffey (Colleyville, TX)
Assignee(s): UNASSIGNED
Law Firm: Braxton Perrone, PLLC (1 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15870564 on 01/12/2018 (550 days app to issue)
Abstract: A formation aid, for use in the forming of receptacles in a swimming pool, includes a three-dimensional body having an essentially conical shape. The three-dimensional body of the formation aid includes a narrow end, for placement near an interior edge of the swimming pool during formation of the swimming pool; and a wide end, for placement remote from the interior edge of the swimming pool, in order to form a receptacle.
[E04H] BUILDINGS OR LIKE STRUCTURES FOR PARTICULAR PURPOSES; SWIMMING OR SPLASH BATHS OR POOLS; MASTS; FENCING; TENTS OR CANOPIES, IN GENERAL (foundations E02D) [4]
Formation aids for use in forming swimming pools and associated method
Patent No. 10352056
Inventor(s): Brian Claffey (Colleyville, TX)
Assignee(s): UNASSIGNED
Law Firm: Braxton Perrone, PLLC (1 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 16119273 on 08/31/2018 (319 days app to issue)
Abstract: A formation aid, for use in the forming of receptacles in a swimming pool, includes a three-dimensional body having an essentially conical shape. The three-dimensional body of the formation aid includes a narrow end, for placement near an interior edge of the swimming pool during formation of the swimming pool; and a wide end, for placement remote from the interior edge of the swimming pool, in order to form a receptacle.
[E04H] BUILDINGS OR LIKE STRUCTURES FOR PARTICULAR PURPOSES; SWIMMING OR SPLASH BATHS OR POOLS; MASTS; FENCING; TENTS OR CANOPIES, IN GENERAL (foundations E02D) [4]
Cutter support element
Patent No. 10352103
Inventor(s): Jason Maw (Beaumont, , CA)
Assignee(s): Ulterra Drilling Technologies, L.P. (Fort Worth, TX)
Law Firm: Kilpatrick Townsend Stockton LLP (14 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 14338404 on 07/23/2014 (1819 days app to issue)
Abstract: Cutters mounted on bits for advancing boreholes are subject to extreme forces that can separate the cutter from the bit. A cutter backing element with a rearward extending lug and forward face can provide support to the cutter. The backing element is attached to the back face of the cutter and the lug of the backing element is received in a recess of the bit. The backing element can be brazed to the bit and the cutter. The lug is offset from a longitudinal axis of the backing element. Forces applied to the front of the cutter during drilling operations are transferred through the cutter to the backing element and to the bit through the offset lug.
[E21B] EARTH OR ROCK DRILLING (mining, quarrying E21C; making shafts, driving galleries or tunnels E21D); OBTAINING OIL, GAS, WATER, SOLUBLE OR MELTABLE MATERIALS OR A SLURRY OF MINERALS FROM WELLS [5]
Valve for use with downhole tools
Patent No. 10352131
Inventor(s): David Allen Dockweiler (Prosper, TX)
Assignee(s): Halliburton Energy Services, Inc. (Houston, TX)
Law Firm: McAfee Taft (7 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15518037 on 12/17/2014 (1672 days app to issue)
Abstract: An apparatus and method relating to down-hole production equipment for use in an oil well environment is provided. The apparatus and method are for selectively isolating fluid flow through a production packer or other down-hole tubular device. The apparatus and method use a ball valve, which is moved from an open position to a closed position by lateral or axial movement of the tubing string as opposed to by rotating the tubing string.
[E21B] EARTH OR ROCK DRILLING (mining, quarrying E21C; making shafts, driving galleries or tunnels E21D); OBTAINING OIL, GAS, WATER, SOLUBLE OR MELTABLE MATERIALS OR A SLURRY OF MINERALS FROM WELLS [5]
Removing liquid by subsurface compression system
Patent No. 10352137
Inventor(s): Kuo-Chiang Chen (Kennedale, TX)
Assignee(s): Upwing Energy, LLC (Cerritos, CA)
Law Firm: Fish Richardson P.C. (Local + 13 other metros)
Application No., Date, Speed: 16241673 on 01/07/2019 (190 days app to issue)
Abstract: A gas flow velocity within a horizontal wellbore section is increased by a velocity string and a downhole-type compressor. A pressure within the horizontal wellbore section is decreased by a downhole-type compressor located within a vertical wellbore section fluidically connected to the horizontal wellbore section. Liquid build-up within the horizontal wellbore section is decreased in response to the increased gas flow velocity and the decreased pressure.
[E21B] EARTH OR ROCK DRILLING (mining, quarrying E21C; making shafts, driving galleries or tunnels E21D); OBTAINING OIL, GAS, WATER, SOLUBLE OR MELTABLE MATERIALS OR A SLURRY OF MINERALS FROM WELLS [5]
Forming multilateral wells
Patent No. 10352140
Inventor(s): Joseph DeWitt Parlin (Plano, TX)
Assignee(s): Halliburton Energy Services, Inc. (Houston, TX)
Law Firm: Parker Justiss, P.C. (2 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15307080 on 05/29/2014 (1874 days app to issue)
Abstract: In one example of forming multilateral wells in unconventional reservoirs, a subterranean zone is drilled using a drilling rig to form a main wellbore. Using the drilling rig, the subterranean zone is drilled to form a lateral wellbore off the main wellbore. The drilling rig is removed after forming a multilateral well including the main wellbore and the lateral wellbore. Using a fracturing system, a fracture treatment is performed on the lateral wellbore.
[E21B] EARTH OR ROCK DRILLING (mining, quarrying E21C; making shafts, driving galleries or tunnels E21D); OBTAINING OIL, GAS, WATER, SOLUBLE OR MELTABLE MATERIALS OR A SLURRY OF MINERALS FROM WELLS [5]
Advanced perforation modeling
Patent No. 10352153
Inventor(s): John Hardesty (Weatherford, TX), Matthew Bell (Houston, TX), Sashi Gunturu (Katy, TX)
Assignee(s): GEODYNAMICS, INC. (Millsap, TX)
Law Firm: Patent Portfolio Builders PLLC (4 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 14775977 on 03/14/2014 (1950 days app to issue)
Abstract: A technique is provided for modeling flow simulations at downhole reservoir conditions and rock formations after performing wellbore perforations. By utilizing these flow simulations, a user may be able to simulate and compare different scenarios, thereby facilitating a more effective, profitable, and realistic choice of perforating systems and operating conditions.
[E21B] EARTH OR ROCK DRILLING (mining, quarrying E21C; making shafts, driving galleries or tunnels E21D); OBTAINING OIL, GAS, WATER, SOLUBLE OR MELTABLE MATERIALS OR A SLURRY OF MINERALS FROM WELLS [5]
M E C H A N I C A L E N G I N E E R I N G
LIGHTING | HEATING | WEAPONS | BLASTING
Expander piston ring overlap protection and methods of use
Patent No. 10350739
Inventor(s): David W. Newberry (Gallipolis, OH)
Assignee(s): Toyota Motor Engineering Manufacturing North America (Plano, TX)
Law Firm: Dinsmore Shohl LLP (14 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15047979 on 02/19/2016 (1243 days app to issue)
Abstract: Methods and apparatuses for installing a piston ring onto a piston include a piston ring feeder having at least one projection feature and a receiving aperture. Methods include receiving a piston end having a piston groove into the receiving aperture until the piston groove is above piston rings on the piston ring feeder and below projection feature top ends; raising a ring to partially snap into the piston groove with ring ends separated by a first projection feature and the ring wrapped around a second projection feature; raising the piston such that the ring is pulled off the second projection feature while the first projection feature separates the ring ends; and raising the piston such that the first projection feature releases the ring ends and the ring fully snaps into the piston groove to form a gap between the ring ends of the ring seated in the piston groove.
[F16J] PISTONS; CYLINDERS; PRESSURE VESSELS IN GENERAL; SEALINGS
Reciprocating pump with dual circuit power end lubrication system
Patent No. 10352321
Inventor(s): Edward C. Kotapish (Willow Park, TX), Jacob A. Bayyouk (Richardson, TX), Joseph H. Byrne (Hudson Oaks, TX), Lawrence Waweru (Fort Worth, TX), Scott Skurdalsvold (Mansfield, TX)
Assignee(s): S.P.M. Flow Control, Inc. (Fort Worth, TX)
Law Firm: Foley Lardner LLP (Local + 13 other metros)
Application No., Date, Speed: 14808726 on 07/24/2015 (1453 days app to issue)
Abstract: A dual circuit lubrication system for a power end of a reciprocating pump that includes a lubrication pump that supplies lubrication fluid to a high pressure lubrication circuit and a low pressure lubrication circuit. The high pressure lubrication circuit is fluidly coupled to a crankshaft to supply lubrication fluid to sliding surfaces associated with the crankshaft at a first lubrication fluid pressure. The crankshaft drives a crosshead coupled to a plunger to displace fluid from a fluid end of the reciprocating pump. The low pressure lubrication circuit is fluidly coupled to supply the lubrication fluid to a plurality of rolling surfaces associated with the crankshaft at a second lubrication fluid pressure. The first lubrication fluid pressure is greater than the second lubrication fluid pressure.
[F04B] POSITIVE-DISPLACEMENT MACHINES FOR LIQUIDS; PUMPS (engine fuel-injection pumps F02M; machines for liquids, or pumps, of rotary-piston or oscillating-piston type F04C; non-positive-displacement pumps F04D; pumping of fluid by direct contact of another fluid or by using inertia of fluid to be pumped F04F; crankshafts, crossheads, connecting-rods F16C; flywheels F16F; gearings for interconverting rotary motion and reciprocating motion in general F16H; pistons, piston-rods, cylinders, in general F16J; ion pumps H01J 41/12; electrodynamic pumps H02K 44/02)
Crankshaft assembly
Patent No. 10352414
Inventor(s): Fred E. Hunstable (Granbury, TX)
Assignee(s): UNASSIGNED
Law Firm: No Counsel
Application No., Date, Speed: 15691382 on 08/30/2017 (685 days app to issue)
Abstract: There is presented various embodiments disclosed in this application, including an improved crankshaft system using a load connecting member which provides a greater maximum torque angle than a conventional system, thereby improving efficiency and power.
[F16H] GEARING
Integrated fuel pipe clamp with simple ergonomic fitting structure
Patent No. 10352490
Inventor(s): Eric F. Bursch (Ann Arbor, MI)
Assignee(s): TOYOTA MOTOR ENGINEERING MANUFACTURING NORTH AMERICA, INC. (Plano, TX)
Law Firm: Dinsmore Shohl LLP (14 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15219404 on 07/26/2016 (1085 days app to issue)
Abstract: An integrated clamp assembly for fluid tubes, a fluid tube assembly and a method of connecting automotive fuel tubes. The assembly includes a clamp body with side-by-side channels for receiving complementary-sized side-by-side fluid tubes, a clamp cover, numerous quick connectors to fluidly join the ends of fluid tubes together, and a retaining clip for each quick connector to keep the end of one of the joined fluid tubes secured to the quick connector. The size of the quick connectors is such that when placed within a corresponding section of the channel formed in the clamp body, the smaller quick connector length provides an axially-compliant fit within the respective channel. This compliance makes it easier for an installer, manufacturer, assembler or related personnel to fluidly connect the ends of axially-adjacent fluid tubes together within the clamp in situations where manufacturing tolerances cause one of the side-by-side fluid tubes that is to be secured by the quick connector and retaining clip to project a different length along a fluid flow dimension than that of its neighboring fluid tube.
[F16L] PIPES; JOINTS OR FITTINGS FOR PIPES; SUPPORTS FOR PIPES, CABLES OR PROTECTIVE TUBING; MEANS FOR THERMAL INSULATION IN GENERAL
Heating furnace using auto heating commissioning mode
Patent No. 10352572
Inventor(s): Eric M. Perez (Hickory Creek, TX), Mark G. Beste (Grapevine, TX), Steven Schneider (Plano, TX)
Assignee(s): Lennox Industries, Inc. (Richardson, TX)
Law Firm: Baker Botts L.L.P. (Local + 8 other metros)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15006604 on 01/26/2016 (1267 days app to issue)
Abstract: A heating control device including input/output ports, a memory operable to store smoke output thresholds, and a microprocessor. The microprocessor is configured to transmit a first electrical signal to operate an air circulation fan at a first speed and a heating unit in a first configuration to burn a lubricant at a first temperature where less than all of the burners are active. The microprocessor is further configured to obtain a smoke output measurement for the first temperature, compare the smoke output measurement to the smoke output threshold, and transmit a second electrical signal to transition the air circulation fan to a second speed to burn the lubricant at a second temperature that is greater than the first temperature when the smoke output measurement is less than the smoke output threshold and is less than the first temperature when the smoke output measurement is greater than the smoke output threshold.
[F24D] DOMESTIC- OR SPACE-HEATING SYSTEMS, e.g. CENTRAL HEATING SYSTEMS; DOMESTIC HOT-WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS; ELEMENTS OR COMPONENTS THEREFOR (preventing corrosion C23F; water supply in general E03; using steam or condensate extracted or exhausted from steam engine plants for heating purposes F01K 17/02; steam traps F16T; domestic stoves or ranges F24B, F24C; water or air heaters having heat generating means F24H; combined heating and refrigeration systems F25B; heat exchange apparatus or elements F28; removing furring F28G; electric heating elements or arrangements H05B)
Method of and system for detecting loss of refrigerant charge
Patent No. 10352579
Inventor(s): David Omlor (Flower Mound, TX), LiYing Guo (Addison, TX)
Assignee(s): Lennox Industries Inc. (Richardson, TX)
Law Firm: Winstead PC (Local + 2 other metros)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15014286 on 02/03/2016 (1259 days app to issue)
Abstract: A method of determining loss of refrigerant charge in a heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) system. The method includes receiving, using a controller, a plurality of temperature values from a plurality of temperature sensors placed at multiple locations within the HVAC system and calculating, using the controller using the plurality of temperature values, a plurality of temperature-dependent values. The method further includes determining, using the controller, whether a first temperature-dependent value of the plurality of temperature-dependent values is above a first predetermined temperature value and responsive to a determination that the first temperature-dependent value is above the first predetermined temperature value, transmitting, using the controller to a user interface, a notification indicating that the HVAC system is operating with low refrigerant charge.
[F25B] REFRIGERATION MACHINES, PLANTS, OR SYSTEMS; COMBINED HEATING AND REFRIGERATION SYSTEMS; HEAT PUMP SYSTEMS (heat-transfer, heat-exchange or heat-storage materials, e.g. refrigerants, or materials for the production of heat or cold by chemical reactions other than by combustion C09K 5/00; pumps, compressors F04; use of heat pumps for domestic or space-heating or for domestic hot-water supply F24D; air-conditioning, air-humidification F24F; fluid heaters using heat pumps F24H)
Defrost control using fan data
Patent No. 10352611
Inventor(s): H. Gene Havard (Carrollton, TX), Jeff Mangum (Argyle, TX), Jon Douglas (Lewisville, TX), Yi Qu (Coppell, TX)
Assignee(s): Lennox Industries Inc. (Richardson, TX)
Law Firm: Baker Botts L.L.P. (Local + 8 other metros)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15794782 on 10/26/2017 (628 days app to issue)
Abstract: In various implementations, frost in a vapor compression system may be controlled. A property of a fan may be determined. A determination may be made whether a frost event and/or a nonfrost event has occurred based at least partially on the determined fan property.
[F25B] REFRIGERATION MACHINES, PLANTS, OR SYSTEMS; COMBINED HEATING AND REFRIGERATION SYSTEMS; HEAT PUMP SYSTEMS (heat-transfer, heat-exchange or heat-storage materials, e.g. refrigerants, or materials for the production of heat or cold by chemical reactions other than by combustion C09K 5/00; pumps, compressors F04; use of heat pumps for domestic or space-heating or for domestic hot-water supply F24D; air-conditioning, air-humidification F24F; fluid heaters using heat pumps F24H)
Dual axial fan with a thermal exchange component for a vehicle
Patent No. 10352621
Inventor(s): Stephen William O”Brien (Fort Worth, TX)
Assignee(s): TSI Products, Inc. (Arlington, TX)
Law Firm: Hitchcock Evert LLP (Local)
Application No., Date, Speed: 14846427 on 09/04/2015 (1411 days app to issue)
Abstract: A dual fan apparatus for providing heated or cooled air which is compact fit within limited spaces. The dual fan apparatus includes two axial fans on opposing sides of a thermal exchange component which operate in coordination to move air in one direction at a time through the apparatus. The dual fan apparatus increases airflow and thermal transfer efficiency through the thermal exchange component.
[F28D] HEAT-EXCHANGE APPARATUS, NOT PROVIDED FOR IN ANOTHER SUBCLASS, IN WHICH THE HEAT-EXCHANGE MEDIA DO NOT COME INTO DIRECT CONTACT (heat-transfer, heat-exchange or heat-storage materials C09K 5/00; fluid heaters having heat generating means and heat transferring means F24H; furnaces F27; details of heat-exchange apparatus of general application F28F); HEAT STORAGE PLANTS OR APPARATUS IN GENERAL [4]
Method of making a primer insert for use in polymer ammunition
Patent No. 10352664
Inventor(s): Lonnie Burrow (Carrollton, TX)
Assignee(s): TRUE VELOCITY IP HOLDINGS, LLC (Garland, TX)
Law Firm: No Counsel
Application No., Date, Speed: 15911544 on 03/05/2018 (498 days app to issue)
Abstract: One embodiment of the present invention provides a polymeric ammunition cartridge and methods of making and using the same. The cartridge includes a substantially cylindrical insert connected to a substantially cylindrical polymeric middle body. The substantially cylindrical insert includes a top surface opposite a bottom surface and a substantially cylindrical coupling element that extends from the bottom surface, a primer recess in the top surface that extends toward the bottom surface, a primer flash hole positioned in the primer recess to extend through the bottom surface, and a flange that extends circumferentially about an outer edge of the top surface. The substantially cylindrical polymeric middle body includes a substantially cylindrical polymeric bullet-end and a substantially cylindrical polymeric coupling end connected by a powder chamber, wherein the substantially cylindrical polymeric coupling end extends over the substantially cylindrical coupling element and covers a circumferential surface of the primer flash hole.
[F42B] EXPLOSIVE CHARGES, e.g. FOR BLASTING; FIREWORKS; AMMUNITION (explosive compositions C06B; fuzes F42C; blasting F42D) [5]
Lightweight polymer ammunition cartridge casings
Patent No. 10352670
Inventor(s): Lonnie Burrow (Carrollton, TX)
Assignee(s): TRUE VELOCITY IP HOLDINGS, LLC (Garland, TX)
Law Firm: No Counsel
Application No., Date, Speed: 14320961 on 07/01/2014 (1841 days app to issue)
Abstract: One embodiment of the present invention provides a polymeric ammunition cartridge and methods of making and using the same. The cartridge includes a substantially cylindrical insert connected to a substantially cylindrical polymeric middle body. The substantially cylindrical insert includes a top surface opposite a bottom surface and a substantially cylindrical coupling element that extends from the bottom surface, a primer recess in the top surface that extends toward the bottom surface, a primer flash hole positioned in the primer recess to extend through the bottom surface, and a flange that extends circumferentially about an outer edge of the top surface. The substantially cylindrical polymeric middle body includes a substantially cylindrical polymeric bullet-end and a substantially cylindrical polymeric coupling end connected by a powder chamber, wherein the substantially cylindrical polymeric coupling end extends over the substantially cylindrical coupling element and covers a circumferential surface of the primer flash hole.
[F42B] EXPLOSIVE CHARGES, e.g. FOR BLASTING; FIREWORKS; AMMUNITION (explosive compositions C06B; fuzes F42C; blasting F42D) [5]
HVAC system detecting user discomfort
Patent No. 10353369
Inventor(s): Payam Delgoshaei (Addison, TX), Sridhar Venkatesh (Irving, TX)
Assignee(s): Lennox Industries, Inc. (Richardson, TX)
Law Firm: Baker Botts L.L.P. (Local + 8 other metros)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15655428 on 07/20/2017 (726 days app to issue)
Abstract: A controller for an HVAC system comprises an interface, a memory, and a processor. The interface receives data related to user interactions with the system, and receives a temperature of the enclosed space. The memory stores an accumulated user discomfort value and discomfort score values, associated with user interactions. The processor determines a difference between the enclosed space temperature and a setpoint temperature. The processor determines whether the temperature difference exceeds a first threshold, and in response to determining that, determine whether a user has interacted with the system. In response to determining that the user has interacted with the system, the processor determines a current user discomfort value based on the discomfort score values, updates the accumulated user discomfort value, and determines whether the accumulated user discomfort value exceeds a second threshold. In response to determining that, the processor generates an alert indicating that a user discomfort event has occurred.
[F24F] AIR-CONDITIONING; AIR-HUMIDIFICATION; VENTILATION; USE OF AIR CURRENTS FOR SCREENING (removing dirt or fumes from areas where they are produced B08B 15/00; vertical ducts for carrying away waste gases from buildings E04F 17/02; tops for chimneys or ventilating shafts, terminals for flues F23L 17/02)
P H Y S I C S
Cloaking devices with half Fresnel lenses and plane mirrors and vehicles comprising the same
Patent No. 10351063
Inventor(s): Chengang Ji (Ann Arbor, MI), Debasish Banerjee (Ann Arbor, MI), Kyu-Tae Lee (Ann Arbor, MI)
Assignee(s): TOYOTA MOTOR ENGINEERING MANUFACTURING NORTH AMERICA, INC. (Plano, TX)
Law Firm: Dinsmore Shohl LLP (14 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15863353 on 01/05/2018 (557 days app to issue)
Abstract: A cloaking device includes an object-side, an image-side and a cloaked region between the object side and image-side. An object-side half Fresnel lens, an image-side half Fresnel lens and a planar reflection boundary positioned between the object-side half Fresnel lens and the image-side half Fresnel lens are included. The object-side half Fresnel lens and the image-side half Fresnel lens each comprise an inward facing surface and an outward facing Fresnel surface. The planar reflection boundary comprises an inward facing mirror surface. Light from an object positioned on the object-side of the cloaking device and obscured by the cloaked region is redirected around the cloaked region by the object-side half Fresnel lens, planar reflection boundary and image-side half Fresnel lens to form an image of the object on the image-side of the cloaking device such that the light from the object appears to pass through the cloaked region.
[G02B] OPTICAL ELEMENTS, SYSTEMS, OR APPARATUS (G02F takes precedence; optical elements specially adapted for use in lighting devices or systems thereof F21V 1/00-F21V 13/00; measuring-instruments, see the relevant subclass of class G01, e.g. optical rangefinders G01C; testing of optical elements, systems, or apparatus G01M 11/00; spectacles G02C; apparatus or arrangements for taking photographs or for projecting or viewing them G03B; sound lenses G10K 11/30; electron and ion “optics” H01J; X-ray “optics” H01J, H05G 1/00; optical elements structurally combined with electric discharge tubes H01J 5/16, H01J 29/89, H01J 37/22; microwave “optics” H01Q; combination of optical elements with television receivers H04N 5/72; optical systems or arrangements in colour television systems H04N 9/00; heating arrangements specially adapted for transparent or reflecting areas H05B 3/84) [7]
Device and method for on-chip mechanical stress sensing
Patent No. 10352792
Inventor(s): Baher Haroun (Allen, TX), Ralf Peter Brederlow (Poing, , DE), Umidjon Nurmetov (Munich, , DE)
Assignee(s): TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED (Dallas, TX)
Law Firm: No Counsel
Application No., Date, Speed: 15649934 on 07/14/2017 (732 days app to issue)
Abstract: An integrated circuit (IC) chip includes a substrate of a piezo-electric material having a first resistivity coefficient associated with a first direction that is longitudinal to a first crystal axis and a second resistivity coefficient associated with a second direction that is transverse to the first crystal axis. The first and second resistivity coefficients have opposite signs. The IC chip also includes a first stress sensing element formed in the substrate and coupled to pass a first current therethrough. The first stress sensing element includes a first resistor aligned such that the major direction of current flow through the first resistor is in the first direction and a second resistor coupled in series with the first resistor and aligned such that the major direction of current flow through the second resistor is in the second direction. A ratio of the resistance of the second resistor to the resistance of the first resistor is equal to a value , where is equal to the ratio of the first resistivity coefficient to the second resistivity coefficient.
[G01L] MEASURING FORCE, STRESS, TORQUE, WORK, MECHANICAL POWER, MECHANICAL EFFICIENCY, OR FLUID PRESSURE (weighing G01G) [4]
Load-measuring hydraulic cylinder
Patent No. 10352805
Inventor(s): Timothy S. Steffenhagen (Fort Worth, TX), William Benjamin White (Bedford, TX)
Assignee(s): National Oilwell Varco, L.P. (Houston, TX)
Law Firm: Porter Hedges LLP (1 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15334981 on 10/26/2016 (993 days app to issue)
Abstract: A hinged structure includes a hinge that is actuatable using a hydraulic cylinder. A method of monitoring a load applied to the hinged structure involves leaking the hydraulic fluid from the hydraulic cylinder in a way that compensates for expansion of the hydraulic fluid caused by variations in temperature of the hydraulic fluid. The method further involves measuring the pressure of the hydraulic fluid in the hydraulic cylinder. The hydraulic cylinder may be part of a coiled tubing injector. The load applied to the hydraulic cylinder may be used to indicate an overload of the tubing guide.
[G01L] MEASURING FORCE, STRESS, TORQUE, WORK, MECHANICAL POWER, MECHANICAL EFFICIENCY, OR FLUID PRESSURE (weighing G01G) [4]
Grading lamp for gemstones
Patent No. 10352868
Inventor(s): Daniel L. Kessler (Dallas, TX), Henry M. Kessler (Dallas, TX)
Assignee(s): Sy Kessler Sales, Inc. (Dallas, TX)
Law Firm: Griggs Bergen LLP (Local)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15637739 on 06/29/2017 (747 days app to issue)
Abstract: A grading lamp for gemstones is disclosed. In one embodiment, the grading lamp includes a base having an open top with a bottom wall bounded by upstanding front, rear, and side walls, and a lid hinged to the rear wall for swinging between open, intermediate, and closed positions relative to the base. The lid includes an interior lamp recess having natural and ultraviolet lights behind a light diffusing filter. A tray within the open top of the base holds color reference stones and a gem under examination. In the intermediate position, the grading lamp mitigates outside ambient light and provides direct light from either the natural or ultraviolet lights.
[G01N] INVESTIGATING OR ANALYSING MATERIALS BY DETERMINING THEIR CHEMICAL OR PHYSICAL PROPERTIES (measuring or testing processes other than immunoassay, involving enzymes or microorganisms C12M, C12Q)
Through-transmission ultrasonic testing apparatus
Patent No. 10352906
Inventor(s): Edward A. Hohman (Mansfield, TX), Robert J. Barry (Arlington, TX)
Assignee(s): Bell Helicopter Textron Inc. (Fort Worth, TX)
Law Firm: Timmer Law Group, PLLC (1 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15381021 on 12/15/2016 (943 days app to issue)
Abstract: A testing apparatus, inspection system, and method for through-transmission ultrasonic testing. The testing apparatus includes a yoke having a support member with a pair of hinge joints, each hinge joint located on an end of the support member; a pair of arms extending from the support member having a hinge end and a pivotable transducer end, each arm being coupled to the hinge joint at the hinge end and extending to the pivotable transducer end; a pair of transducer support members disposed on each of the pivotal transducer ends; and a tension member connected to the pair of arms for aligning the pair of transducer support members during testing.
[G01N] INVESTIGATING OR ANALYSING MATERIALS BY DETERMINING THEIR CHEMICAL OR PHYSICAL PROPERTIES (measuring or testing processes other than immunoassay, involving enzymes or microorganisms C12M, C12Q)
System and method for detecting an arc fault in a power line signal including a communication signal modulated on an AC power signal
Patent No. 10352980
Inventor(s): Mauro Conti (Robbiate, , IT), Oleg Logvinov (East Brunswick, NJ), Roberto Cappelletti (Cornaredo, , IT)
Assignee(s): STMICROELECTRONICS, INC. (Coppell, TX)
Law Firm: Slater Matsil, LLP (Local + 1 other metros)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15908953 on 03/01/2018 (502 days app to issue)
Abstract: An embodiment method of detecting an arc fault includes communicating a power line signal, including a communication signal modulated on an alternating current power signal, over a power line. The communication signal is communicated according to a power line network protocol. A power spectrum of the communication signal includes a first frequency band and a second frequency band different from the first frequency band. In accordance with the power line network protocol, a power of the communication signal in the first frequency band is attenuated in comparison to the power of the communication signal in the second frequency band. The method further includes performing arc fault detection on the spectral portions of the power line signal that are within the first frequency band.
[G01R] MEASURING ELECTRIC VARIABLES; MEASURING MAGNETIC VARIABLES (indicating correct tuning of resonant circuits H03J 3/12)
Methods and apparatus for narrowband ranging systems using reference signal interpolation
Patent No. 10353062
Inventor(s): David P. Magee (Allen, TX), Nirmal C. Warke (Saratoga, CA)
Assignee(s): TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED (Dallas, TX)
Law Firm: No Counsel
Application No., Date, Speed: 15208945 on 07/13/2016 (1098 days app to issue)
Abstract: Methods and apparatus to determine an accurate distance to a target using reference signal interpolation is disclosed. An example apparatus includes an interpolator to receive a first sample of a reference signal and a second sample of a reference signal; and interpolating a reconstructed reference signal sample based on the first and second samples, the reconstructed reference signal corresponding to the reference signal; a correlator to generate a plurality of phase-shifted, reconstructed reference signals; and correlate each of the plurality of phase-shifted, reconstructed reference signals with a reflected signal; and an optimal phase selector to determine an optimal phase based on the correlations and output a distance to a target based on the optimal phase.
[G01S] RADIO DIRECTION-FINDING; RADIO NAVIGATION; DETERMINING DISTANCE OR VELOCITY BY USE OF RADIO WAVES; LOCATING OR PRESENCE-DETECTING BY USE OF THE REFLECTION OR RERADIATION OF RADIO WAVES; ANALOGOUS ARRANGEMENTS USING OTHER WAVES
Stretched fresnel lens solar concentrator for space power, with cords, fibers, or wires strengthening the stretched lens
Patent No. 10353187
Inventor(s): Mark Joseph O”Neill (Keller, TX)
Assignee(s): UNASSIGNED
Law Firm: Hulsey P.C. (1 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 13947083 on 07/21/2013 (2186 days app to issue)
Abstract: This invention includes a flexible Fresnel lens assembly which can be efficiently stowed into a small volume, and then deployed with a mechanism, including structural elements, that provides tensioning at the ends of the lens assembly to position and support the lens assembly in proper position relative to a photovoltaic receiver, onto which the lens assembly focuses sunlight for conversion into electricity. The flexible stretched lens assembly includes a transparent prismatic polymer film, comprising a refractive optical element, attached to flexible cords, fibers, or wires that carry the bulk of the tension load in the stretched lens assembly when it is deployed in its final functional position. This present invention represents a critical and mission-enabling improvement to an earlier stretched lens array invention described in U.S. Pat. No. 6,075,200 (Reference 1).
[G02B] OPTICAL ELEMENTS, SYSTEMS, OR APPARATUS (G02F takes precedence; optical elements specially adapted for use in lighting devices or systems thereof F21V 1/00-F21V 13/00; measuring-instruments, see the relevant subclass of class G01, e.g. optical rangefinders G01C; testing of optical elements, systems, or apparatus G01M 11/00; spectacles G02C; apparatus or arrangements for taking photographs or for projecting or viewing them G03B; sound lenses G10K 11/30; electron and ion “optics” H01J; X-ray “optics” H01J, H05G 1/00; optical elements structurally combined with electric discharge tubes H01J 5/16, H01J 29/89, H01J 37/22; microwave “optics” H01Q; combination of optical elements with television receivers H04N 5/72; optical systems or arrangements in colour television systems H04N 9/00; heating arrangements specially adapted for transparent or reflecting areas H05B 3/84) [7]
Pattern projector
Patent No. 10353211
Inventor(s): Cheng Chun Zhang (Shenzhen, , CN), Lio Yenwei Chang (Coppell, TX)
Assignee(s): Gemmy Industries Corporation (Coppell, TX)
Law Firm: DeWitt LLP (5 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15911688 on 03/05/2018 (498 days app to issue)
Abstract: A pattern projector has a housing and a projection device disposed in the housing. The housing has a base and a cover. The cover is disposed on the base and has a connecting portion connected to the base, a convex portion, and a datum plane. The convex portion protrudes out of a front surface of the connecting portion, and has an outer lens disposed on the convex portion. The datum plane is defined between the connecting portion and the convex portion. A maximum height is defined from an inner surface of the convex portion to the datum plane. A maximum inner diameter of the convex portion is defined on the datum plane. The maximum inner diameter is three times to eleven times as long as the maximum height. A pattern projected by the projection device will not be distorted.
[G03B] APPARATUS OR ARRANGEMENTS FOR TAKING PHOTOGRAPHS OR FOR PROJECTING OR VIEWING THEM; APPARATUS OR ARRANGEMENTS EMPLOYING ANALOGOUS TECHNIQUES USING WAVES OTHER THAN OPTICAL WAVES; ACCESSORIES THEREFOR (optical parts of such apparatus G02B; photosensitive materials or processes for photographic purposes G03C; apparatus for processing exposed photographic materials G03D) [4]
Audio playback using radio-frequency identification tag
Patent No. 10353384
Inventor(s): Gwenael Maillet (Grenoble, , FR), John Tran (Austin, TX)
Assignee(s): STMICROELECTRONICS, INC. (Coppell, TX)
Law Firm: Slater Matsil, LLP (Local + 1 other metros)
Application No., Date, Speed: 16027127 on 07/03/2018 (378 days app to issue)
Abstract: A radio-frequency identification (RFID) device includes an RFID block configured to support RFID communication; a memory having a storage area configured to store a list of pulse width modulation (PWM) parameters; a PWM circuit configured to generate a PWM signal based on a PWM parameter received by the PWM circuit; and a configuration and control (CC) circuit coupled to the RFID block, the memory, and the PWM circuit, where the RFID block, the PWM circuit, the CC circuit, and the memory form part of an RFID tag, where the CC circuit is configured to, in an automatic playback mode: sequentially read the list of PWM parameters from a beginning of the list of PWM parameters; and sequentially send the list of PWM parameters to the PWM circuit.
[G05B] CONTROL OR REGULATING SYSTEMS IN GENERAL; FUNCTIONAL ELEMENTS OF SUCH SYSTEMS; MONITORING OR TESTING ARRANGEMENTS FOR SUCH SYSTEMS OR ELEMENTS (fluid-pressure actuators or systems acting by means of fluids in general F15B; valves per se F16K; characterised by mechanical features only G05G; sensitive elements, see the appropriate subclasses, e.g. G12B, subclasses of G01, H01; correcting units, see the appropriate subclasses, e.g. H02K)
Bandgap reference circuit with inverted bandgap pairs
Patent No. 10353414
Inventor(s): Sandeep Shylaja Krishnan (Kozhikode, , IN)
Assignee(s): TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED (Dallas, TX)
Law Firm: No Counsel
Application No., Date, Speed: 15856854 on 12/28/2017 (565 days app to issue)
Abstract: In some examples, a bandgap reference circuit comprises a first bandgap pair having multiple first diodes and a first resistor positioned between the multiple first diodes. The circuit also comprises a second bandgap pair having multiple second diodes and a second resistor positioned between the multiple second diodes, the second bandgap pair being an inverted form of the first bandgap pair. The circuit further comprises a scaling resistor coupled to the first and second bandgap pairs. The circuit still further comprises an operational amplifier coupled to the first and second bandgap pairs.
[G05F] SYSTEMS FOR REGULATING ELECTRIC OR MAGNETIC VARIABLES (regulating the timing or recurrence frequency of pulses in radar or radio navigation systems G01S; regulation of current or voltage, specially adapted for use in electronic time-pieces G04G 19/02; closed-loop systems for regulating non-electric variables by electric means G05D; regulating power supply of digital computers G06F 1/26; for obtaining desired operating characteristics of electromagnets with armatures H01F 7/18; regulating electric power distribution networks H02J; regulating the charging of batteries H02J 7/00; regulating of the output of static converters, e.g. switching regulators, H02M; regulation of the output of electric generators H02N, H02P 9/00; controlling transformers, reactors or choke coils H02P 13/00; regulating frequency response, gain, maximum output, amplitude or bandwidth of amplifiers H03G; regulating tuning of resonant circuits H03J; controlling generators of electronic oscillations or pulses H03L; regulating characteristics of transmission lines H04B; controlling electric light sources H05B 37/02, H05B 39/04, H05B 41/36; electric control of X-ray apparatus H05G 1/30) [5]
Integrated force sensing element
Patent No. 10353503
Inventor(s): Alok Lohia (Dallas, TX), Mark Stephen Toth (Murphy, TX), Scott Robert Summerfelt (Garland, TX), Seung Bae Lee (Dallas, TX), Steve Kummerl (Carrollton, TX), Terry Lee Sculley (Lewisville, TX), Wei-Yan Shih (Plano, TX)
Assignee(s): TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED (Dallas, TX)
Law Firm: No Counsel
Application No., Date, Speed: 14926265 on 10/29/2015 (1356 days app to issue)
Abstract: An integrated force sensing element includes a piezoelectric sensor formed in an integrated circuit (IC) chip and a strain gauge at least partially overlying the piezoelectric sensor, where the piezoelectric sensor is able to flex. A human-machine interface using the integrated force sensing element may include a conditioning circuit, temperature gauge, FRAM and a processor core.
[G06F] ELECTRIC DIGITAL DATA PROCESSING (computer systems based on specific computational models G06N)
System and method for refreshing data in a memory device
Patent No. 10353598
Inventor(s): Bo Lei (San Ramon, CA), Jianmin Huang (San Carlos, CA), Jun Wan (San Jose, CA), Niles Yang (Mountain View, CA)
Assignee(s): SanDisk Technologies LLC (Plano, TX)
Law Firm: Dickinson Wright PLLC (7 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 14507321 on 10/06/2014 (1744 days app to issue)
Abstract: Systems, apparatuses, and methods are provided that refresh data in a memory. Data is programmed into the memory. After which, part or all of the data may be refreshed. The refresh of the data may be different from the initial programming of the data in one or more respects. For example, the refresh of the data may include fewer steps than the programming of the data and may be performed without erasing a section of memory. Further, the refresh of the data may be triggered in one of several ways. For example, after programming the data, the data may be analyzed for errors. Based on the number of errors found, the data may be refreshed.
[G06F] ELECTRIC DIGITAL DATA PROCESSING (computer systems based on specific computational models G06N)
Human machine interface (HMI) control unit for multiple vehicle display devices
Patent No. 10353658
Inventor(s): Steven Basra (Frisco, TX)
Assignee(s): Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. (Torrance, CA)
Law Firm: Darrow Mustafa PC (2 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15272699 on 09/22/2016 (1027 days app to issue)
Abstract: Devices and methods in a configurable human machine interface (HMI) for multiple vehicle display devices are disclosed. An example of the method includes, in the HMI control unit for a plurality of vehicular display devices, receiving action input data from a configurable application input module in a first operational mode. In the first operational mode a first vehicular display device operates as a master vehicular display device relative to a second vehicular display device. The second vehicular display device is mirrored to the first vehicular display device. When action input data indicates a transition from the first operational mode to a second operational mode, the method continues by generating a control message based on the action input data. The control message indicates that the second vehicular display device operates as the master vehicular display device and that the first vehicular display device provides mirrored feedback relating to a subsequent action input data affecting a corresponding graphic user element of the second vehicular display device.
[G06F] ELECTRIC DIGITAL DATA PROCESSING (computer systems based on specific computational models G06N)
Autonomous vehicle software version assessment
Patent No. 10353694
Inventor(s): Craig M. Main (Allen, TX)
Assignee(s): STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE COMPANY (Bloomington, IL)
Law Firm: Marshall, Gerstein Borun LLP (2 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15869777 on 01/12/2018 (550 days app to issue)
Abstract: Methods and systems for monitoring use, determining risk, and pricing insurance policies for a vehicle having one or more autonomous or semi-autonomous operation features are provided. According to certain aspects, the operating status of the features, the identity of a vehicle operator, risk levels for operation of the vehicle by the vehicle operator, or damage to the vehicle may be determined based upon sensor or other data. According to further aspects, decisions regarding transferring control between the features and the vehicle operator may be made based upon sensor data and information regarding the vehicle operator. Additional aspects may recommend or install updates to the autonomous operation features based upon determined risk levels. Some aspects may include monitoring transportation infrastructure and communicating information about the infrastructure to vehicles.
[G06F] ELECTRIC DIGITAL DATA PROCESSING (computer systems based on specific computational models G06N)
Utilizing signatures to discover and manage derelict assets of an information technology environment
Patent No. 10353712
Inventor(s): Joseph E. Hackett (Flower Mound, TX), Romelia H. Flores (Keller, TX)
Assignee(s): INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION (Armonk, NY)
Law Firm: Cuenot, Forsythe Kim, LLC (2 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 13887609 on 05/06/2013 (2262 days app to issue)
Abstract: A set of asset signatures can be analyzed. Each asset signature can be associated with an asset. Derelict assets can be discovered based on the asset signatures. The asset can represent a fundamental structural unit of an information technology (IT) environment. A multi-stage screening process can be performed to discover derelict assets. In a first stage, assets having a normal state are able to be changed to a suspect state based on results of analyzing the corresponding asset signature. In a second stage, assets having a suspect state are able to be selectively changed in state to a normal state or to a derelict state. An asset management system record can be maintained for each of the set of assets. Each record of the asset management system can be a configuration item (CI), which indicates whether each of the set of assets is in a normal state, a suspect state, or a derelict state. The asset management system can periodically reclaim resources consumed by derelict assets.
[G06F] ELECTRIC DIGITAL DATA PROCESSING (computer systems based on specific computational models G06N)
Systems and methods for performing virtual machine updates without rebuild of distributed databases thereon
Patent No. 10353733
Inventor(s): Babitha Bandi (Plano, TX), Nathan Gloier (Frisco, TX), Raveender Kommera (Flower Mound, TX), Suresh Gubba (Plano, TX)
Assignee(s): Capital One Services, LLC (McLean, VA)
Law Firm: Finnegan, Henderson, Farabow, Garrett Dunner, LLC (9 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 16150218 on 10/02/2018 (287 days app to issue)
Abstract: The present disclosure relates to systems and methods for updating virtual machines without rebuilding distributed databases thereon. In one example, a system for updating a virtual machine on a cloud service may include at least one processor configured to: generate and transmit, to the cloud service, a first command to disconnect a virtual storage from a first virtual machine; after the virtual storage is disconnected, generate and transmit, to the cloud service, a second command to offline the first virtual machine; generate and transmit, to the cloud service, a third command to build a second virtual machine; after the second virtual machine is built, generate and transmit, to the cloud service, a fourth command to connect the virtual storage to the second virtual machine; and generate and transmit, to the cloud service, a fifth command to online the second virtual machine with the address of the virtual machine.
[G06F] ELECTRIC DIGITAL DATA PROCESSING (computer systems based on specific computational models G06N)
Shared memory controller and method of using same
Patent No. 10353747
Inventor(s): Alan Gatherer (Richardson, TX), Bin Yang (Shanghai, , CN), Hao Luan (Plano, TX)
Assignee(s): Futurewei Technologies, Inc. (Plano, TX)
Law Firm: Vierra Magen Marcus LLP (2 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 14797620 on 07/13/2015 (1464 days app to issue)
Abstract: A controller for a shared memory is disclosed. The controller comprises a transaction scanner configured to scan-in a plurality of transactions to access the shared memory and to divide the transactions into beat-level memory access commands. The controller also comprises a command super-arbiter comprising a plurality of command arbiters corresponding to a plurality of shared memory blocks in the shared memory. The command super-arbiter is configured to access a quality of service for each of the transactions, arbitrate the beat-level memory access commands associated with the transactions based on the quality of service for each of the plurality of transactions, and dispatch the beat-level memory access commands to the shared memory blocks based on results of arbitrating the beat-level memory access commands.
[G06F] ELECTRIC DIGITAL DATA PROCESSING (computer systems based on specific computational models G06N)
Less-secure processors, integrated circuits, wireless communications apparatus, methods and processes of making
Patent No. 10353823
Inventor(s): Charles W. Brokish (Poynette, WI), Erdal Paksoy (Richardson, TX), Narendar Madurai Shankar (Dallas, TX), Olivier Schuepbach (Antibes, , FR), Steve Karouby (Antibes, , FR)
Assignee(s): TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED (Dallas, TX)
Law Firm: No Counsel
Application No., Date, Speed: 14857961 on 09/18/2015 (1397 days app to issue)
Abstract: An integrated circuit ([b]122[/b]) includes an on-chip boot ROM ([b]132[/b]) holding boot code, a non-volatile security identification element ([b]140[/b]) having non-volatile information determining a less secure type or more secure type, and a processor ([b]130[/b]). The processor ([b]130[/b]) is coupled to the on-chip boot ROM ([b]132[/b]) and to the non-volatile security identification element ([b]140[/b]) to selectively execute boot code depending on the non-volatile information of the non-volatile security identification element ([b]140[/b]). Other technology such as processors, methods of operation, processes of manufacture, wireless communications apparatus, and wireless handsets are also disclosed.
[G06F] ELECTRIC DIGITAL DATA PROCESSING (computer systems based on specific computational models G06N)
Utilizing machine learning to determine data storage pruning parameters
Patent No. 10353863
Inventor(s): Amit Deshpande (McKinney, TX), Asutosh Pandya (McKinney, TX), Mithra Kosur Venuraju (Frisco, TX), Ponnazhakan Subramanian (McKinney, TX), Sahul Mohammed (Frisco, TX), Satish Chikkaveerappa (McKinney, TX)
Assignee(s): Capital One Services, LLC (McLean, VA)
Law Firm: Harrity Harrity, LLP (1 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15950482 on 04/11/2018 (461 days app to issue)
Abstract: A device receives, from a user device, a request to prune a primary database, and receives primary database information associated with the primary database and secondary database information associated with a secondary database that is different than the primary database. The device processes the primary database information and the secondary database information, with a machine learning model, to generate suggested pruning parameters, and provides the suggested pruning parameters to the user device. The device receives selected pruning parameters from the user device, where the selected pruning parameters are selected from the suggested pruning parameters or are input via the user device. The device removes pruned information from the primary database based on the selected pruning parameters, and provides the pruned information to the secondary database based on the selected pruning parameters.
[G06F] ELECTRIC DIGITAL DATA PROCESSING (computer systems based on specific computational models G06N)
Method and system for managing digital content including streaming media
Patent No. 10353866
Inventor(s): Chad Ric Gray (Plano, TX), Huong Thi Do (Lewisville, TX), Jay Brent DeShan (McKinney, TX)
Assignee(s): OATH INC. (New York, NY)
Law Firm: Greenberg Traurig, LLP (14 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15221741 on 07/28/2016 (1083 days app to issue)
Abstract: The present invention describes a system and method of managing digital content received from content providers and for facilitating access to the digital content to many subscribers. The method includes receiving from the content providers incoming feed files where each feed file contains information describing the content. The method determines if the feed files are approved by applying a template to the feed files and also receives request files from the subscribers where each request file contains search criteria. The method provides one or more answer files in response to the request files where each answer file identifies feed files that meet the search criteria of a corresponding request file. The answer files are used to access or permit access to digital content on the web. In addition, a graphical user interface is described to manage, edit, promote and delete the feed files provided to the system.
[G06F] ELECTRIC DIGITAL DATA PROCESSING (computer systems based on specific computational models G06N)
Sound signatures in security systems
Patent No. 10353953
Inventor(s): Steven Belz (Sunnyvale, TX)
Assignee(s): ATT INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I, L.P. (Atlanta, GA), ATT MOBILITY II LLC (Atlanta, GA)
Law Firm: Scott P. Zimmerman, PLLC (6 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 16028513 on 07/06/2018 (375 days app to issue)
Abstract: Directional sound location is used to determine security events of a security system. A sound sensor reports a vector direction to a sound source of an acoustic signal. If the vector direction is historically observed at similar times, then perhaps the sound source is not considered a security event. However, if the vector direction is unknown or unfamiliar, the security system may infer the security event and notify emergency services.
[G06F] ELECTRIC DIGITAL DATA PROCESSING (computer systems based on specific computational models G06N)
Search and notification procedures based on user history information
Patent No. 10353968
Inventor(s): David Gerard Ledet (Allen, TX)
Assignee(s): Open Invention Network LLC (Durham, NC)
Law Firm: No Counsel
Application No., Date, Speed: 14582495 on 12/24/2014 (1665 days app to issue)
Abstract: The present application includes various information retrieval and query creation procedures. One example provides retrieving first user data from a memory location, assigning a category to the first user data based on a memory location of the first user data and/or a context of the first user data, applying a weight to the first user data based on at least one of the category assigned to the first user data and the memory location, and also assigning the weighted first user data to a user interest log. The result may provide optimized results in subsequent search operations.
[G06F] ELECTRIC DIGITAL DATA PROCESSING (computer systems based on specific computational models G06N)
Fragmentation point and simulation site adjustment for resolution enhancement techniques
Patent No. 10354044
Inventor(s): Patrick J. LaCour (McKinney, TX)
Assignee(s): Mentor Graphics Corporation (Wilsonville, OR)
Law Firm: No Counsel
Application No., Date, Speed: 15616729 on 06/07/2017 (769 days app to issue)
Abstract: A method of performing a resolution enhancement technique such as OPC on an initial layout description involves fragmenting a polygon that represents a feature to be created into a number of edge fragments. One or more of the edge fragments is assigned an initial simulation site at which the image intensity is calculated. Upon calculation of the image intensity, the position and/or number of initial simulation sites is varied. New calculations are made of the image intensity with the revised placement or number of simulation sites in order to calculate an OPC correction for the edge fragment. In other embodiments, fragmentation of a polygon is adjusted based on the image intensities calculated at the simulation sites. In one embodiment, the image intensity gradient vector calculated at the initial simulation sites is used to adjust the simulation sites and/or fragmentation of the polygon.
[G06F] ELECTRIC DIGITAL DATA PROCESSING (computer systems based on specific computational models G06N)
Method and apparatus for an eye tracking wearable computer
Patent No. 10354146
Inventor(s): Masoud Vaziri (Richardson, TX)
Assignee(s): UNASSIGNED
Law Firm: No Counsel
Application No., Date, Speed: 15859525 on 12/31/2017 (562 days app to issue)
Abstract: An embodiment of an Eye Tracking Wearable Computer apparatus includes a first portable unit for data gathering and communicating feedback and a second portable unit for processing the at least gathered data from the first unit. The first portable unit includes an eyeglass frame, at least one first optical unit disposed on the eyeglass frame for capturing at least one scene image corresponding to a field of view of a user, at least one second optical unit disposed on the eyeglass frame for capturing at least one eye image corresponding to at least a portion of at least one eye of the user, at least one microphone to allow the user to communicate via voice, at least one speaker to allow the user to receive feedback via voice, at least one visible light source to allow the user to receive feedback via light signals, at least one motion sensor to monitor the head movements of the user, and at least one first processor to at least receive data from the data gathering units in the first portable unit and at least manage the communication with the second portable unit. The second portable unit is in communication with the first portable unit and includes at least one second processor configured for receiving the at least data from the first processor and decoding a pre-defined command from the user and executing at least one command in response to the received command. At least one of the processors will determine a direction within the field of view to which the at least one eye is
[G06K] RECOGNITION OF DATA; PRESENTATION OF DATA; RECORD CARRIERS; HANDLING RECORD CARRIERS (printing per se B41J)
Stationary-vehicle structure from motion
Patent No. 10354149
Inventor(s): Manu Mathew (Karnataka, , IN), Prashanth Ramanathpu Viswanath (Karnataka, , IN), Soyeb Nagori (Karnataka, , IN)
Assignee(s): TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED (Dallas, TX)
Law Firm: No Counsel
Application No., Date, Speed: 16121012 on 09/04/2018 (315 days app to issue)
Abstract: A vehicular structure from motion (SfM) system can store a number of image frames acquired from a vehicle-mounted camera in a frame stack according to a frame stack update logic. The SfM system can detect feature points, generate flow tracks, and compute depth values based on the image frames, the depth values to aid control of the vehicle. The frame stack update logic can select a frame to discard from the stack when a new frame is added to the stack, and can be changed from a first in, first out (FIFO) logic to last in, first out (LIFO) logic upon a determination that the vehicle is stationary. An optical flow tracks logic can also be modified based on the determination. The determination can be made based on a dual threshold comparison to insure robust SfM system performance.
[G06K] RECOGNITION OF DATA; PRESENTATION OF DATA; RECORD CARRIERS; HANDLING RECORD CARRIERS (printing per se B41J)
System and method for distribution of targeted advertising between mobile communication devices
Patent No. 10354280
Inventor(s): Andrew E. Levi (Plano, TX), Bradley W. Bauer (Richardson, TX)
Assignee(s): BLUE CALYPSO, LLC (Dallas, TX)
Law Firm: Schultz Associates, P.C. (Local)
Application No., Date, Speed: 14291977 on 05/30/2014 (1873 days app to issue)
Abstract: Disclosed are a method and system for distribution of targeted advertising between mobile communication devices. An endorsement program is set up based on a profile of an advertiser having at least one advertising media. A qualified subscriber is identified for the advertiser based on a profile of a subscriber. One or more advertisers and endorsement programs for the qualified subscriber are selected. In addition, when a communication transmission is received from a source communication device, at least one advertising media is associated with the communication transmission and the communication transmission is transmitted from a source communication device to a destination communication device.
[G06Q] DATA PROCESSING SYSTEMS OR METHODS, SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR ADMINISTRATIVE, COMMERCIAL, FINANCIAL, MANAGERIAL, SUPERVISORY OR FORECASTING PURPOSES; SYSTEMS OR METHODS SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR ADMINISTRATIVE, COMMERCIAL, FINANCIAL, MANAGERIAL, SUPERVISORY OR FORECASTING PURPOSES, NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR [2006.01]
System for apportioning revenue for media content derived from an online feedback community
Patent No. 10354288
Inventor(s): Narbeh Avedissian (Studio City, CA)
Assignee(s): Innovation Collective, LLC (Plano, TX)
Law Firm: Knobbe, Martens, Olson Bear LLP (9 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 14045235 on 10/03/2013 (2112 days app to issue)
Abstract: Uses media, for example audio, video or text performances that were integrated into an online community for feedback determinative of outcome, for digital distribution. Apportions compensation for a selected artist from revenue that may be generated through one or any combination of advertisement, services associated with artist”s performance, and media sales. The media may include singing, instrumental music, rhythmic music, videos, and writings.
[G06Q] DATA PROCESSING SYSTEMS OR METHODS, SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR ADMINISTRATIVE, COMMERCIAL, FINANCIAL, MANAGERIAL, SUPERVISORY OR FORECASTING PURPOSES; SYSTEMS OR METHODS SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR ADMINISTRATIVE, COMMERCIAL, FINANCIAL, MANAGERIAL, SUPERVISORY OR FORECASTING PURPOSES, NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR [2006.01]
Portable system for managing events
Patent No. 10354351
Inventor(s): Shy Ward (Flower Mound, TX)
Assignee(s): The ADT Security Corporation (Boca Raton, FL)
Law Firm: Christopher Weisberg, P.A. (3 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 16055417 on 08/06/2018 (344 days app to issue)
Abstract: A system for interacting with a portable device is provided. The system is configured to process both personal and premises events, and includes at least one processor configured to generate device data for determining the location of the portable device and process sensor data in response to an event. The processor is further configured to generate situational data for the processed event. The situational data is based on the sensor data and the device data. The situational data includes information indicative of whether the event is an alarm event and if the event is the alarm event, whether the alarm event is one of a personal event and premises event. The processor is further configured to provide at least a portion of the situational data to the remote service site if the event is the alarm event and determine that confirmation has been received.
[G06F] ELECTRIC DIGITAL DATA PROCESSING (computer systems based on specific computational models G06N)
Detection of optical components in a scene
Patent No. 10354448
Inventor(s): Bruno J. Evans (Keller, TX), Gary P. Perryman (Arlington, TX)
Assignee(s): Lockheed Martin Corporation (Bethesda, MD)
Law Firm: Withrow Terranova, PLLC (1 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 13999334 on 02/11/2014 (1981 days app to issue)
Abstract: Methods and systems for detecting optical components are disclosed. An optical signal comprising a plurality of light pulses is transmitted by a laser into a field of view (FOV) of a detector at a pulse repetition rate. A scene within the FOV is depicted to an eyepiece. The detector receives a plurality of reflected light pulses of the optical signal from a location within the scene during a first integration time period of the detector. At least one element of a display that is registered to the FOV is altered based on the plurality of reflected light pulses.
[G09G] ARRANGEMENTS OR CIRCUITS FOR CONTROL OF INDICATING DEVICES USING STATIC MEANS TO PRESENT VARIABLE INFORMATION (arrangements for transferring data between digital computers and displays G06F 3/14; static indicating arrangements comprising an association of a number of separate sources or light control cells G09F 9/00; static indicating arrangements comprising integral associations of a number of light sources H01J, H01K, H01L, H05B 33/12; scanning, transmission or reproduction of documents or the like, e.g. facsimile transmission, details thereof H04N 1/00) [5]
Fault diagnosis in power electronics using adaptive PCA
Patent No. 10354462
Inventor(s): Ali M. Bazzi (Farmington, CT), Ercan M. Dede (Ann Arbor, MI), Krishna Pattipatti (Farmington, CT), Lingyi Zhang (Farmington, CT), Shailesh N. Joshi (Ann Arbor, MI), Weiqiang Chen (Farmington, CT)
Assignee(s): TOYOTA MOTOR ENGINEERING MANUFACTURING NORTH AMERICA, INC. (Plano, TX)
Law Firm: Snell Wilmer LLP (5 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15947702 on 04/06/2018 (466 days app to issue)
Abstract: A system includes an electronic device and a sensor to detect sensor data corresponding to the electronic device. The system also includes a machine learning processor that receives the sensor data and generates a model of the electronic device to determine a T squared threshold and a Q threshold using a machine learning algorithm. The machine learning processor also performs a T squared analysis of the electronic device by comparing a T squared value to the T squared threshold, and a Q analysis of the electronic device by comparing a Q value to the Q threshold. The machine learning processor also determines that the model is faulty when the T squared value is less than the T squared threshold and the Q value is greater than or equal to the Q threshold, and generates a new model or updates the model when the model is determined to be faulty.
[G07C] TIME OR ATTENDANCE REGISTERS; REGISTERING OR INDICATING THE WORKING OF MACHINES; GENERATING RANDOM NUMBERS; VOTING OR LOTTERY APPARATUS; ARRANGEMENTS, SYSTEMS OR APPARATUS FOR CHECKING NOT PROVIDED FOR ELSEWHERE (identification of persons A61B 5/117; indicating or recording apparatus for measuring in general, analogous apparatus but in which the input is not a variable to be measured, e.g. a hand operation, G01D; clocks, clock mechanisms G04B, G04C; time-interval measuring G04F; counting mechanisms per se G06M)
Note verify
Patent No. 10354473
Inventor(s): John Rhoads (Argyle, TX)
Assignee(s): FireKing Security Products, LLC (New Albany, IN)
Law Firm: Great Lakes Intellectual Property, PLLC (1 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 14532145 on 11/04/2014 (1715 days app to issue)
Abstract: A validator having multiple modes of operation is contemplated. The validator may be operable in a standard mode where notes are escrowed and subsequently directed to a secure storage area depending on validity and a note-verify mode where notes are escrowed and subsequently returned to a user regardless of validity.
[G07D] HANDLING OF COINS OR OF PAPER CURRENCY OR SIMILAR VALUABLE PAPERS, e.g. TESTING, SORTING BY DENOMINATIONS, COUNTING, DISPENSING, CHANGING OR DEPOSITING [2]
Locomotive electrical systems simulator
Patent No. 10354545
Inventor(s): Bennie Ray Fortner (Lenexa, KS), Ronnie Joe Douglas (Tonganoxie, KS)
Assignee(s): BNSF Railway Company (Fort Worth, TX)
Law Firm: No Counsel
Application No., Date, Speed: 15071625 on 03/16/2016 (1217 days app to issue)
Abstract: A system for simulating electrical systems of a diesel-electric locomotive comprising includes a first electric motor for simulating a locomotive diesel engine and a generator coupled to the electric motor for simulating a locomotive main generator in a main generator operating mode. A second electric motor is driven by an electrical output of the generator in the main generator operating mode and simulates a locomotive traction motor. A third electric motor is coupled to the second electric motor and operates as a generator providing a load on the second electric motor during simulated locomotive motoring operations.
[G09B] EDUCATIONAL OR DEMONSTRATION APPLIANCES; APPLIANCES FOR TEACHING, OR COMMUNICATING WITH, THE BLIND, DEAF OR MUTE; MODELS; PLANETARIA; GLOBES; MAPS; DIAGRAMS
Tunnel magnetoresistance read head including side shields containing nanocrystalline ferromagnetic particles
Patent No. 10354681
Inventor(s): Chen-Jung Chien (San Jose, CA), Daniele Mauri (San Jose, CA), Gonalo Baio De Albuquerque (San Jose, CA), Ming Mao (Dublin, CA)
Assignee(s): SANDISK TECHNOLOGIES LLC (Addison, TX)
Law Firm: The Marbury Law Group, PLLC (3 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 16021602 on 06/28/2018 (383 days app to issue)
Abstract: A tunnel magnetoresistance (TMR) read head includes a first magnetic shield, a read sensor stripe located over the first magnetic shield, a second magnetic shield located over the sensor layer stack, an electrical isolation dielectric layer located on sidewalls of the read sensor stripe, and a pair of side shields located on the electrical isolation dielectric layer between the first magnetic shield and the second magnetic shield. The read sensor stripe includes a sensor layer stack containing a pinned layer stack, a non-magnetic electrically insulating barrier layer, and a ferromagnetic free layer. The side shields include nanocrystalline ferromagnetic particles, such as Fe, Co or CoFe, embedded in a non-magnetic dielectric material matrix, such as hafnium oxide.
[G11B] INFORMATION STORAGE BASED ON RELATIVE MOVEMENT BETWEEN RECORD CARRIER AND TRANSDUCER (recording measured values in a way that does not require playback through a transducer G01D 9/00; recording or playback apparatus using mechanically marked tape, e.g. punched paper tape, or using unit records, e.g. punched or magnetically marked cards G06K; transferring data from one type of record carrier to another G06K 1/18; circuits for coupling output of reproducer to radio receiver H04B 1/20; gramophone pick-ups or like acoustic electromechanical transducers or circuits therefor H04R)
DQS-offset and read-RTT-disable edge control
Patent No. 10354701
Inventor(s): Kallol Mazumder (Plano, TX)
Assignee(s): Micron Technology, Inc. (Boise, ID)
Law Firm: Fletcher Yoder, P.C. (1 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 16200443 on 11/26/2018 (232 days app to issue)
Abstract: Devices, systems, and methods include controls for on-die termination (ODT) and data strobe signals. For example, a command to de-assert ODT for a data pin (DQ) during the read operation. An input, such as a mode register, receives an indication of a shift mode register value that corresponds to a number of shifts of a rising edge of the command in a backward or a falling edge in a forward direction. A delay chain delays the appropriate edge of received command the number of shifts in the corresponding direction to generate a shifted edge command signal. Combination circuitry then combines a falling edge command signal with a shifted rising edge command signal to form a transformed command.
[G11C] STATIC STORES (information storage based on relative movement between record carrier and transducer G11B; semiconductor devices for storage H01L, e.g. H01L 27/108-H01L 27/11597; pulse technique in general H03K, e.g. electronic switches H03K 17/00)
Magnetoelectric random access memory array and methods of operating the same
Patent No. 10354710
Inventor(s): Abhijit Bandyopadhyay (San Jose, CA), Christopher Petti (Mountain View, CA), Neil Robertson (Palo Alto, CA)
Assignee(s): SANDISK TECHNOLOGIES LLC (Addison, TX)
Law Firm: The Marbury Law Group, PLLC (3 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15728840 on 10/10/2017 (644 days app to issue)
Abstract: A memory cell includes a VCMA magnetoelectric memory element and a two-terminal selector element connected in series to the magnetoelectric memory element.
[G11C] STATIC STORES (information storage based on relative movement between record carrier and transducer G11B; semiconductor devices for storage H01L, e.g. H01L 27/108-H01L 27/11597; pulse technique in general H03K, e.g. electronic switches H03K 17/00)
Reduced shifter memory system
Patent No. 10354717
Inventor(s): Byung S. Moon (Plano, TX), Jason M. Brown (Allen, TX), Kallol Mazumder (Plano, TX), Ravi Kiran Kandikonda (Frisco, TX), Vijayakrishna J. Vankayala (Allen, TX), William C. Waldrop (Allen, TX)
Assignee(s): Micron Technology, Inc. (Boise, ID)
Law Firm: Perkins Coie LLP (17 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15976698 on 05/10/2018 (432 days app to issue)
Abstract: Aspects of the present disclosure eliminating the need for a memory device to have both a shifter that shifts input pin values from an input domain into a parity domain and another shifter that shifts a decoded command from the input domain into the parity domain. A memory device can achieve this by, when parity is being performed, shifting the input from the input pins into the parity domain prior to decoding the command. Using a multiplexer, the decoder can receive the command pin portion of the shifted input when parity checking is being performed and can receive the un-shifted command pin input when parity checking is not being performed. The decoder can use the command pin portion of the shifted input to generate shifted and decoded commands or can use the un-shifted command pin input to generate decoded commands.
[G11C] STATIC STORES (information storage based on relative movement between record carrier and transducer G11B; semiconductor devices for storage H01L, e.g. H01L 27/108-H01L 27/11597; pulse technique in general H03K, e.g. electronic switches H03K 17/00)
Methods and apparatus for programming barrier modulated memory cells
Patent No. 10354724
Inventor(s): Emmanuelle Merced-Grafals (San Jose, CA), Juan P. Saenz (Menlo Park, CA)
Assignee(s): SanDisk Technologies LLC (Addison, TX)
Law Firm: Vierra Magen Marcus LLP (2 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15706562 on 09/15/2017 (669 days app to issue)
Abstract: A memory device is provided that includes a memory controller coupled to a memory array. The memory controller is adapted to perform a closed loop training interval and perform an open loop programming interval. The closed loop training interval determines a corresponding first state successful voltage and a corresponding second state successful voltage for a first group of memory cells each including a barrier modulated switching structure. The open loop programming interval programs a second group of memory cells each including a barrier modulated switching structure to a first state and a second state using the corresponding first state successful voltage and the corresponding second state successful voltage, respectively.
[G11C] STATIC STORES (information storage based on relative movement between record carrier and transducer G11B; semiconductor devices for storage H01L, e.g. H01L 27/108-H01L 27/11597; pulse technique in general H03K, e.g. electronic switches H03K 17/00)
Write verification and resistive state determination based on cell turn-on characteristics for resistive random access memory
Patent No. 10354728
Inventor(s): Bijesh Rajamohanan (San Jose, CA), Juan Pablo Saenz (Menlo Park, CA)
Assignee(s): SANDISK TECHNOLOGIES LLC (Addison, TX)
Law Firm: The Marbury Law Group PLLC (3 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15635935 on 06/28/2017 (748 days app to issue)
Abstract: After programming a set of resistive memory cells in a resistive memory device, the programmed states and the functionality of each resistive memory cell in the programmed set can be verified by a primary determination method and a secondary determination method. The primary determination method employs the step of determining whether a measured electrical current at a preset read voltage for the selected resistive memory cell is within electrical current specification for the selected resistive state. If the selected cell fails the primary determination method, the second determination method is performed, which includes determining whether a measured threshold voltage for the selected resistive memory cell is within threshold voltage specification for the selected resistive state. If the selected cell fails both methods, the selected cell is identified as a non-functional resistive memory cell. Otherwise, the selected cell is identified as an operational cell.
[G11C] STATIC STORES (information storage based on relative movement between record carrier and transducer G11B; semiconductor devices for storage H01L, e.g. H01L 27/108-H01L 27/11597; pulse technique in general H03K, e.g. electronic switches H03K 17/00)
Three-dimensional NAND memory device with common bit line for multiple NAND strings in each memory block
Patent No. 10355015
Inventor(s): James Kai (Santa Clara, CA), Johann Alsmeier (San Jose, CA), Yanli Zhang (San Jose, CA)
Assignee(s): SANDISK TECHNOLOGIES LLC (Addison, TX)
Law Firm: The Marbury Law Group PLC (3 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15948737 on 04/09/2018 (463 days app to issue)
Abstract: A memory device includes an alternating stack of insulating layers and electrically conductive layers. Vertical NAND strings are formed through the alternating stack, each of which includes a drain region, memory cell charge storage transistors, and a pair of drain select transistors in a series connection. A common bit line is electrically connected to drain regions of two vertical NAND strings. The drain select transistors of the two vertical NAND strings are configured such that drain select transistors sharing a first common drain select gate electrode provide a higher threshold voltage for one of the two vertical NAND strings, and drain select transistors sharing a second common drain select gate electrode provide a higher threshold voltage for the other of the two vertical NAND strings. The different threshold voltages can be provided by a combination of a masked ion implantation and selective charge injection.
[G11C] STATIC STORES (information storage based on relative movement between record carrier and transducer G11B; semiconductor devices for storage H01L, e.g. H01L 27/108-H01L 27/11597; pulse technique in general H03K, e.g. electronic switches H03K 17/00)
Multi-controllable high voltage power supply system
Patent No. 10355522
Inventor(s): Craig Sean Dean (Dallas, TX), Erik Steven Haugarth (Plano, TX), Jan Simon Reuning (The Colony, TX), Lynn Edward Roszel (Wylie, TX)
Assignee(s): UNASSIGNED
Law Firm: Nolte Intellectual Property Law Group (1 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 16025163 on 07/02/2018 (379 days app to issue)
Abstract: A multi-controllable high voltage power supply having a plurality of filters, a high voltage divider, and a processor with memory. The memory contains operating set points. The processor is configured to receive scaled voltage feedback signals from the high voltage divider, compare the scaled voltage feedback signals to the plurality of operating set points in memory, compute and store revised operating set points using the compared scaled voltage feedback signal, use the revised operating set points to simultaneously and automatically regulate output voltage to be within all operating set points, and generate an alert when output conditions exceed any operating set points.
[G05B] CONTROL OR REGULATING SYSTEMS IN GENERAL; FUNCTIONAL ELEMENTS OF SUCH SYSTEMS; MONITORING OR TESTING ARRANGEMENTS FOR SUCH SYSTEMS OR ELEMENTS (fluid-pressure actuators or systems acting by means of fluids in general F15B; valves per se F16K; characterised by mechanical features only G05G; sensitive elements, see the appropriate subclasses, e.g. G12B, subclasses of G01, H01; correcting units, see the appropriate subclasses, e.g. H02K)
Data management in a distributed computing environment
Patent No. 10356026
Inventor(s): Chandra H. Kamalakantha (Plano, TX)
Assignee(s): ENTIT SOFTWARE LLC (Sunnyvale, CA)
Law Firm: No Counsel
Application No., Date, Speed: 15303084 on 04/25/2014 (1908 days app to issue)
Abstract: A method for managing data in a distributed computing environment comprises receiving, on a message bus, a request to communicate data between a first system hosting data and a second system accessing data, referencing a policy defining rules for sharing data between the first system and the second system, compiling, based on the policy, a message indicating subscribers to receive the data to publish, and publishing, on the message bus, the compiled message.
[G06F] ELECTRIC DIGITAL DATA PROCESSING (computer systems based on specific computational models G06N)
System and method for generic service NFV orchestration and management for converged services
Patent No. 10356162
Inventor(s): Zhixian Xiang (Plano, TX)
Assignee(s): Futurewei Technologies, Inc. (Plano, TX)
Law Firm: Slater Matsil, LLP (Local + 1 other metros)
Application No., Date, Speed: 14881569 on 10/13/2015 (1372 days app to issue)
Abstract: A system and method for network functions virtualization management and orchestration includes a virtualized infrastructure manager, a network functions virtualization orchestrator coupled to the virtualized infrastructure manager, a virtual network function manager coupled to the network functions virtualization orchestrator, one or more dedicated network services coupled to the network functions virtualization orchestrator, the one or more dedicated network services being orchestrated by the network functions virtualization orchestrator in accordance with a generic network service descriptor, and one or more dedicated network functions coupled to the virtual network function manager, the virtual network function manager configured to manage the dedicated network functions in accordance with a generic network function descriptor.
[G06F] ELECTRIC DIGITAL DATA PROCESSING (computer systems based on specific computational models G06N)
Multi-layer data storage system
Patent No. 10356174
Inventor(s): Michael Roy Stute (O”Brien, FL)
Assignee(s): MASERGY COMMUNICATIONS, INC. (Plano, TX)
Law Firm: McGuireWoods LLP (Local + 9 other metros)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15148764 on 05/06/2016 (1166 days app to issue)
Abstract: The disclosed embodiments include data storage systems and methods to store data. In one embodiment, the system includes a storage medium having a plurality of partitions for storing data values of a dataset. The system also includes a system manager operable to receive a data value connected to the system manager and assign a plurality of data subsets of the dataset to the plurality of partitions. The system also includes a key manager operable to assign a key of a key space to each data value of the dataset. The system also includes a top layer data manager and at least one bottom layer data manager, each bottom layer data manager assigned to a data subset. The top layer data manager passes data values to the at least one bottom layer data manager. The system also includes an allocation manager operable to dynamically readjust a storage space of the partition.
[G06F] ELECTRIC DIGITAL DATA PROCESSING (computer systems based on specific computational models G06N)
System and method to support context-aware content requests in information centric networks
Patent No. 10356209
Inventor(s): Lijun Dong (San Diego, CA)
Assignee(s): Futurewei Technologies, Inc. (Plano, TX)
Law Firm: Vierra Magen Marcus LLP (2 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15070822 on 03/15/2016 (1218 days app to issue)
Abstract: The disclosure relates to technology for supporting context-aware content retrieval in a network. A router receives an interest message including a content name and a contextual requirement. Memory is accessed to determine whether the content name of the interest message matches a content name stored in the memory. In response to the content name matching the content name of the interest message, the router determines whether interfaces stored in the memory are associated with the content name. The contextual requirement in the interest message is matched with the contextual information associated with the interfaces stored in the memory, the interest message is forwarded to one of interfaces for which the contextual requirement in the interest message matches the contextual information of the interface(s) pertaining to the content. The router then aggregates the forwarded interest message including the contextual requirement with the pending interest message in the memory.
[G06F] ELECTRIC DIGITAL DATA PROCESSING (computer systems based on specific computational models G06N)
E L E C T R I C I T Y
Passive thermal switch devices having thermal switch material that passively switches between a thermal insulating state and a thermal conducting state and vehicles having the same
Patent No. 10354785
Inventor(s): Gaohua Zhu (Ann Arbor, MI), Takeo Yamaguchi (Shizuoka, , JP)
Assignee(s): Toyota Motor Engineering Manufacturing North America, Inc. (Plano, TX)
Law Firm: Dinsmore Shohl LLP (14 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15591854 on 05/10/2017 (797 days app to issue)
Abstract: A passive thermal switch device, for regulating a temperature of a thermal component configured to generate heat, includes a first plate and a second plate. The first plate is provided on the thermal component. The first plate includes a thermal switch material that switches from an antiferromagnetic state to a ferromagnetic state upon exceeding a state transition temperature. The second plate includes a permanent magnet. The second plate is moveable between a thermal insulator position and a thermal conductor position based on a temperature of the thermal switch material. In the thermal insulator position, the second plate is spaced apart from the first plate. In the thermal conductor position, the second plate is in contact with the first plate.
[H01H] ELECTRIC SWITCHES; RELAYS; SELECTORS; EMERGENCY PROTECTIVE DEVICES (contact cables H01B 7/10; electrolytic self-interrupters H01G 9/18; emergency protective circuit arrangements H02H; switching by electronic means without contact-making H03K 17/00)
Three-dimensional resistive random access memory device containing selectively grown amorphous silicon-containing barrier and method of making the same
Patent No. 10354859
Inventor(s): Hiroyuki Kamiya (Yokkaichi, , JP), Seiji Shimabukuro (Yokkaichi, , JP), Shigehisa Inoue (Yokkaichi, , JP)
Assignee(s): SANDISK TECHNOLOGIES LLC (Addison, TX)
Law Firm: The Marbury Law Group, PLLC (3 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15920793 on 03/14/2018 (489 days app to issue)
Abstract: An alternating stack of insulating layers including a silicon oxide material and electrically conductive layers is formed over a substrate. Sidewalls of the insulating layers are selectively silylated with a chemical including at least one silyl group without silylating sidewalls of the electrically conductive layers. Silicon-containing barrier material portions are formed by selectively growing a first silicon-containing barrier material from surfaces of the electrically conductive layers without growing the first silicon-containing barrier material from silylated surfaces of the insulating layers. A memory material layer is formed on the silicon-containing barrier material portions and the sidewalls of the insulating layers. A vertical conductive line is formed on the memory material layer.
[H01L] SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES; ELECTRIC SOLID STATE DEVICES NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR (use of semiconductor devices for measuring G01; resistors in general H01C; magnets, inductors, transformers H01F; capacitors in general H01G; electrolytic devices H01G 9/00; batteries, accumulators H01M; waveguides, resonators, or lines of the waveguide type H01P; line connectors, current collectors H01R; stimulated-emission devices H01S; electromechanical resonators H03H; loudspeakers, microphones, gramophone pick-ups or like acoustic electromechanical transducers H04R; electric light sources in general H05B; printed circuits, hybrid circuits, casings or constructional details of electrical apparatus, manufacture of assemblages of electrical components H05K; use of semiconductor devices in circuits having a particular application, see the subclass for the application) [2]
Packaged semiconductor device having nanoparticle adhesion layer patterned into zones of electrical conductance and insulation
Patent No. 10354890
Inventor(s): Benjamin Stassen Cook (Addison, TX), Yong Lin (Troy, MI)
Assignee(s): TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED (Dallas, TX)
Law Firm: No Counsel
Application No., Date, Speed: 15864919 on 01/08/2018 (554 days app to issue)
Abstract: A device comprises a substrate and an adhesive nanoparticle layer patterned into zones of electrical conductance and insulation on top of the substrate surface. A diffusion region adjoining the surface comprises an admixture of the nanoparticles in the substrate material. When the nanoparticle layer is patterned from originally all-conductive nanoparticles, the insulating zones are created by selective oxidation; when the nanoparticle layer is patterned from originally all-non-conductive nanoparticles, the conductive zones are created by depositing selectively a volatile reducing agent. A package of insulating material is in touch with the nanoparticle layer and fills any voids in the nanoparticle layer.
[H01L] SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES; ELECTRIC SOLID STATE DEVICES NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR (use of semiconductor devices for measuring G01; resistors in general H01C; magnets, inductors, transformers H01F; capacitors in general H01G; electrolytic devices H01G 9/00; batteries, accumulators H01M; waveguides, resonators, or lines of the waveguide type H01P; line connectors, current collectors H01R; stimulated-emission devices H01S; electromechanical resonators H03H; loudspeakers, microphones, gramophone pick-ups or like acoustic electromechanical transducers H04R; electric light sources in general H05B; printed circuits, hybrid circuits, casings or constructional details of electrical apparatus, manufacture of assemblages of electrical components H05K; use of semiconductor devices in circuits having a particular application, see the subclass for the application) [2]
Co-integration of tensile silicon and compressive silicon germanium
Patent No. 10354927
Inventor(s): Nicolas Loubet (Guilderland, NY), Pierre Morin (Kessel-Lo, , BG), Yann Mignot (Slingerlands, NY)
Assignee(s): STMicroelectronics, Inc. (Coppell, TX)
Law Firm: Seed Intellectual Property Law Group LLP (1 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 16027707 on 07/05/2018 (376 days app to issue)
Abstract: Integrated circuits are disclosed in which the strain properties of adjacent pFETs and nFETs are independently adjustable. The pFETs include compressive-strained SiGe on a silicon substrate, while the nFETs include tensile-strained silicon on a strain-relaxed SiGe substrate. Adjacent n-type and p-type FinFETs are separated by electrically insulating regions formed by a damascene process. During formation of the insulating regions, the SiGe substrate supporting the n-type devices is permitted to relax elastically, thereby limiting defect formation in the crystal lattice of the SiGe substrate.
[H01L] SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES; ELECTRIC SOLID STATE DEVICES NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR (use of semiconductor devices for measuring G01; resistors in general H01C; magnets, inductors, transformers H01F; capacitors in general H01G; electrolytic devices H01G 9/00; batteries, accumulators H01M; waveguides, resonators, or lines of the waveguide type H01P; line connectors, current collectors H01R; stimulated-emission devices H01S; electromechanical resonators H03H; loudspeakers, microphones, gramophone pick-ups or like acoustic electromechanical transducers H04R; electric light sources in general H05B; printed circuits, hybrid circuits, casings or constructional details of electrical apparatus, manufacture of assemblages of electrical components H05K; use of semiconductor devices in circuits having a particular application, see the subclass for the application) [2]
Thin film resistor with punch-through vias
Patent No. 10354951
Inventor(s): Abbas Ali (Plano, TX), Dhishan Kande (Dallas, TX), Gregory B. Shinn (Dallas, TX), Qi-Zhong Hong (Richardson, TX)
Assignee(s): Texas Instruments Incorporated (Dallas, TX)
Law Firm: No Counsel
Application No., Date, Speed: 15872429 on 01/16/2018 (546 days app to issue)
Abstract: A device including a thin film resistor (TFR) structure. The TFR structure is accessible by one or more conductive vias that extend vertically from an upper metal layer to completely penetrate a TFR layer positioned thereunder. The conductive vias are coupled to one or more sidewalls of the TFR layer at or near the sites of penetration. The TFR structure can be manufactured by a method that includes etching a via trench completely through the TFR layer and a dielectric layer above the TFR layer, and filling the via trench with a conductor coupled to a sidewall of the TFR layer.
[H01L] SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES; ELECTRIC SOLID STATE DEVICES NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR (use of semiconductor devices for measuring G01; resistors in general H01C; magnets, inductors, transformers H01F; capacitors in general H01G; electrolytic devices H01G 9/00; batteries, accumulators H01M; waveguides, resonators, or lines of the waveguide type H01P; line connectors, current collectors H01R; stimulated-emission devices H01S; electromechanical resonators H03H; loudspeakers, microphones, gramophone pick-ups or like acoustic electromechanical transducers H04R; electric light sources in general H05B; printed circuits, hybrid circuits, casings or constructional details of electrical apparatus, manufacture of assemblages of electrical components H05K; use of semiconductor devices in circuits having a particular application, see the subclass for the application) [2]
Three-dimensional memory device containing hydrogen diffusion barrier structures for CMOS under array architecture and method of making the same
Patent No. 10354956
Inventor(s): Daxin Mao (Cupertino, CA), Hiroyuki Ogawa (Yokkaichi, , JP), Jixin Yu (San Jose, CA), Johann Alsmeier (San Jose, CA)
Assignee(s): SANDISK TECHNOLOGIES LLC (Addison, TX)
Law Firm: The Marbury Law Group PLLC (3 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15863205 on 01/05/2018 (557 days app to issue)
Abstract: A contact level silicon oxide layer and a silicon nitride layer is formed over a semiconductor device on a semiconductor substrate. A contact via cavity extending to the semiconductor device is formed. A lower contact via structure portion is formed and recessed between top and bottom surface of the silicon nitride layer. An upper contact via structure portion including a hydrogen diffusion barrier material is formed in a remaining volume of the contact via cavity to provide a contact via structure. A three-dimensional memory array is formed over the silicon nitride layer. Metal interconnect structures are formed to provide electrical connection between the contact via structure and a node of the three-dimensional memory array. The hydrogen diffusion barrier material and the silicon nitride layer block downward diffusion of hydrogen.
[H01L] SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES; ELECTRIC SOLID STATE DEVICES NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR (use of semiconductor devices for measuring G01; resistors in general H01C; magnets, inductors, transformers H01F; capacitors in general H01G; electrolytic devices H01G 9/00; batteries, accumulators H01M; waveguides, resonators, or lines of the waveguide type H01P; line connectors, current collectors H01R; stimulated-emission devices H01S; electromechanical resonators H03H; loudspeakers, microphones, gramophone pick-ups or like acoustic electromechanical transducers H04R; electric light sources in general H05B; printed circuits, hybrid circuits, casings or constructional details of electrical apparatus, manufacture of assemblages of electrical components H05K; use of semiconductor devices in circuits having a particular application, see the subclass for the application) [2]
Three-dimensional memory device containing bonded chip assembly with through-substrate via structures and method of making the same
Patent No. 10354980
Inventor(s): Akio Nishida (Yokkaichi, , JP), Hisakazu Otoi (Yokkaichi, , JP), Kenji Sugiura (Yokkaichi, , JP), Masatoshi Nishikawa (Yokkaichi, , JP), Mitsuteru Mushiga (Yokkaichi, , JP)
Assignee(s): SANDISK TECHNOLOGIES LLC (Addison, TX)
Law Firm: The Marbury Law Group, PLLC (3 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15928407 on 03/22/2018 (481 days app to issue)
Abstract: Multiple semiconductor chips can be bonded through copper-to-copper bonding. The multiple semiconductor chips include a logic chip and multiple memory chips. The logic chip includes a peripheral circuitry for operation of memory devices within the multiple memory chips. The memory chips can include front side bonding pad structures, backside bonding pad structures, and sets of metal interconnect structures providing electrically conductive paths between pairs of a first side bonding pad structure and a backside bonding pad structure. Thus, electrical control signal can vertically propagate between the logic chip and an overlying memory chip through at least one intermediate memory chip located between them. The backside bonding pad structures can be formed as portions of integrated through-substrate via and pad structures that extend through a respective semiconductor substrate.
[H01L] SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES; ELECTRIC SOLID STATE DEVICES NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR (use of semiconductor devices for measuring G01; resistors in general H01C; magnets, inductors, transformers H01F; capacitors in general H01G; electrolytic devices H01G 9/00; batteries, accumulators H01M; waveguides, resonators, or lines of the waveguide type H01P; line connectors, current collectors H01R; stimulated-emission devices H01S; electromechanical resonators H03H; loudspeakers, microphones, gramophone pick-ups or like acoustic electromechanical transducers H04R; electric light sources in general H05B; printed circuits, hybrid circuits, casings or constructional details of electrical apparatus, manufacture of assemblages of electrical components H05K; use of semiconductor devices in circuits having a particular application, see the subclass for the application) [2]
Three-dimensional memory device containing bonded chip assembly with through-substrate via structures and method of making the same
Patent No. 10354987
Inventor(s): Akio Nishida (Yokkaichi, , JP), Hisakazu Otoi (Yokkaichi, , JP), Kenji Sugiura (Yokkaichi, , JP), Masatoshi Nishikawa (Yokkaichi, , JP), Mitsuteru Mushiga (Yokkaichi, , JP)
Assignee(s): SANDISK TECHNOLOGIES LLC (Addison, TX)
Law Firm: The Marbury Law Group PLLC (3 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15928340 on 03/22/2018 (481 days app to issue)
Abstract: Sacrificial pillar structures are formed through a first semiconductor substrate on which first semiconductor devices are subsequently formed. After backside thinning of the first semiconductor substrate, the sacrificial pillar structures are replaced with integrated through-substrate via and pad structures to provide a first semiconductor chip. A second semiconductor chip is provided, which includes a second semiconductor substrate, second semiconductor devices, and second bonding pad structures electrically connected to a respective one of the second semiconductor devices. The first bonding pad structures are bonded to a respective one of the second bonding pad structures by surface activated bonding.
[H01L] SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES; ELECTRIC SOLID STATE DEVICES NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR (use of semiconductor devices for measuring G01; resistors in general H01C; magnets, inductors, transformers H01F; capacitors in general H01G; electrolytic devices H01G 9/00; batteries, accumulators H01M; waveguides, resonators, or lines of the waveguide type H01P; line connectors, current collectors H01R; stimulated-emission devices H01S; electromechanical resonators H03H; loudspeakers, microphones, gramophone pick-ups or like acoustic electromechanical transducers H04R; electric light sources in general H05B; printed circuits, hybrid circuits, casings or constructional details of electrical apparatus, manufacture of assemblages of electrical components H05K; use of semiconductor devices in circuits having a particular application, see the subclass for the application) [2]
Three-dimensional memory structure having a back gate electrode
Patent No. 10355007
Inventor(s): Akira Matsudaira (San Jose, CA), Dana Lee (Saratoga, CA), Johann Alsmeier (San Jose, CA), Xiying Costa (San Jose, CA), Yanli Zhang (San Jose, CA), Yingda Dong (San Jose, CA)
Assignee(s): SANDISK TECHNOLOGIES LLC (Addison, TX)
Law Firm: The Marbury Law Group, PLLC (3 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15379927 on 12/15/2016 (943 days app to issue)
Abstract: A memory stack structure includes a cavity including a back gate electrode, a back gate dielectric, a semiconductor channel, and at least one charge storage element. In one embodiment, a line trench can be filled with a memory film layer, and a plurality of semiconductor channels can straddle the line trench. The back gate electrode can extend along the lengthwise direction of the line trench. In another embodiment, an isolated memory opening overlying a patterned conductive layer can be filled with a memory film, and the back gate electrode can be formed within a semiconductor channel and on the patterned conductive layer. A dielectric cap portion electrically isolates the back gate electrode from a drain region. The back gate electrode can be employed to bias the semiconductor channel, and to enable sensing of multinary bits corresponding to different amounts of electrical charges stored in a memory cell.
[H01L] SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES; ELECTRIC SOLID STATE DEVICES NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR (use of semiconductor devices for measuring G01; resistors in general H01C; magnets, inductors, transformers H01F; capacitors in general H01G; electrolytic devices H01G 9/00; batteries, accumulators H01M; waveguides, resonators, or lines of the waveguide type H01P; line connectors, current collectors H01R; stimulated-emission devices H01S; electromechanical resonators H03H; loudspeakers, microphones, gramophone pick-ups or like acoustic electromechanical transducers H04R; electric light sources in general H05B; printed circuits, hybrid circuits, casings or constructional details of electrical apparatus, manufacture of assemblages of electrical components H05K; use of semiconductor devices in circuits having a particular application, see the subclass for the application) [2]
Concurrent formation of memory openings and contact openings for a three-dimensional memory device
Patent No. 10355009
Inventor(s): James Kai (Santa Clara, CA), Johann Alsmeier (San Jose, CA), Murshed Chowdhury (Fremont, CA), Tong Zhang (Palo Alto, CA), Zhixin Cui (Yokkaichi, , JP)
Assignee(s): SANDISK TECHNOLOGIES LLC (Addison, TX)
Law Firm: The Marbury Law Group, PLLC (3 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 16020637 on 06/27/2018 (384 days app to issue)
Abstract: A first-tier structure including a first alternating stack of first insulating layers and first spacer material layers is formed over a substrate. First-tier memory openings and at least one type of first-tier contact openings can be formed simultaneously employing a same anisotropic etch process. The first-tier contact openings formed over stepped surfaces of the first alternating stack may extend through the first alternating stack, or may stop on the stepped surfaces. Sacrificial first-tier opening fill portions are formed in the first-tier openings, and a second-tier structure can be formed over the first-tier structure. Memory openings including volumes of the first-tier memory openings are formed through the multi-tier structure, and memory stack structures are formed in the memory openings. Various contact openings are formed through the multi-tier structure, and various contact via structures are formed in the contact openings.
[H01L] SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES; ELECTRIC SOLID STATE DEVICES NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR (use of semiconductor devices for measuring G01; resistors in general H01C; magnets, inductors, transformers H01F; capacitors in general H01G; electrolytic devices H01G 9/00; batteries, accumulators H01M; waveguides, resonators, or lines of the waveguide type H01P; line connectors, current collectors H01R; stimulated-emission devices H01S; electromechanical resonators H03H; loudspeakers, microphones, gramophone pick-ups or like acoustic electromechanical transducers H04R; electric light sources in general H05B; printed circuits, hybrid circuits, casings or constructional details of electrical apparatus, manufacture of assemblages of electrical components H05K; use of semiconductor devices in circuits having a particular application, see the subclass for the application) [2]
Multi-tier three-dimensional memory device with stress compensation structures and method of making thereof
Patent No. 10355012
Inventor(s): Raghuveer S. Makala (Campbell, CA), Seiji Shimabukuro (Yokkaichi, , JP)
Assignee(s): SANDISK TECHNOLOGIES LLC (Addison, TX)
Law Firm: The Marbury Law Group PLLC (3 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15632983 on 06/26/2017 (750 days app to issue)
Abstract: An alternating stack of insulating layers and spacer material layers is formed over a substrate. The spacer material layers are formed as, or are subsequently replaced with, electrically conductive layers. A retro-stepped dielectric material portion comprising a compressive-stress-generating dielectric material on stepped surfaces of the alternating stack. Memory stack structures are formed through the first-tier alternating stack. Each of the memory stack structures includes a vertical semiconductor channel and a memory film. A patterned tensile-stress-generating material layer is formed over the retro-stepped dielectric material portion in a region that is laterally spaced outward from an outer periphery of a topmost layer within the alternating stack. The patterned tensile-stress-generating material layer applies a tensile stress to the retro-stepped dielectric material portion and to the alternating stack to compensate for the compressive stress generated by the retro-stepped dielectric material portion.
[H01L] SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES; ELECTRIC SOLID STATE DEVICES NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR (use of semiconductor devices for measuring G01; resistors in general H01C; magnets, inductors, transformers H01F; capacitors in general H01G; electrolytic devices H01G 9/00; batteries, accumulators H01M; waveguides, resonators, or lines of the waveguide type H01P; line connectors, current collectors H01R; stimulated-emission devices H01S; electromechanical resonators H03H; loudspeakers, microphones, gramophone pick-ups or like acoustic electromechanical transducers H04R; electric light sources in general H05B; printed circuits, hybrid circuits, casings or constructional details of electrical apparatus, manufacture of assemblages of electrical components H05K; use of semiconductor devices in circuits having a particular application, see the subclass for the application) [2]
CMOS devices containing asymmetric contact via structures and method of making the same
Patent No. 10355017
Inventor(s): Hiroshi Nakatsuji (Yokkaichi, , JP), Hiroyuki Ogawa (Nagoya, , JP), Kiyokazu Shishido (Yokkaichi, , JP)
Assignee(s): SANDISK TECHNOLOGIES LLC (Addison, TX)
Law Firm: The Marbury Law Group PLLC (3 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 16007370 on 06/13/2018 (398 days app to issue)
Abstract: A CMOS device includes a p-type field effect transistor containing p-doped active regions, an n-type field effect transistor containing n-doped active regions, a silicon oxide layer overlying the n-type field effect transistor and not overlying the p-type field effect transistor, boron-doped epitaxial pillar structures contacting a top surface of, and epitaxially aligned to, a respective one of the p-doped active regions, first active region contact via structures contacting a top surface of a respective one of the boron-doped epitaxial pillar structures, and second active region contact via structures contacting a top surface of a respective one of the n-doped active regions.
[H01L] SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES; ELECTRIC SOLID STATE DEVICES NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR (use of semiconductor devices for measuring G01; resistors in general H01C; magnets, inductors, transformers H01F; capacitors in general H01G; electrolytic devices H01G 9/00; batteries, accumulators H01M; waveguides, resonators, or lines of the waveguide type H01P; line connectors, current collectors H01R; stimulated-emission devices H01S; electromechanical resonators H03H; loudspeakers, microphones, gramophone pick-ups or like acoustic electromechanical transducers H04R; electric light sources in general H05B; printed circuits, hybrid circuits, casings or constructional details of electrical apparatus, manufacture of assemblages of electrical components H05K; use of semiconductor devices in circuits having a particular application, see the subclass for the application) [2]
FinFETs having strained channels, and methods of fabricating finFETs having strained channels
Patent No. 10355020
Inventor(s): Chun-chen Yeh (Clifton Park, NY), Qing Liu (Watervliet, NY), Ruilong Xie (Schenectady, NY), Xiuyu Cai (Niskayuna, NY)
Assignee(s): STMICROELECTRONICS, INC. (Coppell, TX)
Law Firm: Scully, Scott, Murphy Presser, P.C. (1 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15180860 on 06/13/2016 (1128 days app to issue)
Abstract: Techniques and structures for controlling etch-back of a finFET fin are described. One or more layers may be deposited over the fin and etched. Etch-back of a planarization layer may be used to determine a self-limited etch height of one or more layers adjacent the fin and a self-limited etch height of the fin. Strain-inducing material may be formed at regions of the etched fin to induce strain in the channel of a finFET.
[H01L] SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES; ELECTRIC SOLID STATE DEVICES NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR (use of semiconductor devices for measuring G01; resistors in general H01C; magnets, inductors, transformers H01F; capacitors in general H01G; electrolytic devices H01G 9/00; batteries, accumulators H01M; waveguides, resonators, or lines of the waveguide type H01P; line connectors, current collectors H01R; stimulated-emission devices H01S; electromechanical resonators H03H; loudspeakers, microphones, gramophone pick-ups or like acoustic electromechanical transducers H04R; electric light sources in general H05B; printed circuits, hybrid circuits, casings or constructional details of electrical apparatus, manufacture of assemblages of electrical components H05K; use of semiconductor devices in circuits having a particular application, see the subclass for the application) [2]
Methods and apparatus for three-dimensional non-volatile memory
Patent No. 10355049
Inventor(s): Bruce D. Terris (Sunnyvale, CA), Derek Stewart (Livermore, CA), Michael K. Grobis (Campbell, CA)
Assignee(s): SanDisk Technologies LLC (Addison, TX)
Law Firm: Vierra Magen Marcus LLP (2 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 16021776 on 06/28/2018 (383 days app to issue)
Abstract: An apparatus is provided that includes a bit line above a substrate, a word line above the substrate, and a non-volatile memory cell between the bit line and the word line. The non-volatile memory cell includes a reversible resistance-switching memory element coupled in series with an isolation element. The isolation element includes a first selector element coupled in series with a second selector element.
[H01L] SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES; ELECTRIC SOLID STATE DEVICES NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR (use of semiconductor devices for measuring G01; resistors in general H01C; magnets, inductors, transformers H01F; capacitors in general H01G; electrolytic devices H01G 9/00; batteries, accumulators H01M; waveguides, resonators, or lines of the waveguide type H01P; line connectors, current collectors H01R; stimulated-emission devices H01S; electromechanical resonators H03H; loudspeakers, microphones, gramophone pick-ups or like acoustic electromechanical transducers H04R; electric light sources in general H05B; printed circuits, hybrid circuits, casings or constructional details of electrical apparatus, manufacture of assemblages of electrical components H05K; use of semiconductor devices in circuits having a particular application, see the subclass for the application) [2]
Low substrate leakage zener diode with modulated buried junction
Patent No. 10355076
Inventor(s): Binghua Hu (Plano, TX), Jun Cai (Allen, TX)
Assignee(s): TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED (Dallas, TX)
Law Firm: No Counsel
Application No., Date, Speed: 15799783 on 10/31/2017 (623 days app to issue)
Abstract: In some embodiments, an apparatus comprises a semiconductor layer doped with a first-type dopant, a first region doped with the first-type dopant, a second region doped with the first-type dopant, and a third region doped with a second-type dopant, where the second-type dopant is opposite the first-type dopant. The first, second, and third regions are non-overlapping and are formed in the semiconductor layer. The third region is positioned between the first region and the second region. The apparatus also comprises a plurality of Zener implant regions buried in the semiconductor layer and the third region, where each of the plurality of Zener implant regions is configured to generate a different pinch-off region.
[H01L] SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES; ELECTRIC SOLID STATE DEVICES NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR (use of semiconductor devices for measuring G01; resistors in general H01C; magnets, inductors, transformers H01F; capacitors in general H01G; electrolytic devices H01G 9/00; batteries, accumulators H01M; waveguides, resonators, or lines of the waveguide type H01P; line connectors, current collectors H01R; stimulated-emission devices H01S; electromechanical resonators H03H; loudspeakers, microphones, gramophone pick-ups or like acoustic electromechanical transducers H04R; electric light sources in general H05B; printed circuits, hybrid circuits, casings or constructional details of electrical apparatus, manufacture of assemblages of electrical components H05K; use of semiconductor devices in circuits having a particular application, see the subclass for the application) [2]
High doped III-V source/drain junctions for field effect transistors
Patent No. 10355086
Inventor(s): Chun-Chen Yeh (Clifton Park, NY), Kejia Wang (Harrison, NY), Qing Liu (Watervliet, NY), Ruilong Xie (Schenectady, NY), Xiuyu Cai (Niskayuna, NY)
Assignee(s): STMICROELECTRONICS, INC. (Coppell, TX)
Law Firm: Cantor Colburn LLP (7 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15181843 on 06/14/2016 (1127 days app to issue)
Abstract: A semiconductor device includes a fin patterned in a substrate; a gate disposed over and substantially perpendicular to the fin; a pair of epitaxial contacts including a III-V material over the fin and on opposing sides of the gate; and a channel region between the pair of epitaxial contacts under the gate comprising an undoped III-V material between doped III-V materials, the doped III-V materials including a dopant in an amount in a range from about 1e[superscript]18 [/superscript]to about 1e[superscript]20 [/superscript]atoms/cm[superscript]3 [/superscript]and contacting the epitaxial contacts.
[H01L] SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES; ELECTRIC SOLID STATE DEVICES NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR (use of semiconductor devices for measuring G01; resistors in general H01C; magnets, inductors, transformers H01F; capacitors in general H01G; electrolytic devices H01G 9/00; batteries, accumulators H01M; waveguides, resonators, or lines of the waveguide type H01P; line connectors, current collectors H01R; stimulated-emission devices H01S; electromechanical resonators H03H; loudspeakers, microphones, gramophone pick-ups or like acoustic electromechanical transducers H04R; electric light sources in general H05B; printed circuits, hybrid circuits, casings or constructional details of electrical apparatus, manufacture of assemblages of electrical components H05K; use of semiconductor devices in circuits having a particular application, see the subclass for the application) [2]
Field effect transistors having different stress control liners and method of making the same
Patent No. 10355100
Inventor(s): Akio Nishida (Yokkaichi, , JP), Eisuke Takii (Yokkaichi, , JP), Kazutaka Yoshizawa (Yokkaichi, , JP), Tomoyuki Obu (Yokkaichi, , JP), Yasuyuki Aoki (Yokkaichi, , JP), Yu Ueda (Yokkaichi, , JP)
Assignee(s): SANDISK TECHNOLOGIES LLC (Addison, TX)
Law Firm: The Marbury Law Group, PLLC (3 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15982266 on 05/17/2018 (425 days app to issue)
Abstract: A first field effect transistor and a second field effect transistor are formed on a substrate. A silicon nitride liner is formed over the first field effect transistor and the second field effect transistor. An upper portion of the silicon nitride liner is converted into a thermal silicon oxide liner. A lower portion of the silicon nitride liner remains as a silicon nitride material portion. A first portion of the thermal silicon oxide liner is removed from above the second field effect transistor, and a second portion of the thermal silicon oxide liner remains above the first field effect transistor. Selective presence of the silicon oxide liner provides differential stress within the channels of the first and second field effect transistors, which can be employed to optimize performance of different types of field effect transistors.
[H01L] SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES; ELECTRIC SOLID STATE DEVICES NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR (use of semiconductor devices for measuring G01; resistors in general H01C; magnets, inductors, transformers H01F; capacitors in general H01G; electrolytic devices H01G 9/00; batteries, accumulators H01M; waveguides, resonators, or lines of the waveguide type H01P; line connectors, current collectors H01R; stimulated-emission devices H01S; electromechanical resonators H03H; loudspeakers, microphones, gramophone pick-ups or like acoustic electromechanical transducers H04R; electric light sources in general H05B; printed circuits, hybrid circuits, casings or constructional details of electrical apparatus, manufacture of assemblages of electrical components H05K; use of semiconductor devices in circuits having a particular application, see the subclass for the application) [2]
Vertical transistors with sidewall gate air gaps and methods therefor
Patent No. 10355129
Inventor(s): Chao Feng Yeh (Yokkaichi, , JP), TianChen Dong (Yokkaichi, , JP)
Assignee(s): SanDisk Technologies LLC (Addison, TX)
Law Firm: Vierra Magen Marcus LLP (2 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 16016219 on 06/22/2018 (389 days app to issue)
Abstract: A method is provided that includes forming a first vertically-oriented transistor above a substrate, the first vertically-oriented transistor comprising a first sidewall gate disposed in a first direction, forming a second vertically-oriented transistor above the substrate, the second vertically-oriented transistor including a second sidewall gate disposed in the first direction, and forming an air gap chamber above the substrate disposed between the first sidewall gate and the second sidewall gate, and extending in the first direction, the air gap chamber including an air gap.
[H01L] SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES; ELECTRIC SOLID STATE DEVICES NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR (use of semiconductor devices for measuring G01; resistors in general H01C; magnets, inductors, transformers H01F; capacitors in general H01G; electrolytic devices H01G 9/00; batteries, accumulators H01M; waveguides, resonators, or lines of the waveguide type H01P; line connectors, current collectors H01R; stimulated-emission devices H01S; electromechanical resonators H03H; loudspeakers, microphones, gramophone pick-ups or like acoustic electromechanical transducers H04R; electric light sources in general H05B; printed circuits, hybrid circuits, casings or constructional details of electrical apparatus, manufacture of assemblages of electrical components H05K; use of semiconductor devices in circuits having a particular application, see the subclass for the application) [2]
Three-dimensional memory device with amorphous barrier layer and method of making thereof
Patent No. 10355139
Inventor(s): Fei Zhou (Milpitas, CA), Keerti Shukla (Saratoga, CA), Raghuveer S. Makala (Campbell, CA), Rahul Sharangpani (Fremont, CA), Somesh Peri (San Jose, CA)
Assignee(s): SANDISK TECHNOLOGIES LLC (Addison, TX)
Law Firm: The Marbury Law Group, PLLC (3 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15291640 on 10/12/2016 (1007 days app to issue)
Abstract: Memory stack structures are formed through an alternating stack of insulating layers and sacrificial material layers. Backside recesses are formed by removal of the sacrificial material layers selective to the insulating layers and the memory stack structures. An electrically conductive, amorphous barrier layer can be formed prior to formation of a metal fill material layer to provide a diffusion barrier that reduces fluorine diffusion between the metal fill material layer and memory films of memory stack structures. The electrically conductive, amorphous barrier layer can be an oxygen-containing titanium compound or a ternary transition metal nitride.
[H01L] SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES; ELECTRIC SOLID STATE DEVICES NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR (use of semiconductor devices for measuring G01; resistors in general H01C; magnets, inductors, transformers H01F; capacitors in general H01G; electrolytic devices H01G 9/00; batteries, accumulators H01M; waveguides, resonators, or lines of the waveguide type H01P; line connectors, current collectors H01R; stimulated-emission devices H01S; electromechanical resonators H03H; loudspeakers, microphones, gramophone pick-ups or like acoustic electromechanical transducers H04R; electric light sources in general H05B; printed circuits, hybrid circuits, casings or constructional details of electrical apparatus, manufacture of assemblages of electrical components H05K; use of semiconductor devices in circuits having a particular application, see the subclass for the application) [2]
Global electrical power multiplication
Patent No. 10355333
Inventor(s): James F. Corum (Morgantown, WV), Kenneth L. Corum (Plymouth, NH)
Assignee(s): CPG Technologies, LLC (Italy, TX)
Law Firm: Thomas Horstemeyer, LLP (1 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15898968 on 02/19/2018 (512 days app to issue)
Abstract: Various examples are provided for global electrical power multiplication. In one example, a global power multiplier includes first and second guided surface waveguide probes separated by a distance equal to a quarter wavelength of a defined frequency and configured to launch synchronized guided surface waves along a surface of a lossy conducting medium at the defined frequency; and at least one excitation source configured to excite the first and second guided surface waveguide probes at the defined frequency, where the excitation of the second guided surface waveguide probe at the defined frequency is 90 degrees out of phase with respect to the excitation of the first guided surface waveguide probe. In another example, a method includes launching synchronized guided surface waves along a surface of a lossy conducting medium by exciting first and second guided surface waveguide probes to produce a traveling wave propagating along the surface.
[H02J] CIRCUIT ARRANGEMENTS OR SYSTEMS FOR SUPPLYING OR DISTRIBUTING ELECTRIC POWER; SYSTEMS FOR STORING ELECTRIC ENERGY (power supply circuits for apparatus for measuring X-radiation, gamma radiation, corpuscular radiation or cosmic radiation G01T 1/175; electric power supply circuits specially adapted for use in electronic time-pieces with no moving parts G04G 19/00; for digital computers G06F 1/18; for discharge tubes H01J 37/248; circuits or apparatus for the conversion of electric power, arrangements for control or regulation of such circuits or apparatus H02M; interrelated control of several motors, control of a prime-mover/generator combination H02P; control of high-frequency power H03L; additional use of power line or power network for transmission of information H04B)
Consolidated automotive pigtail connector and replacement parts kit
Patent No. 10355431
Inventor(s): Earl Bloom (Irving, TX), Scott Gilman (Trabuco Canyon, CA)
Assignee(s): Omega Acquisition Corp. (Irving, TX)
Law Firm: The Law Offices of Alexander Deese, PLLC (Local + 217 other metros)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15851489 on 12/21/2017 (572 days app to issue)
Abstract: A consolidated automotive parts kit containing the parts necessary to replace and seal a switch, relay, or transducer in a vehicle and perform repairs to the corresponding connector using a pigtail and associated repair supplies such as butt splices, heat shrink tubing, and seals or gaskets.
[H02G] INSTALLATION OF ELECTRIC CABLES OR LINES, OR OF COMBINED OPTICAL AND ELECTRIC CABLES OR LINES (insulated conductors or cables with arrangements for facilitating mounting or securing H01B 7/40; distribution points incorporating switches H02B; guiding telephone cords H04M 1/15; cable ducts or mountings for telephone or telegraph exchange installations H04Q 1/06)
Adaptation of polyphase waveguide probes
Patent No. 10355480
Inventor(s): James F. Corum (Morgantown, WV), Kenneth L. Corum (Plymouth, NH)
Assignee(s): CPG TECHNOLOGIES, LLC (Italy, TX)
Law Firm: Thomas | Horstemeyer, LLP (no location found)
Application No., Date, Speed: 16168248 on 10/23/2018 (266 days app to issue)
Abstract: Disclosed are various embodiments for transmitting energy conveyed in the form of a guided surface-waveguide mode along a lossy conducting medium such as, e.g., the surface of a terrestrial medium by exciting a polyphase waveguide probe. A probe control system can be used to adjust the polyphase waveguide probe based at least in part upon characteristics of the lossy conducting medium.
[H05K] PRINTED CIRCUITS; CASINGS OR CONSTRUCTIONAL DETAILS OF ELECTRIC APPARATUS; MANUFACTURE OF ASSEMBLAGES OF ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS (details of instruments or comparable details of other apparatus not otherwise provided for G12B; thin-film or thick-film circuits H01L 27/01, H01L 27/13; non-printed means for electric connections to or between printed circuits H01R; casings for, or constructional details of, particular types of apparatus, see the relevant subclasses; processes involving only a single technical art, e.g. heating, spraying, for which provision exists elsewhere, see the relevant classes)
Simultaneous multifrequency receive circuits
Patent No. 10355481
Inventor(s): James D. Lilly (Silver Spring, MD), James F. Corum (Morgantown, WV), Joseph F. Pinzone (Cornelius, NC), Kenneth L. Corum (Plymouth, NH)
Assignee(s): CPG Technologies, LLC (Italy, TX)
Law Firm: Thomas Horstemeyer, LLP (1 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 16180296 on 11/05/2018 (253 days app to issue)
Abstract: Disclosed are various receive circuits by which to receive a plurality of guided surface waves transmitted by a plurality of guided surface waveguide probes over a surface of a terrestrial medium according to various embodiments.
[H05K] PRINTED CIRCUITS; CASINGS OR CONSTRUCTIONAL DETAILS OF ELECTRIC APPARATUS; MANUFACTURE OF ASSEMBLAGES OF ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS (details of instruments or comparable details of other apparatus not otherwise provided for G12B; thin-film or thick-film circuits H01L 27/01, H01L 27/13; non-printed means for electric connections to or between printed circuits H01R; casings for, or constructional details of, particular types of apparatus, see the relevant subclasses; processes involving only a single technical art, e.g. heating, spraying, for which provision exists elsewhere, see the relevant classes)
Electrical charging devices with resilient actuation
Patent No. 10355501
Inventor(s): William J. Warren (Frisco, TX)
Assignee(s): UNASSIGNED
Law Firm: Carr Ferrell LLP (2 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15865102 on 01/08/2018 (554 days app to issue)
Abstract: Electrical charging devices with resilient actuation are provided herein. An example apparatus includes a receiver body having a sidewall of the receiver body, wherein a lateral portion of the sidewall of the receiver body has a pass-through slot, and a lower support plate extending forwardly from the sidewall of the receiver body; an electronics assembly including a housing that receives charging circuitry, a bolt lever extending from a sidewall of the housing, the bolt lever extending through the pass-through slot of the receiver body, and an electrical conductor extending from a front of the housing, the electrical conductor in electrical communication with the charging circuitry; and a stabilizer that is hingedly coupled to the housing, the stabilizer pivoting between a stored configuration and a deployed configuration when the bolt lever moves from a rearward position to a forward position.
[H02J] CIRCUIT ARRANGEMENTS OR SYSTEMS FOR SUPPLYING OR DISTRIBUTING ELECTRIC POWER; SYSTEMS FOR STORING ELECTRIC ENERGY (power supply circuits for apparatus for measuring X-radiation, gamma radiation, corpuscular radiation or cosmic radiation G01T 1/175; electric power supply circuits specially adapted for use in electronic time-pieces with no moving parts G04G 19/00; for digital computers G06F 1/18; for discharge tubes H01J 37/248; circuits or apparatus for the conversion of electric power, arrangements for control or regulation of such circuits or apparatus H02M; interrelated control of several motors, control of a prime-mover/generator combination H02P; control of high-frequency power H03L; additional use of power line or power network for transmission of information H04B)
Multilevel boost DC to DC converter circuit
Patent No. 10355591
Inventor(s): Christian Rott (Garching, , DE), Giovanni Frattini (Travaco” Siccomario, , IT), Maurizio Granato (Milan, , IT), Michael Lueders (Munich, , DE), Pietro Giannelli (Antella, , IT)
Assignee(s): TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED (Dallas, TX)
Law Firm: No Counsel
Application No., Date, Speed: 15658667 on 07/25/2017 (721 days app to issue)
Abstract: Described examples include DC to DC converters and systems with switching circuitry formed by four series-connected switches, inductors connected between the ends of the switching circuitry and corresponding output nodes, and with a flying capacitor coupled across interior switches of the switching circuitry and a second capacitor coupled across the ends of the switching circuitry. A control circuit operates the switching circuit to control a voltage signal across the output nodes using a first clock signal and a phase shifted second clock signal to reduce output ripple current and enhance converter efficiency using valley current control. The output inductors are wound on a common core in certain examples.
[H02M] APPARATUS FOR CONVERSION BETWEEN AC AND AC, BETWEEN AC AND DC, OR BETWEEN DC AND DC, AND FOR USE WITH MAINS OR SIMILAR POWER SUPPLY SYSTEMS; CONVERSION OF DC OR AC INPUT POWER INTO SURGE OUTPUT POWER; CONTROL OR REGULATION THEREOF (conversion of current or voltage specially adapted for use in electronic time-pieces with no moving parts G04G 19/02; systems for regulating electric or magnetic variables in general, e.g. using transformers, reactors or choke coils, combination of such systems with static converters G05F; for digital computers G06F 1/00; transformers H01F; connection or control of one converter with regard to conjoint operation with a similar or other source of supply H02J; dynamo-electric converters H02K 47/00; controlling transformers, reactors or choke coils, control or regulation of electric motors, generators or dynamo-electric converters H02P; pulse generators H03K) [5]
Low power zero inductor current detection circuit
Patent No. 10355592
Inventor(s): Keith Edmund Kunz (Bryan, TX), Ranjit Kumar Dash (Bangalore, , IN)
Assignee(s): TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED (Dallas, TX)
Law Firm: No Counsel
Application No., Date, Speed: 15709497 on 09/20/2017 (664 days app to issue)
Abstract: Methods and apparatus for detecting a zero inductor current to control switch transitions for a power converter. An example method includes outputting a first voltage and a first current, receiving the first voltage and output a second voltage into an input of a comparator, when the second voltage is above a third voltage, outputting a first output voltage, when the second voltage is below the third voltage, outputting a second output voltage, determining when the first current is zero based the output of the comparator, enabling a set of switches based on when the first current is zero.
[H02M] APPARATUS FOR CONVERSION BETWEEN AC AND AC, BETWEEN AC AND DC, OR BETWEEN DC AND DC, AND FOR USE WITH MAINS OR SIMILAR POWER SUPPLY SYSTEMS; CONVERSION OF DC OR AC INPUT POWER INTO SURGE OUTPUT POWER; CONTROL OR REGULATION THEREOF (conversion of current or voltage specially adapted for use in electronic time-pieces with no moving parts G04G 19/02; systems for regulating electric or magnetic variables in general, e.g. using transformers, reactors or choke coils, combination of such systems with static converters G05F; for digital computers G06F 1/00; transformers H01F; connection or control of one converter with regard to conjoint operation with a similar or other source of supply H02J; dynamo-electric converters H02K 47/00; controlling transformers, reactors or choke coils, control or regulation of electric motors, generators or dynamo-electric converters H02P; pulse generators H03K) [5]
Voltage step-down technique for deriving gate-charge using multi-level core architecture
Patent No. 10355609
Inventor(s): Alvaro Aguilar (Irving, TX), Jeffrey Anthony Morroni (Parker, TX), Kevin Scoones (San Jose, CA), Orlando Lazaro (Dallas, TX), Reza Sharifi (Sunnyvale, CA)
Assignee(s): TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED (Dallas, TX)
Law Firm: No Counsel
Application No., Date, Speed: 15858648 on 12/29/2017 (564 days app to issue)
Abstract: In described examples of methods and control circuitry to control a multi-level power conversion system with a flying capacitor, a power circuit regulates a regulator input voltage signal to provide a supply voltage signal to the control circuitry. A power switching circuit couples the regulator input to a first terminal of the flying capacitor in response to a second terminal of the flying capacitor being coupled to a reference voltage node in a given switching cycle, and couples the regulator input to the second terminal in response to the first terminal being coupled to an input node of the power conversion system in the given switching cycle.
[H02M] APPARATUS FOR CONVERSION BETWEEN AC AND AC, BETWEEN AC AND DC, OR BETWEEN DC AND DC, AND FOR USE WITH MAINS OR SIMILAR POWER SUPPLY SYSTEMS; CONVERSION OF DC OR AC INPUT POWER INTO SURGE OUTPUT POWER; CONTROL OR REGULATION THEREOF (conversion of current or voltage specially adapted for use in electronic time-pieces with no moving parts G04G 19/02; systems for regulating electric or magnetic variables in general, e.g. using transformers, reactors or choke coils, combination of such systems with static converters G05F; for digital computers G06F 1/00; transformers H01F; connection or control of one converter with regard to conjoint operation with a similar or other source of supply H02J; dynamo-electric converters H02K 47/00; controlling transformers, reactors or choke coils, control or regulation of electric motors, generators or dynamo-electric converters H02P; pulse generators H03K) [5]
Power amplifier for millimeter wave devices
Patent No. 10355646
Inventor(s): Abdellatif Bellaouar (Richardson, TX), See Taur Lee (Richardson, TX)
Assignee(s): GLOBALFOUNDRIES INC. (Grand Cayman, , KY)
Law Firm: Williams Morgan, P.C. (1 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15967172 on 04/30/2018 (442 days app to issue)
Abstract: We disclose apparatus which may provide power amplification in millimeter-wave devices with reduced size and reduced power consumption, and methods of using such apparatus. One such apparatus comprises an input transformer; a first differential pair of injection transistors comprising a first transistor and a second transistor; a first back gate voltage source configured to provide a first back gate voltage to the first transistor; a second back gate voltage source configured to provide a second back gate voltage to the second transistor; a second differential pair of oscillator core transistors comprising a third transistor and a fourth transistor, wherein the third transistor and the fourth transistor are cross-coupled; a third back gate voltage source configured to provide a third back gate voltage to the third transistor; a fourth back gate voltage source configured to provide a fourth back gate voltage to the fourth transistor; and an output transformer.
[H03F] AMPLIFIERS (measuring, testing G01R; optical parametric amplifiers G02F; circuit arrangements with secondary emission tubes H01J 43/30; masers, lasers H01S; dynamo-electric amplifiers H02K; control of amplification H03G; coupling arrangements independent of the nature of the amplifier, voltage dividers H03H; amplifiers capable only of dealing with pulses H03K; repeater circuits in transmission lines H04B 3/36, H04B 3/58; application of speech amplifiers in telephonic communication H04M 1/60, H04M 3/40)
Controlling mechanism for a direct learning algorithm
Patent No. 10355650
Inventor(s): Shavantha Kularatna (Flower Mound, TX)
Assignee(s): Nokia Solutions And Networks GMBH And Co. KG (Munich, , DE)
Law Firm: Harrington Smith (6 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15549870 on 02/10/2015 (1617 days app to issue)
Abstract: The present invention addresses method, apparatus and computer program product for controlling a Direct Learning Algorithm. Thereby, a power amplifier operating in a non-linear state is controlled. A signal to be amplified is input to a pre-distorter provided for compensating for non-linearity of the power amplifier. The pre-distorted output signal is forwarded from the pre-distorter to the power amplifier. Parameters of the pre-distorter are adapted in plural steps based on an error between a linearized signal output from the power amplifier and the signal to be amplified using an adaptive direct learning algorithm. It is detected whether the error diverges; and adapting of the parameters of the pre-distorter is stopped when it is determined that the error is diverging.
[H03F] AMPLIFIERS (measuring, testing G01R; optical parametric amplifiers G02F; circuit arrangements with secondary emission tubes H01J 43/30; masers, lasers H01S; dynamo-electric amplifiers H02K; control of amplification H03G; coupling arrangements independent of the nature of the amplifier, voltage dividers H03H; amplifiers capable only of dealing with pulses H03K; repeater circuits in transmission lines H04B 3/36, H04B 3/58; application of speech amplifiers in telephonic communication H04M 1/60, H04M 3/40)
Use of multiple codebooks for programming data in different memory areas of a storage device
Patent No. 10355712
Inventor(s): Alexander Bazarsky (Holon, , IL), Eran Sharon (Rishon Lezion, , IL), Idan Alrod (Herzeliya, , IL), Idan Goldenberg (Ramat Hasharon, , IL), Rami Rom (Zichron-Yaacov, , IL), Ran Zamir (Ramat Gan, , IL), Stella Achtenberg (Netanya, ,
Assignee(s): SanDisk Technologies LLC (Plano, TX)
Law Firm: Dickinson Wright PLLC (7 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15475602 on 03/31/2017 (837 days app to issue)
Abstract: A storage device may program data differently for different memory areas of a memory. In some embodiments, the storage device may use different codebooks for different memory areas. In other embodiments, the storage device may modify bit orders differently for different memory areas. What codebook the storage device uses or what bit order modification the storage device performs for a particular memory area may depend on the bad storage locations specific to that memory area. Where different codebooks are used, optimal codebooks may be selected from a library, or codebooks may be modified based on the bad storage locations of the memory areas.
[H03M] CODING, DECODING OR CODE CONVERSION, IN GENERAL (using fluidic means F15C 4/00; optical analogue/digital converters G02F 7/00; coding, decoding or code conversion, specially adapted for particular applications, see the relevant subclasses, e.g. G01D, G01R, G06F, G06T, G09G, G10L, G11B, G11C, H04B, H04L, H04M, H04N; ciphering or deciphering for cryptography or other purposes involving the need for secrecy G09C) [4]
Computer architecture for emulating a correlithm object logic gate using a context input
Patent No. 10355713
Inventor(s): Patrick N. Lawrence (Plano, TX)
Assignee(s): Bank of America Corporation (Charlotte, NC)
Law Firm: No Counsel
Application No., Date, Speed: 15783470 on 10/13/2017 (641 days app to issue)
Abstract: A device configured to emulate a correlithm object logic function gate comprises a memory and a logic engine. The memory stores a logical operator truth table that includes a plurality of input logical values, a plurality of output logical values, and a plurality of logical operators. These logical values and the logical operators are represented by correlithm objects. The logic engine receives at least one input and a context input correlithm object representing one of the plurality of logical operators. The logic engine determines a portion of the truth table to apply based at least in part upon the logical operator represented by the context input correlithm object. The logic engine further determine an output of the logic function gate based at least in part upon the determined portion of the truth table to apply and the input.
[H03M] CODING, DECODING OR CODE CONVERSION, IN GENERAL (using fluidic means F15C 4/00; optical analogue/digital converters G02F 7/00; coding, decoding or code conversion, specially adapted for particular applications, see the relevant subclasses, e.g. G01D, G01R, G06F, G06T, G09G, G10L, G11B, G11C, H04B, H04L, H04M, H04N; ciphering or deciphering for cryptography or other purposes involving the need for secrecy G09C) [4]
Virtual optical network service with guaranteed availability
Patent No. 10355779
Inventor(s): Inwoong Kim (Allen, TX), Martin Bouda (Plano, TX), Olga Vassilieva (Plano, TX), Paparao Palacharla (Richardson, TX), Qiong Zhang (Plano, TX), Tadashi Ikeuchi (Plano, TX)
Assignee(s): FUJITSU LIMITED (Kawasaki, , JP)
Law Firm: Baker Botts L.L.P. (Local + 8 other metros)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15714420 on 09/25/2017 (659 days app to issue)
Abstract: A method for VON service with guaranteed availability may use probability density functions (PDF) of Q-factor to determine availability of physical links assigned to a virtual link in the VON. Then, a VON mapping may be performed based on the determined availabilities, among other factors.
[H04J] MULTIPLEX COMMUNICATION (peculiar to transmission of digital information H04L 5/00; systems for the simultaneous or sequential transmission of more than one television signal H04N 7/08; in exchanges H04Q 11/00)
Unified mobile and TDM-PON uplink MAC scheduling for mobile front-haul
Patent No. 10355801
Inventor(s): Frank Effenberger (Frisco, TX), Siyu Zhou (Brooklyn, NY), Xiang Liu (Marlboro, NJ)
Assignee(s): Futurewei Technologies, Inc. (Plano, TX)
Law Firm: Conley Rose, P.C. (3 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15685629 on 08/24/2017 (691 days app to issue)
Abstract: Disclosed herein are various embodiments that include a method and a passive optical network (PON) for supporting a mobile network. In various embodiments, a baseband unit (BBU) is configured to measure an optical path delay from each remote radio unit (RRU) of a plurality of RRUs to the BBU during an initialization phase. The BBU synchronizes all the RRUs in the mobile system by adjusting the timing of each path based on the optical path delay between each RRU and the BBU. The BBU determines a mapping rule that maps each resource block assigned to each RRU of the plurality of RRUs to a different PON transport block. The BBU transmits the mapping rule to each RRU of the plurality of RRUs. In certain embodiments, the mapping rule may be recalculated dynamically after the initialization phase.
[H04J] MULTIPLEX COMMUNICATION (peculiar to transmission of digital information H04L 5/00; systems for the simultaneous or sequential transmission of more than one television signal H04N 7/08; in exchanges H04Q 11/00)
Smart integrated cyclic data transport
Patent No. 10355824
Inventor(s): Balaji Subramanian (Coppell, TX), Jay Varma (Irving, TX), Manu Kurian (Dallas, TX), Nathan Allen Eaton, Jr. (Mesquite, TX), Sorin Cismas (Southlake, TX), Vibhuti Damania (Carrollton, TX)
Assignee(s): Bank of America Corporation (Charlotte, NC)
Law Firm: Weiss Arons LLP (2 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15790310 on 10/23/2017 (631 days app to issue)
Abstract: An apparatus for smart integrated cyclic data transport is provided. The apparatus may preserve the consistency and integrity of a file during the transfer of the file from a source system to a target system. The apparatus includes an orchestration subsystem. The orchestration subsystem includes an analyzer/generator module. The analyzer/generator module executes an algorithm on the file at the source location. An output is generated from the executed algorithm. The apparatus includes a consistency module. The consistency module pre-checks the output at the source location for pretransfer validation and creates a copy of the output. The copy may preserve the consistency and the integrity of the file. The apparatus includes a data transfer subsystem which transfers the file and the output from the source system to the target system. The apparatus may also include a validation subsystem for validating the integrity and consistency of the file.
[H04L] TRANSMISSION OF DIGITAL INFORMATION, e.g. TELEGRAPHIC COMMUNICATION (arrangements common to telegraphic and telephonic communication H04M) [4]
Bearer setup in dual connectivity
Patent No. 10355836
Inventor(s): Devaki Chandramouli (Plano, TX)
Assignee(s): Nokia Technologies Oy (Espoo, , FI)
Law Firm: Nokia Technologies Oy (3 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15565285 on 05/14/2015 (1524 days app to issue)
Abstract: In some example embodiments, there is provided a method. The method may include generating, by a network node, a message including an indication of whether a bearer is at least one of a default bearer or a dedicated bearer; and sending, by the network node, the generated message, wherein the generated message is sent to a base station to enable the base station to control assignment of the bearer to a macrocell when the indication represents that the bearer is a default bearer. Related systems, methods, and articles of manufacture are also described.
[H04W] WIRELESS COMMUNICATION NETWORKS [2009.01]
System and method for transmitting beamformed reference/control signals
Patent No. 10355839
Inventor(s): Bin Liu (San Diego, CA), Jian Wang (Beijing, , CN), Richard Stirling-Gallacher (San Diego, CA)
Assignee(s): FUTUREWEI TECHNOLOGIES, INC. (Plano, TX)
Law Firm: Slater Matsil, LLP (Local + 1 other metros)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15664715 on 07/31/2017 (715 days app to issue)
Abstract: A method for operating a transmission point with reduced interference includes determining a beamformed signal configuration specified in accordance with configuration information of neighboring TPs, wherein the beamformed signal configuration indicates multiplexed beamformed signals in a spatial domain and at least one of a time domain and a frequency domain, and transmitting beamformed signals in accordance with the beamformed signal configuration, wherein the beamformed signals comprises at least one of beamformed reference signals and beamformed control signals.
[H04L] TRANSMISSION OF DIGITAL INFORMATION, e.g. TELEGRAPHIC COMMUNICATION (arrangements common to telegraphic and telephonic communication H04M) [4]
Methods and apparatus for transmitting modulation signals
Patent No. 10355841
Inventor(s): Akihiko Matsuoka (Kanagawa, , JP), Masayuki Orihashi (Kanagawa, , JP), Yutaka Murakami (Osaka, , JP)
Assignee(s): Wi-Fi One, LLC (Dallas, TX)
Law Firm: Nixon Vanderhye P.C. (2 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15977092 on 05/11/2018 (431 days app to issue)
Abstract: A plurality of modulation signals is generated. Each of the plurality of modulation signals includes a pilot symbol sequence having a plurality of pilot symbols. Each pilot symbol sequence is inserted at a same temporal point in each modulation signal, and each pilot symbol in the pilot symbol sequence has a non-zero amplitude. A quantity of the plurality of pilot symbols in each pilot symbol sequence is greater than or equal to a quantity of the plurality of modulation signals to be transmitted. The plurality of modulation signals are transmitted in an identical frequency band from a plurality of antennas. Each of the transmitted plurality of modulation signals includes transmission data and one of the pilot symbol sequences.
[H04L] TRANSMISSION OF DIGITAL INFORMATION, e.g. TELEGRAPHIC COMMUNICATION (arrangements common to telegraphic and telephonic communication H04M) [4]
System and method for authenticating electronic content
Patent No. 10355863
Inventor(s): Danielle R. Domenica (Phoenix, AZ), Fred Bishop (Glendale, AZ), Hermes H. Villalobos (Phoenix, AZ), Vicki R. Mendivil (Phoenix, AZ)
Assignee(s): SECURE AXCESS LLC (Plano, TX)
Law Firm: Martin Ferraro, LLP (3 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15835816 on 12/08/2017 (585 days app to issue)
Abstract: The present invention provides for an authenticity marker to be embedded within web page and/or email content which allows a user to validate that the content originates from the true source of the content and is not merely a copy. The method includes a user requesting content in the form of a web page and/or email from a server using a web browser or email client. The server receives the request, retrieves the content and forwards it to an authentication server. The authentication server inserts into the retrieved content a unique fractal icon and/or information only known between the owner of the content and the user.
[H04L] TRANSMISSION OF DIGITAL INFORMATION, e.g. TELEGRAPHIC COMMUNICATION (arrangements common to telegraphic and telephonic communication H04M) [4]
System and method for providing unified communications and collaboration (UCC) connectivity between incompatible systems
Patent No. 10355882
Inventor(s): Satish Gundabathula (Irving, TX), Sivakumar R. Chaturvedi (Allen, TX)
Assignee(s): Damaka, Inc. (Richardson, TX)
Law Firm: No Counsel
Application No., Date, Speed: 15422746 on 02/02/2017 (894 days app to issue)
Abstract: An improved system and method are disclosed for enabling unified communications and collaboration (UCC) communications between incompatible communication systems. For example, the method may include using a universal UCC (U2C2) gateway in a first system to establish a connection with a server in a second system. The U2C2 gateway mimics a behavior defined for use within the second system when communicating with the server in order to be compatible with the second system. The U2C2 gateway notifies a multipoint control unit (MCU) within the first system of the connection. The MCU manages the UCC session and recognizes the U2C2 gateway as the source and destination for communications corresponding to the connection. The U2C2 gateway normalizes media received from the second system for compatibility with the first system before sending the media to the MCU for the UCC session. The U2C2 gateway also normalizes media received from the MCU for compatibility with the second system before sending the media to the second system.
[H04L] TRANSMISSION OF DIGITAL INFORMATION, e.g. TELEGRAPHIC COMMUNICATION (arrangements common to telegraphic and telephonic communication H04M) [4]
PHICH transmission in time division duplex systems
Patent No. 10355899
Inventor(s): Jun Li (Richardson, TX), Yiping Wang (Allen, TX)
Assignee(s): BlackBerry Limited (Waterloo, Ontario, , CA)
Law Firm: Conley Rose, P.C. (3 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15594290 on 05/12/2017 (795 days app to issue)
Abstract: A method is provided for communication in a wireless telecommunication system. The method comprises multiplexing, by a network element, at least one symbol of a PHICH onto at least one resource element of a PCFICH.
[H04L] TRANSMISSION OF DIGITAL INFORMATION, e.g. TELEGRAPHIC COMMUNICATION (arrangements common to telegraphic and telephonic communication H04M) [4]
Distributed procedure for breadth-first graph traversal on asymmetric communication topologies
Patent No. 10355970
Inventor(s): Mohamed Farouk Mansour (Richardson, TX)
Assignee(s): TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED (Dallas, TX)
Law Firm: No Counsel
Application No., Date, Speed: 15169074 on 05/31/2016 (1141 days app to issue)
Abstract: The breadth-first search (BFS) starts with a root node. In the first stage, all neighbors of the root node are discovered and added to the nodes frontier. In the following stages, unvisited nodes from the neighbors of the frontier nodes are discovered and added to the frontier. To improve the parallelization of the BFS, the bottom-up search iterates over all unvisited nodes, where each unvisited node searches for its visited neighbors. Communication between nodes and clusters is pipelined with the execution of the BFS.
[H04L] TRANSMISSION OF DIGITAL INFORMATION, e.g. TELEGRAPHIC COMMUNICATION (arrangements common to telegraphic and telephonic communication H04M) [4]
Calculating times to live for transaction requests
Patent No. 10355978
Inventor(s): Gary Gostin (Plano, TX)
Assignee(s): Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP (Houston, TX)
Law Firm: Hewlett Packard Enterprise Patent Department (12 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15626983 on 06/19/2017 (757 days app to issue)
Abstract: Example implementations relate to calculating a time to live (TTL). An example implementation includes receiving a transaction request containing a first time to live (TTL) from a requester. A second TTL for a transaction response may be computed, and a transaction response containing the second TTL may be transmitted.
[H04L] TRANSMISSION OF DIGITAL INFORMATION, e.g. TELEGRAPHIC COMMUNICATION (arrangements common to telegraphic and telephonic communication H04M) [4]
Partial software defined network switch replacement in IP networks
Patent No. 10356011
Inventor(s): Cing-yu Chu (Long Island City, NY), Hung-Hsiang Jonathan Chao (Holmdel, NJ), Kang Xi (Morganville, NJ), Min Luo (San Jose, CA), Wu Chou (Basking Ridge, NJ)
Assignee(s): Futurewei Technologies, Inc. (Plano, TX)
Law Firm: Conley Rose, P.C. (3 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 14990026 on 01/07/2016 (1286 days app to issue)
Abstract: The claimed subject matter is directed to novel methods and systems for a network topology wherein an Internet Protocol (IP) network is partially integrated and enhanced with a relatively small number of Software Defined Network (SDN)-Openflow (SDN-OF) enabled network devices to provide a resilient network that is able to quickly recover from a network failure and achieves post-recovery load balancing while minimizing cost and complexity. The SDN-OF Controller, or a management node, determines such a minimum set of SDN-OF enabled devices and establishes IP tunnels to route traffic from nodes affected by failure to designated SDN-OF switches and finally to the final destination without looping back to the failed link or node. By combining SDN-OF enabled switches with IP nodes such as routers, a novel network architecture and methods are described herein that allows for ultra-fast and load balancing-aware failure recovery of the data network.
[H04L] TRANSMISSION OF DIGITAL INFORMATION, e.g. TELEGRAPHIC COMMUNICATION (arrangements common to telegraphic and telephonic communication H04M) [4]
System and method for centralized authentication and authorization for cloud platform with multiple deployments
Patent No. 10356080
Inventor(s): Minbao Li (Lewisville, TX)
Assignee(s): Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc. (Basking Ridge, NJ)
Law Firm: No Counsel
Application No., Date, Speed: 15462633 on 03/17/2017 (851 days app to issue)
Abstract: Techniques described herein may be used to centralize authentication and authorization for accessing cloud services provided by different cloud platform deployments. A user equipment (UE) may provide user information to a cloud admin server. The cloud admin server may authenticate and authorize the UE locally and then initiate a sign on procedure with each cloud platform deployment. The sign on procedure may include obtaining user group information for the user and providing the user group information to the cloud platform deployments so that the cloud platform deployments may return permission information without having to each perform an authentication and authorization procedure. The cloud admin server may relay the permission information to the UE, and the UE may use the permission information to access any/all of the cloud services.
[H04L] TRANSMISSION OF DIGITAL INFORMATION, e.g. TELEGRAPHIC COMMUNICATION (arrangements common to telegraphic and telephonic communication H04M) [4]
Method and apparatus for media data delivery control
Patent No. 10356143
Inventor(s): Imed Bouazizi (Plano, TX), Kong Posh Bhat (Plano, TX), Youngkwon Lim (Plano, TX)
Assignee(s): Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. (Suwon-si, , KR)
Law Firm: No Counsel
Application No., Date, Speed: 14049022 on 10/08/2013 (2107 days app to issue)
Abstract: A method of operating a sending entity in the transmission system includes identifying a fixed delay associated with a transmission of media data in the transmission system and sending, to a receiving entity, information about the fixed delay as a requirement being configured to guarantee that packets for the media data, received by the receiving entity, are delivered to an upper layer of the receiving entity after the fixed delay. A method of operating a receiving entity in the transmission system includes receiving media data and information about a fixed delay associated with the media data and identifying a requirement, being configured to guarantee that packets for the media data are delivered to an upper layer after the fixed delay, from the information about the fixed delay.
[H04L] TRANSMISSION OF DIGITAL INFORMATION, e.g. TELEGRAPHIC COMMUNICATION (arrangements common to telegraphic and telephonic communication H04M) [4]
Methods and system for geometric distortion correction for space-based rolling-shutter framing sensors
Patent No. 10356343
Inventor(s): Thomas G. Ribardo, Jr. (Garland, TX)
Assignee(s): RAYTHEON COMPANY (Waltham, MA)
Law Firm: Lando Anastasi, LLP (1 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15461651 on 03/17/2017 (851 days app to issue)
Abstract: Aspects and embodiments are generally directed to an imaging system and methods for correcting geometric distortion induced by rolling-shutter operation of framing sensors. In one example, a method includes the acts of developing a DtoN mapping from a distorted image space to a normalized image space for initial pixels of the rolling-shutter framing sensor, developing an NtoD mapping from the normalized image space to the distorted image space for repositioned pixels in the normalized image space based on the DtoN mapping, the repositioned pixels corresponding to the initial pixels of the rolling-shutter framing sensor, producing a normalized image based on the repositioned pixels and the NtoD mapping, and resampling the normalized image to produce a corrected image of the imagery collected by the rolling-shutter framing sensor.
[H04N] PICTORIAL COMMUNICATION, e.g. TELEVISION [4]
Methods and apparatus to measure audience composition and recruit audience measurement panelists
Patent No. 10356470
Inventor(s): Madhusudhan Reddy Alla (Allen, TX)
Assignee(s): THE NIELSEN COMPANY (US), LLC (New York, NY)
Law Firm: Hanley, Flight Zimmerman, LLC (1 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15907981 on 02/28/2018 (503 days app to issue)
Abstract: Methods and apparatus to measure audience composition and recruit audience measurement panelists are disclosed. An example media device includes a processor and memory including machine readable instructions that, when executed, cause the processor to detect a first code embedded in a video stream of media being presented by the media device. The first code references first audience measurement data to identify the media. The instructions cause the processor to, after detection of the first code, provide a request for an audience member to join an audience measurement panel, and after receipt of a response to the request, provide the audience member with a second code. The second code includes information that, when the second code is scanned with a portable device other than the media device, is to direct the portable device to a website to provide additional audience measurement data.
[H04H] BROADCAST COMMUNICATION (multiplex communication H04J; pictorial communication aspects of broadcast systems H04N)
Interactive content system and method
Patent No. 10356477
Inventor(s): Mary McCarthy (Frisco, TX)
Assignee(s): ATT INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I, L.P. (Atlanta, GA)
Law Firm: Toler Law Group, PC (1 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 14444667 on 07/28/2014 (1814 days app to issue)
Abstract: The present disclosure is directed to a system and method of providing interactive content. The method may include sending, from a media device, a request for one or more interactive applications to a first content source that is distinct from a second content source that provides video content to the media device. The request may indicate one or more locations to be polled for the one or more interactive applications. The method may include generating, at the media device, a menu of selectable interactive applications displayable at a display device. The selectable interactive applications may include at least one of the one or more interactive applications corresponding to the request.
[H04N] PICTORIAL COMMUNICATION, e.g. TELEVISION [4]
System and method for situational awareness driven group communications
Patent No. 10356565
Inventor(s): Brahmananda R Vempati (Dallas, TX), Harisha Mahabaleshwara Negalaguli (Richardson, TX), Krishnakant M Patel (Richardson, TX), Lance Patrick Schlegel (Dallas, TX), Ramu Kandula (Plano, TX), Rohit Ashok Nerlikar (Richardson, TX
Assignee(s): KODIAK NETWORKS, INC. (Plano, TX)
Law Firm: No Counsel
Application No., Date, Speed: 15827953 on 11/30/2017 (593 days app to issue)
Abstract: A method and apparatus for situational awareness driven group communications are provided. In an embodiment, a PTT server platform receives incident information related to an incident. The PTT server platform identifies members of a first response group for responding to the incident based on the incident information, and creates a PTT call group associated with the incident. The PTT server platform configures the client devices associated with the members of the first response group with the first set of QoS parameters, and enables communications among the client devices associated with the members of the first response group.
[H04W] WIRELESS COMMUNICATION NETWORKS [2009.01]
Methods and apparatus to credit usage of mobile devices
Patent No. 10356579
Inventor(s): Achilleas Papakostas (Dallas, TX)
Assignee(s): The Nielsen Company (US), LLC (New York, NY)
Law Firm: Hanley, Flight Zimmerman, LLC (1 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 13840543 on 03/15/2013 (2314 days app to issue)
Abstract: Methods, apparatus, systems and articles of manufacture to monitor mobile internet usage are disclosed. An example method includes identifying a first application associated with a first request, determining that the first application is operating in a background mode, and crediting the first application as a background application based on determining that the first application is operating in the background mode.
[H04W] WIRELESS COMMUNICATION NETWORKS [2009.01]
Joint scheduler for integrated Wi-Fi and LTE-U wireless access point
Patent No. 10356627
Inventor(s): Ahmadreza Hedayat (Allen, TX)
Assignee(s): Cisco Technology, Inc. (San Jose, CA)
Law Firm: Edell, Shapiro Finnan, LLC (2 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15897351 on 02/15/2018 (516 days app to issue)
Abstract: An access point (AP) transmits Wi-Fi transmit frames according to a Wi-Fi protocol and Long-Term Evolution-Unlicensed (LTE-U) transmit frames according to an LTE-U protocol in a shared channel bandwidth that encompasses unlicensed channel bandwidth associated with the LTE-U protocol. The AP assigns a Wi-Fi access category to each Wi-Fi transmit frame and assigns to each LTE-U transmit frame an LTE-U access category. The AP schedules Wi-Fi and LTE-U transmit opportunities for the Wi-Fi transmit frames and the LTE-U transmit frames, respectively, in the shared channel bandwidth based on the Wi-Fi and LTE-U access categories. The scheduling includes, for each scheduled LTE-U transmit opportunity: constructing a Wi-Fi quiet message commanding Wi-Fi clients of the AP not to transmit in the shared channel bandwidth during the LTE-U transmit opportunity; and scheduling the Wi-Fi quiet message for transmission to the Wi-Fi clients.
[H04W] WIRELESS COMMUNICATION NETWORKS [2009.01]
Method and system for qualification and placement of next generation equipment based on modeling
Patent No. 10356630
Inventor(s): Deepak Chadaga (Coppell, TX), Nimalan Kanagasabai (Grapevine, TX)
Assignee(s): Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc. (Basking Ridge, NJ)
Law Firm: No Counsel
Application No., Date, Speed: 15393678 on 12/29/2016 (929 days app to issue)
Abstract: A method, a device, and a non-transitory storage medium provide to receive from an end device operated by a user, a measurement of a signal transmitted by a wireless station of a wireless access network to the end device, wherein the measurement is taken outside of a building; receive, from the end device, another measurement of a signal transmitted by the wireless station to the end device, wherein the other measurement is taken inside the building; calculate, based on the first measurement and the second measurement, a path loss, for a second frequency, between a future generation cell site and the building; calculate a received signal power of the future generation cell site based on the path loss; compare the received signal power to a threshold value; determine, based on the comparison, whether the user is qualified to receive future generation equipment to be placed in the building.
[H04W] WIRELESS COMMUNICATION NETWORKS [2009.01]
Method and system for managing wireless connectivity in a communication system
Patent No. 10356673
Inventor(s): Thomas Keathley (Dallas, TX), Tony Wong (Dallas, TX)
Assignee(s): ATT Intellectual Propert I, L.P. (Atlanta, GA), ATT Mobility II LLC (Atlanta, GA), Interwise, Ltd. (Airport City, , IL)
Law Firm: Guntin Gust, PLC (3 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15964467 on 04/27/2018 (445 days app to issue)
Abstract: Aspects of the subject disclosure may include, for example, a method, including applying a voice quality model to network performance information associated with a voice over internet protocol call session to generate a measure of voice quality associated with a first wireless radio access network wirelessly coupling a mobile device and a communication network, detecting a trigger condition for a measurement reporting according to the measure of voice quality, a first signal of the first wireless radio access network, and a second signal of a second wireless radio access network, and detecting a trigger condition for a measurement report according to the measure of voice quality, a first signal of the first network, and a second signal of a network. The measurement report can be transmitted to the first wireless radio access network responsive to detecting the trigger condition for the measurement reporting. Other embodiments are disclosed.
[H04L] TRANSMISSION OF DIGITAL INFORMATION, e.g. TELEGRAPHIC COMMUNICATION (arrangements common to telegraphic and telephonic communication H04M) [4]
Scheduling and handover of a vehicular connection with periodic messaging
Patent No. 10356674
Inventor(s): Guowei Ouyang (Beijing, , CN), Mazin Al-Shalash (Frisco, TX), Nathan Edward Tenny (Poway, CA), Zhenzhen Cao (Santa Clara, CA)
Assignee(s): Futurewei Technologies, Inc. (Plano, TX)
Law Firm: Schwegman Lundberg Woessner, P.A. (11 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15943146 on 04/02/2018 (470 days app to issue)
Abstract: The method provided in this embodiment improves the capabilities of automatic driving and ADAS of electric vehicles. The method can be applied to vehicle networking, such as V2X, LTE-V, V2X, etc. The method includes receiving, from the mobile device, an indication of a requirement for transmission resources, comprising at least an indication that the resources are required with a periodicity, transmitting, to the mobile device, an assignment of a first scheduling configuration for the device-to-device connection, transmitting, to the mobile device, an indication to begin use of periodically recurring radio resources, and handing over responsibility for providing radio resources for the device-to-device connection from the network node to a target network node such that the availability of radio resources with the periodicity is substantially maintained.
[H04W] WIRELESS COMMUNICATION NETWORKS [2009.01]
Method and system with separation of session anchor and forwarding anchor
Patent No. 10356689
Inventor(s): Hinghung Anthony Chan (Plano, TX)
Assignee(s): FUTUREWEI TECHNOLOGIES, INC. (Plano, TX)
Law Firm: Slater Matsil, LLP (Local + 1 other metros)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15060476 on 03/03/2016 (1230 days app to issue)
Abstract: A method for mobility management for a mobile node that establishes a connection with a first network while in a second network and traverses to a third network includes transferring location management information from the second network to the first network. An indirection path from the first network to the third network is established for data packets directed to the mobile node. The data packets directed to the mobile node are transferred using the indirection path without traversing the second network. This allows for the address anchor of the connection to remain at the second network while providing a flow anchor at the first network, which allows a direct flow to the third network.
[H04W] WIRELESS COMMUNICATION NETWORKS [2009.01]
Methods and systems for downlink transmit power control command transmission
Patent No. 10356728
Inventor(s): Carmela Cozzo (San Diego, CA), Peng Zhang (Shanghai, , CN)
Assignee(s): Futurewei Technologies, Inc. (Plano, TX)
Law Firm: Slater Matsil, LLP (Local + 1 other metros)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15918875 on 03/12/2018 (491 days app to issue)
Abstract: Backwards compatibility may be achieved by transmitting an alternating pattern of uplink TPC commands in uplink timeslots. In one example, a served user equipment (UE) receives a downlink TPC command from a serving base station during a downlink timeslot in a sequence of downlink timeslots, and generates an uplink TPC command based on a received power level of the downlink TPC command. The served UE may then transmit the uplink TPC command in an uplink timeslot mapped to the downlink timeslot in which the downlink TPC command was received, as well as transmit an alternating pattern of uplink TPC commands in other uplink timeslots. The alternating pattern of uplink TPC commands may cause a neighboring base station to effectively maintain its transmit power level.
[H04W] WIRELESS COMMUNICATION NETWORKS [2009.01]
System and method for multiple point communications
Patent No. 10356762
Inventor(s): Bingyu Qu (Shenzhen, , CN), Jialing Liu (Palatine, IL), Weimin Xiao (Hoffman Estates, IL)
Assignee(s): FUTUREWEI TECHNOLOGIES, INC. (Plano, TX)
Law Firm: Slater Matsil, LLP (Local + 1 other metros)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15477903 on 04/03/2017 (834 days app to issue)
Abstract: A method for multiple point communications includes configuring a set of first communications system resources to form a plurality of first communications system resource groups, each first communications system resource group including a plurality of channels, and configuring a set of second communications system resources for each one of the plurality of first communications system resource groups, the set of second communications system resources used to convey a feedback transmission. The method also includes signaling information about the plurality of first communications system resource groups to a first user equipment, and signaling information about the sets of second communications system resources associated with the plurality of first communications system resource groups to the first user equipment.
[H04W] WIRELESS COMMUNICATION NETWORKS [2009.01]
Infrared temperature sensing in induction cooking systems
Patent No. 10356853
Inventor(s): Reinhard Metz (Wheaton, IL)
Assignee(s): COOKTEK INDUCTION SYSTEMS, LLC (Carrollton, TX)
Law Firm: Michael Best Friedrich LLP (10 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15250439 on 08/29/2016 (1051 days app to issue)
Abstract: An induction cooking system. The induction cooking system includes a base, one or more side walls, an induction coil, and an infrared temperature sensor. The base includes a base surface associated therewith. The base surface includes a window. The window is disposed within the base surface. The one or more side walls define a well above the base surface. The well is configured to receive a vessel disposed above the base surface. The induction coil is disposed within the base. The induction coil defines a first surface that is disposed below the base surface. The induction coil also defines a second surface that is disposed opposite from the first surface. The induction coil further defines an aperture disposed adjacent to the window and extending from a first surface toward a second surface of the induction coil. The infrared temperature sensor is disposed adjacent to the window and within the aperture.
[H05B] ELECTRIC HEATING; ELECTRIC LIGHTING NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR
Method of manufacturing a PCB including a thick-wall via
Patent No. 10356906
Inventor(s): Robert Joseph Roessler (Wylie, TX)
Assignee(s): ABB SCHWEIZ AG (Baden, , CH)
Law Firm: Barnes Thornburg LLP (Local + 12 other metros)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15188681 on 06/21/2016 (1120 days app to issue)
Abstract: A method of manufacturing a printed circuit board includes providing a printed circuit board (PCB) substrate including at least one insulating layer and first and second conductive layers separated from one another by the at least one insulating layer, forming a first via hole in the PCB substrate extending from the first conductive layer to the second conductive layer, where the first via hole is defined by a first sidewall of the PCB substrate, forming a second via hole in the PCB substrate, where the second via hole is defined by a second sidewall of the PCB substrate, and selectively plating the first sidewall and the second sidewall to form a first via and a second via, respectively, where the first via and the second via have different via sidewall thicknesses.
[H01K] ELECTRIC INCANDESCENT LAMPS (details or apparatus or processes for manufacture applicable to both discharge devices and incandescent lamps H01J; light sources using a combination of incandescent and other types of light generation H01J 61/96, H05B 35/00)
Method of lamination of dielectric circuit materials using ultrasonic means
Patent No. 10356914
Inventor(s): Patrick J. Kocurek (Allen, TX), Sankerlingam Rajendran (Plano, TX)
Assignee(s): RAYTHEON COMPANY (Waltham, MA)
Law Firm: Cantor Colburn LLP (7 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 15331307 on 10/21/2016 (998 days app to issue)
Abstract: A method of lamination of dielectric circuit materials is provided. The method includes preparing first and second circuit layers of dielectric materials, stacking the first and second circuit layers with circuit trace elements interposed between the first and second circuit layers and ultrasonically welding the second circuit layer onto the first circuit layer around the circuit trace elements.
[H05K] PRINTED CIRCUITS; CASINGS OR CONSTRUCTIONAL DETAILS OF ELECTRIC APPARATUS; MANUFACTURE OF ASSEMBLAGES OF ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS (details of instruments or comparable details of other apparatus not otherwise provided for G12B; thin-film or thick-film circuits H01L 27/01, H01L 27/13; non-printed means for electric connections to or between printed circuits H01R; casings for, or constructional details of, particular types of apparatus, see the relevant subclasses; processes involving only a single technical art, e.g. heating, spraying, for which provision exists elsewhere, see the relevant classes)
DESIGN PATENTS
Display screen or portion thereof with a graphical user interface of an electronic device
Patent No. D854025
Inventor(s): Andrew Rudmann (Los Angeles, CA), Sean Rad (Los Angeles, CA)
Assignee(s): Match Group, LLC (Dallas, TX)
Law Firm: Baker Botts L.L.P. (Local + 8 other metros)
Application No., Date, Speed: 29575882 on 08/30/2016 (1050 days app to issue)
Abstract: No Abstract Patent Class: N/A
Display screen or portion thereof with graphical user interface
Patent No. D854042
Inventor(s): Judith Summersgill (Addison, TX)
Assignee(s): API Healthcare Corporation (Seattle, WA)
Law Firm: Hanley, Flight and Zimmerman, LLC (1 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 29659033 on 08/06/2018 (344 days app to issue)
Abstract: No Abstract Patent Class: N/A
Air purifier
Patent No. D854134
Inventor(s): Deborah H. Jessup (Pittsburgh, PA)
Assignee(s): THE PURE COMPANY GLOBAL, LLC (Dallas, TX)
Law Firm: Workman Nydegger (2 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 29631903 on 01/03/2018 (559 days app to issue)
Abstract: No Abstract Patent Class: N/A
Ear loop mask
Patent No. D854144
Inventor(s): Michael L. Bowen (North Richland Hills, TX)
Assignee(s): Prestige Ameritech, Ltd. (North Richland Hills, TX)
Law Firm: BKDowd Law, P.C. (1 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 29616355 on 09/05/2017 (679 days app to issue)
Abstract: No Abstract Patent Class: N/A
Cast shoe for a walking heel
Patent No. D854174
Inventor(s): Danny E. Anderson (Aledo, TX)
Assignee(s): WoundKair Concepts, Inc. (Fort Worth, TX)
Law Firm: Whitaker Chalk Swindle Schwartz PLLC (2 non-local offices)
Application No., Date, Speed: 29589258 on 12/29/2016 (929 days app to issue)
Abstract: No Abstract Patent Class: N/A
All logos and brand images are the property of their respective owners. All company, product and service names used in this website are for identification purposes only. Any trademarks cited herein are the property of their respective owners.
The feature image is an artist’s concept and/or artistic impression for illustration and editorial display purposes only unless otherwise stated in the image caption. The image(s) do not represent any condition at present, or in the future, and are not intended to represent specific patents unless otherwise stated in the photo description and/or photo credit(s).
As of June 12, 2018, unassigned patents with a local inventor may be included.
For additional details on patents granted, search the USPTO Patent Full-Text and Image Database.
Get on the list.
Dallas Innovates, every day.
Sign up here to get what’s new and next in Dallas-Fort Worth.


Story 59
Photo: TRU Kids Brand
There are some that will tell you that the greed of private equity investors killed Toys “R” Us long before the chain chose to liquidate its business last year. Now, like a Phoenix (a mini one, at least) rising from the ashes, Toys “R” Us is back with a new concept that appears to be all about play — a customer experience that the previous version of the retailer also said it was attempting to achieve, but never really did.
Yesterday, TRU Kids Brands, the parent company of Toys “R” Us, announced plans to open two new stores in time for the 2019 Christmas shopping season. The stores located in busy malls — one in Houston, TX and the other in Paramus, NJ — will be much smaller (6,500-square-feet) than those operated under the banner in its previous iteration. Future stores, as previously reported, are expected to be closer to 10,000-square-feet.
Stores will be highly interactive, inviting kids and parents to test products before making purchases and offering new events and activities every day. Brand stations throughout will enable kids to learn through play using STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, the Arts and Mathematics). An open play space in the store will include Geoffrey the Giraffe, the Toys “R” Us mascot.
The new store format has been developed in a joint venture with b8ta, a retail-as-a-service startup founded in 2015 with the goal of giving consumers access to try new products before making a purchase. Macy’s, which took a minor stake in the company last year, has used b8ta’s software platform to scale The Market @ Macy’s in-store pop-up concept.
“As a kid, my memory of Toys ‘R’ Us was running up and down the aisles kicking balls and playing with the coolest toys,” said Phillip Raub, co-founder and president of b8ta and interim co-CEO of the Toys “R” Us joint venture, in a statement. “As the retail landscape changes, so do consumer shopping habits. But what hasn’t changed is that kids want to touch everything and simply play.”
Richard Barry, CEO of Tru Kids and interim co-CEO of the joint venture, believes that the Toys “R” Us name is still held with affection by large numbers of American consumers.
“We have an incredible opportunity to entirely reimagine the Toys ‘R’ Us brand in the U.S. and are thrilled to partner with b8ta and key toy vendors to create a new, highly-engaging retail experience designed for kids, families and to better fit within today’s retail environment,” Mr. Barry said.
A TRU Kids spokesperson told RetailWire that the company is in active talks with brand partners and that details would be forthcoming. Brands working with the joint venture will pay for space and services in the new stores and “in exchange they keep 100 percent of the in-store sales of the product.”
DISCUSSION QUESTIONS: Do you expect the joint venture of TRU Kids and b8ta to “create a new, highly-engaging retail experience designed for kids, families and to better fit within today’s retail environment?” What do you think of the business model whereby manufacturers pay for space and services and keep 100 percent of sales made in stores?

Story 60
Two Shields Investments (LON:TSI) Chairman Andrew Lawley talks to DirectorsTalk about his plans to bring opportunity and transparency to the company. Andrew provides us with some detail around his background, explains what investors can expect with him at the helm, key investments in the group and how he will generate opportunity and shareholder value going forward.
Two Shields Investments Plc is an investing company, quoted on the AIM market of the London Stock Exchange, with a strategy focused on identifying and investing in opportunities in mineral exploration and mining and Digital Assets, financial technologies and other technologies applicable to, or involved in, the blockchain space. The Company has an experienced Board of Directors with a proven pedigree in the acquisition, development & sale of projects and creating value for shareholders. The investment mandate covers unquoted and quoted businesses, as well as direct project investment.
The Company currently has investments in a number of companies which provide exposure to commodities which are relevant to the rapidly growing technology metal sector, including lithium, cobalt and nickel, as well as strategic positions in a geoscience consultancy and a leading international company in the online brand protection, anti-counterfeiting and anti-fraud sector which has developed the one of the most comprehensive systems using AI powered cyber intelligence systems and is developing its proprietary blockchain-based platform for anti-fraud purposes. The Company has investments in an pioneering digital, social e-commerce platform.

Story 61
DUBLIN, Aug. 2, 2019 /PRNewswire/ -- The "North America Air Quality Monitoring (AQM) Market (2014-2024)" report has been added to ResearchAndMarkets.com's offering
The North American air quality monitoring market is expected to generate $2,628.5 million in revenue by 2024
Due to increasing air pollution levels and growing awareness about its effects on human health and environment, and stringent regulatory framework for air pollution reduction, the market is advancing steadily.

On the basis of product, the North American air quality monitoring market is divided into indoor and outdoor products. The market for outdoor monitoring products is anticipated to experience faster growth during the forecast period (2019-2024), at a CAGR of over 10.0%. Due to increasing acid rain problem and industrialization in the region, the demand for outdoor monitoring products is expected to rise. Further, looking at the indoor category, the market is subdivided into fixed and portable products, out of which the fixed indoor monitoring product category is presently leading it.

Now, coming to the particulate type, the North American air quality monitoring market is classified into fine particles and coarse particulates. The demand for monitoring products that detect fine particle levels, eventually helping people in reducing these, is projected to experience faster growth during 2019-2024 at a CAGR of 10.3%. The growth can be attributed to the increasing amount of particulate matter 2.5 (PM2.5) being discharged by vehicles and industries, which is leading to the rapid adoption of equipment that can detect it.

Further, the AQM industry for coarse particulates is subdivided into earth crustal materials, road vehicles dusts, and other particulates. Among these, the road vehicles dusts subcategory is presently holding the largest market share. In the North American air quality monitoring market, the U.S. is expected to witness faster growth during the forecast period at a 9.0% CAGR. The reason behind such a growth would be the increasing prevalence of respiratory diseases, rising number of smokers, and technological advancements in monitoring products.

Now, due to increasing air pollution levels in the U.S., there has been a growth in the number of asthma cases. According to a research study program, Oxford Martin Program on Global Development conducted by Oxford University, the mortality rate in the country rose from 18.6 per 100,000 people in 2010 to 19.1 per 100,000 people in 2016. A reason for such diseases was the PM2.5 particulate level increasing to 9.2 g/m3 in 2016 from 8.62 g/m3 in 2010.

Companies operating in the North American air quality monitoring market are introducing a number of new products to attain a larger market share. For instance, in May 2018, HORIBA Ltd. developed the Smart Emission Measurement System (SEMS) that helps in collecting and analyzing emission data, thereby, improving real driving emissions (RDE) test procedures.

Key Topics Covered:

Chapter 1. Research Background

Chapter 2. Research Methodology

Chapter 3. Executive Summary

Chapter 4. Industry Insights
4.1 Regulatory Overview
4.1.1 Standards
4.1.1.1 U.S.
4.1.1.2 Canada
4.1.2 Authorities
4.1.2.1 U.S.
4.1.2.2 Canada
4.1.3 Pricing Analysis

Chapter 5. Introduction
5.1 Definition of Market Segments
5.1.1 By Product
5.1.1.1 Indoor
5.1.1.1.1 Fixed
5.1.1.1.2 Portable
5.1.1.2 Outdoor
5.1.1.2.1 Portable
5.1.1.2.2 Fixed
5.1.1.2.3 Dust and particulate
5.1.1.2.4 AQM station
5.1.2 By Particulate Type
5.1.2.1 Coarse particulates
5.1.2.1.1 Road vehicle dusts
5.1.2.1.2 Earth crustal materials
5.1.2.1.3 Others
5.1.2.2 Fine particles
5.1.2.2.1 Combustion particles
5.1.2.2.2 Secondarily formed aerosols
5.1.2.2.3 Others
5.1.3 By Pollutant
5.1.3.1 By class
5.1.3.1.1 Chemical
5.1.3.1.2 Physical
5.1.3.1.3 Biological
5.1.3.2 By type
5.1.3.2.1 Lead
5.1.3.2.2 SO2
5.1.3.2.3 NO2
5.1.3.2.4 PM2.5
5.1.3.2.5 Ozone
5.1.3.2.6 CO
5.1.3.2.7 Arsenic
5.1.3.2.8 Nickel
5.1.3.2.9 PM10
5.1.3.2.10 NH3
5.1.3.2.11 Others
5.1.4 By Monitoring
5.1.4.1 Ambient
5.1.4.2 On-road
5.1.4.3 Emissions
5.1.4.4 Mobile
5.1.4.5 Satellite
5.1.5 By Sampling Method
5.1.5.1 Continuous
5.1.5.2 Manual
5.1.5.3 Passive
5.1.5.4 Intermittent
5.1.6 By End User
5.1.6.1 Government agencies and academic institutes
5.1.6.2 Commercial and residential sectors
5.1.6.3 Petrochemical industry
5.1.6.4 Power generation plants
5.1.6.5 Pharmaceutical industry
5.1.6.6 Others
5.2 Market Dynamics
5.2.1 Trends
5.2.1.1 Use of information technology in AQM equipment
5.2.2 Drivers
5.2.2.1 Rising air pollution levels
5.2.2.2 Increasing awareness regarding adverse effects of air pollution on health and environment
5.2.2.3 Stringent regulatory framework for reducing air pollution levels
5.2.2.4 Impact analysis of drivers on market forecast
5.2.3 Restraints
5.2.3.1 Escalating costs of AQM products
5.2.3.2 Challenges associated with the operation of AQM devices
5.2.3.3 Impact analysis of restraints on market forecast
5.2.4 Opportunities
5.2.4.1 Technological advancements in the AQM products
5.3 Porter's Five Forces Analysis

Chapter 6. North America Market Size and Forecast
6.1 By Product
6.1.1 Indoor AQM Market, by Type
6.1.2 Outdoor AQM Market, by Type
6.2 By Particulate Type
6.2.1 AQM Market for Coarse Particulates, by Type
6.2.2 AQM Market for Fine Particles, by Type
6.3 By Pollutant
6.3.1 By Class
6.3.2 By Type
6.4 By Monitoring
6.5 By Sampling Method
6.6 By End User
6.7 By Country
6.7.1 U.S. AQM Market
6.7.1.1 By product
6.7.1.1.1 Indoor AQM market, by type
6.7.1.1.2 Outdoor AQM market, by type
6.7.1.2 By particulate type
6.7.1.2.1 AQM market for coarse particulates, by type
6.7.1.2.2 AQM market for fine particles, by type
6.7.1.3 By pollutant
6.7.1.3.1 By class
6.7.1.3.2 By type
6.7.1.4 By monitoring
6.7.1.5 By sampling method
6.7.1.6 By end user
6.7.2 Canada AQM Market
6.7.2.1 By product
6.7.2.1.1 Indoor AQM market, by type
6.7.2.1.2 Outdoor AQM market, by type
6.7.2.2 By particulate type
6.7.2.2.1 AQM market for coarse particulates, by type
6.7.2.2.2 AQM market for fine particles, by type
6.7.2.3 By pollutant
6.7.2.3.1 By class
6.7.2.3.2 By type
6.7.2.4 By monitoring
6.7.2.5 By sampling method
6.7.2.6 By end user

Chapter 7. Competitive Landscape
7.1 Product Benchmarking of Key Players
7.2 Strategic Developments of Key Players
7.2.1 Acquisitions
7.2.2 Product Launches
7.2.3 Other Developments

Chapter 8. Company Profiles

Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc.
Merck KGaA
HORIBA Ltd.
TSI Incorporated
3M Company
Company Teledyne Technologies Incorporated
Siemens AG
ECOTECH GROUP
Emerson Electric Co.
Primex Wireless Inc.
Honeywell International Inc.
Cerex Monitoring Solutions LLC
Tisch Environmental Inc.
For more information about this report visit https://www.researchandmarkets.com/r/42591i
Research and Markets also offers Custom Research services providing focused, comprehensive and tailored research.
Media Contact:
Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com

For E.S.T Office Hours Call +1-917-300-0470
For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call +1-800-526-8630
For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900

U.S. Fax: 646-607-1907
Fax (outside U.S.): +353-1-481-1716
SOURCE Research and Markets
Related Links
http://www.researchandmarkets.com


Story 62
ESPN sits down with Joao Felix at the MLS All-Star Game to discuss why he joined Atletico Madrid and his admiration for Cristiano Ronaldo. (0:55)
At just 19 years old and after barely half a season of regular senior football, Joao Felix became the fourth-most expensive footballer in history when Atletico Madrid paid Benfica €126 million for the striker dubbed "the new Cristiano Ronaldo."
Despite the astronomical fee, rather than viewing the purchase as an enormous punt, the general consensus is that the Spaniards have done well to stave off opposition from Manchester City and other top clubs, with many speculating that the Colchoneros will more than make their cash back as Felix's value soars in the coming years.
- Mbappe, Pulisic, Felix among best 30 players under 21
- When does the 2019-20 La Liga season start?
Where has he come from?
After dominating Portuguese football for three decades, Porto have been usurped by Benfica as top dogs in the country in recent years, and the tale of Joao Felix could be seen as a perfect illustration of this shift. Born in Viseu in central Portugal, Felix was on Porto's books from an early age until three years ago. Letting him join their arch-rivals must rank as one of their greatest mistakes.
Felix made quick progress at the Lisbon club's famed Seixal Academy (which has spawned stars such as Bernardo Silva and Andre Gomes), scoring 50 goals in 100 matches for the U17, U19 and B teams.
His impact was immediate when given his senior debut, scoring an equaliser as a late substitute in the Lisbon derby against city rivals Sporting. The Benfica faithful had a new darling. Felix went on to score 20 goals in 43 matches in 2018-19 and became the youngest player to score a Europa League hat trick, triggering his switch from Portugal's capital to that of Spain.
Position
When coming through the ranks, Felix was more of an attacking midfielder than a striker due to his excellent vision and creative passing. In his first senior appearances he usually played on the right side of midfield.
The sacking of Benfica manager Rui Vitoria and promotion of B-team coach Bruno Lage in January was hugely significant. Lage knew Felix well having worked together in the club's youth set-up. "When I got the job the first thing I thought was I'm going to get this kid playing," Lage said in the wake of a tremendously successful season for both of them as Benfica won their 37th league title.
Felix was positioned as the second striker behind big Swiss centre-forward Haris Seferovic. The partnership proved devastating, and the young forward scored 17 of his 20 goals in his debut season in those final five months of the campaign.
Joao Felix was dubbed 'the new Cristiano Ronaldo' before he had even made his full Portugal debut. Simon Stacpoole/Offside/Getty Images
Strengths
Felix shoots powerfully and readily with both feet and is surprisingly strong in the air given the teenager's slight frame, but one standout attribute is his instinctive positional sense. Like all the great strikers, he seems to have a sixth sense as regards where the ball will land, together with an uncanny ability to evade his marker. Few of his goals last season were long-range screamers or remarkable individual efforts, but rather clinical and sure-footed finishes from inside the box.
Another noteworthy string to his bow is his absolute confidence of his own ability. While Felix is shy and retiring off the pitch, he is anything but on it. He thrived in the biggest matches, scoring and putting in outstanding displays in crucial away victories at Sporting and Porto, and the way he stood up to intimidating physical treatment from veteran Porto centre-back Pepe spoke that he knew the biggest games were his stage.
Weaknesses
Still to fill out and not blessed with pace to burn, Felix remains heavily reliant on service from his teammates to shine. He is not a striker who will run tirelessly in search for the ball, much less one who can hold the line. As a result, on the rare occasions when Benfica's ultra-attacking game was blunted, he became a peripheral figure. At this early stage of his career, his defensive contributions are negligible.
This was also evident in his one senior appearance for Portugal to date, when a well-organised Switzerland cut off the supply line to Felix in his international debut in the Nations League semifinals.
Atletico Madrid made Joao Felix the fourth-most expensive player ever when they signed him this summer. Getty
Where he fits in
Felix is a player around whom the team should be built to get the most out of his skillset. A €126m investment suggests Atletico are prepared to do that.
Paradoxically, however, Diego Simeone's teams are known for their defensive solidity and immense work rate when it comes to blocking the opposition's attacking game from the front. It will therefore be fascinating to see whether these two contrasting aspects are reconciled to get the best out of Felix.
Simeone has a history of shopping in Portugal for strikers, with mixed results. Radamel Falcao was a massive hit, while Jackson Martinez was very much a bust, although in terms of playing style Felix could be seen as a like-for-like replacement for Antoine Griezmann.
The player himself is convinced he made the right choice to continue his career's upward trajectory. "I had several clubs interested in me but I ended up choosing Atletico Madrid because I believe it's the club that gives me the best chance to develop," he said at his unveiling last week. "I'm grown up enough to handle this situation."

Story 63
Liberty Global plc with ticker code (LBTYB) have now 0 analysts covering the stock. The analyst consensus points to a rating of ‘None’. The target price ranges between 0 and 0 calculating the mean target price we have 0. Now with the previous closing price of 26.44 this now indicates there is a potential downside of -100.0%. The 50 day moving average now sits at 27.01 and the 200 day MA is 26.49. The company has a market cap of $17,721m. Visit the company website at: http://www.libertyglobal.com
Liberty Global plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides video, broadband Internet, fixed-line telephony, mobile, and other communications services to residential customers and businesses in Europe. It offers video services, including digital video programming and audio services starting with a basic video service, video-on-demand, electronic programming guide, various premium channel packages, digital video recorders, various mobile applications, and set-top boxes. The company provides entertainment, sports, movies, documentaries, lifestyles, news, adult, children, and ethnic and foreign channels. It also offers Wi-Fi and Internet services, such as email, address book, and parental controls; security; online storage solutions and Web spaces; and Connect Box, a connectivity device that delivers in-home Wi-Fi coverage. Additionally, it offers community Wi-Fi via routers in home, which provides access to the Internet; public Wi-Fi access points in train stations, hotels, bars, restaurants, and other public places. In addition, the company provides circuit-switched telephony services; and mobile services comprising voice, short message service, and Internet access. Further, it offers voice, advanced data, video, wireless, cloud-based services, and mobile and converged fixed-mobile services to small or home offices, small businesses, and medium and large enterprises, as well as on a wholesale basis to other operators. Liberty Global plc was founded in 2004 and is based in London, the United Kingdom.

Story 64
Starting in July, Philadelphia will become the first major U.S. city to institute a ban on cashless stores.
The new law passed last week won’t apply to transactions that take place at parking lots or businesses such as Costco that operate through a membership model.
Cashless stores are encountering a backlash in some areas across the country on charges they discriminate against consumers without bank accounts or credit cards. According to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 6.5 percent of households in the U.S. were not affiliated with a bank in 2017. The rate is seen as much higher in cities with immigrant communities.
Consumers avoid bank accounts for a variety of reasons, including avoiding monthly charge fees or minimum balance requirements. Undocumented immigrants and those with poor credit face challenges securing credit or debit cards.
“Most of the people who don’t have credit tend to be lower income, minority, immigrants,” William Greenlee, a council member in Philadelphia, told The Wall Street Journal. “It just seemed to me, if not intentional, at least a form of discrimination.”
Cashless store bans could derail the “walk in, walk out” payment experience pioneered in the U.S. by Amazon Go.
But many stores and restaurants have touted the benefits of only accepting credit and debit cards, including speeding transactions for consumers. Employees in stores and restaurants are freed up from counting and depositing transactions and theft risk is reduced, advocates claim.
The cashless push started with Sweetgreen, Bluestone Lane and other fast-food concepts. Bonobos, Casper Mattress, Indochino, Everlane and Reformation are among some retailers not accepting cash.
Cash purchases have also shrunk to 30 percent of all retail transactions last year from 40 percent in 2012 as credit and debit cards usage increases and digital payments options like Apple Pay spread.
Finally, cashless advocates said bans would impede innovation. Amazon had threatened to scrap plans to bring Amazon Go to Philadelphia if the law was passed.
Massachusetts became the first and remains the only state that requires businesses to accept cash under a 1978 law. The state of New Jersey and the cities of New York, San Francisco, Chicago and Washington are considering similar bans.
DISCUSSION QUESTIONS: Should retailers be preparing for a backlash to cashless stores? How do you see the dispute playing out in the near- and long-term?

Story 65
IMImobile (LON: IMO), a global cloud communications software and solutions provider, has today announced that it has conditionally agreed to acquire the entire issued and to be issued share capital of 3CInteractive Corp., a private US cloud-based multichannel, customer engagement platform company with a leading position in Rich Communication Services, on a debt-free, cash-free, basis for a total consideration of $53.2m (£42.8m).
The Total Consideration will be satisfied through $43.2m (£34.7m) in cash on completion and $10.0m (£8.0m) through the issue of up to 2,567,256 new IMImobile ordinary shares of 10p each which will be deferred for up to two years with founders and key employees subject to a further 12 month orderly market agreement thereafter.
IMImobile proposes to fund the Initial Consideration through the drawdown of new debt facilities of up to $18.7m (£15.0m) and a proposed placing of up to 6,533,422 new ordinary shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company, representing approximately 9.7 per cent. of the existing issued share capital of the Company, at a price of 310p per share to raise gross proceeds of up to $25.2m (£20.3m).
The Acquisition is expected to be immediately earnings accretive, being marginally accretive in the current year ending 31 March 2020, with low double-digit earnings accretion in the year to 31 March 2021.
The Placing is being conducted by means of an accelerated bookbuild process, which will be launched immediately following this Announcement. Investec Bank plc and N+1 Singer Advisory LLP are acting as joint bookrunners (together the “Joint Bookrunners”) in connection with the Placing.
Transaction highlights
· IMImobile has agreed to acquire 3C, a US based mobile engagement platform company with a leading position in RCS in North America for $53.2m on a debt-free, cash-free, basis.
· In the year to 31 December 2018, the core services of 3C generated revenues of $24.2m and gross profit of $15.7m. On a standalone basis the core business was expected to be EBITDA break-even in the year to 31 December 2019.
· The consideration for the Acquisition will be funded by a combination of the proceeds of the Placing, 2,567,256 Consideration Shares and the drawdown of new debt facilities.
· 3C is a pioneer for deployment of RCS solutions. The Acquisition provides IMImobile with an opportunity to establish a global leadership position in the RCS market which is forecast to grow at a CAGR of 40.5% from 2019-2024, with North America comprising the largest market share.
· Following the Acquisition IMImobile will have direct SMS short code connectivity to all major US and Canadian carriers which is very difficult to achieve organically making 3C a highly strategic asset.
· The Acquisition will accelerate IMImobile’s growth strategy and further strengthen the Group’s position in North America, the largest addressable market for the Group’s software.
· 3C adds complementary product capabilities and a blue-chip customer base which provides significant opportunities to cross and upsell IMImobile’s cloud product set, further positioning the Group as a global provider of Enterprise communications platform as a service (CPaaS). Further, significant cost synergies have also been identified in technology development and central management.
· Placing of up to 6,533,422 Placing Shares at 310p per Placing Share to be conducted by way of an ABB to raise up to $25.2m (£20.3m).
· The Acquisition and the Placing are expected to be immediately earnings accretive, being marginally accretive in the current year ending 31 March 2020, with low double-digit earnings accretion in the year to 31 March 2021.
· The Placing is not conditional upon approval by IMImobile shareholders or completion of the Acquisition.
Note: Figures based on an exchange rate of GBP £1 = USD 1.2438
Jay Patel, Group Chief Executive Officer of IMImobile PLC, commented:

Story 66
Liberty Global plc with ticker code (LBTYK) have now 2 analysts in total covering the stock. The consensus rating is ‘Strong_Buy’. The target price ranges between 33 and 32 calculating the average target price we see 32.5. Given that the stocks previous close was at 23.79 this now indicates there is a potential upside of 36.6%. The 50 day moving average now sits at 25.91 and the 200 day moving average is 25.8. The market cap for the company is $17,949m. Find out more information at: http://www.libertyglobal.com
Liberty Global plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides video, broadband Internet, fixed-line telephony, mobile, and other communications services to residential customers and businesses in Europe. It offers video services, including digital video programming and audio services starting with a basic video service, video-on-demand, electronic programming guide, various premium channel packages, digital video recorders, various mobile applications, and set-top boxes. The company provides entertainment, sports, movies, documentaries, lifestyles, news, adult, children, and ethnic and foreign channels. It also offers Wi-Fi and Internet services, such as email, address book, and parental controls; security; online storage solutions and Web spaces; and Connect Box, a connectivity device that delivers in-home Wi-Fi coverage. Additionally, it offers community Wi-Fi via routers in home, which provides access to the Internet; public Wi-Fi access points in train stations, hotels, bars, restaurants, and other public places. In addition, the company provides circuit-switched telephony services; and mobile services comprising voice, short message service, and Internet access. Further, it offers voice, advanced data, video, wireless, cloud-based services, and mobile and converged fixed-mobile services to small or home offices, small businesses, and medium and large enterprises, as well as on a wholesale basis to other operators. Liberty Global plc was founded in 2004 and is based in London, the United Kingdom.

Story 67
To ensure this doesn’t happen in the future, please enable Javascript and cookies in your browser.
Is this happening to you frequently? Please report it on our feedback forum.
If you have an ad-blocker enabled you may be blocked from proceeding. Please disable your ad-blocker and refresh.
Reference ID:

Story 68
GYG Plc (LON: GYG), the market leading superyacht painting, supply and maintenance company, announced today that Kevin McNair, currently Interim Chief Financial Officer, has been appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Officer with immediate effect. This follows the announcement on 31st July 2019 that Gloria Fernandez was stepping down from the Board.
Kevin joined the Company on 11 March 2019 to ensure that there was a smooth handover of responsibilities ahead of Gloria’s planned leave. Kevin has already developed a very strong and deep understanding of GYG and has been an integral part of the team since joining the Group.
Kevin has more than 25 years’ experience in financial management and capital markets. He has spent the past 15 years as finance director/chief financial officer of various publicly quoted and privately-owned businesses, most recently as interim CFO at Ebiquity plc.
Stephen Murphy, Chairman of GYG plc, commented:
“On behalf of the Board, I am delighted that Kevin has agreed to join the Board of GYG as permanent CFO. Since Kevin joined the Group in March, he has embedded himself in the business and taken on significant responsibilities and there is no doubt that his experience and knowledge will be invaluable as we continue on our growth journey.”
The Company will announce its interim results for the six months ended 30 June 2019 on 26 September 2019.
Additional Information
The following information is being disclosed pursuant to Rule 17 and paragraph (g) of Schedule 2 of the AIM Rules for Companies.
Kevin Hayes McNair, aged 53, is, or has during the last five years been, a director or partner of the following companies and partnerships:
Current directorships/partnerships Former directorships/partnerships within last five years AKC Management Services Limited Ebiquity plc
Rame Solar One Limited
Rame Energy plc
Nigel Wright Consultancy Limited
Nigel Wright Employment Services Limited
Nigel Wright Group Holdings Limited
Nigel Wright Group Limited
Nigel Wright International Limited
Angel Mining plc
Nigel Consultancy Deutschland Gmbh
Nigel Wright Consultancy APS
Nigel Wright Consultancy Espana S.L.
Nigel Wright Consultancy Sweden AB
Nigel Wright Consultancy Switzerland Sarl
Nigel Wright Consultancy Netherlands B.V.
Nigel Wright Consultancy Norway AS
In addition to the above, Kevin McNair was:
· appointed a Director of Boxwood Group Limited on 1 April 2003. On 15 December 2005, the business and assets of Boxwood Group Limited were acquired by Boxwood Limited as part of a pre-pack administration. There was no shortfall to creditors;
· appointed a Director of Angel Mining plc on 24 May 2010. The company was placed into administration on 1 March 2013 and subsequently dissolved on 20 November 2018;
· appointed a Director of Rame Energy plc on 22 January 2015. The company was placed into administration on 5 August 2016;
· appointed a Director of Rame Solar One Limited on 10 August 2016. The company was placed into administration on 11 August 2016 and subsequently moved to creditors voluntary liquidation on 2 September 2017; and
· appointed a Director of Certainty Group Security Services (Holdings) Limited and Certainty Group Total Facilities Management (Holdings) Limited up until his resignation in December 2005. The Company was placed into administration on 1 May 2006, entered members voluntary liquidation on 14 November 2007 and was subsequently dissolved on 9 September 2008.
The Board does not consider that they have any impact on Kevin McNair’s suitability to act as a director of the Company.

Story 69
Nanoco Group Plc (LON: NANO) announcement that its project with the major US customer will not continue when the current contract expires in December 2019 is clearly a severe setback and Edison have therefore cut it’s FY20 estimates substantially. We note though that the customer’s decision relates to a change in strategy rather than issues with the performance of Nanoco’s materials or services. The company has a strong IP base and state-of-theart manufacturing facility with an estimated 12 months of cash to explore new commercial options including with its US customer. Following Friday’s share price drop, the £20m market capitalisation appears to assign little value to these assets.
Major customer changes path
The decision not to extend the current contract means that Nanoco’s major US client will not progress to volume production in the foreseeable future. The company has stated that the decision is wholly unconnected to the performance of the materials or Nanoco’s service delivery. Industry newsflow suggests the client may have opted for an alternative architecture for the component potentially deploying quantum dots. Nanoco is exploring alternative use cases for the technology with a number of customers and supply chain partners, including the major US customer, and continues to work with other customers on deployment of quantum dots in other applications including display and medical imaging.
Estimate changes
Edison’s FY19 revenue forecast is not affected by this development. They have cut it’s FY20 revenues to £4.0m (from £13m), which are backed by contracts, primarily from the major US partner. With a fixed cost base of just under £10m, management expects cash balances to be c £6m at end December 2019. On this basis, they estimate that current cash balances will last until summer next year, giving the company a year to explore commercial and strategic options.
Valuation: Share price fall does not reflect IP value
The development is clearly a major blow to Nanoco Group’s prospects. However, Edison have previously highlighted that development activity in quantum dots appears to be accelerating across a number of applications and this view has not changed. The company is the largest IP holder in this field with c 750 patents and now has a new, nearly fully commissioned manufacturing facility able to output significant volumes of nanomaterials. The recent 74% share price drop values the business at a mere £24m market capitalisation, which Edison believe takes scant recognition of the company’s IP and asset base.

Story 70
Philadelphia-based Braskem USA, a thermoplastics polyolefins producer, has signed a distribution agreement for its United States polypropylene (PP) business with PolyQuest Inc., a polymer resin distributor and recycler based in Wilmington, North Carolina.
PolyQuest, which refers to itself as a distributor of polypropylene and the largest distributor of PET (polyethylene terephthalate) in the U.S., says it has long-standing relationships with customers in the sheet, film, textiles, strapping and other markets.
“We’re pleased to be partnering with PolyQuest to expand our reach and presence with new clients and sectors, accelerating our market share growth, as well as supporting our position as the largest producer of polypropylene in the Americas,” states Mark Nikolich, Braskem USA’s CEO.
“Just as importantly, PolyQuest shares a focus on advancing the future of the circular economy through a commitment to sustainable development,” adds Nikolich. “We look forward to leveraging our expertise in polypropylene recycling and closed-loop technologies with PolyQuest’s established U.S. recycling facilities. Our leverage across these activities will only grow in importance as Braskem remains on track to launch Delta, our new U.S. 450,000-metric-ton polypropylene production line in early 2020.”
Comments Tod Durst, PolyQuest executive vice president, “There is no better partner for PolyQuest in the polypropylene market than Braskem, and we look forward to expanding our relationship responsibly and rapidly. The expansion of our resin offerings in the U.S. to include polypropylene was a logical one for us as it further enhances our position as a value-added supplier to an important and growing segment of the industry.”
Braskem has committed up to $675 million toward the design and construction of its new Delta PP production, which is being built adjacent to Braskem’s existing production facilities in La Porte, Texas. Delta is targeted for initial production in early 2020.

Story 71
Equiniti Group Plc (LON:EQN) is delighted to have completed the settlement of Shire’s acquisition by Takeda, breaking multiple records as the biggest corporate action in Japanese history.
Takeda is the largest pharmaceutical company in Japan and has acquired Irish-based biotechnology business Shire, which was listed on the London Stock Exchange, for £46Bn in cash and shares. The transaction and the settlement to shareholders was completed on 22nd January 2019.
The transaction was one of the most complex cross-border schemes of arrangement ever completed, particularly around the collection of shareholders instructions. This included electing for Sterling or Dollar cash consideration, and/or shares in Takeda held in either a Japanese Securities Depository (utilising a Japanese custodian facilitated by Equiniti), or in American Depository Shares in the Depository Trust Company.
In addition to these election instructions, shareholders could opt for their new Takeda shares to be held in the US in the Direct Register format or in the UK in the form of CREST Depository Interest.
A settlement mechanism of this type, with its unprecedented complexity, required the creation of a fiduciary arrangement involving Equiniti, Shire and Takeda’s financial adviser.
As part of Equiniti’s bespoke service, Gavin Lane, Senior Operations Director, and Jon McLean, Senior Manager of Corporate Advice, visited Tokyo in September 2018 to support and advise Takeda and Shire on the technical elements of the settlement mechanics.

Story 72
Goodyear and Brabham Automotive announce global partnership 03.09.2019:  Collaboration across racing and road car developments  Goodyear Racing tyres to be fitted to track cars  Goodyear Eagle F1 SuperSport chosen for the official road compliant conversion option



• Collaboration across racing and road car developments

• Goodyear Racing tyres to be fitted to track cars

• Goodyear Eagle F1 SuperSport chosen for the official road compliant conversion option

• Brabham to return to racing in November 2019 at Brands Hatch



Goodyear and Brabham Automotive have announced their partnership to collaborate across racing and road car developments, reigniting a winning partnership that began in 1965.



The partnership coincides with the racing return of the iconic Brabham marque. The Brabham BT62 will make its racing debut at Brands Hatch on the 9th/10th November in the Britcar 'Into the Night' race. This event gives a flavour of Le Mans-style endurance racing and appropriately Brands Hatch is the very circuit where Jack Brabham took his Brabham-Repco BT19 to British Grand Prix glory 53 years earlier.



The joint development work rekindles a historic partnership between the two companies, which resulted in 26 Formula One Grand Prix victories. Jack Brabham won the 1966 F1 World Championship in a Goodyear shod Brabham-Repco, the iconic BT19. This was a historic moment as it marked the first, and never to be repeated, title for a driver in a car of his own construction and bearing his own name.



Denny Hulme made it a back-to-back championship success for Brabham and Goodyear in 1967, before Brabham stars such as Carlos Reutemann, Niki Lauda and Carlos Pace wore the iconic Goodyear cap on the top step of the podium in the seventies. In 1981, Nelson Piquet clinched the World Championship at the final round in Las Vegas after switching his Brabham to Goodyear mid-season.



David Brabham, son of Sir Jack Brabham and Director of Brabham Automotive said. "Goodyear and Brabham's combined successes in motorsport are iconic. The partnership historically brought an incredible amount of success in Formula 1 and Endurance Racing and we look to continue this winning legacy through Brabham Automotive, the BT62 and future car variants. The continued commitment shown by Goodyear globally in motorsport means it is perfect timing for the two marques to join forces as we continue our road to Le Mans."



Spearheading the return of the Brabham and Goodyear story is the Brabham BT62. This is an unrestricted, thoroughbred track car that is limited to a production run of just 70 vehicles. Weighing in at 972kg (dry) and with 700bhp from its 5.4-liter V8 engine it offers stunning performance that's already shattered GT3-class lap records. With over 1 200kgs of downforce, a motorsport-derived tyre development program is crucial as Brabham continues to have a performance-based approach to their track and road ambitions.



Dan Marks, Commercial Director at Brabham Automotive said, "Goodyear and Brabham enjoyed success together over four decades in F1. To reignite this technical collaboration is exciting. We've chosen to work with Goodyear as they have the tyre technology to support our goal of achieving the highest levels of performance on both the road and track."



In addition to supplying Goodyear Racing tyres for the track only BT62, the car is also available with Brabham's road compliant conversion option, which will include tyres from the Goodyear Eagle F1 SuperSport range which was launched earlier this year. It combines Goodyear's racing experience and award-winning road tyre technology to provide superior grip and handling. It has already been declared an outright test winner, topping the first-ever Ultra Ultra High Performance (UUHP) tyre test conducted by Tyre Reviews, the number one online tyre review website.



The Goodyear Eagle F1 SuperSport range's performance is enhanced using a motorsport-derived high-friction compound, providing exceptional lateral grip and traction. This compound technology is closely related to Goodyear's FIA World Endurance Championship (WEC) tyres that will be used in the 2019/20 season. The track-only version of the BT62 will be fitted with similar Goodyear Racing tyres to the WEC cars.




Ann Du Toit- photos quickpic.co.za




Story 73
VW is bringing the Tarok pickup concept at the New York Auto Show to “gauge market reaction”, testing the waters for an entry-level, compact pickup truck.
In some ways, a production version of the VW Tarok could prove to be a modern-day Subaru Brat for the US market, although the German car maker admits that there are currently no plans of launching it here just yet.
The VW Tarok concept made its world debut at the Sao Paolo International Motor Show, previewing a unibody pickup truck based on the company’s widely used MQB platform. The concept measures 193.5 inches (4,914mm) long, yet it can carry loads up to 73.2 inches (1,859mm) long, thanks to its innovative bed design that enables it to extend into the cab.
The compact Tarok is one of the largest MQB-based VW models, alongside the Atlas, featuring a 117.7 inches (2,989mm) long wheelbase and pretty short overhangs. The bed offers a truly versatile floor space, which can be enlarged by not only opening the tailgate but also folding down the bottom of the cab’s rear panel. Payload is 2,271lbs (1,030kg).
Power comes from VW’s 1.4-liter TSI engine, producing 147hp (150PS) and paired to a six-speed automatic transmission and permanent 4Motion all-wheel drive. The latter can be adjusted via the 4Motion Active Control, a rotary knob used to activate four higher-level models (“Onroad”, “Snow”, “Offroad and “Custom Offroad”) and different pop-up menus.
The interior is pure VW, featuring a digital instrument cluster and a glass-covered 9.2-inch infotainment system, as well as a removable speaker in the center console that can be individually connected to a smartphone via Bluetooth.
Does USA need a compact unibody pickup truck like the VW Tarok? You’ll be the judge of that. Whatever the outcome, Brazil is set to get a production version of the Tarok pretty soon.

Story 74
Intel Corporation found using ticker (INTC) now have 30 analysts covering the stock with the consensus suggesting a rating of ‘Hold’. The range between the high target price and low target price is between 65 and 38 calculating the mean target price we have 53.13. With the stocks previous close at 50.92 this is indicating there is a potential upside of 4.3%. The day 50 moving average is 48.78 and the 200 day MA is 49.81. The company has a market capitalisation of $223,807m. Find out more information at: http://www.intel.com
Intel Corporation offers computing, networking, data storage, and communication solutions worldwide. It operates through Client Computing Group, Data Center Group, Internet of Things Group, Non-Volatile Memory Solutions Group, Programmable Solutions Group, and All Other segments. The company offers microprocessors, and system-on-chip and multichip packaging products. It also provides NAND flash memory products primarily used in solid-state drives; and programmable semiconductors and related products for communications, data center, industrial, and military markets. In addition, the company develops computer vision and machine learning, data analysis, localization, and mapping for advanced driver assistance systems and autonomous driving. Its platforms are used in notebooks, systems, and desktops; cloud, enterprise, and communication infrastructure market segments; and retail, automotive, industrial, and various other embedded applications. It serves original equipment manufacturers, original design manufacturers, industrial and communication equipment manufacturers, and cloud service providers. Intel Corporation has a collaboration with Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson (publ) to develop software defined infrastructure for network functions virtualization, distributed cloud, and 5G applications; and Baidu to develop nervana neural network processor for training. The company was founded in 1968 and is based in Santa Clara, California.

Story 75
LAKE FOREST, Ill., April 14, 2017 /PRNewswire/ -- Transworld Systems Inc. (TSI) – a leading analytics-enabled provider of accounts receivable management and loan servicing solutions – announced the launch of Rocket Receivables, a new web-based self-service platform that allows businesses to purchase and manage TSI's reminder letter and contingency collections services.
Offering both fixed-fee and contingency-based collections options, Rocket Receivables is changing the way businesses approach debt recovery and increase their bottom line.
TSI launched Rocket Receivables in order to provide a solution for the customers that prefer to make purchase decisions online, on their time, 24/7.
Employing a two-stage approach to collections, Rocket Receivables provides businesses with the flexibility to manage their accounts receivable by utilizing either a letters series, traditional contingency collections, or a seamless combination of the two.
Rocket Receivables' self-service website is built to empower users to determine how they want to handle their accounts receivable by providing them with 24/7 online support tools and a dedicated client support staff available in order to maximize their recoveries.
"Ecommerce has changed the way individuals research products and make informed buying decisions," said Howie Schnuer, TSI's Chief Marketing Officer. "With Rocket Receivables, we're able to offer businesses a 24/7 research and buying solution for those that want to work with an experienced company, but on their time."
Backed by a commitment to compliance and cyber security, as well as their continued investments in data analytics and technology, TSI's Rocket Receivables platform is pushing the accounts receivable management industry into the user-centric, data-driven future.
To learn more about Rocket Receivables, visit http://www.RocketReceivables.com.
About TSI:
TSI is the leading provider of outsourced accounts receivable management and loan servicing solutions. Their data-driven services have injected more than $6 billion in cash flow back into our client's businesses over the past decade. TSI's solutions accelerate cash flow, minimize risk, and improve operational efficiency. Their clients include both B2B & B2C Fortune 100 corporations, national healthcare systems, financial institutions, large-scale governmental organizations, and small businesses.
Media Contact:
Connor Laughlin
Digital Marketing Manager
Transworld Systems Inc. (TSI)
connor.laughlin@tsico.com
+1 847-969-7977
SOURCE Transworld Systems Inc. (TSI)
Related Links
http://www.tsico.com


Story 76
2019 is a crucial year for the globalization of Great Wall Motors 05.09.2019: Great Wall Motors' Yongchuan Factory in Chongqing put into Production, Radiating the Southwest and Aiming Globally Since the beginning of the year Great Wall Motors has taken measures for its globalization. In January, Great Wall Motors' HAVAL B
Great Wall Motors' Yongchuan Factory in Chongqing put into Production, Radiating the Southwest and Aiming Globally




Since the beginning of the year Great Wall Motors has taken measures for its globalization. In January, Great Wall Motors' HAVAL Brand put forward the "5-2-1 Globalization Strategy".



In April, Wei Jianjun, Chairman of Great Wall Motors, was invited to attend The Second Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation CEO Conference to explore more possibilities for Chinese automobile enterprises to "go global". In June, Great Wall Motors' Tula Factory in Russia, the first overseas full process vehicle manufacturing factory built by Chinese automobile brands, was completed and put into production. Now, Great Wall Motors will make another achievement of its globalization.





Great Wall Motors' Yongchuan Factory in Chongqing will be completed and put into production by the end of August. Yongchuan Factory in Chongqing is the fifth full process vehicle manufacturing base of Great Wall Motors in the world. The global production layout of Great Wall Motors will be achieved and the "globalization strategy" of Great Wall Motors is further supported with Yongchuan Factory in Chongqing, the manufacturing bases that have been put into production such as Baoding Factory, Xushui Factory, Tianjin Factory and Tula Factory in Russia, and those that are under construction such as Zhangjiagang Factory, Rizhao Factory, Pinghu Factory and Taizhou Factory, as well as several KD factories of Great Wall Motors along the "Belt and Road".



Meanwhile, the first product of Great Wall Motors' new P Series Pickup which is a new brand under Great Wall Pickup will also be launched. As a global pickup brand, Great Wall Motors' new P Series Pickup is a new generation of pickups around the world, reshaping the global pickup landcsape and competing head-on with Toyota, Ford and other international mainstream pickup brands, aiming at the world's Top Three.



Why did the fifth full process vehicle manufacturing base of Great Wall Motors in the world settle in Chongqing?




For an automobile enterprise, when setting up a factory, it should not only consider the economic environment and geographical location of the city, but also evaluate whether the city's comprehensive service capacity can match the development demands of the automobile industry and the enterprise itself. Chongqing is undoubtedly one of the ideal choices.



This year marks the 20th anniversary of the "West China Development" strategy. Over the past 20 years, a high-level layout of expansion has been established in West China, presenting one of the most significant changes in China's regional economic pattern.



In particular, the Chengdu-Chongqing urban agglomeration has achieved unprecedented development. Meanwhile, as an important automobile industry base in China, Chongqing enjoys a strong industrial atmosphere, complete industrial facilities and obvious advantages in transportation and logistics which further promotes Great Wall Motors to set up a factory in Chongqing.



In addition, setting up a factory in Chongqing is an important measure for Great Wall Motors to take active part in and integrate into the "Belt and Road" construction and drive the regional economic development. Eastward, it can follow the Yangtze River waterway to run through the Yangtze River Economic Belt. Southward, it can take advantage of the Pan-Asian Railway to cover the entire Southeast Asian market. Westward, it can take advantage of the Chongqing-Xinjiang-Europe International Railway to radiate the vast northwest region and rejuvenate the "Silk Road".



With the completion and commissioning of Great Wall Motors' Yongchuan Factory in Chongqing, Great Wall Motors will form a more competitive global research, production and marketing system. So far, Great Wall Motors has formed a R&D pattern covering 10 regions in 7 countries globally and established marketing networks in more than 60 countries, covering overseas markets in central and Eastern Europe, Asia Pacific and Africa.



Great Wall Motors has planned 9 manufacturing bases such as Baoding Factory, Xushui Factory, Tianjin Factory, Yongchuan Factory in Chongqing, Zhangjiagang Factory in Jiangsu, Rizhao Factory in Shandong, Pinghu Factory in Zhejiang, Taizhou Factory in Jiangsu and Tula Factory in Russia, as well as 5 KD factories, forming a "9+5" global production system.





More importantly, the Sichuan-Chongqing Economic Zone, represented by Chongqing, is also one of the most important sales areas of products of Great Wall Motors. Setting up factory in Chongqing will not only bring Great Wall Motors closer to the market, but also inject new vitality into the Chongqing automobile market by combining the efforts of both sides. In addition, Great Wall Motors will actively take social responsibilities in tax payment, poverty alleviation and employment promotion to boost economic development in Chongqing.





Led by the P Series Pickup, Great Wall Motors accelerates its globalization



As an important project in the global production layout of Great Wall Motors, Yongchuan Factory in Chongqing, after its completion and commissioning, will become the fifth full process vehicle manufacturing base of Great Wall Motors in the world and the first vehicle manufacturing base in South China representing the top level of Chinese automobile and even Made in China.





It is worth mentioning that Great Wall Motors' new P Series Pickup will be launched with mass production on the same day as the completion and commissioning of Yongchuan Factory in Chongqing. There are three models, respectively commercial pickup, passenger pickup and cross-country pickup. The birth of P series pickup indicates that Great Wall Pickup is accelerating its globalization, opening the era of passenger pickup, leading the pickup culture with Chinese characteristics and becoming one of the world's top three pickup brands.



On August 18, Great Wall Motors' new P Series Pickup officially launched its pre-sale. As the first product in the era of 3.0 multi-purpose passenger pickup, the P Series Pickup is characterized with the"Five-Centered New Ecology", namely in terms of passenger, intelligence, network, customization and cleanness. In addition, as the first product launched by the new exclusive P71 platform, P Series will be safer, more comfortable, lighter and more versatile.



Now, at the historical starting point of global competition, Great Wall Motors is steadily advancing its globalization journey from a global production layout to global products. With world-class intelligent manufacturing capabilities, Great Wall Motors will not only promote the transformation and upgrading of Made in China, but also have the confidence and strength to stand out when competing with international mainstream automobile enterprises.





Haval Motors SA also photos




Story 77
Sativa Group Plc (NEX: SATI), the UK’s leading quoted medicinal cannabis and wellness cannabidiol (CBD) Group with two fully trading UK businesses, added a third on Saturday 29th June with the opening in Bath of the first of a planned national chain of Goodbody Wellness specialist retail outlets.
The store was launched last Friday evening by Mr Crispin Blunt MP, Member of Parliament for Reigate, and Co-chair of the All Party Parliamentary Group for Drug Policy Reform.
Whilst not in any way a Group forecast, in the first weekend of trading, footfall, turnover and average transaction value were ahead of expectations on both days. Customer feedback was exceptionally positive with them engaging with trained staff about the key elements of product traceability, testing, and balance in terms of wellness. The Directors believe that this early success is proof of concept. Cirencester and Clifton, Bristol branches are to follow within weeks.
The 60.67 sq. m. (653 sq. ft.) retail unit has frontage on to the prime, high footfall, Broad Street and Milsom Place City-centre shopping destinations. It provides a range of more than 50 CBD products, and offers customers the opportunity to try CBD infused coffee and tea. Customers also have the opportunity to purchase CBD coffee in bean form and tea to take home and enjoy in their own environment. Opening hours are Monday – Saturday 09:00 am to 6.00 pm and Sunday 11:00 am to 5:00 pm.
The consumer experience consists of focused knowledge and support from highly trained staff who are able to advise customers on the range of CBD products available and the best way to use and apply those products. CBD is believed to boost the body’s endo-cannabinoid system which works to restore homeostasis and balance. CBD enriched products available include skincare, tinctures, balms, bath bombs, vape oils, body oils and capsules.
All of the stock passes scientific laboratory testing by Sativa’s own independent laboratory, Phytovista, sits within the legal content guidelines, and the amount of CBD contained being as described.
Geremy Thomas, Sativa Group plc Chief Executive and founder, said:
“Goodbody Wellness is the UK’s first prestige CBD store and the Bath launch was a great success, with customer feedback being that the format is exactly what they wanted. “This opening marks the start of what we intend to be a major high street journey for Goodbody as CBD wellness products gain wider acceptance in the UK. “Our product development and manufacturing capability allows multiple routes to market and the roll out of our Goodbody store network will drive revenues. Bath is the first of three pilot stores after which the Company intends to roll-out a national franchise network, because the Directors believe that this is the fastest and least capital-intensive route to a national footprint.”
The Directors of the Company accept responsibility for the contents of this announcement.
Photographs of the official opening by Mr Crispin Blunt MP have been despatched to national picture desks and are also available from Abchurch.

Story 78
Scala : une vraie compacte pour Skoda
Avec la Scala, Skoda débarque sur le segment très compétitif des berlines compactes. Dans les showrooms en juin prochain, elle sera un nouvel atout de la gamme tchèque et notamment auprès des professionnels.
Il n’y a pas que les SUV dans la vie ! Certes, leur croissance est forte, mais ils ne représentent « que » 34 % du marché européen. Les berlines font mieux que résister avec 56 % des immatriculations continentales et parmi elles, les compactes sont majoritaires. Voilà pourquoi Skoda débarque sur ce marché avec une compacte qui se veut plus en phase avec les attentes des Européens : la Scala. Le constructeur de Mlada Boleslav tient, en quelque sorte, sa Golf. De quoi soutenir la croissance de la marque à l’international, mais aussi en France où, après avoir battu un nouveau record en 2018 avec 31 423 immatriculations (+17,25 %), Skoda débute l’année 2019 sur la même tendance, avec une croissance de 11,8 % à la fin du premier trimestre.
Entre la Rapid et l'Octavia
Skoda n’en est pourtant pas à son coup d’essai avec les berlines comme les ventes de l’Octavia (388 200 unités en 2018) ou de la Superb (138 100 unités) peuvent en témoigner. La Scala se positionne donc sous l’Octavia, dont une nouvelle génération est attendue pour la fin de l’année, et vient remplacer en Europe de l’Ouest les Rapid et Rapid Spaceback qui n’ont pas vraiment trouvé leur clientèle. En France, la Rapid n’a totalisé que 7 400 immatriculations depuis son lancement en 2012. Il faut toutefois préciser qu’à l’international, la Rapid a encore été, en 2018, le deuxième volume de la marque avec près de 191 500 unités, talonnée par la Fabia et le Kodiaq.
Le plein de technologies
Reposant sur la plateforme MQB A0, comme la VW Polo ou la Seat Arona, la Scala offre bel et bien des prestations de berline compacte avec sa longueur de 4,36 m. Comme de coutume, Skoda a choisi de privilégier l’espace à bord avec des cotes supérieures à celles de ses concurrentes. L’adoption d’une nouvelle plateforme a également permis de remettre au goût du jour les technologies embarquées avec, notamment, une liste d’Adas conséquente, mais aussi le Digital Cockpit, un système d’infodivertissement connecté avec un écran jusqu’à 9,2’’ ou encore des projecteurs full LED à l’avant comme à l’arrière. Dans l’habitacle, les matériaux de la planche de bord, moussés, participent à la bonne perception de l’ensemble. Les astuces Simply Clever, chères à Skoda, sont naturellement toujours de la partie. En plus de cela, la Scala inaugure le nouveau langage stylistique de la marque qui sera ensuite décliné, même sur les modèles électriques comme en témoigne le concept Vision iV.
27 % des ventes aux professionnels
Sous le capot, la Scala propose le 3 cylindres 1.0 TSI en versions 95 et 116 ch, ainsi que le 1.5 TSI en 150 ch. Les deux plus fortes puissances pouvant être associées à une boîte DSG7, comme le 1.6 TDI de 116 ch. Ce bloc diesel devrait représenter 25 % des ventes. Avec des émissions allant de 104 à 110 g/km, l’ensemble de la gamme échappe au malus. Selon Skoda France, les particuliers devraient s’adjuger le gros des ventes (73 %), mais la marque n’oublie pas les professionnels (27 %), avec notamment une finition Business taillée sur mesure. Les commandes sont ouvertes depuis le 15 mars et les premiers exemplaires de la nouvelle berline tchèque seront livrés, en France, à partir du 13 juin prochain. En année pleine, Skoda France compte livrer 3 600 unités. Avec un cœur de gamme estimé à 27 470 euros (Scala 1.0 TSI 116 ch DSG7 Style, la finition la plus haute, 11 % des ventes totales), la marque compte bien faire grimper son prix de vente catalogue moyen qui a atteint 26 928 euros en 2018.
--------------------------------------------
La Scala en Bref
Date de lancement : 13 juin 2019
Segment de marché : berlines compactes
Objectif en France : 3 600 unités en année pleine
Principales concurrentes de la Scala (cumul 1er trimestre 2019)
• Citroën C4 Cactus : 5 647 (+ 19,7 %)
• Ford Focus berline : 2 903 (+ 43 %)
• Kia Ceed berline : 1 043 (+)
• Hyundai i30 berline : 468 (- 17,3 %)
Prix :
Essence : de 19 460 à 28 870 €
Diesel : de 23 220 à 30 230 €
Business : de 23 150 à 28 410 €

Story 79
Zeus Capital acted as Financial Adviser to Likewise Group plc (LIKE) in connection with its admission to trading on The International Stock Exchange and associated £7.0 million subscription.
Likewise is a distributor of floorcoverings and matting and is led by CEO Tony Brewer, the former CEO of Headlam Group plc for 16 years, and has the opportunity to consolidate the domestic and commercial floorcovering markets to develop an alternative to larger industry competitors.
The company was admitted to trading on 11 January 2019 with a market capitalisation (based on the issue price of 10 pence) of £12.0 million. Further information can be found here.
Likewise has raised net proceeds of approximately £6.5 million. These proceeds will be used for acquisitions and to provide general working capital for growth. Likewise intends to utilise the expertise and industry knowledge of its plc, executive and advisory boards to deliver organic growth, operational leverage and, where desirable, execute strategic acquisitions.
Zeus Capital is one of the leading advisers to small and mid-cap listed companies by IPO funds raised. In 2018, Zeus Capital has acted on IPOs and secondary transactions for 12 listed companies: those transactions were valued at over £700m for companies listed on both the LSE Main Market and AIM.

Story 80
Premiere: New energy for the VW Beetle 05.09.2019: Volkswagen Group Components supplies a complete electric drive for the historic Beetle Concept allows for the electrification of many different historic vehicles Individually tailored conversion carried out by partner company eClassics
Volkswagen Group Components supplies a complete electric drive for the historic Beetle



Concept allows for the electrification of many different historic vehicles


Individually tailored conversion carried out by partner company eClassics




Volkswagen Group Components presents a holistic concept with its partner eClassics for the subsequent electrification of the historic Volkswagen Beetle. The conversion exclusively uses new parts they have mutually agreed on from the series production of Volkswagen Group Components. The electric drive, the 1-speed gearbox and the battery system are based on the new VW e-up!



1. The conversion of the historic Beetle is being carried out by the specialist company eClassics. Its premiere is being celebrated with a near-production version of the e-Beetle at the International Motor Show (IAA) in Frankfurt, Germany.




“The electrified Beetle combines the charm of our classic car with the mobility of the future. Innovative e-components from Volkswagen Group Components are under the bonnet – we work with them to electrify historically important vehicles, in what is an emotional process,” explains Thomas Schmall, Member of the Board of Management of Volkswagen Group Components. “We are also providing Beetle owners with a professional conversion solution, using production parts of the highest quality.”



New VW e-up! as technical basis



The technical basis for the conversion is provided by tested production parts from Volkswagen’s new e-up! These are manufactured at Volkswagen Group Components production sites. As a result, the electric engine and the 1-speed gearbox are produced in Kassel, while the battery system components are supplied from Brunswick.



The components from Kassel and Brunswick work together in the e-Beetle as an electric drive that reaches performance peaks of 60°kW /82°PS. The battery system is built into the underbody and consists of up to 14 modules, each with a capacity of 2.6 kWh. The lithium-ion battery modules cumulatively deliver energy of up to 36.8 kWh.


The higher performance and the increased weight due to the extent of electrification require the adaptation and reinforcement of the chassis and the brakes. Despite the new total weight of 1,280 kg, the e-Beetle accelerates to 50 km/h in just under four seconds and to 80 km in just over eight seconds. The range of the e-Beetle, which reaches top speeds of up to 150 km/h, is 200 km – a comfortable distance for a relaxing day out in an electrified classic car.



In the event that the e-Beetle runs out of electricity during the trip, the built-in series-produced components allow for fast charging via a combined charging system. As a result, the e-Beetle can store enough energy for a journey of over 150 km after charging for around an hour.



Concept can be transferred to other historic vehicles


Based on this concept, the subsequent electrification of other historic vehicles will also be possible. Schmall says, “We are already working together to prepare the platform for the Bus. An e-Porsche 356 could also be pursued in the future.” The use of the modular electric drive matrix (MEB) is also being considered. This creates additional opportunities regarding performance and range.





Conversion carried out by specialist partner company


While Volkswagen Group Components supplies the production parts for the electric drive and the battery system, the actual conversion of the Beetle is carried out by the partner company eClassics in Renningen, near Stuttgart. A lot of expertise has been poured into producing the electrified Beetle. Volkswagen Group Components has made use of the considerable experience of its specialist employees and advised eClassics during the process.



“We are proud that we and Volkswagen Group Components could get the show on the road with this project. We are also looking forward to seeing many e-Beetles on the street soon,” add the two Managing Directors of eClassics GmbH & Co KG, Dennis Murschel and Martin Acevedo.



1. The vehicle is not yet available for sale.





Enrico Beltz - photos Volkswagen

Story 81
KUALA LUMPUR: Lazada Malaysia has launched its biggest shopping event of the year, the Lazada 11.11 Shopping Festival.
The 24-hour online shopping extravaganza will take off at midnight on Nov 11, 2018, with a live broadcast countdown show on Nov 10.
This year's shopping bonanza promises an exciting shopping experience for bargain hunters and fun seekers, with multi-sensory and multi-screen activities.
On the eve of the Lazada 11.11 Shopping Festival, shoppers can tune in to the star-studded one-night-only Lazada 11.11 Super Show. Viewers tuning in can take part in live game sessions to win amazing prizes and expect variety show-styled skits and performances from renowned local and international celebrities. The evening will culminate in a performance by a K-pop group.
"Lazada is evolving into a lifestyle platform, providing experiences that extend beyond just online shopping," said Lazada Malaysia CEO Christophe Lejeune.
"We are also constantly expanding our product base, with a focus on fashion and beauty products to cater to our growing female audience. More than just lowest prices, it's about engaging and exciting customers – creating the ultimate shopping festival through crazy deals, fun games and discovery tools on our app.
"With over nine million Lazada app downloads, this is a strong testament to our capabilities and expertise in addressing the needs of the online shopper. With five times more brands and sellers than last year, shoppers will have access to over 100 million products and more than 300 brands, delivered from our own fulfilment centres with our own fleets to control the delivery processes.
"We also partner with reliable logistics providers to ensure that we cover a wide delivery network to reach our customers wherever they may be," Lejeune added.
11.11 Super Show
To be staged at the Axiata Arena, an anticipated three million Malaysians will be watching simultaneously across TV3 and ntv7, Tonton, as well as on the Lazada mobile app.
Be part of the action and catch Aiman Tino, Haqiem Rusli, Ayda Jebat, Wany Hasrita, Ella, Ziana Zain, Bunkface and other Malaysian and international superstars in person by posting a picture of the person you want to go with on Instagram with the caption "Do you want to go to the Lazada 11.11 Super Show with me?" and include the hashtag #MYLazada1111. He or she then must express their interest to go with you.
The contest runs till Oct 31 and the winner will be announced on Nov 1. Fifty winners will be selected.
The arena audience and viewers tuning in on Nov 10 will also be able to receive video calls from their favourite artistes and stand a chance to win amazing prizes including two Volkswagen Beetle 1.2 TSI cars by playing live games on the Lazada app during the show.
Keep your eyes on your screens to also take home prizes from L'Oreal Paris, Carlo Rino, Philips, Lactogrow, Sunsilk, Drypers and Xiaomi!
Get a head start
Don't wait until 11.11 to add items to your cart. From Nov 1, you can start previewing 11.11 prices and add these items to your cart, so you can check out quickly and conveniently on sale day.
Don't miss out on Collectible Vouchers up to RM11,000,000, deals as low at RM0.99 and RM200,000 worth of free gifts.
There will also be over 10,000 Surprise Boxes up for grabs containing products from various brands up to 70% off. Limited units only.
All-nighters can take advantage of the lowest prices of the year from over 50 brands on Nov 11 from midnight to 2am. Early risers can take advantage of Flash Vouchers beginning 8am for a limited time only. Also look out for Slash It and Shake It sessions throughout the day.
Play your way to even more deals with the all new Wonderland feature on the Lazada app.
From Nov 1 to 10, Lazada app users will have 20 chances to open treasure boxes of top brand and seller vouchers. Taking place each day at 11am and 5pm, tap the Wonderland banner on the Lazada app home page. You will be taken to Wonderland where you will see all participating stores. Tap on a store to unearth the treasure box within.
For more details on the Lazada 11.11 Shopping Festival, go to http://www.lazada.com.my/ and its social media pages.

Story 82
The operator of Ivanka Trump’s fashion brand has halted negotiations with major Japanese apparel company Sanei-International Co. over concerns about potential conflicts of interest, according to a letter from the operating company.
Trump serves as an adviser to her father, U.S. President Donald Trump, and potential conflicts of interest between the Trump family’s businesses and public duties have been an issue of concern since he took office.
According to the letter from an executive of Ivanka Trump Operations LLC, dated May 17 and addressed to a ranking member of the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on the Judiciary, the company and Sanei agreed in principle on a potential transaction in August 2016. The letter was made public on Monday.
However, the company notified Sanei in January that it “decided not to pursue further negotiations” as it has learned Sanei-International’s parent company had ties to the Japanese government.
Ivanka Trump resigned from her positions at the business in January and subsequently placed it in a trust out of concerns over possible conflict of interest with respect to the business’s potential expansion into foreign markets, according to the letter.
Information disclosed by Sanei’s parent company TSI Holdings Co. showed TSI’s largest shareholder was the state-owned Development Bank of Japan as of the end of February.
The New York Times reported Monday that lawmakers say they “remain concerned” about Ivanka Trump possibly using the White House to further her private interests.

Story 83
SHOREVIEW, Minn., Aug. 3, 2016 /PRNewswire/ -- With the 2016 Olympics quickly approaching, there has been plenty of discussion about the environmental pollution at this year's venue – Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
According to a recent Reuters article, for years, Rio has exceeded World Health Organization (WHO) limits for air quality measures, largely due to a high number of vehicles operating within the city. High quality, real-time air quality measurements are the key to understanding the impact to the environment and the people breathing the air.
TSI's monitors offer continuous, real-time monitoring to determine the concentration levels of multiple elements in the air. According to the WHO website, excessive pollution levels caused 3.7 million premature deaths across the globe in 2012.
"We are very pleased that the TSI DustTrak™ has played a part in helping evaluate the issues around air pollution and quality for the Rio Olympics," said Steve Boehm, Senior Global Product Manager. "Our DustTrak portfolio offers a wide range of products that can be used in both indoor and outdoor applications for continuous, real-time monitoring."
Learn more about TSI's Outdoor Environmental Monitors.
Media contact:
Kara Johnson
TSI Incorporated
651-490-2723
http://www.tsi.com
SOURCE TSI Incorporated
Related Links
http://www.tsi.com


Story 84
Amerco with ticker code (UHAL) have now 1 analysts covering the stock. The analyst consensus points to a rating of ‘None’. The target price ranges between 400 and 400 with a mean TP of 400. With the stocks previous close at 396.95 this would imply there is a potential upside of .8%. The 50 day MA is 382.2 while the 200 day moving average is 376.52. The company has a market capitalisation of $8,085m. Visit the company website at: http://www.amerco.com
AMERCO operates as a do-it-yourself moving and storage operator for household and commercial goods in the United States and Canada. The company’s Moving and Storage segment rents trucks, trailers, portable moving and storage units, specialty rental items, and self-storage spaces primarily to the household movers; and sells moving supplies, towing accessories, and propane. It also provides uhaul.com, an online marketplace that connects consumers to independent Moving Help service providers and independent self-storage affiliates; auto transport and tow dolly options to transport vehicles; and specialty boxes for dishes, computers, and sensitive electronic equipment, as well as tapes, security locks, and packing supplies. This segment rents its products and services through a network of approximately 1,981 company operated retail moving stores and 20,000 independent U-Haul dealers. As of March 31, 2019, it had a rental fleet of approximately 167,000 trucks, 120,000 trailers, and 43,000 towing devices; and 1,631 self-storage locations with approximately 697,000 rentable storage units. The company’s Property and Casualty Insurance segment offers loss adjusting and claims handling services. It also provides moving and storage protection packages, such as Safemove and Safetow packages, which offer moving and towing customers with a damage waiver, cargo protection, and medical and life insurance coverage; Safestor that protects storage customers from loss on their goods in storage; Safestor Mobile, which protects customers stored belongings; and Safemove Plus, which provides rental customers with a layer of primary liability protection. The company’s Life Insurance segment provides life and health insurance products primarily to the senior market through the direct writing and reinsuring of life insurance, medicare supplement, and annuity policies. AMERCO was founded in 1945 and is based in Reno, Nevada.

Story 85

DGAP-Media /
Pressemitteilung, 11. Juli 2019 La Française Real Estate Partners International erwirbt ein erstklassiges Bürogebäude* in Essen
La Française Real Estate Partners International hat im Auftrag eines kollektiven Immobilieninvestmentvehikels von La Française eine Büroimmobilie in der Rüttenscheider Straße, einem erstklassigen Essener Bürostandort, von Real I.S. erworben. Das Gebäude wurde von dem renommierten deutschen Architekten Egon Eiermann entworfen und 1992 unter Denkmalschutz gestellt. Das 1960 erbaute und 1994 sanierte Objekt liegt ideal an der Kreuzung Rüttenscheider Straße und Hohenzollernring. Das achtgeschossige Gebäude, das vollständig an einen Energieerzeuger vermietet ist, verfügt über 22.506 Quadratmeter Bürofläche und 343 Innen- und Außenparkplätze. Jens Goettler, Managing Director für Deutschland bei La Française Real Estate Partners International, erklärt: "Abgesehen von den architektonischen Qualitäten des Bauwerks sollte die Top-Lage in Essen, Heimat von drei DAX-Unternehmen und geprägt durch ein hohes Wirtschaftswachstum, dazu beitragen, die Mieternachfrage nachhaltig zu stützen." La Française Real Estate Partners International wurde von Clifford Chance LLP in rechtlichen sowie steuerlichen Fragen und von TA Europe GmbH in technischen Due-Dilligence-Fragen beraten. * Dies ist ein Beispiel einer Investition, die innerhalb eines Portfolios gehalten wird. Sie ist nicht bezeichnend für zukünftige Investitionen und spiegelt die Zusammensetzung der Fonds nicht vollständig wider.

Foto nicht verbindlich - Anlagebeispiel, nicht bezeichnend für zukünftige Investitionen

Über La Française Global Real Estate Investment Managers Die Immobilienaktivitäten der La Française-Gruppe sind unter der Marke La Française Global Real Estate Investment Managers (GREIM) zusammengeführt worden. Diese Holding umfasst La Française REM, La Française Real Estate Partners und La Française Real Estate Partners International. La Française REM ist der führende französische Anbieter von kollektiven Immobilien-investments, gemessen an der Kapitalisierung (Daten vom 31.12.2018, IEIF). La Française REM ist auf Third-Party-Investment und Asset Management spezialisiert und auf allen französischen Immobilienmärkten aktiv. Sie hat zudem eine Plattform für Immobilienmandate entwickelt, die institutionellen Investoren Speziallösungen bietet. Diese reichen innerhalb von La Française Real Estate Partners von Core/Core Plus- bis hin zu Value Added- und Opportunistic-Investmentstrategien. La Française Real Estate Partners International bietet eine umfängliche Investmentmanagementdienstleistung im Bereich direkter und indirekter Anlagen in Immobilien für eine breitgefächerte internationale Klientel in Kontinentaleuropa, Großbritannien und Asien. La Française Real Estate Partners International verfügt über Büros in London und Frankfurt sowie in Seoul. Die Plattform ist ein anerkannter Spezialist von Core- und Core-Plus-Immobilieninvestmentstrategien in Europa. La Française GREIM verwaltet über 19 Milliarden Euro (Daten vom 31.12.2018) und kann eine komplette Produktpalette an maßgeschneiderten Immobilienlösungen für Investoren weltweit bieten. Über La Française Seit 40 Jahren entwickelt La Française Kernkompetenzen im Asset Management für Dritte.
La Française verfolgt ein Multi-Expertise-Geschäftsmodell, das sich in vier Kernbereiche aufteilt: Wertpapiere, Immobilien, Investmentlösungen und Direktfinanzierung. Die Unternehmensgruppe spricht institutionelle und Privatkunden weltweit an. Mit 639 Mitarbeitern verwaltet La Française an den Standorten Paris, Frankfurt, Genf, Stamford (CT, USA), Hongkong, London, Luxemburg, Madrid, Mailand, Seoul und Singapur ein Vermögen von 65,8 Milliarden Euro (Stand 01.01.2019). La Française ist ein zukunftsorientierter, verantwortungsbewusster Investor und integriert als solcher die Herausforderungen von morgen in die heutige Anlagestrategie. La Française gehört zu Credit Mutuel Nord Europe (CMNE), einer in Nordfrankreich und Belgien ansässigen Banken- und Versicherungsgruppe mit einem regulatorischen Eigenkapital von 3,3 Mrd. Euro (per 31.12.2017).

Kontakt: La Française:
Jens Goettler +49 69 2972 438 10 - jgoetteler@la-francaise.com
Ralf Droz +49 69 97 57 43 73 - rdroz@la-francaise.com Dolphinvest Communications:
Heidi Rauen +49 69 33 99 78 13 - hrauen@dolphinvest.eu
Disclaimer

DIESES DOKUMENT RICHTET SICH AN NICHT-PROFESSIONELLE INVESTOREN IM SINNE VON MIFID. Die hierin enthaltenen Informationen und Materialien stellen in keinem Fall eine Beratung, ein Angebot, eine Aufforderung oder eine Empfehlung zur Investition in bestimmte Anlagen dar. Herausgegeben von La Française AM Finance Services, Hauptsitz: 128 Boulevard Raspail, 75006 Paris, Frankreich, reguliert durch die "Autorité de Contrôle Prudentiel et de Résolution" als Wertpapierdienstleister unter der Nummer 18673 X, Tochtergesellschaft von La Française. Internetinformationen für die Regulierungsbehörden "Autorité de Contrôle Prudentiel et de Résolution", www.acpr.banque-france.fr, "Autorité des Marchés Financiers", www.amf-france.org. La Française Real Estate Partners International, eine Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung nach englischem Recht, eingetragen im "Companies House of England and Wales" mit der Nummer 8846658, mit Sitz in 78 Brook Street, London W1K5EF.

Ende der Pressemitteilung
Zusatzmaterial zur Meldung:

Bild: http://newsfeed2.eqs.com/veritasgmbh/839807.html
Bildunterschrift: Neuerwerb in Essen von La Française Real Estate Partners International

Emittent/Herausgeber: La Française Group
Schlagwort(e): Immobilien

11.07.2019 Veröffentlichung einer Pressemitteilung, übermittelt durch DGAP - ein Service der EQS Group AG.
Für den Inhalt der Mitteilung ist der Emittent / Herausgeber verantwortlich.

Die DGAP Distributionsservices umfassen gesetzliche Meldepflichten, Corporate News/Finanznachrichten und Pressemitteilungen.
Medienarchiv unter http://www.dgap.de


Story 86
Liberty Global plc found using ticker (LBTYA) now have 14 analysts covering the stock with the consensus suggesting a rating of ‘Hold’. The target price ranges between 42 and 20 with a mean TP of 30.1. Given that the stocks previous close was at 25.61 this now indicates there is a potential upside of 17.5%. The 50 day MA is 25.95 while the 200 day moving average is 26.38. The market cap for the company is $17,344m. You can visit the company’s website by visiting: http://www.libertyglobal.com
Liberty Global plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides video, broadband Internet, fixed-line telephony, mobile, and other communications services to residential customers and businesses in Europe. It offers video services, including digital video programming and audio services starting with a basic video service, video-on-demand, electronic programming guide, various premium channel packages, digital video recorders, various mobile applications, and set-top boxes. The company provides entertainment, sports, movies, documentaries, lifestyles, news, adult, children, and ethnic and foreign channels. It also offers Wi-Fi and Internet services, such as email, address book, and parental controls; security; online storage solutions and Web spaces; and Connect Box, a connectivity device that delivers in-home Wi-Fi coverage. Additionally, it offers community Wi-Fi via routers in home, which provides access to the Internet; public Wi-Fi access points in train stations, hotels, bars, restaurants, and other public places. In addition, the company provides circuit-switched telephony services; and mobile services comprising voice, short message service, and Internet access. Further, it offers voice, advanced data, video, wireless, cloud-based services, and mobile and converged fixed-mobile services to small or home offices, small businesses, and medium and large enterprises, as well as on a wholesale basis to other operators. Liberty Global plc was founded in 2004 and is based in London, the United Kingdom.

Story 87
Reabold Resources Plc (LON:RBD) Co Chief Executive Officer Stephen Williams caught up with DirectorsTalk for an exclusive interview to discuss their latest California update, what we can expect going forward and the progress of their other assets outside of California.
Q1: We’ve just seen your California update, can you talk us through the significance of the announcement and what this actually means for the California projects?
A1: What we did is we made an announcement in relation, primarily, to our Monroe Swell asset which is the prime asset out in the California portfolio.
We drilled 2 wells at Monroe Swell, we’d already announced they were both discoveries and because we had the opportunity to drill them back-to-back, you get 2 wells rather than 1 and accelerate activity there.
We then subsequently tested them both together and we’ve just completed that testing programme and the significant announcement that we made today is that we can confirm we’ve got commercial flow rates coming out of both of those wells.
So, this is extremely significant for us firstly because these wells in their own right will be economic wells and are going to generate a very good return for our shareholders and generate a lot of cash flow for us that we can then deploy into the business. Just as importantly, it’s clearly gone another step towards de-risking Monroe Swell as a whole, Monroe Swell is an asset with a lot of running room and we expect to have a lot of activity going forward.
Clearly, we’re very excited that these wells have worked out so well and that we have something that’s so valuable in that asset and we’re extremely excited in general with what we’ve been able to achieve in California so that’s four wells drilled now and all four have been successful.
So, it’s proving that the strategy is working, that the assets are highly valuable and it’s giving us what’s going to be a very high cash generative business to underpin the Reabold Resources’ strategy going forwards.
Q2: Talking about going forward, what can we expect from Monroe Swell?
A2: We’ll get these 2 wells onto production and we’ll inform the market when that’s done and what the flow rate is once they’re on permanent production then we’ll be looking at when we can get on with drilling additional wells there.
So, the key point about Monroe Swell is there’s a lot of running room in terms of the ability to put additional wells into that field so it’s always been a field where we’ve expected to have maybe 10/12 wells, that order of magnitude on this asset. As I said earlier, it’s been de-risked by these 2 so we’re extremely confident that we’ll be able to deploy those wells successfully.
The plan is to get the early production data on these wells and then work out what the optimal location is for the next one and to get on with drilling out these field and growing production and cash flow.
Q3: What’s next for the company’s California portfolio?
A3: We were delighted to be able to inform the market of the production that we’ve had with both VG-3 and VG-4 producing recently, but it’s key to remember that VG-4 has been producing at a constrained rate.
So, VG-4, when we tested it, was a well that tested at around 500 barrel a day mark, an extremely prolific well and it was so prolific that the associated gas that was coming up with that production was too much for us to put this well into production and flare the gas.
We are working on final stages of tying in a gas line which will connect to VG-4 into the gas network and allow us then to produce VG-4 at unconstrained rate so that will see a meaningful increase in our production coming out of the West Brentwood field, out of VG-3 and VG-4.
So, what we’ll have in the near-term is a higher rate of production coming out of those wells, we’ll have the 2 wells producing at Monroe Swell and we’ve also got additional production coming out of the wells we worked over at Monroe Swell last year.
So, we’ll have a meaningful amount of production and, as I mentioned earlier, a meaningful amount of cash coming back from these assets and that will allow us to grow the California business. What is so important about the business we’ve built in California now is that it’s generating sufficient cash that we can use that cash to go and drill additional wells.
As I said, we’re looking at certainly drilling more wells at Monroe Swell but also look at the potential of drilling again at West Brentwood and also, we’ve got Grizzly Island which his another asset entirely. We haven’t drilled the first well into yet, that’s a very big asset, if that’s successful that will be extremely important to us as well and we’ll be drilling that this year too.
In addition to all of that, it probably won’t surprise people to know that we are looking at the potential to add to our asset base in California and we think there is the opportunity to bring additional assets into that portfolio to grow the business even more.
Q4: What’s happening elsewhere within Reabold Resources, in more broad terms?
A4: Outside of California, the most immediate event is the current drilling of the West Newton appraisal well which is onshore UK, up in Yorkshire, we’re drilling that well right now, our initial results will be available very soon. This is really, in the event of successes, a gamechanger for the company, in fact I would say this is a gamechanger for the UK onshore oil and gas industry in the event of success here.
It’s an extremely large gas target which we’re appraising and there’s an oil exploration element to this well in addition to that, both hare being tested by this well so two very important data points that will be coming out very soon. That’s an extremely exciting time waiting for those results to come in.
On top of that, following that, we also have our business in Romania and we’ll be drilling the first well in Romania shortly after the West Newton appraisal well is done. That, again, is a very attractive asset, it’s re-drilling a historical discovery so in that sense it’s extremely low risk as far as pre-cash flow asset go and we think Romania is an extremely attractive country to be operating in and there’s a lot of running room available on that license area. So, it’s not just the single well type event, that’s the start of a business in Romania that we think can go a very long way.
So, lots going on, lots of drilling activity and no slow-down in the drilling activity that we’ve been delivering over the last few months and there’s lots more wells to go. The success in California is really underpinning the financial strength of the company which really allows us to just keep rolling out this strategy.

Story 88
Taycan prototype convinces at endurance run in Nardò- 3,425 kilometres in 24 hours 19.08.2019: In 24 hours a pre-production Taycan covered a distance of exactly 3,425 kilometres righty before the world premiere on September 4 as part of a test at the Nardò high-speed track in Italy. This roughly corresponds to the distance from Nardò to Trondheim i



In 24 hours a pre-production Taycan covered a distance of exactly 3,425 kilometres righty before the world premiere on September 4 as part of a test at the Nardò high-speed track in Italy. This roughly corresponds to the distance from Nardò to Trondheim in Norway.




In sizzling temperatures at the southern Italian test track, the speed was between 195 and 215 km/h. With peak temperatures of 42 degrees Celsius and a track temperature of up to 54 degrees Celsius, the Taycan proved its long-distance qualities before the launch.



The test was carried out without interruptions, as the prototype Taycan merely had to pause for quick charging stops and driver changes. The team consisted of six Porsche test drivers. The quality assurance test took place as part of an endurance and hot climate test.



Stefan Weckbach, Vice President Product Line Taycan, was delighted to report that “the Taycan mastered this ambitious endurance run without any problems,” adding “the result achieved in Nardò highlights the advantages of the unique 800-volt technology and its high maturity level. Before the Taycan is launched on the market at the end of the year, we will have covered over six million test kilometres across the globe.”




The technology: 800-volt system



The Taycan is the first fully electric production vehicle with a system voltage of 800 volts. This technology helped the 919 Hybrid win the 24 Hours of Le Mans three times in a row and is now making the leap into series production.



The 800-volt technology enables consistently high performance, reduces the charging time and decreases the weight and the packaging space of the cabling. During the endurance test drive at the Nardò Technical Center, 800-volt high-power charging stations by Porsche Engineering Group GmbH were used.



The Taycan’s sophisticated thermal management also proved itself in Nardò. Thermal management revolves around a highly efficient, intelligent system for cooling and heating the high-voltage components. This prevents potential power losses due to excessive heat generation and ensures that the optimum temperature for the most efficient charging process has been reached when the vehicle arrives at a charging station.






The car: the first all-electric sports car from Porsche


The new Porsche Taycan not only proves endurance. Its electric powertrain is designed in such a way that it can unleash its full power even after accelerating several times at short intervals.



At the end of July a pre-series vehicle accelerated from 0 to 200 km/h no less than 26 successive times at an airfield. The average acceleration figure from the timed runs was under 10 seconds. The difference between the fastest and slowest acceleration run was 0.8 seconds.






The track: Nardò Technical Center in Puglia (Italy)



The Nardò Technical Center has more than 20 test tracks and test facilities on an area covering over 700 hectares, counts 90 companies in the automotive sector among its customers and employs more than 150 people. Since 2012, the test site has been run by Porsche Engineering Group GmbH, a wholly owned subsidiary of Dr. Ing. h.c. F. Porsche AG, Stuttgart.



The test centre was established in 1975 with the construction of the iconic circuit and offers extensive testing options for any development phase. The high-speed circuit – the only one of its kind in the world and measuring 12.6 kilometres – was built in order to be able to test cars under extreme conditions and make development processes more efficient.




The renovation of the test centre was successfully completed in mid-July. Among the improvements made was the installation of an innovative crash barrier system, which was developed by Porsche Engineering specially for high-speed testing in Nardò. Work also included the complete renovation of the 106,000 square-metre driving dynamics site.







Mayk Wienkötter- photos Porsche


Story 89
Royal Bank of Scotland Group PLC (LON:RBS) today announced 2018 performance summary
● Q4 2018 operating profit before tax of £572 million and an attributable profit of £286 million.
Continued track record of delivery
Income resilient in a competitive market:
● Income increased by £269 million, or 2.0%, compared with 2017. Excluding notable items, NatWest Markets and Central items, income was stable.
● 2018 net interest margin of 1.98% decreased by 15 basis points compared with 2017. Q4 2018 net interest margin of 1.95%, or 1.97% excluding one-off items, was 2 basis points higher than Q3 2018.
Lower costs through continued transformation and increased digitisation:
● Compared with 2017, other expenses decreased by £278 million, or 3.6%, excluding one-off VAT releases in 2017, and FTEs reduced by 5.8%.
● We continue to transition from physical to digital services. 6.4 million customers now regularly use our mobile app, 16% higher than 2017. In UK PBB, total digital sales increased by 19%, representing 45% of all sales. In Commercial Banking, we successfully launched the Bankline mobile app in the Apple app store and our customers can now apply digitally for loans of up to £750,000, the largest value offered by a UK commercial bank, with approximately 50% of loans given a decision in principle in under 24 hours.
Stronger capital position:
● CET1 ratio of 16.2% increased by 30 basis points in 2018 and included: the impact of a £2 billion pre-tax pension contribution; the settlement with the Department of Justice; and full year ordinary and special dividends of £1.6 billion. Excluding these items, the CET1 ratio increased by 240 basis points driven by the profit and reduced RWAs.
● Active capital management reduced RWAs by £12.2 billion in 2018.
● RBS achieved a clear pass in the 2018 Bank of England stress test.
Outlook(1)
RBS, like all companies, continues to deal with a range of significant risks and uncertainties in the external economic, political and regulatory environment. Our central economic forecast, which supports our corporate plan, is in line with consensus as at the end of December 2018 and shows average UK GDP growth of around 1.0-2.0% from 2019 to 2023 and continued low interest rates. Given the current uncertainties we will continue to actively monitor and react to market conditions.
2019 Outlook
As part of our continued cost savings plans, we expect to incur aggregate strategic costs of around £2.5 billion across 2018 and 2019, with £1.0 billion of this having been incurred during 2018. We plan to reduce operating expenses, excluding strategic costs and conduct and litigation costs, by £300 million in 2019 compared with 2018, excluding one-off items.
2018 saw a continuation of the period of benign economic conditions with low defaults and strong cash recoveries. However, the potential impact on the real economy of ongoing political uncertainties and geopolitical tensions could affect our credit loss outcome. As a result, impairments are expected to increase in 2019 but remain below our through-the-cycle loss rate assumption of 30-40 basis points. The threat from single name and sector driven events remains.
We expect to end 2019 with risk weighted assets (RWAs) of around £185 – 190 billion as the RWAs associated with Alawwal Bank are expected to reduce by around £5 billion, subject to regulatory approvals relating to the merger and our shareholding.
RBS Group (RBSG) capital and funding plans focus on issuing £3-5 billion of MREL-compliant instruments and around £1 billion of Tier 2 instruments. We do not plan to issue AT1 in 2019. As in prior years, we will continue to target other funding sources to diversify our funding structure, including senior secured issuance of £2-3 billion from NatWest Bank. NatWest Markets Plc, as a standalone bank, plans to issue £3-5 billion of term senior unsecured instruments.
Medium term outlook
While we remain comfortable with our 2020 target of a return on tangible equity of more than 12%, we recognise our 2020 target of a cost:income ratio of less than 50% is increasingly challenging for the business to achieve with the risk being to the downside. This reflects the ongoing economic and political uncertainty and the additional ongoing costs associated with ring-fencing and Brexit.
Our previous guidance on RWAs beyond 2020 was an estimated 10% increase in 2021 relating to Basel 3 amendments, in addition to RWA inflation as a result of IFRS 16, which requires lease obligations to be brought on balance sheet, of £1.3 billion in 2019 and Bank of England mortgage floors of £10.5 billion in 2020. We now expect the overall impact of Basel 3 amendments to be in the range of 5-10% and phased across 2021 to 2023, with the details still subject to significant regulatory uncertainty.
RBS Group capital distributions
We propose a 3.5 pence final ordinary dividend and a 7.5 pence special dividend for the 2018 financial year, while maintaining a CET1 ratio of 16.2% as at 31 December 2018.
Pro-forma for the introduction of IFRS16 – Leases, the CET1 ratio was 16.0%, with the c.20 basis points reduction reflecting a £1.3 billion increase in RWAs and £0.3 billion charge against reserves.
We expect to maintain ordinary dividends of around 40% of attributable profit. We have updated our medium term guidance of CET1 to be approximately 14% at the end of 2021. We have shareholder and regulatory approval to carry out directed buybacks of the UK government stake in RBS, but recognise that any exercise of this authority would be dependant upon HMT’s intentions and is limited to 4.99% of issued share capital in any 12 month period. As a reminder, we have also committed to make further pre tax contributions to the pension scheme of up to £1.5 billion in aggregate from 1 January 2020 linked to future distributions to RBS shareholders.
NatWest Markets (NWM)
The NWM franchise includes NWM Plc and NWM N.V., both of which are currently direct subsidiaries of RBSG. RBS has previously announced its intention for NWM N.V. to become a subsidiary of NWM Plc following the completion of the sale of the consortium holding in Alawwal. As such, NWM Plc’s financial reporting does not currently include NWM N.V.
NWM Plc is regulated and discloses capital ratios and RWAs on a standalone bank basis and is targeting by 2020 a CET1 ratio of circa 15%, MREL ratio of at least 30% and a leverage ratio of at least 4%.
We plan to transfer our Western Europe corporate business into NWM N.V. from the ring-fenced bank, in addition to the NWM business that is expected to be part of a FSMA Part VII Transfer Scheme from NWM Plc to NWM N.V., subject to court approval and as announced on 6 December 2018. NWM Plc legal entity RWAs are expected to be around £35 billion, NWM N.V. RWAs are expected to be around £8billion with the consolidated NWM franchise position, excluding RWAs related to intercompany positions, expected to be around £39 billion by 2020.
Note:
(1)The targets, expectations and trends discussed in this section represent RBSG and NWM’s management’s current expectations and are subject to change, including as a result of the factors described in the “Risk Factors” section on pages 253 to 263 of the RBSG 2018 Annual Report and Accounts and pages 124 to 133 of the NWM 2018 Annual Report and Accounts. These statements constitute forward-looking statements; refer to Forward-looking statements in this document.
Business performance summary
Year ended Quarter ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 30 September 31 December Performance key metrics and ratios 2018 2017 2018 2018 2017 Operating profit/(loss) before tax £3,359m £2,239m £572m £961m (£583m) Profit/(loss) attributable to ordinary shareholders £1,622m £752m £286m £448m (£579m) Net interest margin 1.98% 2.13% 1.95% 1.93% 2.04% Average interest earning assets £437bn £422bn £442bn £443bn £431bn Cost:income ratio (1) 71.7% 79.0% 80.5% 66.7% 111.5% Earnings per share – basic 13.5p 6.3p 2.4p 3.7p (4.9p) – basic fully diluted 13.4p 6.3p 2.3p 3.7p (4.9p) Return on tangible equity 4.8% 2.2% 3.5% 5.4% (6.7%) Average tangible equity £33bn £34bn £33bn £33bn £34bn Average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period (millions) – basic 12,009 11,867 12,040 12,034 11,944 – fully diluted (2) 12,061 11,936 12,081 12,083 12,003
31 December 30 September 31 December Balance sheet related key metrics and ratios 2018 2018 2017 Total assets £694.2bn £719.9bn £738.1bn Funded assets £560.9bn £587.3bn £577.2bn Loans to customers – amortised cost £305.1bn £305.8bn £310.1bn Impairment provisions (3) £3.3bn £3.9bn £3.8bn Customer deposits £360.9bn £360.6bn £361.3bn Liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) 158% 158% 152% Liquidity portfolio £198bn £195bn £186bn Net stable funding ratio (NSFR) (4) 141% 139% 132% Loan:deposit ratio (5) 85% 85% 86% Total wholesale funding £74bn £78bn £70bn Short-term wholesale funding £15bn £14bn £18bn Common Equity Tier (CET1) ratio 16.2% 16.7% 15.9% Total capital ratio 21.8% 22.1% 21.3% Pro forma CET 1 ratio, pre 2018 dividend accrual (6) 16.9% 16.8% 15.9% Risk-weighted assets (RWAs) £188.7bn £194.5bn £200.9bn CRR leverage ratio 5.4% 5.4% 5.3% UK leverage ratio 6.2% 6.3% 6.1% Tangible net asset value (TNAV) per ordinary share 287p 288p 294p Tangible net asset value (TNAV) per ordinary share – fully diluted 286p 287p 292p Tangible equity £34,566m £34,672m £35,164m Number of ordinary shares in issue (millions) 12,049 12,048 11,965 Number of ordinary shares in issue (millions) – fully diluted (2,7) 12,088 12,091 12,031
Notes:
(1)Operating lease depreciation included in income for the year ended 31 December 2018 – £121 million; Q4 2018 – £32 million (year ended 31 December 2017 – £142 million; Q3 2018 – £32 million; Q4 2017 – £35 million).
(2)Includes the effect of dilutive share options and convertible securities. Dilutive shares on an average basis for Q4 2018 were 41 million shares and for the year ended 31 December 2018 were 52 million shares; (year ended 31 December 2017 – 69 million shares, Q3 2018 – 49 million shares, Q4 2017 – 59 million shares), and as at 31 December 2018 were 39 million shares (30 September 2018 – 43 million shares; 31 December 2017 – 66 million shares).
(3)31 December and 30 September 2018 prepared under IFRS 9, 31 December 2017 prepared under IAS 39.
(4)In November 2016, the European Commission published its proposal for NSFR rules within the EU as part of its CRR2 package of regulatory reforms. CRR2 NSFR is expected to become the regulatory requirement in future within the EU and the UK. RBS has changed its policy on the NSFR to align with its interpretation of the CRR2 proposals with effect from 1 January 2018. The pro forma CRR2 NSFR at 31 December 2017 under CRR2 proposals is estimated to be 139%.
(5)The loan:deposit ratio has been updated following the adoption of IFRS 9 to be based on customer loans and deposits held at amortised cost. Comparatives have been re-presented.
(6)The pro forma CET 1 ratio at 31 December 2018 excludes a charge of £422 million (3.5p per share) for the final dividend and £904 million (7.5p per share) for the special dividend (30 September 2018 – £120 million (1p per share)) that are reasonably foreseeable dividends.
(7)Includes 8 million treasury shares (30 September 2018 – 9 million shares; 31 December 2017 – 16 million shares).
Chief Executive’s message
2018 was a year of strong progress on our strategy – we settled our remaining major legacy issues, paid our first dividend in ten years and delivered another full year bottom line profit. However, while our financial performance is more assured, we know that a significant gap remains to achieving our ambition to be the best bank for customers. We are fully focused on closing this gap.
Today we are reporting a pre-tax operating profit of £3.4 billion and a bottom line attributable profit of £1.6 billion for 2018. In addition, we are pleased to propose a full year ordinary dividend of 3.5 pence per share, and a special dividend of 7.5 pence per share. These are in addition to the ordinary dividend we paid at our interim results. Together, we will have returned £1.6 billion to shareholders, and around £1 billion to the UK taxpayer in dividends. We also have shareholder approval to participate in a directed buyback should the government seek to dispose of a portion of its shares.
The UK economy faces a heightened level of uncertainty related to the ongoing Brexit negotiations. We have continued to support our customers, providing £30.4 billion in gross new UK mortgage lending in 2018, and Commercial Banking made or renewed commitments of around £30 billion of term lending facilities to mainly UK businesses. Our Commercial and Business Banking businesses supported total lending of more than £100 billion in 2018.
We have also committed an additional £2 billion to our Growth Fund to support British business, taking the total fund to £3 billion. This fund is helping businesses manage their supply chains in what is a very uncertain time. These actions help maintain our position as the largest supporter of UK business.
A good financial performance in uncertain economic conditions
Our financial performance is good, given the uncertain economic outlook. In 2018, we continued to take costs out of the business and reduced operating expenses by £278 million. This means that we have now reduced operating costs by more than £4 billion in five years.
Our long-term target remains to reach a cost to income ratio of below 50%, however we note that as an industry we are required to carry additional costs to deal with Brexit and the ongoing operational obligations of ring-fencing. Given the continued low rate environment and highly competitive mortgage market, coupled with the uncertainty in the economy, income remains under pressure. We continue to focus on cost reduction to ensure we are preparing our business for the future and to meet our customers and shareholders needs.
In 2019, we are committing to reducing our operating costs by c.£300 million. Our consistent delivery on cost targets in recent years gives me the confidence we will achieve this.
Our strategic plan has served us well and we will continue to focus on our five key priorities, as set out below, as we strive to become the UK and Republic of Ireland’s best bank for customers.
Strength and Sustainability
The bank’s financial strength is much improved. Our Common Equity Tier 1 ratio has increased from 8.6% at the end of 2013 to 16.2% at the end of 2018. This progress helped us to obtain a clear pass in the 2018 Bank of England stress test – a very important milestone. Alongside our financial strength we have continued to build greater resilience into our systems, helping to protect our customers who are at greater risk of fraud and scams more than ever before. We are the first and only UK bank to partner with National Trading Standards on their Friends Against Scams initiative. More than 31,000 colleagues completed the training in 2018 and we have committed to training a million customers by 2020.
Customer Experience
While our financial performance is more assured, we know that a significant gap remains to achieving our ambition to be the best bank for customers. We are very aware that we need to deliver better service, more consistently. The Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) results, which now provide the public with a ranking of banks’ performance for customers, bring this into sharp focus. With the large major legacy issues behind us, we are putting all of our focus into improving our customer experience.
We are investing in innovation, with £1 billion committed to invest in 2019 aimed at improving legacy systems and delivering better solutions for customers. We continue to develop our mobile app which for NatWest now scores +41 for customer advocacy. Our Commercial Bank, the UK’s largest supporter of business, remains ahead of the rest of the market for customer advocacy and in Coutts we have a market leading private banking brand.
Customers want and need to do their banking quickly and safely. When we help them to do this, and combine it with expert advice, we see advocacy scores increase. That is how we are focusing the business, and we are confident the changes we are making will deliver a consistently higher quality of service.
Simplifying the Bank
We are a simpler bank, but we can’t yet call ourselves simple to deal with. While we are now more efficient with a lower cost base, as we have shrunk in size, many of our processes are still too difficult for our customers to deal with, and are frustrating for our colleagues as they try to serve our customers. Whether it is booking travel, watching a film or shopping online, customers now expect a fast and reliable service. Banking is no different from any other customer focused industry, and we are responding to those changes in customer behaviour.
Our first digital lending journey for Commercial Banking customers is now live. The new platform allows existing customers to apply digitally for secured and unsecured loans up to £750,000, subject to eligibility criteria. Customers are able to complete their loan application in a matter of minutes, and usually get a decision in principle within 24 hours. We have simplified and streamlined the customer experience, giving our customers a rapid response, all the while supported by the vast industry knowledge and insight of our Relationship Managers.
We are also embracing artificial intelligence (AI), which is helping us lower our cost base and deliver a 24/7 customer experience . Take Cora for instance -our AI Chat Bot which we launched in partnership with IBM Watson – she now handles an average of 83,000 queries a week. Given the success in the personal business, we have recently rolled out Cora to Commercial Banking.
Supporting sustainable growth
Supporting our customers’ ambitions is a key part of our role in society. We have focused on growing lending in our target markets. Gross mortgage lending in UK Personal and Business Banking increased £1.5 billion in 2018, and we helped around 45,000 customers buy their first home. Our support doesn’t only extend to lending, we now have 12 NatWest accelerators. These hubs make up the UK’s largest fully-funded business accelerator network, capable of supporting up to 1,000 entrepreneurs.
NatWest Markets continued to support large corporate customers with a range of financing needs in 2018. Our FX team was voted number one for customer satisfaction in the 2017 Greenwich Associates FX Survey and we helped clients raise £312 billion on the debt capital markets.
Employee engagement
The turnaround of the bank would not have been possible without the hard work and determination of our colleagues. Over the last four years we have seen a significant reduction in the number of roles across the bank, as a result of divestment and restructuring aligned to our strategy. Despite this activity, colleague engagement is at its highest level since we started measuring in 2002. The independent Banking Standards Board report on culture also showed improvements in every category. Of course, there is always more we can do, and we have set stretching targets as we strive to become a more diverse and inclusive organisation.
Innovating and investing to improve customer service
We have taken a dual approach to innovation by transforming our core banking services and delivering new products and services outside of traditional banking. In 2018, we continued to invest in our existing infrastructure, improving system resilience and migrating to latest in cloud technologies. Last year we experienced 19 Criticality 1 Incidents, compared to 318 four years ago.
Our customers continued to migrate to our mobile app during 2018. In UK PBB we now have 6.4 million regular mobile customers, 16% higher than 2017. Today close to three quarters of active current account customers in UK PBB are regular digital users. Sales through our digital channels in UK PBB are up 19% on last year and now represent almost half of all product sales. Four years ago this figure would have been 26%.
At the same time we are trying new things outside our core banking services. We are piloting Bó and Mettle as two standalone digital banks. Bó is our digital personal bank targeted at helping people to manage their money better. Mettle is our digital bank for business customers.
We are learning a lot from these innovations and applying our findings back into the core bank.
These innovations complement the wider eco-systems that we want to build around key customer experiences – be it buying a home, or running a business. Building or acquiring complementary services to the core banking services we already offer in these areas will allow us to deepen our relationships with customers, and ultimately grow revenue.
2019, a year of focusing forward
In 2019, we will focus forward, into a rapidly changing market. We have set annual goals for 2019 based around our five priorities in order to keep up momentum on the delivery of our strategic plan. There are two areas in particular that we need to focus on – customer experience and simplifying the bank. This year we aim to spend £1 billion on upgrading legacy infrastructure, improving systems, processes and delivering new innovations which will improve our customers’ experience. We will simplify the bank further in 2019, given this we have set a operating cost reduction target of c.£300 million for 2019, and continue to strive for a sub 50% cost to income ratio.
We have made good progress on making RBS a much simpler, safer and more customer focused bank. From a position of capital strength, we will aim to improve returns for you, our shareholders.
Building the best bank for customers in the UK and Republic of Ireland
Customer Advocacy and Trust Scores
Our brands are our main connection with customers. Each takes a clear and differentiated position with the aim of helping us strengthen our relationship with them. For this reason we track customer advocacy for our key brands using the net-promoter score (NPS) – a commonly-used metric in banking and other industries across the world.
We know that we still have much to do. Our recent programme of branch closures has had a detrimental impact on NPS. But we are determined to make a difference with the things that matter most to our customers. We are listening hard. In 2018, we called a total of over 113,000 customers; either to learn more about feedback that they had already given us, or to respond to issues that they identified. Through fixing our core processes we will get our core service right first time more consistently while at the same time innovating to deliver better solutions.

Story 90
26.08.2019 / MaP
“Audi e-tron extreme”: Endurance test Long-distance test covering over 1,600 kilometers (994.2 mi) from Slovenia to the Netherlands Fast-charging with up to 150 kW in less than half an hour Range, efficiency, performance, comfort – the stre more >>
- A unique variety of exclusive refinement - Extension of product range as central component of the corporate NUMBER ONE > NEXT strategy – Successful launch of the new BMW Series, the BMW 8 Series C more >>
Porsche is entering a new era with the new Taycan and the brand’s first all-electric sports car is setting standards in interior design. Classic design features have been reinterpreted and brought into the digital age. “Less is more applies here too,” explains Ivo van Hulten, Director Interior Design Style Porsche at Porsche AG. “The Taycan interior combines design more >>
Increasingly, leading automakers are finding that intelligent suspensions are a smart choice for enhancing vehicle dynamics and giving consumers the ability to customize their vehicle’s ride performance. more >>
Benchmark in-car entertainmentPorsche has teamed up with Apple Music to create the first fully integrated music streaming experience inside the much-anticipated Porsche Taycan, the first fully electric Porsche vehicle launching in September. more >>
Both Vehicles Recognized as Standouts in Their Respective Segments• Forte praised for expected reliability and available advanced driver assistance technologies• Critics applaud Soul’s top-notch safety more >>
White is the most widely chosen colour for cars worldwide, followed by black and grey In India there are hardly any black vehicles, while the colour red is a big favourite in Mediterranean countries Climate, personal taste and superstitions influence colour choices more >>
In 24 hours a pre-production Taycan covered a distance of exactly 3,425 kilometres righty before the world premiere on September 4 as part of a test at the Nardò high-speed track in Italy. This roughly corresponds to the distance from Nard&ogr more >>
“R” says it all: Sporty top model of the T-Roc production line Power pack: 2.0 TSI, 221 kW (300 PS) power, 400 Nm torque Price: starting at 43.995 Euro with generous standard equipment more >>
Having started the export business in 2013, Daimler India Commercial Vehicles (DICV) has now produced a remarkable 25,000 export units. The milestone truck, a FUSO FJ 1823R was recently shipped to Saudi Arabia. The plant in Oragadam near Chennai is an integral part of Daimler’s global production network for trucks and buses. In fa more >>
Direct route to multi-million bestseller: over 13.6million Corsas sold in 37 years Pioneer: Opel introduces top technologies from higher classes in small car Ready for the future: Corsa “Number 6” also with electric version for first time World premiere: new Corsa and Corsa more >>
McLaren Automotive expands its Australian retail network with addition of McLaren Adelaide Fourth location in the country extends the McLaren luxury ownership experience to South Australian customers Officially opened by George Biggs, Managing Director, McLaren Automotive Asia Pacific and China more >>
Global pilot charging program began in Germany in 2018. U.S. test limited to 200 pilot program vehicles available to eligible California residents. Special 2019 530e PHEV Sedan Induction Charging lease package. more >>
Another celebration took place at the traditional MINI plant with a rich heritage punctually heralding the 60th anniversary of the British premium brand – the anniversary vehicle is a model of the MINI 60 Years Edition.MINI Fans all o more >>
• Kia Motors successfully operates school for five years before handover• Kia’s volunteers working in Ethiopia to support the country’s education and renovation efforts• Green Light Project aids mobility and self-sufficiency in Africa more >>
Total Lubrifiants, a leading player in the global lubricants market, announces the acquisition from Houghton International of its aluminum hot rolling oil (AHRO), steel cold rolling oil (SCRO) and tinplate rolling oil (TPRO) activities in the North American and European Economic Area markets. The transaction includes the associated technical support services in both regions. more >>
All-round safety: Opel Surround Rear Vision provides complete visibility Accident prevention: pedestrians and cyclists in full view during right turns Cost-saving: assistants like Flank Guard and Park Assist protect against dents more >>
Porsche subsidiary continues to expand global networkPorsche Digital has opened a second site in the US in Atlanta (Georgia) to extend the company’s business portfolio for North America. The team of business experts, designers and software engi more >>
The BMW Group announced that Lorenz Makeschin has been named Vice President of the BMW Group Technology Office USA, where he will lead several research and development teams working to bring new technological innovation, products, a more >>
Audi e-tron Scooter: functionality and style for the last mile The rider has one hand free, can look around and give hand signals Production and sales planned for late 2020 more >>
Automobili Lamborghini officially opens its exclusive lifestyle Lounge in Porto Cervo on Sardinia’s Costa Smeralda for the 2019 summer season. Situated on the Promenade du Port, linked to Porto Vecchio (Old Port) and the num more >>
Process and qualification programme adjustedNew technologies require new ways of thinking and working, including in quality management: that’s why, in preparation for its next step into electromobility, Porsche has created an extensive new training programme and adapted its processes. Further drivers are digitalisation and smart mobility: Alongside more >>
The master stroke Fernando Belasteguín, first-ranked world padel champion for 16 straight years and CUPRA ambassador, faces one of the biggest challenges of his career 36 metres high, a 70X50 cm target and a swing executed with pinpoint accuracy The CUPRA Ateca, the best ally for a fea more >>
....to explore Norway's Lofoten Islands Norway has become the latest destination for Lamborghini Avventura, the series of Lamborghini expeditions organized to discover the most spectacular places and roads in the world. more >>
For Lower Emissions and Higher Efficiency Model of aerodynamics: class-leading drag coefficient of only 0.29 Every detail counts: active aero shutter, smooth underbody, rear roof spoiler&nb more >>
Taycan example becomes a secret agent carElectric secret agent car: the Porsche Mission E sports car has a role in the new animated family film from Playmobil. The concept car is the prototype for the first all-electric Porsche, the Taycan, which will be launched in more >>
• Germany, Spain and the UK, the main markets of the Leon• The third generation changed the recent history of the brand This week the third generation SEAT Leon has achieved the million unit more >>
Personnel change in the sales organisationHolger Gerrmann (49), currently Financial Director at Porsche Lizenz-und Handelsgesellschaft (PLH), will assume the position as CEO of Porsche Korea starting from 16 September 2019. more >>
All new-McLaren Paris announced as the 26th retailer in the McLaren European retail network French automotive retailer LS Group appointed to launch all-new McLaren Paris dealership Servicing of McLaren cars to commence at new location from August 1 more >>
For the third consecutive year, Lexus is a sponsor of the Venice International Film Festival – La Biennale di Venezia Lexus UX Hybrid, the first full hybrid electric compact SUV in the premium segment, among the cars at the Biennale Cinema 2019 Actors, directors, and guests will arrive in about 35 Lexus more >>
- Investment of around ten million US dollars in production of fourth-generation batteries - Production of new BMW X5 Plug-in Hybrid to begin in August 2019 BMW Group Plant Spartanburg in the US state of South Caroli more >>
• The Software House announced at the Mobile World Congress will be called SEAT:CODE• New structure led by brand CIO Sebastian Grams, and Carlos Buenosvinos as CTO of the new software centre• This centre of excellence will be located in Barcelona• O more >>
The Touareg “ONE Million” model with special Sechura Beige paintwork. Stylish “ONE Million” model with new special paintwork, perfectly coordinated interior and exclusive details more >>
• Eating right is key when sitting at the wheel for hours• Driving consumes between 1,000 and 1,350 kilocalories a day• Pasta, rice, onions and tomatoes do not make good driving companions• Dehydration is just as dangerous for a driver as being under the more >>
– Fact sheet including quotes by Britta Seeger: The most important facts on "Best Customer Experience 4.0" of Mercedes-Benz Mercedes-Benz is developing its global sales network on a co more >>
Fresh start: Lubinski Group has taken over as importer Lubinski successfully sells Peugeot, Citroën and DS Automobiles vehicles in Israel Profitable sales growth outside Europe important pillar of PACE! plan more >>
The Coscharis Group plant will start assembling Renault Logan and Renault Duster and will distribute the cars through their sales network throughout the country starting October 2019. Groupe Renault is leader in Africa with 18% market share. more >>
Immense spectrum: maximum comfort or outstanding agility The electromechanical suspension system can actuate each wheel individually First-class travel experience: intelligently reduced longitudinal and transverse forces more >>

Story 91
PSAV Expands Into Global Trade Show Market with Hargrove Acquisition
Experiential events and exhibitions production company, Hargrove, has been acquired by the parent holding company of PSAV, a global provider of audiovisual and event experiences.
No financial terms of the deal were disclosed.
The acquisition not only brings together a premium experiential events and trade show company with one of the largest event experience providers in North America and Europe, but also marks PSAV’s ownership group’s entry into the global trade show market and the acceleration of its expansion into live experiential events.
For Hargrove, the acquisition by PSAV will expand the company’s scale, provide access to leading technology, a vast customer base and a platform for international growth.
The new relationship also creates opportunities for both companies to partner and refer business to each other as they work in tandem to deliver services designed to enhance their clients’ live event experiences.
“The Board and I are so pleased to be adding the incredibly talented folks at Hargrove, known for delivering large-scale, memorable experiences for more than seven decades, to the PSAV family,” said Mike McIlwain, president and CEO of PSAV and a board member of its parent holding company.
He continued, “This transaction was driven by the Board’s desire to create a network of companies that would be able to offer customers expanded production and exhibition market capabilities.”
Founded in 1946 and based in Lanham, Md., Hargrove is a full-service, creative and technical production company that serves myriad segments of the live events market, creating face-to-face experiences for some of the world’s most recognized corporations, associations and government agencies.
Hargrove will maintain its distinct brand, culture and independence, while Tim McGill will remain at the helm as the company’s CEO and report to PSAV Holdings’ Board of Directors.
“I could not be more excited to join the PSAV family, whose leadership shares our vision to create a world-class, global live events company,” McGill said.
Going forward, the PSAV family of companies will continue to execute on the group’s strategy to provide solutions to help bring face-to-face events to life.
“We have been a family-run business since being founded by my grandfather and father,” said Carla Hargrove McGill, president of Hargrove.
She continued, “There are no better caretakers for their legacy and our extended family of employees who helped us build one of the greatest experiential production companies in the world than the people within the PSAV family of companies.”
​​​​​

Story 92
DUBLIN, Sept 19, 2018 /PRNewswire/ --
The "Rapid Microbiology Testing Market by Method (Growth, Viability), Product (Automated Microbial Identification & AST System, PCR, Reagent), Application (Clinical Diagnosis, Environmental), End User (Labs, Hospitals, Industry) - Global Forecast to 2023" report has been added to ResearchAndMarkets.com's offering.
The global rapid microbiology testing market is expected to USD 5.09 billion by 2023 from USD 3.45 billion in 2018, growing at a CAGR of 8.1%.
Growth in the rapid microbiology testing market can be attributed to factors such as the rising prevalence of infectious diseases; ongoing technological advancements; increasing food safety concerns; increased funding, research grants, and public-private investments; and increasing awareness about rapid microbiology testing.
This report broadly segments the rapid microbiology testing market into products, methods, applications, end users, and regions.
Based on product, the global rapid microbiology testing market is segmented into instruments, reagents & kits, and consumables. In 2018, the instruments segment is expected to account for the largest share of the market owing to factors such as the significant adoption of modern laboratory instruments in the research and academic sectors (coupled with growing industry-academia collaborations for genomic research) and the ongoing trend of laboratory automation among clinical laboratories.
Based on method, the global rapid microbiology testing market is divided into five segments growth-based, viability-based, cellular component-based, nucleic acid-based, and other testing methods. The growth-based rapid microbiology testing segment is expected to account for the largest share of the market in 2018. The large share of this segment can be attributed to factors such as the ease of processing (this method uses conventional liquid or agar media), the limited requirement of skilled professionals, and supportive government regulations.
On the basis of application, the rapid microbiology testing market is segmented into clinical disease diagnosis, food & beverage testing, pharmaceutical & biological drug testing, cosmetics and personal care products testing, environmental applications, research applications, and other applications. The clinical disease diagnosis application segment is expected to dominate the rapid microbiology testing market during the forecast period. This can primarily be attributed to the increasing use of rapid microbiology testing for the diagnosis of infectious diseases in humans; rising emphasis on effective and early disease diagnosis across major markets; and the introduction of advanced, accurate, and rapid methods for faster clinical diagnosis.
The rapid microbiology testing market, by end user, is segmented into diagnostic laboratories & hospitals, food & beverage companies, pharmaceutical companies, CROs, and other end users. In 2018, the diagnostic laboratories & hospitals segment is expected to account for the largest share of the rapid microbiology testing market. Some of the key factors driving the growth of this segment are the increasing prevalence of infectious diseases, improving healthcare expenditure, and technological advancements in rapid microbial testing.
North America is expected to dominate the global rapid microbiology testing market in 2018. Technological advancements in the field of rapid microbial testing, the rising incidence of infectious diseases, and growing food safety concerns are driving the growth of the rapid microbiology testing market in North America. Additionally, easy accessibility and high adoption of advanced diagnostic technologies owing to the significant per capita annual healthcare expenditure by the US and Canadian governments are increasing the adoption of rapid microbiology testing in this region. The Asia Pacific region is expected to grow at the highest CAGR due to the increasing healthcare expenditure and growing initiatives to promote the use of advanced rapid microbiology testing technologies in Asia Pacific countries.
However, reimbursement concerns and the high cost of rapid microbiology testing products are the major factors restricting market growth.
As of 2017, some of the major players operating in this market include bioMrieux SA (France), Abbott Laboratories Inc. (US), Danaher Corporation (US), and Becton, Dickinson and Company (US).
Key Topics Covered:

1 Introduction

2 Research Methodology

3 Executive Summary

4 Premium Insights
4.1 Rapid Microbiology Testing Market Overview
4.2 Regional Analysis: Rapid Microbiology Testing Market, By Product
4.3 Rapid Microbiology Testing Reagents Market, By Type
4.4 Asia Pacific: Rapid Microbiology Testing Market, By Method, 2018
4.5 Rapid Microbiology Testing Market, By Application
4.6 Regional Analysis: Rapid Microbiology Testing Market, By End User
4.7 Rapid Microbiology Testing Market, By Country

5 Market Overview
5.1 Introduction
5.2 Market Dynamics
5.2.1 Drivers
5.2.1.1 Rising Incidence of Infectious Diseases
5.2.1.2 Technological Advancements
5.2.1.3 Increasing Food Safety Concerns
5.2.1.4 Funding, Research Grants, and Public-Private Investments
5.2.2 Restraints
5.2.2.1 Unfavorable Reimbursement Policies
5.2.3 Opportunities
5.2.3.1 Government Initiatives for the Detection of Antimicrobial Resistance
5.2.3.2 Emerging Countries
5.2.3.3 Bioterrorism Surveillance
5.2.4 Challenges
5.2.4.1 High Cost of Rapid Microbiology Testing Instruments
5.2.5 Burning Issues
5.2.5.1 Bundled Sales By Market Giants
5.2.5.2 Stringent Policies and Expected Regulatory Changes

6 Rapid Microbiology Testing Market, By Method
6.1 Introduction
6.2 Growth-Based Rapid Microbiology Testing
6.3 Cellular Component-Based Rapid Microbiology Testing
6.4 Nucleic Acid-Based Rapid Microbiology Testing
6.5 Viability-Based Rapid Microbiology Testing
6.6 Other Rapid Microbiology Testing Methods

7 Rapid Microbiology Testing Market, By Product
7.1 Introduction
7.2 Instruments
7.2.1 Automated Microbial Identification and Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing Systems
7.2.2 Mass Spectrometers
7.2.3 Pcr Systems
7.2.4 Bioluminescence- and Fluorescence-Based Detection Systems
7.2.5 Cytometers
7.2.6 Active Air Samplers
7.2.7 Other Instruments
7.3 Reagents & Kits
7.3.1 Sterility Testing Reagents & Kits
7.3.2 Other Reagents & Kits
7.4 Consumables

8 Rapid Microbiology Testing Market, By Application
8.1 Introduction
8.2 Clinical Disease Diagnosis
8.3 Food & Beverage Testing
8.4 Pharmaceutical & Biological Drug Testing
8.5 Environmental Testing
8.6 Cosmetics & Personal Care Products Testing
8.7 Research Applications
8.8 Other Applications

9 Rapid Microbiology Testing Market, By End User
9.1 Introduction
9.2 Diagnostic Laboratories & Hospitals
9.3 Food & Beverage Companies
9.4 Pharmaceutical & Biotechnology Companies
9.5 Contract Research Organizations
9.6 Other End Users

10 Rapid Microbiology Testing Market, By Region
10.1 Introduction
10.2 North America
10.2.1 US
10.2.2 Canada
10.3 Europe
10.3.1 Germany
10.3.2 France
10.3.3 UK
10.3.4 Rest of Europe (RoE)
10.4 Asia Pacific
10.4.1 Japan
10.4.2 China
10.4.3 India
10.4.4 Rest of Asia Pacific (RoAPAC)
10.5 Rest of the World

11 Competitive Landscape
11.1 Introduction
11.2 Market Share Analysis
11.3 Competitive Scenario
11.3.1 Product Launches, Approvals, and Enhancements
11.3.2 Acquisitions
11.3.3 Collaborations and Agreements
11.3.4 Expansions

12 Company Profiles
12.1 Abbott Laboratories
12.2 Becton, Dickinson and Company
12.3 Biomrieux
12.4 Bruker Corporation
12.5 Charles River Laboratories International, Inc.
12.6 Danaher Corporation
12.7 Don Whitley Scientific Limited
12.8 Merck KGaA
12.9 Neogen Corporation
12.10 Quidel Corporation
12.11 Rapid Micro Biosystems, Inc.
12.12 Sartorius Group
12.13 Thermo Fisher Scientific
12.14 TSI, Inc.
12.15 Vivione Biosciences, LLC

For more information about this report visit
https://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/mlshqt/global_rapid?w=5
Media Contact:
Research and Markets
Laura Wood, Senior Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com

For E.S.T Office Hours Call +1-917-300-0470
For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call +1-800-526-8630
For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900

U.S. Fax: 646-607-1907
Fax (outside U.S.): +353-1-481-1716
SOURCE Research and Markets
Related Links
http://www.researchandmarkets.com


Story 93
The BMW M4 Edition M Heritage -Performance and exclusiveness by tradition 03.09.2019: BMW M GmbH continues the series of attractive edition models with 750 limited-edition BMW M4 Coupes  body colours in special exclusive M colours and a unique interior design to match  world premiere during
BMW M GmbH continues the series of attractive edition models with 750 limited-edition BMW M4 Coupes – body colours in special exclusive M colours and a unique interior design to match – world premiere during the DTM racing event on the Nürburgring.




With the forthcoming races on the Nürburgring the current German Touring Car Masters (DTM) season will finally reach its decisive phase. Moreover, during the DTM weekend being held from 13 to 15 September 2019, visitors can expect a further attraction.



The BMW M4 Edition ///M Heritage (combined fuel consumption: 10.0 – 9.3 l/100 km; combined CO2 emissions: 227 – 213 g/km) will make its world debut on the legendary racetrack in the Eifel. The special edition of the BMW M4 Coupe, which forms the basis of the BMW M4 DTM deployed by BMW M Motorsport, fascinates with an exclusive exterior and interior look reflecting the impressive tradition of the high-performance racing cars.




The BMW M4 Edition ///M Heritage, powered by a 331 kW/450 hp straight six-cylinder engine with M TwinPower Turbo technology will be produced and sold worldwide between November 2019 and April 2020 as an edition model limited to 750 units.



Light blue, dark blue and red – these are the colours by which motorsport fans immediately recognize the BMW M GmbH logo. Immediately after the founding of the BMW Motorsport GmbH in 1972, the characteristic colours already adorned these racing cars, which were based on the BMW 3.0 CSL and became highly successful in touring car racing. Since then, the distinctive stripes in the three classic BMW M GmbH colours have stood for exhilarating performance and exclusive design also on the road.



The BMW M4 Edition///M Heritage takes up this unmistakable colour combination on unique exterior and interior design features. There is a choice of the three body colours Laguna Seca Blue, Velvet Blue metallic and Imola Red available for the edition model. Furthermore, the two-seater’s carbon-fibre reinforced plastic roof boasts a striking decorative strip in the BMW M colours, which is integrated into the CFRP composite at the factory using a special manufacturing process. Likewise unique are the forged, 20-inch M light alloy wheels in a star spoke design featuring the colour Orbit Grey matt and fitted with mixed tyres.



The interior of the edition model is also characterised by an exclusive selection of colours and materials. The spectrum of equipment includes model-specific full leather M seats in a bicolour design and with prominent openings within the area of the seatbacks. Each seat colour is oriented towards the exterior paint and is complemented by partly bicoloured contrast stitching. In conjunction with the exterior colours Laguna Seca Blue and Velvet Blue metallic, the seats come in Silverstone/Black with turquoise stitching or Velvet Blue and Orange respectively. With the exterior finish Imola Red, the seat colours Red and Black correspond with yellow and red contrast stitching.



The both appealing and exclusive colour scheme continues with interior carbon trim strips designed exclusively for the BMW M4 Edition ///M Heritage and whose CFRP structure incorporates the stripe design featuring the three characteristic M colours. Both the interior trim strips and the door sills bear emblems with the imprints “Edition ///M Heritage” and “1/750” as an indication of the limited edition of this model. The lettering “///M Heritage” – in turquoise, orange or red respectively – is also to be found on the front headrests.



The BMW M4 Edition ///M Heritage offers a particularly exclusive opportunity to experience the handling characteristics of a high-performance sports car marked by dynamics, agility and precision. At the same time, with this model, the BMW M GmbH is continuing the tradition of exclusive special editions, a tradition that has been cultivated now for several model generations. They reflect the enthusiasm for exceptional sporting successes or awareness of the history of selected models, of which many have become much sought-after collectors’ items in the course of time.



Expressive paint finishes and a characteristic interior design were already hallmarks of the BMW M3 Edition of the year 2009. At that time, with the variants Alpine White, Black, Dakar Yellow and Monte Carlo Blue there were as many as four body colours available for the edition model based on the fourth generation of the BMW M3. In the year 2012, BMW Motorsport’s successful comeback in the DTM triggered the production of the BMW M3 DTM Champion Edition.



During the first season following an almost 20-year break, BMW came first in the manufacturer’s rating, with the BMW Team Schnitzer winning the team classification. Moreover, the Canadian Bruno Spengler seized the driver’s title. Only 54 units of the edition model were produced – one for each racing victory BMW was able to clinch in the DTM by then. And there were several more in the years that followed. In the 2016 season, it was the German BMW Motorsport works driver Marco Wittmann in particular who was hard to beat and who eventually became the new DTM champion.



The BMW M4 DTM Champion Edition, which was limited to 200 units, was brought to market in his honour. The strongly racing-oriented special edition not only exhibited exclusive design features but, above all, was provided with numerous innovations that had previously helped the 368 kW/500 hp BMW M4 GTS achieve its outstanding performance.




The same year, BMW M GmbH also presented an edition model of the BMW M3 Sedan in memory of the BMW M3, which had made its debut three decades previously. The special edition 30 Years M3 was finished exclusively in the colour Macao Blue metallic and produced in a limited quantity of 500 units. The latest example to date of a fascinating combination of performance and exclusiveness is the BMW M4 Convertible Edition 30 Years.



This open-top high performance sports car was produced in a limited edition of 300 and presented in 2018 – three decades after the premiere of the first-generation BMW M3 Convertible. This edition model also featured exclusive paint finishes – namely Macao Blue metallic and Mandarin II uni – and a specific interior design, providing for unique and aesthetic driving pleasure both on country roads and on the racetrack.
CO2 EMISSIONS & CONSUMPTION.




The BMW M4 Edition ///M Heritage: combined fuel consumption: 10.0 – 9.3 l/100 km; combined CO2 emissions: 227 – 213 g/km







Martin Schleypen- photos BMW


Story 94
Centrica plc (LON:CNA) announced that after nearly 4 years with the Company Mark Hodges, Chief Executive, Centrica Consumer will be leaving on 28th February 2019 to take up a new role as Chief Executive of ReAssure, Swiss Re’s closed book business which plans a stock market listing in 2019. In line with succession plans, Centrica is pleased to announce that Sarwjit Sambhi will become CEO, Centrica Consumer and will join the Centrica Board as an Executive Director effective from 1st March 2019.
Mark’s previous career was in insurance and financial services and, after delivering significant underlying improvement in the performance of Centrica’s Consumer division against a very challenging environment, he has been offered the rare opportunity to lead a new company in a sector where he has spent the majority of his career. Given sufficient time for an orderly transition, the Company has waived the remaining part of Mark’s 12 months notice period.
Sarwjit joined Centrica in 2001 from Booz Allen & Hamilton, and has held a number of senior leadership positions in strategy, finance, trading, power generation, exploration and production and most recently the Consumer division where he has been Managing Director, UK Home for nearly 3 years.
Centrica is today also announcing that after 22 years with the Company, its General Counsel & Company Secretary, Grant Dawson has elected to retire from the Company on 31st March 2019.
Centrica is pleased to announce that Justine Campbell will become General Counsel & Company Secretary with effect from 1st April 2019. Justine will become a member of the Centrica Executive Committee and attend the Centrica Board. Justine joined the Group from Vodafone in January 2013 as General Counsel for British Gas and has deep legal and regulatory experience in both the energy and telecommunications sectors.
Over a long career with the Company, Grant has helped to guide the Board and executive team, shape the strategy and capabilities of Centrica, and overseen significant portfolio repositioning including a number of major transactions, while guiding the Group through a series of legal and regulatory changes, particularly in the UK.

Story 95
ALEXANDRIA, Va., Feb. 6, 2015 /PRNewswire/ -- Tech Systems, Inc. (TSI), a Government Services Contractor, announced today an ownership and top leadership change that is effective immediately. Owner, Nancy S. Blethen, has sold 100% of the stock in TSI to Scotty R. Martin, TSI's President. Mr. Martin, a Veteran with nearly 30 years of federal agency, private sector and military experience, has assumed the role of President and CEO. TSI has transitioned from a Woman-Owned Small Business to a Veteran-Owned Small Business with Mr. Martin as TSI's new owner. TSI will retain its senior leadership team to ensure continuity of operations and a seamless transition. Located in the Washington DC Metro area, TSI has experienced steady growth under Ms. Blethen's tenure and is poised for significant continued growth with Mr. Martin at the helm.
"With the solid foundation built by Nancy Blethen and her leadership team, I look forward to taking TSI to its next level of growth and service to our customers," said Scotty Martin. "My primary goal is for TSI to continue to provide outstanding support to the critical missions of our customers in tandem with providing a caring, supportive environment for our greatest asset, our employees. I am confident that TSI will continue to deliver outstanding service that has become a hallmark of our Company culture over the last 35 years."
"I am excited to be passing the torch to Scotty Martin and am confident that TSI will grow to new heights under his leadership. Scotty brings a 360 degree approach having served in the military, Federal Government and in the private sector. His diverse experience will benefit TSI, its employees and customers," said Ms. Blethen. "I look forward to supporting Scotty and ensuring a continued trajectory of growth under his leadership."
About TSI: TSI has been providing innovative logistics support to the Federal Government, primarily to the U.S. Military/Department of Defense customer for the past 35 years. The Company is ISO 9001:2008 certified and was one of the first small businesses in the Government Services sector to be awarded a prime contract under the U.S. Army's competitive Enhanced Army Global Logistics Enterprise (EAGLE) Program. For more information, visit the TSI website at www.techsystemsinc.net. The Company is located at 6420 Grovedale Drive, Suite 300 – Alexandria, VA 22310. Phone: 703-924-0474.
SOURCE Tech Systems, Inc.
Related Links
http://www.techsystemsinc.net


Story 96
DGAP-News: 2G Energy AG / Schlagwort(e): Jahresergebnis/Prognose


Für den Inhalt der Mitteilung ist der Emittent / Herausgeber verantwortlich.

- Umsatzerlöse mit 209,8 Mio. Euro um 10,8 % gesteigert

- EBIT-Marge deutlich auf 5,5 % (Vorjahr: 3,9 %) verbessert, Konzernjahresüberschuss bei 7,6 Mio. Euro (Vj.: 4,9 Mio. Euro)

- Überdurchschnittlicher Auftragseingang in Q1 2019 sichert Vollauslastung im 2-Schichtbetrieb bis in das Geschäftsjahr 2020

- Prognose 2019: Umsatz von 210-230 Mio. Euro, EBIT-Marge von 5,5 % - 7,0 %

- Ausbau des OEM-Geschäfts mit Fa. Viessmann beschlossen
Heek, 11. April 2019 - Die 2G Energy AG (ISIN DE000A0HL8N9), einer der international führenden Hersteller von gasbetriebenen Kraft-Wärme-Kopplungs-(KWK)-Anlagen, steigerte im abgelaufenen Geschäftsjahr 2018 wie geplant den Umsatz im Konzern um 10,8 % auf 209,8 Mio. Euro und übertraf damit den bisherigen Höchstwert aus dem Vorjahr (189,4 Mio. Euro) deutlich. Das Ergebnis vor Zinsen und Steuern (EBIT) verbesserte 2G substanziell um 56,2 % auf 11,5 Mio. Euro (Vorjahr: 7,3 Mio. Euro), entsprechend einer EBIT-Marge in Höhe von 5,5 % (Vorjahr: 3,9 %). Serviceumsatz steigt erneut deutlich
Das Geschäft mit Servicedienstleistungen und dem Verkauf von Ersatzteilen hat 2G gegenüber dem Vorjahr erneut überproportional zum Gesamtumsatz um mehr als 20 % auf 78,0 Mio. Euro ausgebaut (Vorjahr: 64,5 Mio. Euro). Dabei wurden diese zusätzlichen Service- und Ersatzteilumsätze zu annähernd gleichen Teilen im In- wie Ausland generiert. Auf ausländischen Märkten erzielte 2G Service- und Ersatzteilumsätze in Höhe von 20,4 Mio. Euro (Vorjahr: 14,1 Mio. Euro), so dass das Ausland inzwischen über ein Viertel zum Gesamt-Serviceumsatz beisteuert.
2G erhöhte den Umsatz mit KWK-Anlagen auf 131,7 Mio. Euro (Vorjahr: 124,9 Mio. Euro). Insgesamt hat 2G im abgelaufenen Geschäftsjahr rund 40 % der KWK-Umsatzerlöse im Ausland erzielt. Die umsatzstärksten Märkte waren das Vereinigte Königreich und Frankreich. Leitprojekt Lead-to-Lean verbessert Profitabilität nachhaltig
Seit 2017 arbeitet 2G daran, konsequent im gesamten Unternehmen die Lean-Philosophie zu etablieren. Dazu wird seit 2018 stufenweise ein industrielles Prozessmodell implementiert, das unmittelbar positive Effekte bezüglich Effizienz, Qualität, Durchlaufzeiten und Kapazitäten entfaltet. So wurde im Jahr 2018 die Gesamtleistung und damit auch die Kapazität um 16 % auf nunmehr 221,1 Mio. Euro (Vorjahr: 190,5 Mio. Euro) ausgeweitet. Die Gesamtleistung beinhaltet für das Jahr 2018 eine Bestandserhöhung an fertigen und unfertigen Erzeugnissen von 10,8 Mio. Euro (Vorjahr: Bestandsreduzierung: 2,3 Mio. Euro). Diese deutliche Bestandserhöhung enthält gem. HGB nicht die zu erwartende Marge bei ordnungsgemäßer Verumsatzung.
Aufgrund der im Lead-to-Lean-Prozess eingeleiteten Effizienzmaßnahmen hat 2G die Personalaufwandsquote (bezogen auf die Gesamtleistung) um substanzielle 1,2 %-Punkte auf 16,0 % reduziert. Auch die Quote der sonstigen betrieblichen Aufwendungen sank um 0,5 %-Punkte. Beide Kostenarten tragen somit maßgeblich zur Verbesserung der EBIT-Marge bei. Einzig die Materialaufwandsquote stieg im Verhältnis zur Gesamtleistung leicht um 0,7 %-Punkte. Berücksichtigt man bei der Ermittlung der Gesamtleistung auch die zu erwartende Marge auf die Bestandsveränderung, ergibt sich eine Materialaufwandsquote auf dem Niveau des Vorjahres.
Den testierten Konzernabschluss und den Geschäftsbericht 2018 wird 2G wie geplant am 10. Mai 2019 veröffentlichen.

Profitabilität wird 2019 weiter steigen - Auftragseingang im ersten Quartal 2019 im Rahmen der Erwartungen
Der Auftragseingang lag im ersten Quartal 2019 bei insgesamt 39,2 Mio. Euro. Damit wurde der Rekordwert des Vorjahres (54,7 Mio. Euro) erwartungsgemäß nicht erreicht, lag jedoch klar oberhalb des Q1-Wertes 2017 (28,7 Mio. Euro) und deutlich über dem langjährigen Durchschnitt. Die Exportquote erreichte nahezu 50 %, wozu insbesondere ein starker Auftragseingang der US-Tochtergesellschaft beigetragen hat (6,4 Mio. Euro). Vor dem Hintergrund des zum Ende des ersten Quartals weiterhin hohen Auftragsbestands (156,3 Mio. Euro, Vorjahr: 130,5 Mio. Euro) sieht sich der Vorstand in der bereits kommunizierten Umsatzprognose für das laufende Geschäftsjahr (210 Mio. Euro bis 230 Mio. Euro) bestätigt. Er ist zudem zuversichtlich, mithilfe weiterer Effekte aus dem Lead-to-Lean-Prozess sowie durch steigende Margenbeiträge aus dem Servicegeschäft die Profitabilität des 2G Konzerns erneut und nachhaltig zu verbessern. Für das laufende Geschäftsjahr erwartet der Vorstand vor diesem Hintergrund eine EBIT-Marge zwischen 5,5 % und 7 %.

Ausbau des OEM-Geschäfts - Liefervertrag mit Viessmann geschlossen
2G hat mit der Viessmann Kraft-Wärme-Kopplung GmbH einen OEM-Vertrag zur Lieferung von Antriebskomponenten geschlossen. Ab dem 2. Quartal 2019 wird 2G diese Schlüsselkomponenten zunächst im Leistungsbereich zwischen 250 und 360 kWel. an einen der international führenden Hersteller von Heizsystemen liefern. Viessmann setzt damit in seiner KWK-Sparte auch auf die von 2G entwickelten, effizienz- und emissionsoptimierten Verbrennungsmotorkonzepte.

Über 2G Energy AG
Die 2G Energy AG ist ein international führender Full-Service-Anbieter von Kraft-Wärme-Kopplungs-Anlagen (KWK) mit einer elektrischen Leistung zwischen 20 kW und 2.000 kW, die zur dezentralen Erzeugung und Versorgung von Strom und Wärme eingesetzt werden. Ihre Technologieführerschaft baut 2G durch kontinuierliche Forschungs- und Entwicklungsarbeit sowohl in der Gasmotorentechnologie für Erdgas-, Biogas- und Synthesegas-Anwendungen (z.B. Wasserstoff) als auch in der spezifischen Softwareentwicklung konsequent aus. Insbesondere dieses Leistungsspektrum auf der Grundlage tausender realisierter Anlagen differenziert 2G deutlich vom Wettbewerb. 2G profitiert von globalen Langfristtrends, die effiziente und leistungsfähige Energielösungen immer wichtiger machen. Dazu zählt die steigende Energienachfrage bei gleichzeitiger Notwendigkeit, schonend mit den natürlichen Ressourcen umzugehen. Des Weiteren ist die von 2G konsequent umgesetzte Digitalisierung im zukünftigen Strommarktdesign der Energiewende im Verbund mit den Erzeugern aus Sonne und Wind, Biogas und Erdgas ein unverzichtbares, systemrelevantes Element und stellt eine hohe Markteintrittshürde für Wettbewerber dar. Die gleichzeitige Erzeugung von mechanischer Energie und Nutzwärme macht die KWK-Technologie effizienter und klimafreundlicher als konventionelle Methoden der Energieerzeugung. Mit ihr werden im Vergleich zur herkömmlichen Stromerzeugung bis zu 40 Prozent an Primärenergie gespart bei um bis zu 60 Prozent verringerten CO2 bzw. NOx-Emissionen. Somit profitieren 2Gs Kunden konsequent von ökonomisch und ökologisch hoch vorteilhaften Innovationen, die eine schnelle Amortisation sowie umfangreiche Mehrwerte ermöglichen. 2G beschäftigt rund 600 Mitarbeiter, die am Hauptsitz in Heek, Deutschland, in St. Augustine, USA und fünf weiteren europäischen Standorten tätig sind. Insgesamt ist das Unternehmen in 49 Ländern aktiv und erwirtschaftete im Geschäftsjahr 2018 Umsätze von 209,8 Mio. EUR. 2G wurde 1995 gegründet und ist seit 2007 börsennotiert. Die Aktie der 2G Energy (ISIN DE000A0HL8N9) ist im Segment "Scale" der Frankfurter Wertpapierbörse einbezogen. Das Grundkapital beträgt 4.430.000 Euro, eingeteilt in 4.430.000 Aktien. Per 31. Dezember 2018 hielten die Unternehmensgründer Christian Grotholt und Ludger Gausling 53,5 % der Anteile, der Freefloat lag bei 46,5 %. Termine 2019
10. Mai Veröffentlichung Konzernjahresabschluss zum 31.12.2018
13.-14. Mai Frühjahrskonferenz, Frankfurt am Main
29. Mai Q1 Kennzahlen und Geschäftsentwicklung
25. Juni Ordentliche Hauptversammlung, Ahaus
26. September Konzernhalbjahresabschluss zum 30.06.2019
25. November Q3 Kennzahlen und Geschäftsentwicklung
25.-26. November Deutsches Eigenkapitalforum 2019, Frankfurt am Main IR-Kontakt
2G Energy AG
Benzstr. 3, 48619 Heek
Telefon: +49 (0) 2568 93 47-2795
Telefax: +49 (0) 2568 93 47-15
E-Mail: ir@2-g.de
Internet: www.2-g.de
11.04.2019 Veröffentlichung einer Corporate News/Finanznachricht, übermittelt durch DGAP - ein Service der EQS Group AG.
Für den Inhalt der Mitteilung ist der Emittent / Herausgeber verantwortlich.

Die DGAP Distributionsservices umfassen gesetzliche Meldepflichten, Corporate News/Finanznachrichten und Pressemitteilungen.
Medienarchiv unter http://www.dgap.de


Story 97
English 简体中文
China’s economy faced tough challenges but still saw strong performance. In 2017, China Business Law Journal’s editorial team selected outstanding deals and cases supported by remarkable legal efforts
Our winning deals have, as in previous years, been chosen based on various factors. We attach most importance to the overall significance, complexity and innovative nature of the deals and cases, while also taking into account the deal size and broader interests. China Business Law Journal’s independent editorial team made its own choices on the deals we felt were the shining stars for the year. The winning deals and cases have been placed in three sections: deals in China; overseas deals; and disputes and investigations. In each section, the deals or cases are listed in alphabetical order to avoid presumptions of ranking.
DEALS IN CHINA
01
ARA Asset Management’s acquisition of Century Link in Shanghai
CATEGORIES: Real estate; M&A
LEGAL COUNSEL: Zhong Lun Law Firm advised on legal due diligence and the domestic part of the transaction document. Baker McKenzie acted as overseas legal counsel for the purchaser. Freshfields advised Cheung Kong Property Holdings Limited, the seller.
KEY POINTS: Century Link, a landmark located at Lujiazui Finance and Trade Zone in Shanghai, is valued at about RMB20 billion (US$3 billion) and consists of two office towers of 32 storeys each, a retail podium of six storeys and a basement.
Zhong Lun Law Firm was involved in domestic legal due diligence, reviewing the transaction and finance documents and onshore closing. The firm says this project has been one of the deals of the year in the Shanghai real estate market in terms of deal size and complexity.
Zhong Lun says that with respect to the transaction structure, as an innovation of usual practice, the firm controlled the potential risks for the client by means of setting up a long completion system, distinguishing between handover completion and share completion, and corresponding payment schedule and financing.
Zhong Lun also assisted the client to smoothly complete the project, as well as to control the financial cost by means of an innovation of financing combination.
02
China Investment Securities – Wuhan Metro trust beneficiary right No. 1 green asset-backed special programme
CATEGORIES: Asset securitization
LEGAL COUNSEL: SG&CO PRC Lawyers provided legal services for the deal.
KEY POINTS: China Investment Securities – Wuhan Metro trust beneficiary right No. 1 green asset-backed special programme was a securitization scheme backed by corporate assets issued on the Shanghai Stock Exchange. With a size of RMB1.5 billion (US$230 million), it was the first green asset securitization scheme in the rail transit sector of China.
According to SG&CO, the underlying asset was a trust beneficial right transferred from the originator to the manager on the inception date of the programme, which related ultimately to the rental income (including fines, late fees and damages, if any), for a specified period of time, from the attached property and the underground space of the rail transit infrastructure.
SG&CO’s meticulous argumentation on the usufruct of the underground space, aimed at proving legitimacy and compliance of the underlying asset, may be of great value for future securitization schemes to be launched by the rail transit sector in China.
03
China Resources Healthcare acquires Phoenix Healthcare
CATEGORIES: Healthcare; M&A
LEGAL COUNSEL: Zhong Lun Law Firm and Reed Smith Richards Butler acted respectively as the PRC counsel and Hong Kong counsel to China Resources Healthcare Group. Commerce & Finance and Shearman & Sterling were respectively the PRC counsel and Hong Kong counsel of Phoenix Healthcare Group.
KEY POINTS: Phoenix Healthcare was a leading private hospital group in China. Upon closing the acquisition, China Resources Healthcare became the largest shareholder of Phoenix Healthcare, which was renamed China Resources Phoenix Healthcare Holdings Company (CR Phoenix) and became the largest medical services platform in China.
Zhong Lun advised China Resources Healthcare on legal due diligence, preparation of transaction documents and antitrust clearance. The law firm says that the deal had to be structured with extra care to avoid triggering Hong Kong Stock Exchange’s reverse takeover rules that entail application of the new IPO review criteria, as well as to ensure China Resources Healthcare’s control over the target upon closing and meet special requirements relating to accounting standards.
Taking into account the different nature of the many medical institutions involved, the transaction plan was innovative enough to provide a solution that comprised a diversified governance structure and leveraged consulting services and entrusted management. It successfully passed the review process of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.
With its enormous size, the deal covered a complicated combination of assets. Zhong Lun says that it involved more than 100 for-profit and non-profit medical institutions, which included public institutions, private unincorporated businesses and limited liability companies, sponsored or invested by entities such as the government, state-owned enterprises, subsidiaries of listed companies or natural persons, to name a few.
04
China Unicom’s mixed-ownership reform
CATEGORIES: SOE reform; Telecom
LEGAL COUNSEL: Commerce & Finance advised the issuer China Unicom. King & Wood Mallesons was legal counsel to the securities traders. Han Kun Law Offices acted for China Structural Reform Fund. Freshfields advised China Unicom (Hong Kong) on the issue of new shares to its parent company, China Unicom (BVI) Limited.
KEY POINTS: China Unicom’s mixed-ownership reform – the first of its kind ever undertaken by a central state-owned enterprise (SOE) and the telecom industry in China – used a structure that consisted of private placement and transfer of existing shares. Strategic investors taking part in the deal included Baidu, Alibaba, Tencent, JD, Suning Appliance, China Life Insurance and China Structural Reform Fund. According to Commerce & Finance, this was the first time that the five Chinese internet giants Tencent, Alibaba, Baidu, JD and Suning invested into the same A-share company through a single deal, and it blazed a trail for large internet companies to invest in the telecom industry.
Commerce & Finance says that there were several factors adding complexity to the deal, making it extraordinary and unprecedented: it involved a consortium of 10 investors, securities issuance by two companies listed on domestic and foreign exchanges, equity incentive plans for employees of a central SOE, as well as necessary communication and co-ordination with a number of regulators including the National Development and Reform Commission, State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, China Securities Regulatory Commission, Ministry of Commerce, Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, the People’s Bank of China, among others.
This deal set a meaningful and specific example that may be inspiring for mixed-ownership reforms of other SOEs (especially SOEs from industries in which foreign capital access is restricted, such as telecoms), non-public offerings by SOEs listed as red chips, and equity transfers by controlling shareholders of listed SOEs and their equity incentive schemes.
05
Comprehensive management project for Yitong River in Changchun, Jinlin province
CATEGORIES: Infrastructure
LEGAL COUNSEL: GongCheng Law Firm from Jilin province acted for Changchun City Construction Investment Group.
KEY POINTS: As an integrated solution to environmental and ecological issues throughout the Yitong River basin, this project consisted of nearly 200 sub-projects ranging from sewage pollution control, flood prevention and ecological management to road traffic control and landscape transformation. With a total investment of about RMB50 billion and an impact on urban safety, health and economic development, it has been rated as the most imperative among Jilin’s five key infrastructure projects.
GongCheng says the deal structure was complex because the project encompassed a complicated combination of infrastructure projects that would take a long time to be completed with the joint effort of many entities, not to mention substantial investment to be spent. The firm says it focused on tackling three challenges, i.e., identifying legal relationships, structuring the deal and rationalizing the project management structure.
Legal services provided included legal risk assessment, deal structuring, a reasonableness review on project management structure, and a review of relevant systems and contracts, including those related to project financing, EPC (engineering, procurement and construction), construction supervision, consulting and procurement.
06
COSCO SHIPPING Ports invests in Qingdao Port International
CATEGORIES: Shipping; M&A
LEGAL COUNSEL: Wintell & Co and Woo Kwan Lee & Lo acted respectively as PRC counsel and Hong Kong counsel to COSCO SHIPPING Ports. Jia Yuan Law Offices was PRC counsel and Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer was Hong Kong counsel to Qingdao Port International.
KEY POINTS: China Shipping Terminal Development, a subsidiary of COSCO SHIPPING Ports (the subsidiary of its Hong Kong-listed controlling shareholder, COSCO SHIPPING Holdings), subscribed for 1,015,000,000 non-tradable shares of Qingdao Port International for a total consideration of RMB5.798 billion.
The lawyers had an enormous amount of work to get done in a very short timeframe. According to Wintell & Co, it took less than five months to complete the transaction, from commencement of negotiations to closing. In addition to deal structuring, preparing a due diligence report and drafting transaction documents, lawyers needed to assist in negotiations and closing, communicate with government authorities, complete all approvals, registrations and filing procedures necessary, and ensure proper disclosure by the listed companies.
Wintell & Co says that in view of the sophisticated shareholding structures of the parties, the size of the deal and the fact that involved parties were large shipping companies with a state-owned enterprise background, the firm focused on detecting true intentions of the counterparty while keeping legitimate interests and commercial appeals of their client at top of mind in the negotiation process.
07
CSIC’s debt-for-equity swap
CATEGORIES: Capital market; Debt-for-equity swap
LEGAL COUNSEL: Jia Yuan Law Offices was legal counsel to China Shipbuilding Industry Corporation (CSIC).
KEY POINTS: This was a market-oriented debt-for-equity swap targeted at a core military enterprise. There were eight investors, including big names like China Cinda Asset Management, China Orient Asset Management, China State-owned Capital Ventures Fund, China Structural Reform Fund and China Life Insurance (Group) Company.
It was the first truly market-oriented debt-for-equity swap driven by the Opinions of the State Council on Actively and Steadily Lowering the Leverage Ratio of Enterprises. Being proactive in response to the State Council’s policy, CSIC was able to capitalize on opportunities presented by the possible turning point of the global shipbuilding industry, attracting a diversified investor base that included financial asset managers, insurance asset managers and state-owned venture capital funds. In a pioneering move, the debt-for-equity swap revealed a possible approach to deleveraging, says Jia Yuan.
Jia Yuan adds that by arranging for the concerted action of investors and CSIC, the deal ensured absolute control of CSIC over two core military enterprises, namely Dalian Shipbuilding Industry and Wuchang Shipbuilding Industry Group, thus enabling approval from the State Administration for Science, Technology and Industry for National Defence.
08
Dalian Container Terminal’s equity integration
CATEGORIES: M&A; Ports
LEGAL COUNSEL: EY Chen & Co Law Firm was legal counsel for this equity integration, and was responsible for advising on all relevant legal issues.
KEY POINTS: The deal was a merger of three container terminal operators. Dalian Port Container Terminal (DPCM) and Dalian International Container Terminal (DICT) were merged into Dalian Container Terminal (DCT), the existing entity after the merger.
The container throughput of the three terminal operators accounted for about 97% of the total throughput of Dalian Port, the busiest container port on the coast of northeast China. According to EY Chen & Co, the equity integration of the three companies was an integral part of a solution to bring all coastal ports of Liaoning province under common control. The deal was an equity integration in a real sense, which was expected to work more thoroughly and effectively than business integration. Addressing the problems resulting from state-owned enterprises’ (SOEs) fragmented approach to investing via multiple layers of entities, the deal also coincided with the trend of SOE reform.
The deal posed quite a few challenges. EY Chen & Co says that with different equity and controlling structures, the three terminal operators had shareholders of diversified backgrounds, including central SOEs, local SOEs and foreign shareholders from Singapore, Denmark and Japan. Since the preferential tax policy applicable to the deal would expire on 31 December 2017, closing of the deal had to occur by November 2017, and the relevant tax filing procedures needed to be completed by the end of 2017. Moreover, antitrust clearance from the Ministry of Commerce would take at least two months.
In light of the complicated equity structures of the terminal operators and the diverse interests of their shareholders, the team of EY Chen & Co needed to gain an understanding of the shareholders, including their style of doing things, past experience in dealing with similar transactions and their staffing for the proposed deal. The team also needed to know what fundamental interests the shareholders were seeking through the deal.
09
Formation of the Guotong Private Equity Fund
CATEGORIES: Private equity
LEGAL COUNSEL: Zhong Lun Law Firm was PRC legal counsel to the Guotong Private Equity Fund and the management company of the fund.
KEY POINTS: Guotong Private Equity Fund’s value has reached RMB150 billion and its limited partners include national financial institutions and state-owned enterprises.
According to Zhong Lun, with the approval of the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council, the fund provides financing and professional support for Chinese enterprises to participate in construction projects under the Belt and Road initiative to promote equipment manufacturing capacity and to facilitate international co-operation.
Zhong Lun says the firm’s legal services in this deal included the structuring and drafting of transaction documents, participating in negotiations to address diversified interests of all parties, and successfully co-ordinating all the parties for contract signing.
10
Huatai Asset Management’s perpetual bond financing for COMAC’s large-plane project
CATEGORIES: Debt capital market; Aviation
LEGAL COUNSEL: Tian Yuan Law Firm acted as legal counsel to Huatai Asset Management.
KEY POINTS: To provide funding for the “large-plane” project with insurance capital, Huatai Asset Management and Commercial Aircraft Corporation of China (COMAC) established a debt investment scheme, under which RMB15 billion was raised for COMAC through issuance of perpetual bonds.
In August 2017, Insurance Asset Management Association of China (IAMAC) consented to the registration of Huatai-COMAC debt investment scheme. Tian Yuan says the scheme was important and unprecedented. Being one of the most efficient projects in passing the registration procedure of IAMAC, it is also to date the only insurance asset management scheme that involved confidential defence industry elements.
11
JD Finance’s new round financing
CATEGORIES: Private equity; TMT
LEGAL COUNSEL: In this new-round financing of JD Finance, Guantao Law Firm advised China Minsheng Trust, Han Kun Law Offices represented China Structural Reform Fund (CCT Fund), and Shihui Partners represented Suqian Donghe Shengrong Equity Investment Partnership (Limited Partnership).
KEY POINTS: The related party of China Minsheng Trust set up the first-level fund Zhaohe Minxin (Shenzhen) Equity Investment Partnership (Limited Partnership) as the limited partner, with Shenzhen Qianhai Hongzhao Fund Management as the general partner. The first-level fund subscribed the limited partner shares of Suqian Donghe Shengrong Equity Investment Partnership, the second-level fund. The second-level fund participated in the new-round financing of JD Finance.
In this transaction, Guantao Law Firm assisted its clients in setting up a two-level fund structure. As this investment is indirect, according to Guantao, the firm needed to assist the client in controlling the risks incurred during the direct investment between the second-level fund and JD Finance, the subject matter.
CCT Fund invested in Donghe Shengrong as a limited partner. In this transaction, Han Kun Law Offices assisted the CCT Fund to design the structure of Donghe Shengrong, a special purpose vehicle holding equity interest in JD Finance, to draft and negotiate the limited partners agreement and other transaction documents, and to conduct legal due diligence on JD Finance.
12
Joint venture between Schmolz + Bickenbach and Tsingshan Holding Group
CATEGORIES: Joint venture; Foreign direct investment
LEGAL COUNSEL: Broad & Bright provided full spectrum PRC legal advice for Schmolz + Bickenbach (S+B).
KEY POINTS: S+B and Tsingshan Holding Group, world leaders in the stainless steel industry, formed their first joint venture company in China, which is 60% owned by S+B and 40% owned by Tsingshan. According to Broad & Bright, by creating the joint venture, S+B and Tsingshan share the common ambition of further growth in the domestic stainless long steel market. The combination of S+B’s technical knowhow with Tsingshan’s strong market position in China creates a world-class supplier of special bright bars that is able to meet growing demand in the region.
The target company used to be invested by several individuals and had relevant inter-company loans from the shareholders. To structure the deal on a cash-free and debt-free basis, an internal restructuring of the target company was proposed to buy out the individual shareholder’s shares, as well as to convert the debt into the equity of the company with respect to the inter-company loans, according to Broad & Bright.
As a joint venture between a European enterprise and a traditional Chinese private company, there was culture shock between the two partners from legal and commercial perspectives. Broad & Bright says its team managed not only to provide professional legal services but also to bridge the cultural differences.
13
Maoyan Media and Weiying Technology strategic partnership transactions
CATEGORIES: M&A; Internet
LEGAL COUNSEL: Commerce & Finance provided legal services for Maoyan Media. Han Kun Law Offices advised Tencent, the major shareholder of Weiying Technology.
KEY POINTS: Both Maoyan and Weiying were leading online movie and performance ticketing platforms in China. As the major shareholder of Weiying, Tencent participated in the merger of the two companies and concluded a comprehensive strategic collaboration with the new Maoyan-Weiying.
Han Kun says with the market capitalization of the new Maoyan-Weiying after the merger reaching about RMB13.6 billion, it was one of the most important M&A transactions between internet giants in 2017. The legal services that Han Kun provided included due diligence and deal structuring, as well as drafting, reviewing, revising and finalizing the transaction documents.
Commerce & Finance says the deal had to be structured to align interests between Maoyan, Weiying and Tencent while taking into account the interests of many existing shareholders, since it involved three components – restructuring within Weiying, merger via equity swap, and investment by Tencent.
Commerce & Finance advised Maoyan on an innovative solution that addressed a series of legal and commercial issues. For example, Commerce & Finance says that the deal structure was very sophisticated and the co-ordination was challenging because the deal involved: information disclosure and regulatory compliance of Enlight Media, one of Maoyan’s shareholders and an A-share company; internal approval process for shareholders under the VIE framework and for Tencent, a Hong Kong-listed company; also, valuation of interfaces with WeChat and other resources, and relevant commercial arrangements.
The deal also came under the spotlight because it was priced with net working capital as of the closing date. Commerce & Finance says it designed the solution innovatively to enable two offerings for a single deal, which perfectly solved problems relating to transaction pricing and subsequent risk control.
14
MoFang Apartment trust beneficial rights asset-backed special programme
CATEGORIES: Asset securitization; Real estate
LEGAL COUNSEL: Global Law Office was legal counsel to the issuer.
KEY POINTS: MoFang Apartment was the first chain operator of long-term rental apartments in China. According to Global Law, as the first securitization scheme in the apartment industry in China, MoFang Apartment’s asset-backed securities reflected how asset securitization served the real economy. Contributing to financial innovation, schemes of this type allow asset-light apartment operators to have greater access to capital markets.
Global Law says that MoFang Apartment’s asset-backed securities used a structure consisting of two special purpose vehicles (SPVs) underpinned by “a special programme plus trust beneficial rights”. The underlying asset of the programme, with a size of RMB350 million, was the rental income of the next three years from 4,014 apartments in 30 properties owned by MoFang. Global Law succeeded in helping all senior securities of MoFang achieve AAA rating with several internal and external credit enhancement arrangements that included separating the issue into tranches, cash flow assessment and excess coverage, triggering of additional pledges, and provision of warranties and guarantees.
15
Shenzhen Dragonball Hospital’s debt restructuring
CATEGORIES: Non-performing loans; Medical industry
LEGAL COUNSEL: JunZeJun Law Offices and Reed Smith acted for the acquirer, China Regenerative Medicine International, as PRC and Hong Kong counsel, respectively.
KEY POINTS: Through the legal due diligence of Shenzhen Dragonball Hospital (SDH) and its non-performing loans’ (NPL) transfer process, JunZeJun assisted the client in the design of the transaction’s legal structure, after considering SDH’s numerous potential acquirers and communicating with SDH’s original shareholders. The structure contained a two-step strategy, acquiring SDH’s NPL as the first step, which allowed its client to occupy a dominant position among all the potential acquirers on the basis of controllable risk and realizable intent.
Wu Lixin, the lead partner of the JunZeJun team, says this deal involved a variety of regulations and policies including domestic and foreign investment, debt investment, NPL purchase, exchange control, tax planning, and supervision of medical institutions. The acquirer, a Hong Kong-listed company, was also required to comply with the Hong Kong capital market rules on regulation and information disclosure.
16
Zhejiang Nanyang Technology’s major asset reorganization
CATEGORIES: Restructuring; Capital markets
LEGAL COUNSEL: Jia Yuan Law Offices advised Zhejiang Nanyang Technology.
KEY POINTS: The transaction helped China Academy of Aerospace Aerodynamics (CAAA) acquire a controlling stake in Zhejiang Nanyang Technology, a listed company, and enabled the listing of CAAA’s unmanned aerial vehicle division, which was the core asset of CAAA.
Jia Yuan says that the toughest challenge the firm faced in designing the deal structure arose from a lack of clear legal provisions concerning ownership reform of public institutions, as the counterparty to the restructuring deal was a military public institution. The firm had to ensure that the restructuring would allow assets of the public institution to be injected into the listed company in a manner consistent with compliance requirements observed by listed companies. Jia Yuan assisted CAAA’s military assets in meeting the condition precedent of being injected into the listed company through a corporate reform enabled via internal integration and restructuring.
Since the assets to be injected were of a scale comparable to back-door listing criteria as prescribed in policies concerning restructuring, several in-depth inquiries about the deal structure were received from securities regulators. Jia Yuan assisted the parties concerned in gaining consent from the regulators through interpretation of the “back-door listing” policies and explanation as to the reasonableness of the deal structure.
Jia Yuan says the deal will be helpful for future similar transactions in two ways: (1) in relation to listing of military assets of public institutions through restructuring, how to select the appropriate approach to listing, defining boundaries and establishing operation process; and (2) how to properly interpret the “back-door listing” policies.
OVERSEAS DEALS
01
Beijing Gas Group acquires 20% stake in Russia’s VCNG
CATEGORIES: Overseas M&A; Energy
LEGAL COUNSEL: East & Concord Partners and Herbert Smith Freehills served as PRC legal counsel and international legal counsel, respectively, for acquirer Beijing Gas Group. Allen & Overy and JunHe served as international legal counsel and PRC legal counsel, respectively, for the joint underwriters in the bond offering. Linklaters was also involved in the deal.
KEY POINTS: The Beijing Gas Group purchased about 20% of the shares in Verkhnechonskneftegaz (VCNG) from Rosneft for about US$1.12 billion. The target company, VCNG, holds a valid reserve utilization permit for an oilfield at Irkutsk Oblast, in the Russian Federation.
East & Concord says the deal was in keeping with the Belt and Road initiative, and a new milestone in the energy conversation between China and Russia. The project will enhance the Chinese capital’s natural gas supply capacity and strengthen the capacity to ensure natural gas supply in the regions of Beijing, Tianjin and Hebei.
East & Concord was required to conduct legal due diligence of VCNG, and as its main business is oilfield development, a review of a large volume of qualification documents was involved. The transaction also involved numerous prior Chinese and Russian approvals, and an anti-monopoly filing in China. East & Concord says the Ministry of Commerce had never conducted an anti-monopoly review of such a deal in the past.
Because the target company was a foreign public company, the existing articles of association of the company could not effectively protect the rights and interests of Beijing Gas as a minor shareholder of 20% of the stake. Accordingly, East & Concord raised suggestions in respect of the governance structure of the company, endeavouring to secure shareholder rights and interests for the acquirer to the greatest extent permissible under the law of Russia.
02
BOC issues China green covered bonds
CATEGORIES: Debt capital market; Green bonds
LEGAL COUNSEL: JunZeJun Law Offices and Linklaters acted as PRC counsel and international counsel, respectively, to Bank of China (BOC). Clifford Chance and Jingtian & Gongcheng acted as international and PRC counsel, respectively, to the lead underwriter.
KEY POINTS: These have been the first green bonds issued by a Chinese entity in the international market and secured by onshore assets within China. These bonds are secured on a portfolio of climate-related bonds that are held by BOC and traded in China’s interbank bond market.
JunZeJun Law Offices set up the legal structure for the onshore security and enforcement of the bonds in China, and arranged China Central Depository & Clearing Co (CCDC) as the asset monitor and enforcement agent of this transaction. According to JunZeJun, prior to this transaction no self-help remedy was available in relation to enforcement of pledged bonds that are deposited with CCDC, while in this offering CCDC adopted a pre-authorization approach for the first time to allow the pledgee to enforce the pledge efficiently.
Another eye-catching aspect of the deal is that as a result of the credit enhancement, BOC will be able to achieve a bond rating of Aa3 by Moody’s, the same as the sovereign rating of China and one notch higher than Bank of China’s own credit rating of A1. JunZeJun says this was the first time that Moody’s had granted BOC bonds a credit rating equal to the sovereign rating of China.
JunZeJun Law Offices conducted due diligence on BOC in this deal, set up the legal structure for the onshore security and enforcement of the bonds and draft pledge agreement with respect to the secured property onshore, and issued PRC legal opinions.
03
BOCOM International’s Hong Kong IPO
CATEGORIES: Equity capital market; Overseas listing
LEGAL COUNSEL: King & Wood Mallesons served as PRC legal counsel for the issuer, BOCOM International Holdings; Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer and Maples and Calder served as the issuer’s foreign lawyers. Clifford Chance served as Hong Kong and US legal counsel to the co-sponsors and underwriters, and JunHe was domestic legal counsel to the underwriters.
KEY POINTS: BOCOM International officially listed and began trading on the main board of the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong (HKEx) in May 2017, and on 14 June further offered excess rights shares, becoming the first wholly Hong Kong-listed securities house affiliated to a Chinese-owned bank. JunHe says this deal was complex, requiring the spin-off of the securities company (i.e., BOCOM International) – established and operated in Hong Kong by the A+H share-listed company Bank of Communications (BOCOM) – and then its listing in Hong Kong. Structurally speaking, this was a red chip offshore listing, and, as BOCOM International has assets in China, required a demonstration of the applicability of the red chip guidelines.
JunHe also says the spin-off of BOCOM International needed to simultaneously satisfy relevant conditions of document No. 67 of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) concerning the spinning off and then overseas listing by a domestically listed company of its subsidiary, as well as relevant conditions of practice note 15 of HKEx on the spinning off and then separate listing by a Hong Kong-listed company of its subsidiary. The consistency in the listed company’s overseas and domestic information disclosure also had to be maintained.
JunHe assisted the sponsors and issuer in liaising with BOCOM’s head office, the China Banking Regulatory Commission (CBRC), the CSRC and HKEx, securing the approval of those regulators for the spin-off plan, and also securing a no action letter from the CSRC. King & Wood Mallesons was also involved in the entire spin-off and listing process, representing BOCOM in liaising with BOCOM International and such regulators as the CBRC, CSRC, etc.
04
CEXIM sets up overseas EFP programme
CATEGORIES: Debt capital market; Overseas financing
LEGAL COUNSEL: Haiwen & Partners and Linklaters acted as PRC counsel and foreign counsel to the underwriters, respectively. Commerce & Finance Law Offices and Sidley Austin served as the issuer’s PRC counsel and foreign counsel, respectively.
KEY POINTS: The Exim Funding Programme (EFP) established by the Export-Import Bank of China (CEXIM) was the first financing project established by a Chinese-owned issuer that simultaneously encompassed short-term, medium-term and long-term bonds.
Haiwen says the EFP encompassed foreign currency-denominated short-term commercial notes and medium and long-term notes. The issuer may, depending on its funding needs and international market conditions, use a variety of different financing methods, giving it a great amount of flexibility. Additionally, as the major terms relating to offerings were included in the EFP transaction documents, the issuer was only required to add the special terms for a relevant offering at the time of each specific offering, making the same very convenient.
According to Haiwen, the offering of €550 million (US$672 million) of five-year fixed-rate bonds and US$300 million of three-year floating rate bonds by the head office of CEXIM and its Paris branch were the first offerings under the EFP. That they could be completed within a short period of time was largely due to use of the EFP.
05
China Hongqiao’s Indonesia refinery development and financing
CATEGORIES: Overseas investment; Natural resources
LEGAL COUNSEL: Orrick Herrington & Sutcliffe acted as international counsel to the project sponsors. Ashurst and Oentoeng Suria & Partners acted as international counsel and Indonesian counsel, respectively, to the lenders. JunHe and Walkers were PRC counsel and Cayman Islands counsel, respectively, to the lenders. Soewito Suhardiman Eddymurthy Kardono (SSEK) served as Indonesian counsel to the borrower.
KEY POINTS: Orrick advised China Hongqiao Group, Cita Mineral Investindo and Winning International Group, as sponsors, on the development, construction and financing of an alumina refinery with a capacity of one million metric tons per year, including a captive thermal power plant and associated facilities in Indonesia.
According to Orrick, this was the first big Chinese-invested alumina refinery development and financing in Indonesia, and one of the more complex projects with some unusual and unique features.
The international law firm also says that the limited recourse financing of alumina refining involved a high volume of work in customizing various product and offtake agreements, construction support agreements and sponsor support arrangements in order to address issues such as risk mitigation and alumina pricing, which are rare to see in the market for similar projects, and without relevant precedents to follow.
06
China Molybdenum acquires mineral assets in Brazil, Congo
CATEGORIES: Overseas M&A; Natural resources
LEGAL COUNSEL: Llinks Law Offices advised China Molybdenum on its non-public issuance of A-shares for funding its acquisition of Anglo American’s niobium and phosphorus business assets in Brazil, as well as its acquisition of Freeport-McMoRan’s copper and cobalt transaction business assets in Congo. YTL & CO advised China Molybdenum in both deals with regard to disclosure in the H-share market.
Osler Hoskin & Harcourt also acted for China Molybdenum in both of the transactions, advising on M&A and related legal issues.
In the purchase of Anglo American’s assets, King & Wood Mallesons advised China Molybdenum, and Pinheiro Neto Advogados acted as Brazilian counsel to China Molybdenum. Linklaters acted as Anglo American’s legal counsel. Lobo & Ibeas Advogados was the seller’s lawyer in Brazil, and Reed Smith was the seller’s lawyer in the US.
In the purchase of Freeport-McMoRan’s assets, Etude Kabinda acted as Congo counsel for China Molybdenum. Conyers Dill & Pearman acted as Freeport-McMoRan’s Bermuda counsel.
KEY POINTS: China Molybdenum finished its fundraising by issuing non-public shares to complete its acquisition of Anglo American’s niobium and phosphorus business in Brazil and Freeport-McMoRan’s copper and cobalt business in Congo.
Llinks says the transactions involved high value and volume. China Molybdenum needed to pay a total consideration of RMB27.5 billion (US$4.2 billion) for these overseas acquisitions, with RMB11 billion from its owning capital source and the other RMB16.5 billion borrowed from banks. At the same time, the company raised no more than RMB18 billion by issuing non-public shares to exchange the previously invested self-raised funds.
The Chinese law firms say the deals were complicated and involved a broad range of issues. The acquisition by China Molybdenum of target assets in Brazil and Congo not only needed to be approved by, or filed with, Chinese regulators such as the National Development and Reform Commission, Ministry of Commerce and State Administration of Foreign Exchange, but also needed clearance in other countries or regions such as South Africa, Turkey, Zambia and Bermuda.
The transactions also faced time pressures. The overseas acquisitions and the non-public share issuance were carried out almost simultaneously, and the whole process took about eight months.
07
China Oceanwide’s acquisition of IDG
CATEGORIES: Overseas M&A; CFIUS approval
LEGAL COUNSEL: Jia Yuan Law Offices acted as domestic counsel to China Oceanwide Holdings Group. Ropes & Gray was the foreign legal adviser to China Oceanwide, while Davis Polk & Wardwell acted for IDG Capital. Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld was also involved in the transaction.
KEY POINTS: China Oceanwide and IDG Capital announced in January 2017 that they would fully acquire the major assets of International Data Group (IDG) including its data services, IDG Communications’ media business and IDG Ventures’ investment business. The controlling stakes of IDG’s data services and IDG Communications’ media business were acquired by China Oceanwide, while the control of IDG Ventures’ investment business was obtained by IDG Capital. The transaction was approved by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS), and was closed in March 2017.
IDG is the world’s leading technology media, data and marketing services company with a high reputation in the information industry. Jia Yuan says the transaction involved both domestic and overseas capital assets, and involved the information technology and media industries, which required complicated due diligence, formulation of the deal structure, negotiation, as well as domestic and overseas review and approval procedures (including CFIUS approval, record-filing with China’s Ministry of Commerce, National Development and Reform Commission, foreign exchange registrations, etc.).
Ropes & Gray says that multiple challenges were faced in this outbound transaction, including: (1) a complex buyer consortium; (2) national security concerns of CFIUS; (3) restrictions on foreign investments from China; and (4) uncertainties over whether the deal would close due to the change in the US administration.
Ropes & Gray developed an innovative and complex deal structure that involved two simultaneous transactions involving two separate parts of IDG and two separate consortia, each with different interests.
The fact that the relevant parties of the transaction were in different locations also increased the complexity of the transaction. According to Ropes & Gray, the client was located in China, the seller in Boston, and Ropes & Gray had multiple lawyers from offices across the globe and varied practice groups working together on the deal.
08
CITIC Bank acquires Kazakhstan’s Altyn Bank
CATEGORIES: Overseas M&A; Banking
LEGAL COUNSEL: Grata International and Clifford Chance advised CITIC Bank. Linklaters acted for the seller Halyk Bank. Kinstellar advised Halyk Bank on Kazakhstan law.
KEY POINTS: This transaction has been one of the largest bank M&A transactions with the involvement of foreign investment in Kazakhstan. CITIC Bank intended to acquire a controlling stake of 60% in Altyn Bank, a Kazakh bank 100% owned by Halyk Bank, another Kazakh bank.
According to Grata International, the transaction involved the obtainment of various state approvals from Chinese and Kazakh state authorities, including the consents of the National Bank of Kazakhstan and the Antimonopoly Committee of Kazakhstan.
09
CNMC’s investment in African copper mine
CATEGORIES: Overseas investment; Natural resources; PPP
LEGAL COUNSEL: Zhong Lun Law Firm was the lead counsel in this project advising China Nonferrous Metal Mining Group (CNMC). Emery Mukendi Wafwana & Associates acted for CNMC as the local counsel. Orrick Herrington & Sutcliffe advised the local company.
KEY POINTS: According to Zhong Lun, the local government weighs tight controls on foreign companies holding mineral resources, and is more inclined to introduce technologically advanced and well-funded foreign companies. It was under such a background that CNMC was granted this project.
The project adopted a public-private partnership (PPP), under which CNMC would form a joint venture with a local company. CNMC will finance, build, and operate the whole project for a period. Upon the entire loan being totally reimbursed and a reasonable profit being achieved by the CNMC, the shares held by the Chinese investor will be transferred to the local company for free.
Zhong Lun says the fact that the foreign investor, after realization of reasonable profits, would return all its shares, or the whole project, to the local party enabled a developing country to keep its natural resources and obtain operational facilities. Compared with the classic mode in which investors will acquire mining rights and own and operate the whole project until exhaustion of the mine, the PPP mode in this project is innovative around the world.
10
CNNP’s UK-China R&D joint venture
CATEGORIES: Joint venture; Energy
LEGAL COUNSEL: Eversheds acted as legal adviser to China National Nuclear Power (CNNP), while Addleshaw Goddard acted for National Nuclear Laboratory (NNL).
KEY POINTS: Eversheds advised CNNP on the UK-China Nuclear Joint Research and Innovation Centre (JRIC), a 50-50 R&D joint venture with NNL. The JRIC is China’s first nuclear energy joint research and innovation centre with a Western country. Eversheds says this has ushered in a new era based on investment into nuclear power.
Eversheds’ legal advice covered all aspects of the establishment of the JRIC. According to the law firm, the deal involved not only extensive negotiations with NNL and UK’s Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy in relation to a set of joint venture and funding agreements, but also comprehensive state aid analysis as part of the JRIC’s funding came from public sources.
11
CNPC International’s participation in Iranian gasfield
CATEGORY: Energy & natural resources
LEGAL COUNSEL: Herbert Smith Freehills was sole counsel to CNPC International, a subsidiary of China National Petroleum Corporation.
KEY POINTS: Herbert Smith Freehills advised CNPC International (CNPCI) on its proposed participation in the South Pars Block Phase 11 in Iran. South Pars Phase 11 is part of the massive South Pars gasfield. CNPCI and Iran’s local company, Petropars, will be members of the consortium in developing this project.
According to Herbert Smith Freehills, this deal has been Iran’s first natural gas development project with international oil companies since sanctions on the country were eased. It is also Iran’s first major deal under its new integrated petroleum contract (IPC) model, and the first investment made by a Chinese oil and gas state-owned enterprise into Iran after sanctions were eased.
The project is worth about US$4.8 billion. The involved jurisdictions include China, France, Iran and the UK.
12
CNPC takes 8% stake in Abu Dhabi oil concession
CATEGORY: Energy and natural resources; Belt and Road
LEGAL COUNSEL: Eversheds Sutherland was the legal adviser to China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC).
KEY POINTS: CNPC and Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC) signed an agreement to award CNPC International, a wholly owned subsidiary of CNPC, an 8% stake in the 40-year Abu Dhabi Company for Onshore Petroleum Operations (ADCO) concession. ADNOC holds a 60% stake of the concession and invited a shortlist of leading foreign oil companies to bid for stakes within the remaining 40%.
Eversheds Sutherland’s Beijing managing partner, Ingrid Zhu-Clark, says this was a sophisticated, world-class transaction. “The Abu Dhabi concession deal is one of the largest overseas investments made by CNPC in recent years and is of great importance in CNPC’s global strategy.”
Greg Hammond, a partner at Eversheds Sutherland in London, told China Business Law Journal in an earlier news report that the transaction was important for the China market because it would provide access to a secure and sizeable supply of high-quality crude oil over a 40-year period. It could also be expected to enhance China’s influence with, and trade into, the UAE, a key political and commercial power in the Persian Gulf region.
13
Colombo Port City Project in Sri Lanka
CATEGORIES: Infrastructure; Belt and Road
LEGAL COUNSEL: Pinsent Masons acted for China Harbour Engineering Company. Baker McKenzie was also involved in this deal.
KEY POINTS: The Colombo Port City Project, now renamed the Colombo International Finance City, is the largest inward investment project in Sri Lanka to date, according to Pinsent Masons.
During the process, the project suffered a suspension after a change of government in Sri Lanka. Pinsent Masons supported China Harbour throughout the development and negotiation of the concession agreement and the finance documents, the subsequent suspension, and the successful renegotiation of the concession agreement and restart of construction.
China Development Bank provided US$800 million in project finance. Pinsent Masons reviewed and revised the finance documents and security documents, and conducted negotiations with the lender.
14
COSCO acquires 51% stake in Noatum Port Holdings
CATEGORY: Overseas M&A; Belt and Road; Shipping
LEGAL COUNSEL: Slaughter and May advised COSCO SHIPPING Ports on English and Hong Kong law. KA-Legal advised COSCO SHIPPING Ports on competition law.
Uría Menéndez advised COSCO SHIPPING Ports and JP Morgan on Spanish law. Clifford Chance advised JP Morgan on English law. Allen & Overy advised JP Morgan on competition law.
KEY POINTS: COSCO Shipping Ports acquired a 51% stake of Noatum Port Holdings from TPIH Iberia, a vehicle invested by funds managed by JP Morgan Global Alternatives (67%) and APG Asset Management (33%).
Slaughter and May worked with Uría Menéndez, coming up with innovative solutions to issues presented by the transaction, including: facilitating the negotiation of the transaction documents in light of the proposed restructuring of the Noatum Port Holdings’ group between signing and completion, which involved the carving out of certain companies from the target group; obtaining a waiver from the Hong Kong Stock Exchange for the inclusion of an accountants’ report in the shareholder circular, which was prepared by non-Hong Kong qualified accounts; and facilitating the obtaining of clearance from the port authorities of Valencia and Bilbao in respect of the transaction.
Uría Menéndez says this transaction represents a clear example of Belt and Road investment. As disclosed by COSCO Shipping Ports in its filings with Hong Kong Stock Exchange, with this acquisition the shipping company furthered its efforts in extending its networks over the Mediterranean and European areas.
15
COSCO SHIPPING’s acquisition of Orient Overseas
CATEGORIES: Overseas M&A; Shipping
LEGAL COUNSEL: Paul Hastings represented COSCO SHIPPING Holdings. Slaughter and May advised Orient Overseas (International). Kirkland & Ellis acted for UBS, the financial adviser of COSCO.
KEY POINTS: The wholly owned subsidiaries of COSCO SHIPPING Holdings and Shanghai International Port (Group) made a cash offer for all the issued shares of Orient Overseas for a total value of about US$6.3 billion, pursuant to the Hong Kong Takeovers Code. The transaction also constituted a very substantial acquisition by COSCO SHIPPING Holdings under the Hong Kong listing rules.
COSCO SHIPPING Holdings is the world’s fourth-largest container shipping company and Orient Overseas is the world’s seventh-largest. The acquisition marked one of the largest M&A deals in the global maritime industry in 2017, according to Paul Hastings.
Paul Hastings says that COSCO SHIPPING Holdings will finance its consideration for the transaction through external debt financing, and the transaction is subject to certain preconditions, including various regulatory reviews and approvals, and shareholder approval of COSCO SHIPPING Holdings.
16
CSIC Leasing’s ship lease financing
CATEGORY: Financial leasing; Shipping
LEGAL COUNSEL: Watson Farley & Williams advised CSIC Leasing. Mourant Ozannes acted as British Virgin Islands counsel.
KEY POINTS: Watson Farley & Williams advised CSIC Leasing on a US$65.5 million sale and leaseback transaction with Eletson Corporation, a Greek tanker owner and operator.
Subsidiaries of CSIC Leasing acquired four second-hand, long-range product tankers from the subsidiaries of Eletson, with the sale proceeds used to refinance the balloon payment under certain loan facilities of the Eletson group secured on those vessels. The acquired vessels were then leased back on delivery to Eletson under agreed financial lease arrangements. Additionally, CSIC Leasing provided, through one of its affiliated companies, a working capital loan to Eletson as part of the refinancing process.
According to Watson Farley & Williams, this is CSIC Leasing’s first lease financing transaction and a milestone for the company in expanding its shipping portfolio and establishing long-term relationships with key players in the industry. The law firm adds that this is also an important transaction for Eletson as it demonstrates that seeking finance from Asian sources is now a norm for Western ship owners.
The deal was completed under challenging and complicated closing conditions, which required careful negotiation and co-ordination due to the intricate relationships of the parties involved, says Watson Farley & Williams.
17
Dasin Retail Trust’s Singapore IPO
CATEGORIES: Equity capital market; Overseas listing; Real estate
LEGAL COUNSEL: JunZeJun Law Offices was PRC legal counsel and WongPartnership acted as Singapore counsel for the issuer, Dasin Retail Trust. Allen & Gledhill, King & Wood Mallesons and Slaughter and May advised DBS and other joint bookrunners and underwriters in this IPO.
KEY POINTS: Dasin Retail Trust is the first pure play China retail business trust listed on the Singapore Exchange to be sponsored by a China-based group. The sponsor is Zhongshan Dasin Real Estate, one of the top real estate developers in Zhongshan, Guangdong province.
Dasin Retail Trust, through its trustee manager, entered into an agreement for syndicated offshore loan facilities. According to Allen & Gledhill, the IPO loan financing was split between onshore and offshore loan facilities, and the proceeds from the offshore loan facilities were partly on-lent to purchase three retail malls in China.
These properties were injected into Dasin Retail Trust upon its listing on the Singapore Exchange, and a fourth retail mall would be injected into Dasin Retail Trust within six months after the listing as a condition subsequent to the offshore loan facilities. Allen & Gledhill says an inter-creditor deed was entered into between the onshore and offshore parties to regulate various matters including enforcement of onshore and offshore security.
18
Development, financing of Hub power plant in Pakistan
CATEGORY: Infrastructure; Belt and Road
LEGAL COUNSEL: Linklaters acted for the lenders (China Development Bank, The Export-Import Bank of China, etc.) on the development and financing of this project. JunHe was the lenders’ PRC counsel.
KEY POINTS: The project is jointly developed by a Chinese state-owned enterprise and one of the largest private companies in Pakistan. Linklaters says the project is part of a series of high-profile Chinese-invested energy projects under the Belt and Road initiative. It is expected to increase the energy supply of Pakistan by 20% and is of strategic importance locally.
According to Linklaters, the project had a complex construction documents structure for the power station and a coal jetty, with relatively high working capital funding needs. A number of innovative approaches were required to accommodate the large-scale and different financing needs of the project, including: (1) bespoke sponsor support arrangements to address different risk appetites of each of the sponsors, and risks posted to the lenders; (2) a complex security interest package and sharing structure among the term loan lenders, working capital lenders and other ancillary financiers of the project; and (3) mechanisms in the financing documents to address construction risks.
19
Financing of Caculo Cabaca hydropower project
CATEGORIES: Overseas investment; Power infrastructure
LEGAL COUNSEL: Ashurst advised the syndicate of lenders, including Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC) and other Chinese financial institutions. JunHe was PRC legal counsel to the lenders. CM Advogados acted as Angolan legal counsel for ICBC. Norton Rose Fulbright was international counsel to the borrower.
KEY POINTS: The syndicate of lenders provided a term loan facility of more than US$4 billion to the Republic of Angola to finance the construction of the Caculo Cabaca hydroelectric power project with an installed capacity of more than 2,100MW.
According to Ashurst, this project was a key part of the phased water resource development projects on the Kwanza River, and expected to significantly contribute to the power supply security of Angola and nearby countries. This is one of the most important power projects in this African country that will drastically improve its ability to develop its economy. The project’s construction will be undertaken by a consortium led by China Gezhouba Group Company and Boreal Investments.
20
Financing of Minsheng’s Airbus aircraft purchase
CATEGORY: Aircraft financing
LEGAL COUNSEL: In the financing of the two A380 aircraft, Ince & Co advised the Export-Import Bank of China (CEXIM) as lead transaction counsel. DeHeng Law Offices was PRC counsel, Lee & Ko was Korean counsel, and Mason Heyes & Curran was Irish counsel to CEXIM.
Minsheng Financial Leasing hired HFW as English counsel, A&L Goodbody as Irish counsel, Kim & Chang as Korean counsel and Dentons as PRC counsel. Lessee Asiana Airlines’ legal counsel was Milbank Tweed Hadley & McCloy.
In a corresponding transaction, the financing of four A320 aircraft, Dentons was PRC counsel and King & Wood Mallesons was English counsel advising Minsheng Financial Leasing and its Ireland-registered subsidiary, Bluesky 26 Leasing Company.
A&L Goodbody and AZB & Partners advised Bluesky 26 as Irish and Indian counsel, respectively. Watson Farley & Williams was English counsel and Rui Bai Law Firm was PRC counsel to Crédit Agricole CIB (CA-CIB).
KEY POINTS: CEXIM provided US$450 million financing for two Airbus A380 aircraft purchased by Minsheng Financial Leasing and leased to Asiana Airlines. According to Ince & Co, this transaction involved a complicated cross-collateralized structure and a set of finance and security documents governed by English law, PRC law, Irish law and the law of South Korea.
Ince & Co says the transaction represented the first A380 financing by CEXIM. Lee & Ko says it was the first major CEXIM-backed financing for aircraft leased to a South Korea-based international airline.
Minsheng Financial Leasing, through Bluesky 26 Leasing Company, also purchased four Airbus A320 aircraft. CA-CIB and Korea Development Bank provided financing for this purchase, while Bluesky 26 was the borrower.
Dentons says the transaction involved many jurisdictions including China, France, Ireland, South Korea, India and the US. Various guarantee and credit enhancement methods were also provided, such as aircraft mortgage, cash collateral, security assignment, share charge, account pledge, warranty assignment, insurance assignment, etc. Parties to the transaction signed a large number of core agreements and supporting documents to safeguard the rights and interests of the banks, the borrower, the aircraft manufacturer and the airline.
21
ICBC issues ‘Belt and Road’ climate bonds
CATEGORY: Debt capital market; Belt and Road
LEGAL COUNSEL: Linklaters and JunHe served as international counsel and PRC counsel, respectively, to the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC). Allen & Overy and King & Wood Mallesons served as international counsel and PRC counsel, respectively, to the underwriters.
KEY POINTS: The Luxembourg branch of ICBC completed its overseas offering of “Belt and Road” climate bonds in October 2017, raising US$2.15 billion in proceeds. The climate bonds were divided into three tranches, encompassing US dollars and euros, which would be used to support on a global scale four types of environmentally friendly projects that ICBC had financed or would soon finance – namely, projects related to renewable energy, low carbon and low emission transport, energy efficiency and sustainable water resource management.
King & Wood Mallesons says the issuance set five records: (1) the “ICBC green bond framework” was the first framework that simultaneously met the most recent international and domestic criteria for green bonds; (2) this was the first framework of a Chinese issuer to secure a second opinion of the Centre for International Climate and Environmental Research (CICERO) in Oslo, making ICBC the only Chinese issuer to date to receive the CICERO “dark green” certification (“second opinion” refers to certification by an independent institution of the “green” features of the use orientation of the issuance proceeds); (3) this was the first instance of climate bonds that had been certified with regard to a Chinese financial institution’s climate bond standards; (4) these were the first green bonds that featured environmentally friendly projects along the Belt and Road; and (5) this was the largest single offering of Chinese-funded green bonds denominated in euros.
22
Intime Retail’s privatization
CATEGORY: Privatization; Retail
LEGAL COUNSEL: Davis Polk & Wardwell advised Intime Retail (Group) Company on Hong Kong law. Maples and Calder acted as Cayman Islands counsel to Intime Retail.
Morgan Lewis & Bockius, and Luk & Partners, acted for Intime International Holdings, one of the joint offerors. Slaughter and May advised Alibaba Group, the other joint offeror.
KEY POINTS: The US$2.55 billion Intime Retail’s privatization project represented the single-largest shareholder, Alibaba’s, first venture into brick-and-mortar retail to achieve its strategic goal of integrating online and offline shopping, says Morgan Lewis. Maples and Calder says this transaction allowed Alibaba to explore ways to modernize an industry that had not adapted well to the growing popularity of online shopping.
Headquartered in Beijing, Intime Retail, a leading department store operator, is a Cayman-incorporated company listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.
The privatization involved a consortium between Alibaba Investment, a wholly owned subsidiary of Alibaba Group, and Intime International as joint offerors. The rollover arrangement regarding the shares held by the CEO of Intime Retail constituted a special deal under the Hong Kong Takeovers Code.
According to Maples and Calder, the privatization was conducted by way of scheme of arrangement under section 86 of the Companies Law of the Cayman Islands.
In order to accommodate the financing requirements of this privatization and the relevant consortium agreement, and compliance with the Hong Kong Takeovers Code, Morgan Lewis advised Intime International on its financing facilities obtained from Deutsche Bank for the purpose of financing the privatization and refinancing its pre-existing indebtedness.
Morgan Lewis says the range and complexity of the legal issues to this privatization project were almost unlimited. Due to its multi-jurisdictional nature involving Hong Kong, mainland China and Cayman Islands, Morgan Lewis handled numerous legal and commercial considerations related to the deal, in parallel with the negotiation and documentation of the debt transaction, which added to the deal’s complexity.
23
Kaisa Group’ exchange offer and new issuance
CATEGORY: Debt capital market; Real estate
LEGAL COUNSEL: Sidley Austin advised Kaisa Group Holdings on US and Hong Kong law. Harney Westwood & Riegels advised Kaisa Group on Cayman Islands and British Virgin Islands law, while Jia Yuan Law Offices acted as PRC counsel.
Shearman & Sterling was US counsel and Commerce & Finance Law Offices was PRC counsel to the underwriters of the new issued notes. Mayer Brown JSM was the trustee’s counsel.
KEY POINTS: Kaisa Group Holdings made an exchange offer for its existing series A, B, C, D and E notes into senior notes, and its concurrent issuance of new senior notes. Kaisa Group is a Chinese property developer primarily engaged in the development of large-scale residential properties and integrated commercial properties.
Sidley Austin says that the deal’s key features included: (1) new notes exchanged for the old notes, structured to extend the tenor of the existing notes; (2) cash consideration to sweeten the deal for existing holders and to encourage participation; (3) indication by the company of an intention to call the existing notes, in order to encourage more holders to participate; and (4) the exchange offer was offered outside the US to non-US holders so that US tender offer rules did not apply.
Eligible existing noteholders were entitled to receive exchange consideration comprising applicable new notes and cash considerations, as well as accrued interest.
24
Karot hydropower plant project in Pakistan
CATEGORIES: Energy infrastructure; Belt and Road
LEGAL COUNSEL: Tian Yuan Law Firm and Allen & Overy acted for China Three Gorges Corporation.
Shearman & Sterling, Global Law Office and Mourant Ozannes acted as counsel to The Export-Import Bank of China, China Development Bank, Silk Road Fund and International Finance Corporation. Kabraji & Talibuddin and Deacons also acted as Pakistani counsel and Hong Kong counsel to the lenders, respectively.
KEY POINTS: The Export-Import Bank of China, China Development Bank, Silk Road Fund and International Finance Corporation provided the facility for the construction of the 720MW Karot hydropower project in Pakistan on the Jhelum River, east of Islamabad, which is expected to be commercially operational in 2021. The facility was provided to Karot Power Company (Private) Limited, a Pakistan-incorporated subsidiary of China Three Gorges South Asia Investment.
Mourant Ozannes says the transaction involved a range of cross-border issues spanning Mainland China, Pakistan, Hong Kong and the Cayman Islands. Shearman & Sterling says the deal marks the largest hydropower plant in Pakistan to be financed on a limited-recourse basis.
This project represents one of the three multi-stage hydropower projects in Pakistan being developed by China Three Gorges South Asia Investment, a company incorporated in the Cayman Islands.
As the first large-scale hydropower investment and construction project under the Belt and Road initiative, Karot Hydropower Project is listed as a preferential implementing project of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor, according to the Agreement for Energy Project Co-operation of China-Pakistan Economic Corridor.
According to Tian Yuan, Karot Hydropower Station will not only provide high-quality clean energy electricity to Pakistan, but also offer more than 2,000 direct jobs to the country and drive the co-ordinated development and industrial upgrade of the local electricity supporting sector.
25
NAURA Technology acquires Akrion Systems
CATEGORIES: Overseas M&A; Semiconductor
LEGAL COUNSEL: Zhong Lun Law Firm was domestic counsel and Gibson Dunn & Crutcher was foreign counsel to NAURA Technology Group, while Perkins Coie acted as counsel to Akrion Systems, the seller.
KEY POINTS: Akrion Systems is based in Allentown, Pennsylvania and provides surface preparation equipment and related services for the semiconductor and solar industries. NAURA Technology Group is based in Beijing and its stock is listed and traded on the Shanghai Stock Exchange. Xue Fang, partner in charge of Gibson Dunn’s Beijing office, says this transaction was highly challenging and took more than nine months to sign. The seller is a distressed limited liability company with a significant amount of bank and shareholder debt, so careful consideration had to be given to the structure of the transaction to minimize adverse tax, regulatory and insolvency issues.
Xue adds that the deal was ultimately structured as a complex asset deal in multiple jurisdictions. Formal submission was made to the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) in September 2017, and if cleared this will be the first Chinese acquisition of a US semiconductor company approved by CFIUS under the Trump administration (not counting acquisitions of US semiconductor companies that were originally owned by Chinese investors and subsequently sold to other Chinese investors).
26
PRC Ministry of Finance issues US dollar sovereign bonds
CATEGORIES: Sovereign bond
LEGAL COUNSEL: Linklaters acted for the issuer, the PRC Ministry of Finance (MoF). Allen & Overy advised the joint lead managers on English and Hong Kong law. Fangda Partners acted as PRC counsel to the joint lead managers.
KEY POINTS: The US$2 billion, dollar-denominated sovereign bond issuance by MoF was the first such issuance since 2004.
Linklaters says this issuance underlines China’s drive to establish itself as a global player in international markets as part of its “Going Out” and Belt and Road initiatives. Reflecting the international nature of the offering, the US dollar bonds are governed by English law, cleared through Euroclear and Clearstream, and issued in Hong Kong.
The transaction also provides a new yield curve for pricing future US dollar bonds issued by China companies, according to Linklaters. Prior to this issuance, there was no official sovereign credit benchmark for corporate US dollar issuances coming out of China.
27
Qudian’s IPO on New York Stock Exchange
CATEGORY: Overseas listing; Fintech
LEGAL COUNSEL: Simpson Thacher & Bartlett acted as US legal adviser, Fangda Partners was PRC counsel, and Conyers Dill & Pearman acted as Cayman Islands counsel to the issuer, Qudian. Kirkland & Ellis was US legal adviser and Tian Yuan Law Firm was PRC legal counsel to the underwriters.
KEY POINTS: Qudian is an online micro-lending company that provides short-term micro loans through its mobile app to China’s young workers who are looking for extra cash to be able to afford things like premium-priced apparel or concert tickets.
Backed by Alibaba’s affiliate Ant Financial, Qudian uses its data to analyse a borrower’s creditworthiness based on data sources gleaned from social media and one’s e-commerce history. Conyers says that as China still lacks a formal credit assessment mechanism, Qudian’s platform provides easier access to traditional credit for smaller or first-time borrowers.
Simpson Thacher says the transaction involved disclosure and in-depth discussion with the US Securities and Exchange Commission as to the intricate regulation of China’s fintech industry, novel business arrangements among Qudian, its funding partners and borrowers, the accounting impact of such business arrangements, and loan performances information.
Tian Yuan says this listing represented the biggest US listing by a Chinese financial technology firm to date. Conyers says it is also worth noting that Qudian was the most high-profile company to take part in a resurgence of US listings by Chinese firms in 2017.
28
Shanghai Electric Group invests in Manz
CATEGORIES: Overseas investment; Technology transaction
LEGAL COUNSEL: In Shanghai Electric Group’s purchase of Manz’s equity interest, Baker McKenzie advised Shanghai Electric Group Company, while Hogan Lovells advised the private bank Bankhaus Lampe, which acted as the global co-ordinator and financial adviser on the capital increase of Manz, in which subscription rights were granted to current shareholders.
KEY POINTS: Shanghai Electric Group, one of the largest mechanical and electrical equipment manufacturers in China, invested in Manz, a German-listed, high-tech equipment manufacturer with a strategic focus on electronics, the solar industry and energy storage.
Baker McKenzie says the deal showed growing momentum by Chinese companies to gain access to the German technology industry through acquisitions, especially public acquisitions. Such acquisitions usually involved multi-jurisdictional merger control filing obligations, approval from the target company’s shareholders, and supervision by the German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority.
29
Shanghai Electric, Manz and Shenhua establish JV
CATEGORY: Joint venture; Technology transaction
LEGAL COUNSEL: In the joint venture establishment between Shanghai Electric, Manz and Shenhua Group, Latham & Watkins advised the National Institute of Clean and Low Carbon Energy, a subsidiary of Shenhua Group. Menold Bezler was counsel to Manz.
KEY POINTS: In another transaction, Shanghai Electric and Manz, together with National Institute of Clean and Low Carbon Energy, a subsidiary of Shenhua Group, established the joint venture NICE PV Research, a research institution with the aim of speeding up the development of copper indium gallium selenium (CIGS) technology in order to leverage potential for a further increase in photovoltaic efficiency.
As part of this deal, Manz CIGS Technology, a previous subsidiary and research arm of Manz, was incorporated into the new joint venture. Latham & Watkins says the deal was complex and required a combination of share and asset purchase agreements.
30
Sisram spin-off, HK listing by Fosun Pharmaceutical
CATEGORIES: Overseas listing; Healthcare
LEGAL COUNSEL: Dentons and Israeli law firm Yigal Arnon & Co served as legal counsel of the co-sponsors and underwriters. The issuer’s lawyers included Grandall Law Firm, Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer and Israeli law firm Weinstock Zecler & Co. Taylor Wessing, as German legal counsel, Perkins Coie, as US legal counsel, and Trilegal, as Indian legal counsel, were also involved in this deal.
KEY POINTS: Sisram Medical was a majority-owned subsidiary of Fosun Pharmaceutical, and its wholly owned subsidiary, Alma Lasers, mainly engages in the research, development, production and sale of devices for cosmetic surgery. Both Sisram Medical and Alma Lasers are registered in Israel, and accordingly this project was essentially the spin-off of a majority-owned subsidiary by an H-share/A-share dual listed company registered in Mainland China, and completion of the listing in Hong Kong.
Dentons says this was the first time that Israel had been confirmed by HKEx as the place of registration of an H-share listed company. Dentons was able to demonstrate the soundness of Israel’s company law and its comparability with Hong Kong company law through intense liaison with HKEx, and partnering with local Israeli law firms, Israeli legal opinions, etc., ultimately opening a path for an H-share listing by an enterprise registered in Israel.
The project involved several difficulties. For example, as the parent of Sisram Medical was an enterprise listed in two locations, the difficulty of information disclosure was relatively high. The issuer also has a large number of upstream and downstream enterprises, making co-ordination of due diligence relatively difficult. Dentons was required to conduct several rounds of due diligence in respect of numerous enterprises relating to Alma Lasers business procedures.
An enterprise listed in China that wishes to carry out a spin-off and listing is first required to secure a no action letter from the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC). However, Dentons discovered that all subsidiaries spun off in previous similar projects were companies registered in China. In contrast, as the subsidiary spun off in this project was registered in Israel, it was unclear whether the CSRC would exercise oversight over such a spin-off, and what those oversight criteria would be. Therefore, the issuer, its lawyers and sponsors actively liaised with the CSRC, submitted the required materials, and smoothly secured a no action letter from the CSRC for the spin-off and listing on a one-off basis.
31
State Grid issues US$7.7 billion medium term note
CATEGORIES: Overseas debt capital market
LEGAL COUNSEL: King & Wood Mallesons was PRC counsel to State Grid Corporation, the issuer and guarantor in this issuance. Herbert Smith Freehills advised State Grid on English, US and Hong Kong law. Conyers Dill & Pearman acted as British Virgin Islands (BVI) counsel to State Grid.
Linklaters advised the initial purchasers on English and US law. Commerce & Finance Law Offices was PRC counsel to the initial purchasers.
KEY POINTS: State Grid Overseas Investment, a wholly owned subsidiary of State Grid Corporation, issued senior guaranteed notes consisting of four tranches through its BVI special purpose vehicle. Measured by revenue, State Grid is one of the largest utility and power grid corporations in the world, as well as the largest power grid construction and operation company in China.
According to Conyers Dill & Pearman, the first drawdown under the programme came in four tranches and raised US$5 billion in the first week of May 2017, the largest G3 bond (i.e., bonds issued in US dollars, yen or euros) in 2017, and the largest bond issue ever by a Chinese state-owned enterprise.
King & Wood Mallesons says State Grid achieved a breakthrough in overseas financing by offering this medium-term note programme, which provided the issuer with the flexibility on the timing of issuance and effectively resolved the difficulties of large issuance scale and dispersed points of time for using the funds. The firm had to complete multiple tasks in a limited timeframe, such as internal and external approvals, due diligence, review of issuance and transaction documents, and issuing legal opinions.
32
WuXi Biologics’ Hong Kong IPO
CATEGORIES: Overseas listing; Biotechnology
LEGAL COUNSEL: Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati was Hong Kong and US counsel to the issuer, Wuxi Biologics. Fangda Partners acted as PRC counsel to Wuxi Biologics. Maples and Calder advised the issuer on Cayman Islands and BVI laws.
Shearman & Sterling and Jingtian & Gongcheng were legal counsel to the joint underwriters, including Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley and China Merchant Securities.
KEY POINTS: Wuxi Biologics is a unique platform as the leading open-access biologics technology platform in the world that offers multinational pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies end-to-end solutions empowering any company to discover, develop and manufacture biologics from conception of an idea to finally achieving commercial manufacturing.
Since WuXi Biologics is the only integrated biologics outsourcing company in China, there are no direct comparable companies for the deal, with no meaningful precedents for reference purposes, notes Shearman & Sterling. During the stock exchange vetting process, elaborated and extensive disclosures on Wuxi Biologics’ unique business model, fee structure and revenue recognition mechanism were made to ensure the public comprehended such complexity.
Shearman & Sterling says WuXi Biologics’ IPO sets a precedent on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange for global biologics service providers and hopefully will attract more similar companies to look to Hong Kong for fundraising.
33
Yunfeng Financial acquires MassMutual Asia
CATEGORIES: Overseas M&A; Insurance; Fintech
LEGAL COUNSEL: Simpson Thacher & Bartlett was legal counsel to Yunfeng Financial Group, while Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom advised MassMutual International, and Kirkland & Ellis advised JP Morgan, the financial adviser to Yunfeng Financial Group.
KEY POINTS: Yunfeng Financial Group led an investor group to acquire MassMutual Asia, a Hong Kong-based insurance company, from MassMutual International. Yunfeng would acquire a 60% stake and several other investors would acquire the remaining 40% stake. The total deal value is HK$13.1 billion (US$1.68 billion).
Yunfeng Financial Group is a leading Asia-focused investment and financing platform. The transaction can add insurance and annuity products to Yunfeng’s existing fintech-focused financial services. MassMutual sees increased opportunities to grow in Asia as it gains a stake in Yunfeng as part of this deal.
The completion of the transaction requires various approvals, including those from the Hong Kong Insurance Authority, the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commissions, and the independent shareholders of Yunfeng Financial Group.
34
ZhongAn’s Hong Kong IPO
CATEGORIES: Overseas listing; Insurance; Fintech
LEGAL COUNSEL: Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom and Grandall Law Firm advised the issuer, ZhongAn Online P&C Insurance. Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton and Han Kun Law Offices advised the underwriters.
KEY POINTS: The listing is the world’s first “insuretech” public offering and was the largest technology IPO in Hong Kong in 2017, says Skadden.
ZhongAn Online P&C Insurance, the leading online insurance company in China, made a US$1.525 billion initial public offering of H-shares on the main board of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.
ZhongAn was founded by nine shareholders, including Ping An Insurance and Chinese internet giants Ant Financial and Tencent Holdings. According to Han Kun, it is the first internet company to obtain an insurance institution licence and one of the four online-only insurance companies to hold such an insurance licence.
DISPUTES AND INVESTIGATIONS

Story 98
DGAP-News: Schaltbau Holding AG / Schlagwort(e): Konferenz


Für den Inhalt der Mitteilung ist der Emittent / Herausgeber verantwortlich.

München, 20. September 2019. Anlässlich ihres 90-jährigen Jubiläums lud die Schaltbau Holding AG gestern, den 19. September 2019, im Ketterer Kunsthaus in München zu einem exklusiven Zukunftsforum "Mobilität und Energie im Zeichen von Urbanisierung und Digitalisierung". Im Expertengespräch wurde deutlich, dass ein fundamentaler gesellschaftlicher Wandel bevorsteht - eine Energie- und Mobilitätswende. Zahlreiche namhafte Experten aus Wirtschaft, Wissenschaft und Medien, wie der Umwelt- und Verkehrsexperte Dr. Axel Friedrich und der stellvertretende Leiter des Fraunhofer-Instituts für Energiewirtschaft und Energiesystemtechnik, Prof. Dr. Kurt Rohrig diskutierten im Plenum über Gegenwart und Zukunft der Energie- und Mobilitätsbranche. Über 100 Kunden, Investoren und Partner sowie Vertreter aus Politik und Medien folgten der Einladung des international führenden Technologiekonzerns für Mobilität und Energie. Die erfahrene Live-Moderatorin Désirée Duray führte durch die engagierte Diskussion. Matthias Horx, Visionär und renommierter Zukunftsforscher, zeichnete zu Beginn des Zukunftsforums ein Bild davon, welche Mobilitäts- und Energiekonzepte das Leben im Jahr 2039 bestimmen werden. "Vernetzung" ist für Horx "das große Magiewort des Digitalen Zeitalters" und eine der entscheidenden Erfolgsfaktoren zukünftiger Konzepte. "Energie ist nicht knapp. Im Gegenteil. Die Natur - Wind, Sonne, Biomasse und vieles mehr - geben uns Energie in Hülle und Fülle. Es geht vielmehr darum, diese Energien richtig zu verteilen, zu speichern, zu vernetzen." Zwischenspeicher spielten dabei eine zentrale Rolle, bei denen die Bürger ihren Strom über den Eigenverbrauch hinaus auch Dritten, beispielsweise zum Laden der Autobatterie, zur Verfügung stellen werden. Ebenso propagiert Matthias Horx eine Vernetzung der Verkehrsmittel. "Der jungen Generation geht nicht mehr darum, ein Auto zu besitzen. Spannender ist die Fortbewegung, das Reisen selbst. Auto, Bus und Bahn müssen hier als einheitliches Mobilitätserlebnis gedacht werden." In diesem Punkt stimmte er mit dem Umwelt- und Verkehrsexperten Dr. Axel Friedrich überein. Dieser fordert, mit Blick auf den Klimaschutz und Emissionsreduktion, ebenfalls ein radikales Umdenken in Energie- und Verkehrsfragen: "Die Automobilbranche hat viel zu lange auf fossile Brennstoffe, Diesel und Benzin, gesetzt. Bei dem Wandel, der jetzt bevorsteht, werden wir unser Verhalten ändern müssen. Es wird bei den Unternehmen Gewinner und Verlierer geben. Die Ankündigung des Bundesverkehrsministers, mehr Geld für E-Autos, Radwege und Schienennetz bereitzustellen, zeigt, dass die Brisanz von Umweltfragen inzwischen bei der Politik angekommen ist. Ein erster Schritt, aber hier muss mehr passieren!" Prof. Dr. Kurt Rohrig, stellvertretender Leiter des Fraunhofer-Instituts für Energiewirtschaft und Energiesystemtechnik stellte fest: "Die erneuerbaren Erzeuger und speziell die Windenergie entwickeln sich mehr und mehr zu einem wichtigen Baustein unserer Stromversorgung. 35 Prozent der Bruttostromerzeugung 2018 lieferten erneuerbare Energien, davon lieferten etwa die Hälfte (17 Prozent) Windenergieanlagen an Land und auf See. Gleichstrom ist einer der technologischen Wegbereiter für Energiekonzepte der Zukunft, insbesondere mit Blick auf die energieintensiven Märkte wie E-Mobility und Industrie 4.0." In einem wesentlichen Punkt waren sich alle einig. Dr. Albrecht Köhler, Sprecher des Vorstands der Schaltbau Holding AG, resümiert: "Für die erfolgreiche Implementierung zukünftiger Energie- und Mobilitätskonzepte bedarf es der Unterstützung der Politik. Sie muss die notwendigen Rahmenbedingungen und Infrastrukturen schaffen und den fundamentalen Wandel koordinieren. Politik, Forschung, Wirtschaft und Gesellschaft können nur gemeinsam die entscheidenden Schritte in Richtung Energie- und Mobilitätswandel gehen." "Wir profitieren von den dynamischen Entwicklungen im Energie- und im Mobilitätsbereich. Die Märkte, in denen wir uns bewegen, boomen. Dabei sehen wir eine Beschleunigung der neuen Themen: Nach der Energiewende erleben wir jetzt eine Mobilitätswende. Dies zeigt sich unter anderem in der Investitionsbereitschaft der Verkehrsträger sowie dem steigenden Einsatz von dezentralen Energiekonzepten und Energiespeichersystemen", betont Dr. Albrecht Köhler. Als besonderer Gast erklärte EU-Kommissar Günther Oettinger, dass es wichtig sei, bei diesem Wandel mit Augenmaß vorzugehen und über Ländergrenzen hinweg weit stärker zusammen zu arbeiten. Am Ende werde sich nur das durchsetzen, was den Menschen nutzt. Er riet zu einem pragmatischen Realismus. Der international führende Anbieter von Komponenten und Systemen für Verkehrstechnik und Industrie ist im Jubiläumsjahr gut aufgestellt und positioniert sich, gemäß dem aktuellen Slogan "Smart Solutions for Power and Mobility", als erfahrener, verlässlicher und innovativer Partner für Schlüsseltechnologien. Neben dem traditionellen Kerngeschäft im Bereich Bahnindustrie setzt das Unternehmen auf gewinnbringende Zukunftsmärkte wie E-Mobility, New Energy sowie DC-Industry und verfolgt in allen Segmenten eine aussichtsreiche Wachstumsstrategie. Dabei befindet sich die Schaltbau-Gruppe mit ihren Kernmarken Schaltbau, Bode, Pintsch und SBRS auf dem Weg zu neuer nachhaltiger Stärke. 1929 begann die beeindruckende Erfolgsgeschichte, als das Unternehmen als Hersteller von Stromschaltern für Zugheizungen in München gegründet wurde. Heute zählt die Münchner Schaltbau-Gruppe zu den weltweit führenden Anbietern von Technologien für Schienenfahrzeuge, Bahninfrastruktur, Straßenfahrzeuge und weitere industrielle Anwendungen. Diese unternehmerische Entwicklung würdigte die Schaltbau Holding AG mit einem Festakt zum 90-jährigen Jubiläum unmittelbar im Anschluss an das Zukunftsforum im Ketterer Kunsthaus in München. Kontakt
Wolfgang Güssgen
Leiter Investor Relations & Corporate Communications
Schaltbau Holding AG
Hollerithstraße 5
81829 München
Deutschland
T +49 89 93005-209
guessgen@schaltbau.de
www.schaltbaugroup.de

Über Schaltbau
Die Schaltbau-Gruppe gehört mit einem Jahresumsatz von etwa 500 Mio. EUR und mit etwa 3.000 Mitarbeitern zu den international führenden Anbietern von Komponenten und Systemen für die Verkehrstechnik und die Investitionsgüterindustrie. Die Unternehmen der Schaltbau-Gruppe mit den Kernmarken Schaltbau, Bode, Pintsch und SBRS entwickeln hochwertige Technik und kundenspezifische Lösungen für Schienenfahrzeuge, Bahninfrastruktur, Straßenfahrzeuge und weitere industrielle Anwendungen. Disclaimer
Diese Corporate News enthält Aussagen über zukünftige Entwicklungen, die auf derzeit zur Verfügung stehenden Informationen beruhen und die Risiken und Unsicherheiten bergen, die dazu führen können, dass die tatsächlichen Ergebnisse von den vorausschauenden Aussagen abweichen können. Die Schaltbau Holding AG beabsichtigt nicht, diese vorausschauenden Aussagen zu aktualisieren.
20.09.2019 Veröffentlichung einer Corporate News/Finanznachricht, übermittelt durch DGAP - ein Service der EQS Group AG.
Für den Inhalt der Mitteilung ist der Emittent / Herausgeber verantwortlich.

Die DGAP Distributionsservices umfassen gesetzliche Meldepflichten, Corporate News/Finanznachrichten und Pressemitteilungen.
Medienarchiv unter http://www.dgap.de


Story 99
According to Daniel Zhang, Alibaba’s CEO, it is about providing value, better utilising data and embracing constant change — but all based on the understanding that consumers are the same, whatever platform they use to shop.
In 2017, Alibaba founder and chairman Jack Ma coined the term ‘new retail’, and announced it as the group’s new strategy.
At the recent Consumer Goods Forum Global Summit, Zhang said: “People are always online any time, anywhere."​ For instance, people go out and visit stores but are still connected online through their smartphones.
Providing value​
The question to ask is, said Zhang, what kind of value we can provide people when they are online or when they go to the store?
For instance, he constantly reminds colleagues and partners, they need to find a strong reason to convince a young person to go to a supermarket as people can take out a phone and click and buy.
“The key thing when we look at (offline) retail is that we need to create new value for customers, to give them the experience, the service, that maybe we cannot achieve on the Internet,” ​said Zhang.
Digitisation and data​
Zhang admitted that the Alibaba Group has been “moving very fast”​ into bricks and mortar retail, and referenced the Group’s “huge investment”​​ (US$2.9bn) in the leading hypermarket chain in China, Sun Art.
While he acknowledged that the reason for this type of investment was that the firm strongly believed that bricks and mortar could create huge value, he stressed that the offline physical store retail model needs to be “upgraded” ​and operations need to be digitised.
“If we can digitalise this assortment — the order, the payment, the customer footprint in the store (and so on) — then we can get a lot of data from it like we do in e-commerce online. If we can be empowered by data, then we can do a lot of different things and can improve the efficiency of the store operations,” ​said Zhang.
“We can understand on a real-time basis, based on the behaviour of the people in the store, and know what they want and we can adjust our assortment on a real-time basis.”​
He added that the marketing platform, payment, logistics and cloud (computing), were essential infrastructure for digital commerce.
“We are trying to provide infrastructure services to enable them (business partners) to have a successful digital transformation,” ​said Zhang.
An apt recent example would be Alibaba’s equipping of a quarter of RT-Mart’s 400 China stores with ‘new retail’ technology​ designed to bridge the gap between e-commerce and traditional bricks-and-mortar operations.
A series of newly-added features include in-store fulfilment of online orders to interactive kiosks, and the stocking a selection of popular products from Alibaba’s online Tmall.
“By digitising the store’s operation, the online and offline business merge into one. This will boost retailer’s online transaction volume,”​ Peter Huang, CEO of RT-Mart, had said.
Zhang further acknowledged that Alibaba is in many business segments but its core is in data.
Embracing change​
Last year, Alibaba achieved US$760bn in gross merchandise value. About 600 million customers purchase goods through Alibaba every day.
Zhang said one of the main reasons for Alibaba’s growth from its founding as a B2B site helping Chinese SMEs find trading opportunities in overseas markets (without online purchases or transactions) into a data, digital services and e-commerce powerhouse was its core value of embracing change.
“We evolved our business first based on the needs of the customers. Secondly, from a business perspective, on how to enable our business partners to do successful business on our platform,”​ said Zhang.
Earlier this year, Alibaba also entered a new business area of food delivery, which Zhang said “is a very important component in local services”. ​
“Today, young people tend to stay at home and order food online,” ​he said.
He concluded with an interesting thought.
“Today, when we make payment in China and South East Asia markets, people enjoy mobile wallet payment. Tomorrow, we won’t need a mobile wallet. Everybody, every eye will be a wallet. This day will be coming soon,” ​he said.
​

Story 100
Cypress Capital Group bought a new position in shares of Verisign, Inc. (NASDAQ:VRSN) during the 2nd quarter, according to the company in its most recent disclosure with the SEC. The fund bought 1,281 shares of the information services provider’s stock, valued at approximately $268,000.
Several other hedge funds and other institutional investors also recently bought and sold shares of the company. Liberty Wealth Management LLC acquired a new position in shares of Verisign during the second quarter worth about $25,000. HM Payson & Co. acquired a new position in Verisign in the second quarter valued at approximately $25,000. Cornerstone Advisors Inc. boosted its holdings in Verisign by 208.2% in the first quarter. Cornerstone Advisors Inc. now owns 151 shares of the information services provider’s stock valued at $27,000 after purchasing an additional 102 shares in the last quarter. AGF Investments LLC boosted its holdings in Verisign by 102.9% in the second quarter. AGF Investments LLC now owns 138 shares of the information services provider’s stock valued at $29,000 after purchasing an additional 70 shares in the last quarter. Finally, Capital Investment Advisory Services LLC acquired a new position in Verisign in the second quarter valued at approximately $29,000. Institutional investors and hedge funds own 91.45% of the company’s stock.
Get Verisign alerts:
Verisign stock opened at $186.49 on Friday. Verisign, Inc. has a 12 month low of $131.28 and a 12 month high of $221.78. The business has a 50 day simple moving average of $193.83 and a 200-day simple moving average of $199.47. The stock has a market capitalization of $21.96 billion, a PE ratio of 36.53 and a beta of 1.05.
Verisign (NASDAQ:VRSN) last released its quarterly earnings results on Thursday, July 25th. The information services provider reported $1.24 EPS for the quarter, topping the Thomson Reuters’ consensus estimate of $1.18 by $0.06. The business had revenue of $306.29 million during the quarter, compared to analysts’ expectations of $306.57 million. Verisign had a negative return on equity of 43.63% and a net margin of 51.38%. The company’s quarterly revenue was up 1.3% compared to the same quarter last year. During the same quarter in the prior year, the business earned $1.18 earnings per share. Sell-side analysts expect that Verisign, Inc. will post 4.98 EPS for the current fiscal year.
VRSN has been the subject of a number of research analyst reports. BidaskClub raised Verisign from a “hold” rating to a “buy” rating in a report on Saturday. Robert W. Baird increased their price objective on Verisign from $210.00 to $240.00 and gave the company an “outperform” rating in a report on Friday, July 26th. Finally, ValuEngine downgraded Verisign from a “buy” rating to a “hold” rating in a report on Wednesday, October 2nd. Three research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and three have given a buy rating to the stock. Verisign has an average rating of “Buy” and an average price target of $204.75.
In other Verisign news, Director Timothy Tomlinson sold 575 shares of the company’s stock in a transaction on Tuesday, July 30th. The stock was sold at an average price of $213.50, for a total value of $122,762.50. Following the sale, the director now owns 34,251 shares of the company’s stock, valued at $7,312,588.50. The transaction was disclosed in a filing with the Securities & Exchange Commission, which can be accessed through the SEC website. 1.20% of the stock is currently owned by corporate insiders.
Verisign Profile
VeriSign, Inc provides domain name registry services and Internet infrastructure in the United States and internationally. The company offers registry services that operate the authoritative directory of and/or the back-end systems for .com, .net, .cc, .tv, .gov, .jobs, .edu, .name, and other domain names.
Featured Article: What are Bollinger Bands?
Receive News & Ratings for Verisign Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Verisign and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter.

Story 101
Media headlines about CB stock have trended extremely negative on Thursday, InfoTrie Sentiment reports. The research firm scores the sentiment of press coverage by reviewing more than six thousand news and blog sources in real time. The firm ranks coverage of companies on a scale of -5 to 5, with scores closest to five being the most favorable. Chubb earned a news impact score of -4.0 on InfoTrie's scale. They also gave news articles about the financial services provider a news buzz of 0.0 out of 10, indicating that recent press coverage is extremely unlikely to have an effect on the stock's share price in the next few days. View News Stories for Chubb.

Story 102
InterContinental Hotels Group (LON:IHG) has today announced the acquisition of Six Senses Hotels Resorts Spas, one of the world’s leading operators of luxury hotels, resorts and spas. The $300 million cash acquisition from Pegasus Capital Advisors includes all of Six Senses’ brands and operating companies and does not include any real estate assets.
Six Senses currently manages 16 hotels and resorts, with 18 management contracts signed into its pipeline, and more than 50 further deals under active discussion. With properties in locations such as the Maldives, the Seychelles, Yao Noi in Thailand, Zighy Bay in Oman, and Portugal’s Douro Valley, the addition of Six Senses’ award-winning estate and high-quality development pipeline will further round out IHG’s position in the luxury segment.
At Six Senses’ core is a commitment to guest rejuvenation and reconnection, with an expert focus on wellness and sustainability. The acquisition extends IHG’s reach to a community of affluent travellers and new owners and provides instant entry to some of the world’s most sought-after locations.
Six Senses will sit at the top of IHG’s luxury portfolio, complementing the world’s largest luxury hotel brand, InterContinental Hotels & Resorts; the recently acquired and repositioned Regent Hotels & Resorts; and Kimpton Hotels & Restaurants, for which IHG has secured a presence in 14 countries, since its acquisition of the brand in 2015. Today’s acquisition of Six Senses takes IHG’s portfolio of open and pipeline luxury hotels to 400 hotels (108,000 rooms) globally.
By combining IHG’s scale, systems and operational excellence with Six Senses’ luxury, resort and spa expertise, IHG sees the potential to grow the Six Senses estate to more than 60 properties globally over the next 10 years. This includes bringing Six Senses to important urban markets, with a property already under construction in West Chelsea, Manhattan, New York City.
Keith Barr, Chief Executive Officer, IHG, commented: “Six Senses is an outstanding brand in the top-tier of luxury and one we’ve admired for some time. You only have to look at its iconic hotels and resorts to see how this acquisition will further round out our luxury offer. With a focus on wellness and sustainability, Six Senses has been voted the world’s top hotel brand for the past two years, which is testament to its impressive management team who bring deep experience to IHG’s luxury operations. “Six Senses’ attractive development pipeline provides us with a platform for high quality growth. With the power of the IHG enterprise, we believe we can expand Six Senses to more than 60 properties globally over the next decade. This acquisition continues the progress we’ve made against the strategic initiatives we outlined a year ago, which included a commitment to adding new brands in the fast-growing $60 billion luxury segment.” Neil Jacobs, Chief Executive Officer, Six Senses Hotels Resorts Spas, commented: “An outstanding business has been built over the past 20 years, and a respected portfolio of hotels and resorts, with wellness and sustainability at their heart. This distinct proposition and the popularity of our award-winning estate, combined with IHG’s scale, systems and expertise gives us the opportunity to accelerate Six Senses’ global growth.” David Cogut, Principal, Pegasus Capital Advisors, commented: “Six Senses fit well with our core themes of investing in sustainability and wellness with a focus on ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) integration, and we’re proud of the work we have done to build it into one of the world’s best luxury hotel brands. Since acquiring the brand in 2012, we have taken the Six Senses experience to some of the world’s most select locations. IHG shares many of our values and will protect what’s special about the brand as it drives Six Senses’ next phase of growth.”
Transaction overview
· IHG has agreed to acquire Six Senses Hotels Resorts Spas and its management business for $300 million in cash.
· Six Senses is an asset-light business. It manages 16 hotels and resorts (1,347 rooms), and there are a further 18 management contracts signed into its development pipeline. The open hotels include two properties for the upscale resort brand, Evason. With a further 50 deals under active discussion, IHG expects to accelerate Six Senses’ growth globally to more than 60 hotels over the next 10 years.
· The acquisition includes the entirety of Six Senses’ brands and operating companies and does not include any real estate assets. It includes Six Senses’ spa operations, which are core to the brand’s luxury and wellness positioning. Six Senses operates 37 spas in total under the Six Senses and LivNordic brand names, and also provides spa consultancy services. The Six Senses management will remain in place.
· Six Senses currently generates fee revenues of more than $13 million. The acquisition is expected to be EBITDA breakeven in year two and to generate a return approximately equal to its cost of capital by year four.
· For tax purposes, the transaction constitutes an asset sale for the purchaser, and as such IHG will be entitled to amortise the assets acquired. It is anticipated that the relief associated with this amortisation will reduce IHG’s future cash taxes by approximately $75 million.

Story 103
Media headlines about FORM stock have been trending extremely negative recently, according to InfoTrie Sentiment Analysis. The research group identifies negative and positive press coverage by reviewing more than six thousand news and blog sources in real-time. The firm ranks coverage of publicly-traded companies on a scale of negative five to five, with scores closest to five being the most favorable. FormFactor earned a media sentiment score of -4.0 on InfoTrie's scale. They also assigned news stories about the semiconductor company a news buzz of 0.0 out of 10, indicating that recent press coverage is extremely unlikely to have an impact on the stock's share price in the next few days. View News Stories for FormFactor.

Story 104
Hier soir, France Télévisions a officialisé l’acquisition des droits de retransmission en clair des Jeux Olympiques de Paris 2024.
Détenteur des droits des JO de 2018 à 2024 sur de nombreux territoires en Europe pour 1,3 milliard d’euros, Discovery a donc trouvé une entente commerciale avec le groupe audiovisuel du service public. En parallèle, Eurosport, propriété du groupe américain, conserve l’exploitation des droits payants.
« France Télévisions, le plus grand terrain de sport, partenaire télévisé historique des Jeux Olympiques, proposera gratuitement à tous les publics, une ambitieuse et exceptionnelle couverture des JO de Paris 2024, sur ses antennes. Ainsi, France 2 et France 3 seront mobilisées et une chaîne numérique sera spécialement mise en place à destination d’un public en mobilité et de communautés plus spécifiques » précise le communiqué.
Précisons que l’accord signé par Delphine Ernotte Cunci, Présidente de France Télévisions, et Jean-Briac Perrette, Président et CEO de Discovery International, comprend également les JO d’hiver de Pékin 2022. Un contrat signé « dans le plus grand secret » le mercredi 17 avril au huitième étage du siège de France Télévisions, en présence de Tony Estanguet, président du comité d’organisation des JO de Paris 2024, ou encore du Parisien qui livre de nombreux détails dans son article paru hier peu avant l’annonce par France TV et Discovery. « Le montant de la transaction avec France Télé reste confidentiel, mais Discovery espérait un prix équivalent à celui d’une Coupe du monde de football, soit environ 130 millions d’euros » écrit Le Parisien.
Toujours selon le quotidien, Eurosport diffusera 3 000 heures d’épreuves en 2 semaines. « Nous serons en direct de la première minute de la cérémonie d’ouverture à la dernière de la cérémonie de clôture. Beaucoup d’événements seront sur France Télévisions, avec des audiences fantastiques, mais les amateurs de sport pourront voir sur Eurosport chaque minute de chaque discipline », précise Jean-Briac Perrette, le PDG de Discovery International. « On va créer pendant toute la durée des Jeux plusieurs chaînes événementielles. Chacune sera dédiée à une discipline en particulier ».
Autre réaction intéressante sur cette acquisition, celle de Laurent-Eric Le Lay, directeur des sports du groupe France TV. « Les concurrents aujourd’hui sur les droits télévisuels, c’est n’est pas simplement TF1 et M6 contre France Télévisions » a-t-il précisé à France Info. « Ce sont tous les GAFA qui arrivent avec des moyens considérables et qui peuvent, pour d’autres raisons, mettre la main sur des droits iconiques comme ceux de Paris 2024″.

Story 105
News stories about TDOC stock have trended extremely negative on Thursday, according to InfoTrie Sentiment. InfoTrie identifies positive and negative news coverage by reviewing more than six thousand news and blog sources. The firm ranks coverage of public companies on a scale of -5 to 5, with scores closest to five being the most favorable. Teladoc Health earned a daily sentiment score of -4.0 on InfoTrie's scale. They also gave press coverage about the health services provider a news buzz of 0.0 out of 10, indicating that recent news coverage is extremely unlikely to have an effect on the stock's share price in the next few days. View News Stories for Teladoc Health.

Story 106
PHILADELPHIA, June 14, 2016 /PRNewswire/ -- Berger & Montague, P.C., Lichten & Liss-Riordan, P.C., and Wexler Wallace LLP announce that Technology Solutions, Inc. ("TSI") has paid $40,000.00 to a former Cable Installation Technician as compensation for unpaid overtime wages and other improperly withheld compensation, in connection with a lawsuit filed in the United States District Court for the Central District of California, McKnight v. Technology Solutions, Inc., 5:16-cv-00170 (C.D. Cal.).
The Cable Installation Technician alleged that TSI violated the federal Fair Labor Standards Act ("FLSA") and California state laws by illegally misclassifying its Cable Installation Technicians as independent contractors instead of employees. The Cable Installation Technician alleged that TSI made illegal deductions from his and other Cable Installation Technician's pay checks and withheld overtime wages owed for working more than 40 hours a week. In response, TSI agreed to pay $40,000 plus reasonable attorneys' fees and costs and offered to have judgment entered against it to avoid challenging the claims or litigating the case. Judgment was entered against TSI on June 9, 2016.
Plaintiff McKnight is represented by Shanon J. Carson, Sarah R. Schalman-Bergen, and Alexandra K. Piazza of Berger & Montague, P.C.; Harold Lichten of Lichten & Liss-Riordan, P.C.; Edward A. Wallace of Wexler Wallace LLP; and Robert Starr and Adam Rose of Law Office of Robert Starr.
"This lawsuit is another unfortunate example of employers attempting to take advantage of their workers by misclassifying them as independent contractors instead of employees, in an effort to avoid paying rightfully owed compensation and benefits," said Sarah Schalman-Bergen of Berger & Montague. "Berger & Montague and our co-counsel aggressively litigate these cases, and we hope that this judgment sends a message to TSI and other employers that they must properly classify their workforce," Ms. Schalman-Bergen explained.
The firms representing Plaintiff have extensive experience in litigating wage and hour cases involving the failure to pay wages and other compensation. Please visit any of the firms' websites, www.bergermontague.com, www.llrlaw.com, and www.wexlerwallace.com for more information. You may also contact Alexandra K. Piazza at apiazza@bm.net or (215) 875-3033.
Logo - http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20150707/232479LOGO
SOURCE Berger & Montague, P.C.
Related Links
http://www.bergermontague.com


Story 107
President David Dickson, Jr. founded the company in 1997. It was his vision to help physicians take full advantage of information technology to improve practice efficiency and patient care. For the first few years, TSI remained a small enterprise consisting of just a few employees. However, as the client base grew, the business began to require additional physical resources to accommodate both the clients and staff. In 2007, the need for additional space became a pressing matter and the company was forced to move from their 2,000 square foot office on Finley Golf Course Road to a larger facility. David, a 1986 UNC Chapel Hill graduate and lifelong Tar Heel fan and supporter, was committed to keeping the permanent headquarters in Chapel Hill.
David received his start in healthcare technology while a student at UNC, working for his father. DataFlow Companies was founded in 1974 by David Dickson, Sr., also a graduate of UNC and lifelong fan and supporter of his alma mater. DataFlow, headquartered in Durham and later acquired by Blue Cross Blue Shield of South Carolina (1996), was a leading regional competitor in practice management software for physicians. The company also had commercial and institutional clients including the UNC Educational Foundation, the UNC Department of Athletics and the UNC Student Health Center.
David has fond memories of DataFlow's first medical client, a Chapel Hill based urgent care practice formerly known as FirstCARETM. David says, "I still keep a copy of that first contract in my wallet to remind me where I got my start in this business. I was just a sophomore at Carolina but the staff and management at FirstCARETM were so supportive of our work. They certainly launched us into the medical business, so I have always had a special place for them in my heart."
After his father's retirement, David spent the next year getting his own business started. David states, "My Dad was such a visionary and pioneer in the industry whereas I really am not. I wanted to implement many of his ideals for my own company and I think we have been successful in doing that. We really do strive to give our clients more than we promise and we consistently do it with great energy and a positive attitude."
TSI Healthcare continues to experience steady growth and currently employs almost 100 professionals serving approximately 1,000 physicians in the Mid-Atlantic and Southeast regions of the country. The company has three offices including their main office, which is indeed now located in Chapel Hill. TSI's exceptionally modern headquarters opened in January 2009 and spans the entire second floor (21,000 square feet) of The Europa Center, located directly behind the Sheraton (Europa) Chapel Hill. The office is home to a highly sophisticated, HIPAA-compliant ASP data processing center capable of handling the needs of thousands of concurrent users securely and from anywhere in the world. Over a dozen oversized television monitors are strategically mounted throughout the office to help the support staff closely observe and address client support and technical issues as well as implementations in progress. With the help of this technology, TSI offers an average two to three hour response time to client support needs whereas their competitors typically average two to three days.
TSI's most significant growth has occurred during the recent recession as the company continues to receive local and national recognition for revenue growth and outstanding service. "Our growth has accelerated exponentially since we moved into our new office. It has always been my dream to be in my beloved Chapel Hill and I'm so proud to represent this area and our residents through the success we have had. Much like my Dad's company, we attribute our good fortune to a combination of industry leading products, great people and exceptionally loyal clients. Where else would one expect to find such a remarkable combination of talent and resources but here in Chapel Hill?"
ABOUT TSI HEALTHCARE
TSI Healthcare was founded in 1997 and empowers physicians to improve care, increase efficiency, and maximize profitability through the successful implementation and utilization of the most sophisticated, specialty specific PM and EHR solutions in the industry. TSI is one of NextGen® Healthcare's largest and most successful Value Added Reseller/Support Organizations and currently serves approximately 1,000 physicians.
Each of TSI's engagements are customized, managed, and designed to serve the client and their individual practice needs. TSI Healthcare's skilled support and service teams include physicians, former practice administrators, and EHR and Practice Management consultants. Other services include Revenue Cycle Management for physician billing needs and Electronic Data Interchange. For more information, visit their website at www.tsihealthcare.com or call 800 354 4205.
CONTACT: Lindsey Paytes +1-800-354-4205
SOURCE TSI Healthcare

Story 108
WELLINGTON, Fla.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--B/E Aerospace (Nasdaq:BEAV), the world’s leading manufacturer of aircraft cabin interior products and the world’s leading distributor of aerospace fasteners and consumables, today announced that it has signed a definitive acquisition agreement with the shareholders of TSI Group, Inc. (TSI). TSI is the market leader in the design, engineering and manufacturing of customized, fully integrated, thermal management and interconnect solutions that address complex power management requirements of OEMs in the aerospace and defense industries.
By leveraging TSI’s unique combination of deep, experienced engineering staff and extensive high quality production capabilities, TSI has created differentiated solutions for both its defense industry and commercial aerospace customers. Acute demand for thermal management was first required and developed for power management on military sub-systems for aircraft, helicopters, ground systems, and a broad array of additional applications that require extensive electrical and computing power in small lightweight footprints which require controlled but rapid dissipation of heat. The technology has begun a significant migration into the commercial aerospace market.
“Demand for aerospace thermal management products and systems is expected to grow at a healthy rate over the next decade as a result of changing electronics technologies at both the component and system level as well as the continued introduction of More Electric Aircraft (MEA), such as the Boeing B787 and B747-8 and the Airbus A350. Power management products have become critical components for the newer MEA, and demand for truly innovative power management solutions is growing as power and computing requirements increase, as space becomes more limited, and as heat dissipation and payload weight become more critical. In addition, there is also greater emphasis on control of EMI/RFI emissions from aircraft power equipment, requiring efficient, electrically quiet designs,” said Amin J. Khoury, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of B/E Aerospace.
Mr. Khoury continued, “Through organic growth and strategic acquisitions, TSI has built the best franchise in the growing thermal management sector and as a result, has captured positions on attractive platforms and programs. Over 70 percent of TSI’s revenues are derived from long-term, sole source agreements with numerous premier customers on over 125 platforms. The majority of TSI’s business is currently derived from long-lived viable and growing military platforms. Commercial applications currently represent about 20 percent of TSI’s revenues. TSI does have a solid and growing position on the Boeing B787.”
Mr. Khoury stated, “TSI presents B/E Aerospace with a strategic business opportunity to develop a complementary platform for growth, and is expected to significantly expand market opportunities in commercial aerospace. TSI’s deep technological and manufacturing capability will enhance B/E’s aircraft cabin interior strategic position by enabling B/E to provide more advanced, integrated electronics packaging for aircraft cabin interior products including; seating, in-flight entertainment systems, LED lighting, food and beverage preparation and storage equipment, and oxygen systems. Essentially all of the products which B/E Aerospace provides in the cabin are driven by power systems. Our ability to integrate advanced power management technology coupled with industry-leading thermal packaging designs into current and future cabin interior products and systems uniquely positions B/E Aerospace to solve the growing demand for sophisticated power management solutions in aircraft cabin interior products.”
Mr. Khoury concluded, “TSI is well-positioned to leverage its market leadership position in the growing thermal management market and is expected to benefit from the continuing shift towards increasingly complex power management solutions required by expanding computing capacity and larger power supplies in smaller packages. Combining TSI’s thermal management capabilities with B/E’s internally developed thermal management technologies and B/E’s excellent reputation in the integration, program management and certification of aircraft interiors, together with B/E Aerospace’s strong relationships with its commercial aerospace customers is expected to further expand TSI’s presence in the commercial aerospace industry. This product line expansion should enhance our ability to serve our OEM and global airline customers in the commercial aerospace industry and is expected to create significant value for our shareholders. In summary, TSI is the market leader with more than 50 percent share in a growing niche market and generates an EBITDA margin of approximately 20 percent. They have been growing organically at about an 8 percent compound annual growth rate for the last several years. Their program wins on the Boeing B787 and the Joint Strike Fighter will increase that growth rate over the next several years. TSI’s growth will further accelerate as B/E provides access to its commercial aerospace OEM and global airline customer base. Finally, TSI’s technology will help facilitate important strategic differentiation for B/E Aerospace in the passenger cabin.”
The transaction is expected to close in the fourth quarter of 2010 and is subject to customary regulatory approvals. The purchase price of approximately $310 million in cash represents a multiple of approximately 2.0 times TSI’s expected current year revenues and approximately 9.5 times TSI’s current year estimated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. The acquisition is expected to be neutral to B/E Aerospace 2011 net earnings, and accretive to net earnings thereafter. B/E Aerospace intends to update its 2010 full year outlook and issue its initial 2011 full year guidance when the company announces its third quarter 2010 results on Monday, October 25, 2010 after the market closes.
B/E Aerospace will host a conference call tomorrow, Tuesday, October 5, 2010, at 9:00 a.m. (Eastern Time) to discuss the acquisition of TSI. Investors can call 877-675-4751 (domestic) or 719-325-4823 (international), with the access code 8284124. A live audio webcast of the conference call will be available on the investor relations page of the company’s website at www.beaerospace.com. A replay of the call will be available beginning at 11:00 a.m. (Eastern Time) on Tuesday, October 5, 2010 until Sunday, October 10, 2010 at 888-203-1112 (domestic) or 719-457-0820 (international), with the access code 8284124. The replay will also be available on the company’s website www.beaerospace.com.
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. B/E Aerospace’s actual experience and results may differ materially from the experience and results anticipated in such statements. Factors that might cause such a difference include those related to the completion of, and the expected benefits from, the TSI acquisition, changes in market and industry conditions and those discussed in B/E Aerospace’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which include its Proxy Statement, Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. For more information, see the section entitled “Forward-Looking Statements” contained in B/E Aerospace’s Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other filings. The forward-looking statements included in this news release are made only as of the date of this news release and, except as required by federal securities laws, we do not intend to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
About B/E Aerospace
B/E Aerospace is the world’s leading manufacturer of aircraft cabin interior products and the world’s leading distributor of aerospace fasteners and consumables. B/E Aerospace designs, develops and manufactures a broad range of products for both commercial aircraft and business jets. B/E Aerospace manufactured products include aircraft cabin seating, lighting, oxygen systems, food and beverage preparation/storage equipment, and water and vacuum waste systems. The company also provides cabin interior design, reconfiguration and passenger-to-freighter conversion services. Products for the existing aircraft fleet - the aftermarket - generate approximately 50 percent of sales. B/E Aerospace sells and supports its products through its own global direct sales and product support organization. For more information, visit the B/E Aerospace website at www.beaerospace.com.

Story 109
Lynne Wardle explores why the Voluntary Action Scotland, Third Sector Interface and Scottish Government relationship is not working towards a fairer Scotland
Third Force News’ recent article, “Voluntary Action Scotland Slammed in Official Report” (10 January 2017) highlights one particular aspect of Scottish Government’s evaluation of Voluntary Action Scotland (VAS) and the Third Sector Interface (TSI) network – the role and effectiveness of VAS. It’s worth reflecting that VAS has five members of staff and nine board members. It receives in the order of £250,000 of government funding each year. From chief executive Allan Johnstone’s comments in response to the evaluation, it seems that the board, largely comprising TSI chief executives, has prioritised the internal operational structure, finance, staffing and governance of this small team of five people over developing and promoting a coherent vision and purpose for the TSI network.
This strikes me as somewhat analogous to Scottish Government’s relationship with the TSIs. Government asks them to improve efficiency in delivering outputs such as numbers of volunteers and social enterprises, but apparently overlooks the potential role of the TSIs in mobilising the collective impact of third sector organisations and communities to co-produce solutions to pressing social challenges such as inequalities and the impending health and social care crises.
It’s fair to say that currently the TSIs are more of a diverse group than an impactful professional network. The whole is not necessarily greater than the sum of its parts. Significant failings in governance in a small number of organisations have been used to tarnish the reputation of the network and you could be forgiven for thinking that VAS and the TSIs deserve one another. However, perhaps this risks missing the point.
In its communication and engagement plan, intended as the next step in the review of third sector infrastructure, the Third Sector Unit states the Scottish Government’s vision as “To have the most effective and most efficient local third sector infrastructure for Scotland from 2018 onwards”. Effective and efficient at what?
There can be no doubt that there is significant change in the operating context – including new devolved powers, public sector reform, Brexit and community empowerment – but in attempting to strengthen third sector infrastructure, Scottish Government should first answer the question: “what is the problem we are seeking to solve?”
It’s fair to say that currently the TSIs are more of a diverse group than an impactful professional network. The whole is not necessarily greater than the sum of its parts.
In 2008, the model of VAS and the TSI network solved the Scottish Government’s problem of administrative inconvenience by funding 32 organisations rather than 120. There is a risk that the Scottish Government will continue to try to solve the same problem. A tidy, managerial solution could all too easily be proposed on the basis of false assumptions relating to greater consistency efficiency through, for example, shared back-offices or a regional structure.
But today’s problems are different. They are complex and messy and they are not about management; they are about leadership.
Within the network of TSIs there are some leaders with a more strategic perspective on the potential role and function of local infrastructure. They are able to see beyond the current, somewhat contractual, relationship with government to a more empowered and outcome-based way of working. These experienced leaders have a deep understanding of the communities they serve and the political and contested environment they must navigate to bring about change. They see the unique potential of their position within communities to bring about genuine empowerment through enabling engagement and participation. This form of collaborative, local leadership goes further than the current transactional functions embedded in the TSI funding arrangement with government and it is what’s needed now.
If we frame today’s problem for government as “How might we support the third sector to make best use of the collective resources available from funders and within communities to ensure a fairer Scotland?” then the current VAS / TSI model is not the answer. Instead, government needs to be open to a bolder, more enabling approach that trusts and invests in local collaborations to achieve national policy outcomes in ways that are meaningful and have ownership at community level A third sector improvement service can be delivered efficiently and effectively at a national level. The relationships and networks needed to affect social change can only be developed at a local level.
Whether it is feasible or desirable to evolve the current VAS/TSI model into one that enables collaborative local impact is doubtful right now. The leadership and skills necessary to facilitate impactful collaboration are in short supply and quite different from those implicit in the current government contracts with TSIs.
VAS and the TSIs have been given a year’s grace. Government aims to implement changes in 2018. Now is not the time for VAS and the network to turn inwards. It is time to look ahead to the next horizon and focus resolutely on harnessing the collective impact of the third sector to ensure our communities weather the impending storm.
Lynne Wardle is a director of Thrive and an expert in collaborative systems change. She has supported national and international collaborations on topics as diverse as the impact of greenhouse gases and the introduction of market economy in Eastern Europe. In the UK she instigated the programmes that became known as Total Place and Community Based Budgeting.
Tweet @ThriveHQ_

Story 110
LOS ANGELES, Oct. 25, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Green Car Journal recently announced the finalists for its expanded Green Car Awards™ program, to be presented on November 29 at LA Auto Show's AutoMobility LA. Finalists for the 2019 Green Car of the Year® include the Honda Insight, Lexus ES 300h, Nissan Altima, Toyota Avalon Hybrid, and Volkswagen Jetta. In contention for Luxury Green Car of the Year™ are the Audi e-tron, Jaguar I-PACE, Porsche Cayenne E-Hybrid, Range Rover P400e, and Tesla Model 3. Green SUV of the Year™ finalists include the Cadillac XT4, Hyundai Kona, Lexus UX, Mitsubishi Outlander PHEV, and the Volvo XC40.
For the past 14 years, Green Car Journal has been recognizing leadership in the automotive field through its Green Car of the Year® award. This prestigious award honors the vehicle that raises the bar in environmental performance while remaining within reach of most consumers. The magazine's expanded 2019 Green Car Awards™ program also recognizes the best-of-the-best in two increasingly important and complementary categories through its 2019 Luxury Green Car of the Year™ and 2019 Green SUV of the Year™ awards.
"Finalists for the 2019 Green Car of the Year® illustrate that 'green' comes in many forms, with efficient internal combustion and hybrid vehicles taking center stage," said Ron Cogan, Editor and Publisher of Green Car Journal and GreenCarJournal.com. "Gasoline models continue to achieve notable levels of efficiency and lower carbon emissions. At the same time, it's evident how important electrification has become in today's models, with two 2019 Green SUV of the Year™ finalists and all five finalists for the 2019 Luxury Green Car of the Year™ featuring battery electric or plug-in hybrid power."
"As the nation's number one green vehicle market, we are excited to once again host the Green Car Awards at AutoMobility LA this year," said Terri Toennies, Executive Vice President & General Manager of AutoMobility LA and the LA Auto Show. "With the industry quickly evolving into a greener space, our show continues to be a platform where automakers introduce new alt-fuel vehicles and are recognized for their environmentally-friendly achievements."
2019 Green Car of the Year® Finalists:
HONDA INSIGHT
Honda's third-generation Insight sedan features an appealing and sophisticated design, loads of tech, and an advanced two-motor hybrid system that delivers an EPA estimated 55 highway mpg.
LEXUS ES 300h
The all-new Lexus ES 300h offers an eye-catching appearance and pleasing driving experience, with a fourth-generation hybrid system delivering a class-leading 44 combined mpg.
NISSAN ALTIMA
The new-generation Nissan Altima has a more aggressive stance, advanced ProPILOT Assist, and greater efficiency with its turbocharged, variable compression four-cylinder engine.
TOYOTA AVALON HYBRID
Toyota's new Avalon Hybrid is longer, lower, and more stylish, with high mpg and spirited driving delivered by a 2.5-liter four-cylinder engine and all-new Toyota Hybrid System II powertrain.
VOLKSWAGEN JETTA
Built on VW's MQB platform, the seventh-generation Jetta offers a bolder design, greater interior space, lots of tech, and a 1.4-liter turbocharged TSI engine netting up to 40 highway mpg.
Since its inception in 2006, the Green Car of the Year® has been selected by Green Car Journal editors and invited jurors from highly-respected efficiency and environmental organizations. This year's invited Green Car of the Year® jurors include celebrity auto enthusiast Jay Leno; Jean-Michel Cousteau, President of Ocean Futures Society; Matt Petersen, President and CEO of Los Angeles Cleantech Incubator and Board Member of Global Green USA; Dr. Alan Lloyd, President Emeritus of the International Council on Clean Transportation and Senior Research Fellow at the Energy Institute, University of Texas at Austin; Mindy Lubber, President of CERES; and Jason Hartke, President of the Alliance to Save Energy.
2019 Luxury Green Car of the Year® Finalists:
AUDI e-tron
The new Audi e-tron crossover SUV is this automaker's first all-electric production model, combining a handsome design, all-wheel drive performance, and a range of well over 200 miles.
JAGUAR I-PACE
Jaguar's first electric vehicle, the new I-PACE offers a pleasing and aggressive design, luxury appointments, exceptional driving characteristics, and a 240-mile all-electric driving range.
PORSCHE CAYENNE E-HYBRID
The Cayenne E-Hybrid is an all-new generation of Porsche's plug-in Cayenne model, featuring a 3.0-liter gas engine and 136 hp electric motor for exceptional performance and greater efficiency.
RANGE ROVER P400e
A new plug-in hybrid variant of the Range Rover SUV, the P400e combines the luxury of the standard model with efficiency achieved with a 2.0-liter gas engine and 114 hp electric motor.
TESLA MODEL 3
Tesla's latest offering, the Model 3, is a stylish and high-tech sedan offering a signature Tesla look, lots of advanced technology, and an EPA estimated electric range of 210 to 310 miles.
2019 Green SUV of the Year® Finalists:
CADILLAC XT4
The Cadillac XT4 blends the functionality of a compact SUV, the sophistication of a Cadillac sedan, and the efficiency of turbocharged four-cylinder power in a stylish new model.
HYUNDAI KONA
Hyundai's stylish Kona crossover SUV comes in two variations, one powered by efficient internal combustion power and the other an all-electric model that delivers 258 miles of electric range.
LEXUS UX
Offered in conventionally-powered UX 200 and hybrid UX 250h hybrid versions, Lexus' entry-level luxury model offers admirable efficiency in a functional, efficient, and compact form.
MITSUBISHI OUTLANDER PHEV
The Outlander PHEV is Mitsubishi's new plug-in hybrid addition to its full-size SUV model, providing greater efficiency and AWD using a 2.0-liter gasoline engine and two electric motors.
VOLVO XC40
The all-new XC40 compact SUV, the first model built on Volvo's Compact Modular Architecture (CMA), features a bold exterior, refined interior, and efficient four-cylinder Drive-E powertrain.
Green Car Awards™ winners will be announced on Thursday, November 29, at 8:15 a.m. PST inside AutoMobility LA's Technology Pavilion, alongside other green transportation announcements. AutoMobility LA takes place November 26-29 at the Los Angeles Convention Center. For additional information on AutoMobility LA or to register for the show, please visit automobilityla.com.
About the Green Car Awards
Since 1992, the award-winning Green Car Journal has been recognized as the leading authority on the intersection of automobiles, energy, and the environment. The Green Car Awards™ are an important part of Green Car Journal's mission to showcase environmental progress in the auto industry. GreenCarJournal.com presents 'green car' articles online along with a focus on connectivity. Green Car of the Year®, Luxury Green Car of the Year™, Green SUV of the Year™, and the Green Car Awards™ are trademarks of Green Car Journal and RJ Cogan Specialty Publications Group, Inc.
Hashtag: #GreenCarJournal
About the Los Angeles Auto Show and AutoMobility LA
Founded in 1907, the Los Angeles Auto Show (LA Auto Show®) is the first major North American auto show of the season each year. In 2016, the show's Press & Trade Days merged with the Connected Car Expo (CCE) to become AutoMobility LATM, the industry's first trade show converging the technology and automotive industries to launch new products and technologies and to discuss the most pressing issues surrounding the future of transportation and mobility. AutoMobility LA 2018 will take place at the Los Angeles Convention Center Nov. 26-29, with manufacturer vehicle debuts intermixed. LA Auto Show 2018 will be open to the public Nov. 30-Dec. 9. AutoMobility LA is where the new auto industry gets business done, unveils groundbreaking new products and makes strategic announcements in front of media and industry professionals from around the globe. LA Auto Show is endorsed by the Greater L.A. New Car Dealer Association and is operated by ANSA Productions. To receive the latest show news and information, follow LA Auto Show on Twitter, Facebook or Instagram and sign up for alerts at http://www.laautoshow.com/. For more information about AutoMobility LA, please visit https://www.automobilityla.com/ and follow AutoMobility LA on Twitter, Facebook or Instagram. Listen to past panels, interviews, and keynotes on AutoMobility LA's new podcast at https://automobilityla.com/podcast/.
Media Contacts:
Sanaz Marbley/Devon Zahm
JMPR Public Relations, Inc.
(818) 992-4353
smarbley@jmpr.com
dzahm@jmpr.com
SOURCE Los Angeles Auto Show
Related Links
http://www.laautoshow.com


Story 111
The recent English High Court decision in The Software Incubator Ltd v Computer Associates Ltd [2016] EWHC 1587 is essential reading for parties to agency contracts for the sale of software in the UK.
Why This Case Is Important: In Summary
1. In this case the English courts have clarified that commoditised software can be "goods" for the purposes of the Commercial Agents (Council Directive) Regulations 1993 (CARs), irrespective of its mode of delivery to the customer (i.e. electronically or via physical media). The court also concluded that a "sale" can occur even where software is licensed on a limited (or non-perpetual) basis – although what counts as "limited" was not fully explored in the judgment.
2. The court awarded The Software Incubator Ltd (TSI) (the agent) a total of £500,000 even though:
(i) TSI was planning to terminate the agency contract with Computer Associates Ltd (CAL) (the principal) anyway; and
(ii) had already concluded a new agency contract with another software vendor (or principal) called "Intigua" to sell a different, but non-competing, software product in the UK.
3. The contract allowed either party to terminate on giving three months’ notice to the other. Indeed, had TSI taken that step it would not have been entitled to: (i) contractual damages; or (ii) compensation under the CARs.
4. In the event, it was CAL that sought to terminate first (i.e. before any notice was given by TSI) and, at the time, on the basis that TSI had repudiated the contract by breaching a non-compete clause in the contract through its dealings with Intigua.
5. The court held that there was no repudiatory breach and therefore no legal justification for CAL's purported termination of the contract (i.e. it was a wrongful termination by CAL).
6. The case is particularly relevant to any organisation that may be operating on the assumption that the CARs do not apply because the product supplied to customers is not "goods" and/or there is no "sale". Following TSI v CAL those assumptions may no longer apply, meaning those affected may find they are now required to pay damages and/or compensation to outgoing agents in the event of termination – subject of course to the overall requirements of the CARs and the particular circumstances involved (for example, not every type of termination triggers compensation under the CARs).
7. Finally, the case clarifies that it is possible to effectively exclude claims for commissions on transactions concluded after termination (under Regulation 8 of the CARs).
The Details
What are the CARs?
The CARs govern all agency arrangements relating to activities performed by "commercial agents" in the UK. Their aim is to provide protection for commercial agents. Key features and provisions include the following:
The CARs only apply to commercial agents selling goods, not services. There is no definition of "goods" in the CARs.
The CARs apply to commercial agents which are defined as self-employed intermediaries with continuing authority to negotiate and sell on behalf of their principal. The CARs do not apply to agents acting for an undisclosed principal, nor where the agent has only the right to conduct a single, one-off transaction for his principal.
The CARs imply general duties on both agent and principal (for example, to act dutifully and in good faith).
Where an agency relationship is terminated, the agent may be entitled to compensation based on the loss of value of the agency (but not, for example, where the principal rightfully terminates based on repudiatory breach of contract by the agent).
The agent may also be entitled to commission for transactions concluded after termination where, for example, the transaction is "mainly attributable" to the agent and occurs within a "reasonable period" after termination.
Facts of the case
Pursuant to a non-exclusive arrangement, TSI agreed to act as agent of CAL to promote, market, and sell CAL's release automation software in the UK. TSI received a monthly consulting fee, plus commission, and was required to "devote a substantial amount of time and effort in providing the Services." The contract contained a non-compete clause.
The contract with CAL concluded in March 2013. Shortly thereafter TSI became unhappy with the arrangement. TSI preferred the approach of the previous owner of the software, a start-up called Nolio Ltd, with whom it had dealt for a number of years. Nolio had been acquired by CAL in early 2013.
As a result, TSI started talks with Intigua about becoming their UK agent for a different software product and one that, according to the Judge, HHJ Waksman QC, did not compete with CAL's release automation software.
For these reasons TSI had it in mind to terminate the contract with CAL. However, as above, CAL got in first and took action to summarily terminate the contract, alleging repudiatory breach by TSI.
CAL's principal complaint (at the time) related to the non-compete provision and TSI's interactions with Intigua. However, during the litigation other areas of complaint were put forward by CAL, including allegations that TSI failed to devote enough time and effort and that certain actions by TSI amounted to a breach of confidence.
The claim and defence
TSI took legal action and claimed:
damages at common law for repudiatory breach limited to the monthly fee payable under the agency agreement – for the duration of the three-month notice period in the contract;
compensation and commission under the CARs; and
as an alternative to the commission claim under the CARs (i.e. in case the CARs claim was unsuccessful), a commission claim at common law.
In its defence CAL argued, inter alia, that:
the activities did not involve the "sale of goods" so the CARs did not apply;
even if the CARs did apply, TSI was itself in repudiatory breach, meaning there could be no entitlement to damages at common law or compensation under the regulations; and
the transactions to which the commissions related were not "mainly attributable" to TSI; or, alternatively, were excluded by the contract.
The decision
Is software "goods" under the CARs?
After detailed analysis the Judge concluded that, in this case, the software was indeed "goods" for the purposes of the CARs. He did not feel constrained by the "physical" definition of "goods" under the Sales of Goods Act 1979 or obiter comments in St Albans v ICL [1996] EWCA Civ 1296 – to the effect that software is only "goods" when delivered on physical media.
He thought that those views were outdated and instead preferred the thinking in more recent cases such as Fern Computer Consultancy v Intergraph [2014] EWHC 2908, in which Mann J made obiter comments about giving a wider interpretation to the definition of "goods" in the "present digital age" and the scope for an autonomous definition under the CARs.
In particular, HHJ Waksman QC said:
"…I believe that as a piece of sophisticated, commercial non-bespoke software, it [i.e. the software product in this case] would be regarded, at the very least as a "product". It would not be regarded, nor is it, a "service". Like other pieces of software, it is "commodified" i.e. it is capable of transfer and commercial exploitation. Moreover, so far as "tangibility" is concerned, while software itself is intangible and its method of delivery may be electronic, it can only operate in a tangible environment i.e. (a) being loaded onto a hard disk or server or some other permanent storage system, somewhere, and (b) when it runs, it will be run on a computer, tablet, reader, mobile phone (depending on the software) and so on. In that sense it is akin to digital music. As Professor Clark of University College Dublin put it in an article called "The Legal Status of Software" in March 2016, "Digital content… possesses a functional equivalence to goods." (paragraph 36) "These days I would suggest that the essential characteristics of a piece of software … cannot depend on its mode of delivery any more than the nature of tangible goods depends on whether they are transported by rail, sea or air." (paragraph 39) "Working from first principles, therefore, I would consider that the Product would today, be regarded as "goods" albeit that it is not tangible." (paragraph 40)
Was there a "sale" of those goods?
The Judge also concluded that there was a "sale" of those goods and appeared to place significant weight on the fact that the "vast majority" of customers (i.e. not all) to whom the software was sold received a perpetual licence.
However, what is less clear from the judgment is exactly what situations or licensing models the Judge had in mind when he went on to say that this conclusion was not affected where products are supplied on a limited (i.e. non-perpetual) basis. In that regard he said:
"The fact that sometimes the Product might be supplied on a limited licence does not affect this conclusion because one has to decide whether TSI was a "commercial agent" in the round and having regard to the principal way in which the Product was supplied." (paragraph 69)
The judgment does not set out the licensing limitations referred to so there is no real guidance that might help in determining whether a sale has occurred in other situations where a limited licence may be involved.
Stepping away from the facts of the case and by way general observation, it is hard to see how it could be said that a "sale" has occurred or that a licensee has somehow taken ownership of software in circumstances where the licensing model adopted is limited in the sense that it is a subscription-based or "pay as you go" type licence. In those situations (none of which is mentioned in the judgment so may not have been present on the facts of the case) ownership does not pass and the licensor effectively leases or rents the software to the licensee.
Moreover, at paragraph 62 of the judgment, HHJ Waksman QC himself says that "the intention, as with the sale of any product, is that the purchaser has the unfettered ability to use it forever subject to copying restrictions and so on."
This general statement appears to support the view that, in cases where software is sold on a subscription or "pay as you go" type basis, the CARs will not apply because it cannot be said that the user or licensee has an unfettered ability to use the software forever.
It is also worth considering the point in light of the decision in UsedSoft GmbH v Oracle International Corp (Case C-128/11), which looked at the exhaustion of rights on first sale of software licences. In that case the European Court of Justice was clear that a licensor making a copy of software available, in any form, for use by a customer for an unlimited period and for a one-off fee amounted to a "sale" (rather than merely a licence) for the purposes Article 4(2) of Directive 2009/24/EC. Although the Court did not comment specifically on whether a limited licence could also amount to a "sale", that scenario, at least for the purposes of Article 4(2) of the Directive, would appear to fall outside the scope of the decision. Indeed the approach in this case was noted with approval by HHJ Waksman QC in TSI v CAL.
Repudiatory breach?
TSI was not in repudiatory breach:
TSI was only obliged to "devote a substantial amount of time and effort" – which it did even though it was in start-up mode to operate as agent for another software vendor (Intigua);
there were some breaches by TSI – cancelled meetings/calls and disclosure of confidential information to Intigua – but they were minor (i.e. not repudiatory); and
the Initgua products marketed by TSI did not compete with CAL's software product.
Compensation and damages
The Judge awarded compensation under Regulation 17 of the CARs in the sum of £475,000. He looked at the value of the agency at the date of termination and what a hypothetical buyer would pay for it – following the approach in Lonsdale v Howard & Hallam Ltd [2006] EWCA Civ 63.
It should be remembered that if TSI (and not CAL) had terminated the arrangement then no compensation or damages would have been payable.
In relation to the claim for commission on post-termination sales under Regulation 8 of the CARs, the Judge found that it was effectively excluded under the contract but that contractual claims were not. He therefore awarded £8,724 under the contract.
Accordingly, principals wishing to exclude this type of claim (i.e. under Regulation 8) may wish to consider the approach in this case and whether wording can be included in future contracts that excludes both: (i) claims under the regulations; and (ii) contractual claims.
The Judge also awarded the sum of £15,000 for CAL's breach in terminating the agency contract with TSI without giving the required three months' notice.
Concluding Remarks
This is a notable UK case that may have a significant impact on parties to agency arrangements, particularly those organisations that may have structured their business models and risk profiles on the basis that the CARs do not apply.
Where required, those models and profiles should be revisited in order to account for the decision in this case. It may be worth considering the relative merits of different models – for example an employed (rather than self-employed) sales force, an undisclosed agent, or a distributor.
Where the CARs do apply, there may, in some cases, be scope for principals to increase their protection through the use of exclusions clauses – for example, to exclude the application of Regulation 8 which was permitted on the facts of the TSI v CAL case.
Whilst the case provides helpful guidance in certain areas (for example, clarifying that software can be goods for the purposes of the CARs) it does leave open the question as to the status of transactions involving limited licensing arrangements – particularly annual, subscription, or "pay as you go" licenses – as opposed to situations in which a perpetual end-user license has been granted.

Story 112
Collecting debt on delinquent accounts can be difficult, especially if your debtors move without providing a forwarding address. The longer your accounts remain delinquent, the less likely you are to recover the debt. In situations like these, hiring a debt collector to recover funds on your behalf may be your best option.
Collection agencies, not to be confused with debt buyers, are most commonly paid a percentage of any outstanding funds they recover on your accounts, but they don't own the debt. When they collect a payment, they hand the money over to you, minus a certain percentage in fees. A standard collection agency will offer services, such as formal demand letters, phone calls and emails; however, top debt collection agencies provide additional services, like skip tracing, litigation and online portal access.
When comparing collection agencies, it is important to analyze more than just the services offered. An agency's reputation for how it treats your debtors is equally important, since they are representing your business. There are strict laws surrounding collection efforts. Any reputable agency will follow those laws and treat your debtors with dignity and respect.
When looking to hire a collection agency for your small business, consider the collection type (commercial collections, consumer, etc.), industries and locations they serve. Not every agency will be a good fit for your business. Below you can learn more about the agencies we selected, the features of each one, whether it services commercial collections (B2B), consumer collections (B2C), or a combination of the two.
Editor's note: Looking for a collection agency for your business? If you're looking for information to help you choose the one that's right for you, use the questionnaire below to have one of our vendor partners contact you about your needs.
buyerzone widget
Summit Account Resolution (Summit A•R) is our choice as the best collection agency for small business because of its customized approaches, transparent pricing structure and extensive services available. It is an ideal collection agency for any small business seeking repayment on accounts that have been delinquent for up to two years.
Summit A•R is great for any small business, as it provides collection services for both consumer (B2C) and commercial (B2B) collections. They collect within a range of industries throughout the United States, including medical, dental, employee reimbursement, consumer and court-ordered obligation, child support, spousal support and all commercial industries. If you are seeking collections in Hawaii, Nevada, New Mexico, New York, and North Carolina, you'll need to speak with a Summit A•R rep. These states have specific laws that can complicate the debt collection process.
This agency charges on a contingency fee basis. Collection rates vary depending on collection type, size, and age. They average between 7.5 and 50% for each account, with consumer rates typically around 35% and commercial rates, which are slightly cheaper. The agency requires a $50 minimum debt to be collected on each account. In addition to standard collection services, Summit A•R provides accounts receivable consulting, skip tracing, accounts receivable recovery assistance and litigation.
Summit A•R has an online portal on its website, and when you log in, you have immediate access to your delinquent accounts. You can check an up-to-date status of the accounts you've submitted, and you can submit new accounts to Summit A•R. When you sign on with Summit A•R, you receive an account manager as your dedicated point of contact. This agent will answer any questions you have, as well as treat your debtors with respect and dignity.
You can read a complete review of Summit Account Resolution on our sister site, business.com.
Prestige Services Inc. (PSI) is our choice as the best B2B collection agency due to its extensive features and excellent customer service. It provides standard commercial collection agency features – precollections, demand letters, final notice forms – as well as advanced techniques like skip tracing, litigation and an online portal.
Because commercial and consumer debt collections are typically handled differently, it is ideal to use an agency that specializes in one of these areas, rather than both. PSI specializes in B2B collections, and it collects debt repayments throughout the United States, Canada and Mexico.
PSI requires a $200 minimum collection balance and charges on a contingency fee basis. The agency's rates are generally 5 to 10% lower than many competing agencies. For accounts with a balance of $200 to $3,000, PSI's rate is 25 percent. For accounts with a balance ranging from $3,000.01 to $20,000, the rate is 22 percent. Rates are negotiable, and volume discounts can also be applied. Litigation fees are extra and can go up to 40 percent. PSI provides timely, efficient collection services; according to the agency, they typically reach a resolution with the debtor within the first 45 days after collections commence. After your debtor pays PSI, the agency releases an end-of-month remittance check to you, complete with payment details.
On its website, PSI features two customer portal options – the placement portal and the status portal. Within the placement portal, you can get a free quote on a past-due account you'd like to turn over to PSI, and you can submit new accounts to PSI. The status portal provides live status updates for each account you've submitted. Within each status update, PSI includes detailed notes about the interactions between the collection agency and the debtor.
You can read our full review of Prestige Services Inc. on our sister site, business.com.
Rozlin Financial Group Inc. (RFGI) is our choice as the best B2C collection agency. It offers all the necessary features and services a business needs to recover payment on delinquent B2C accounts. It provides its clients with online account access (with up-to-date status reports on its collection efforts), great reporting and customized approaches to debt recovery. Additionally, it uses advanced skip-tracing techniques to locate debtors, and as a last resort, it can forward on your claim to attorneys for legal action.
RFGI services dental and medical practices, hospitals, schools, real estate and property management companies, utilities, retailers, and lending service providers (credit cards, auto loans, mortgages, etc.).
RFGI's fees are based on how much money they recover from the debtor. If they are unable to collect on an account, there is no charge. RFGI's requires a minimum of five accounts. To request a price quote, you can call RFGI toll free, or you can complete a form on the agency's website to have a representative contact you.
RFGI collection agents are required to participate in active training to stay up to date on the best collection techniques. This allows them to provide a tailored approach for each of your consumer collection accounts while complying with the latest laws and regulations.
Debtors can pay RFGI via check, credit card or through an online payment portal. Once RFGI receives a payment, it mails you a check. If your debtor pays monthly, RFGI will send you a remittance check each month. If your account requires legal action, RFGI can refer your account to the appropriate parties for litigation.
You can read our complete review of Rozlin Financial Group Inc. on our sister site, business.com.
When it comes to collecting outstanding debt, generally, the more time that passes, the lower the chance you have of recouping the money. Most companies send past-due accounts to a collection agency when they are between 90 and 120 days past due. If you wait longer than 120 days, you are far less likely to ever recover the debt.
It's time to start thinking about hiring a reputable collection agency when ...
New customers do not respond to your first attempt to collect the debt. When you do not have a payment history with the customer, there's a greater chance they will refuse to pay.
You've agreed to a payment plan, but the customer doesn't follow through. Customers who still won't pay after you've both worked out a payment plan are unlikely to pay what they owe you.
A customer completely denies responsibility for the debt. Unless you enlist the help of a collection agency, these debts are rarely recovered.
The customer makes unfounded complaints about your business, product or service as an excuse not to pay. Most of the time, these complaints are just an excuse to get out of paying the debt.
The customer has a history of financial irresponsibility.
If you have a delinquent account that matches any of these descriptions, there are certain steps you can take before hiring a collection agency. First, reach out to your debtor multiple times, in a polite but firm manner. If phone calls and emails don't work, send a formal demand for payment letter. This letter details the payment that needs to be met and is often required if you eventually file suit against the debtor.
If you have exhausted all of your options and aren't getting anywhere with a delinquent customer on your own, further attempts to collect the debt are better left to a professional agency that knows the appropriate way to collect debts while adhering to the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act. They may recover at least a portion of what you're owed, if not all of it.
There are more than 4,000 collection agencies in the United States alone. Some handle consumer debt collection (B2C), while others specialize in commercial debt collection (B2B). Each collection type is investigated differently; however, many agencies handle both.
Not all agencies will fit your specific business needs; it is important to carefully assess which agencies will. Some agencies cater to businesses of certain sizes (small business versus an enterprise), some focus on a specific region (local, national or international). Beyond basic collection efforts, some agencies provide additional services, such as billing, precollections, credit reporting and account receivables consulting. It is important to identify if an agency is well-suited for your business and will provide all the features you need.
Some collection agencies, primarily consumer agencies, specialize in specific industries, such as healthcare, insurance, utilities, credit cards, mortgages or auto loans, while others service a range of industries. If you provide a product or service within a very specific industry, the experience a collection agency has in that industry can be the tie-breaker between two reputable collection agencies you are considering hiring.
It is important to hire an agency with an established track record of successful collections in your industry. The agency should be familiar with the terminology in your industry as well as state and federal rules and regulations governing your industry, if applicable. If you're in the healthcare field, for example, the collection agency you hire must be well versed in insurance requirements, medical terms and important laws like HIPAA.
Here are some tips to help you pinpoint a reputable, effective agency.
Ask for referrals from your attorney, accountant or trusted business associates in your industry. Go beyond just asking for agency names. Find out why the person is recommending that particular agency. Does it have a high success rate? Are they known for their strict adherence to laws?
from your attorney, accountant or trusted business associates in your industry. Go beyond just asking for agency names. Find out the person is recommending that particular agency. Does it have a high success rate? Are they known for their strict adherence to laws? Search the directory of the Association of Credit and Collection Professionals (ACA) to find a member agency licensed in your city or state. ACA International is a nonprofit that establishes ethical standards for the industry and requires that its members adhere to them.
of the Association of Credit and Collection Professionals (ACA) to find a member agency licensed in your city or state. ACA International is a nonprofit that establishes ethical standards for the industry and requires that its members adhere to them. Check the Better Business Bureau (BBB) for ratings on the collection agency you are considering. One or two complaints can be a fluke; multiple complaints are a red flag.
for ratings on the collection agency you are considering. One or two complaints can be a fluke; multiple complaints are a red flag. Make sure the company is state licensed and/or bonded, if applicable . Many states require one or both.
Many states require one or both. Find out where the agency is licensed . If you only do business locally, an agency that is licensed only in your state is fine. If you have customers across the U.S., find an agency licensed in all applicable states.
. If you only do business locally, an agency that is licensed only in your state is fine. If you have customers across the U.S., find an agency licensed in all applicable states. Determine whether the company is insured . Errors and omissions liability insurance (E&O) is often a sign of a reputable agency. E&O insurance provides coverage for claims brought by consumers for improper conduct, such as harassment. In many cases, that coverage extends to your business. While E&O insurance is not required by federal or state laws, it's a sign of good faith.
Errors and omissions liability insurance (E&O) is often a sign of a reputable agency. E&O insurance provides coverage for claims brought by consumers for improper conduct, such as harassment. In many cases, that coverage extends to your business. While E&O insurance is not required by federal or state laws, it's a sign of good faith. Visit the collection agency . Before you commit, sit down with the collection agency to learn more about them. There's a lot you can tell about whether the agency is reputable by talking to them and how they handle delinquent accounts. Ask to see proof of results: What percentage of debts have they successfully collected? Find out which tactics and technologies the agency uses in its collection efforts. Ask for references and check them. If the company doesn't seem like a good fit, trust your instincts and move on.
Before you commit, sit down with the collection agency to learn more about them. There's a lot you can tell about whether the agency is reputable by talking to them and how they handle delinquent accounts. Ask to see proof of results: What percentage of debts have they successfully collected? Find out which tactics and technologies the agency uses in its collection efforts. Ask for references and check them. If the company doesn't seem like a good fit, trust your instincts and move on. Don't worry too much about size . A large, national firm is not necessarily a better fit than a small, local one. It depends on your needs, the agency's strengths, its reputation and its track record.
A large, national firm is not necessarily a better fit than a small, local one. It depends on your needs, the agency's strengths, its reputation and its track record. Properly trained collectors are crucial. Agents should be experienced and skilled negotiators. Find out if the collection agency's employees receive regular education and training. Courses are available through ACA and other membership organizations. If possible, arrange to listen in on a few calls before committing to a collection agency.
When choosing a collection agency, integrity and reputation are among the most important considerations. A company that uses dubious methods to collect debt damages your reputation, too, costing you current and future customers. In worst-case scenarios, your company can face litigation for a collection agency's illegal practices, even if you were not aware of its actions.
All consumer collection agencies are required to comply with a federal law regulating the industry known as the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA). It's important you know the law so you can hire a collection agency that abides by its precepts and avoids FDCPA violations.
Under FDCPA, collection agencies ...
Cannot call debtors before 8 a.m. and after 9 p.m., unless the debtor has agreed to it beforehand
Cannot call at inconvenient places. For example, if the debtor has requested to not receive calls at work, collectors can no longer call a debtor's employer
Must honor letters requesting that contact concerning a debt cease
Must contact a debtor's attorney if the debtor has one
Cannot contact third parties (including family and friends) more than once. They can only contact the third party to find a way to contact the debtor, and they can't state the consumer owes debt
Must send the debtor validation and verification of debt
Cannot threaten harm or violence
Cannot threaten garnishment, seizure of property or other legal action unless the agency is intending to take action (and is legally allowed to take that action)
Cannot make false statements, such as that the debtor has committed a crime or that the collector is an attorney
Cannot send documents that look like court or legal documents but aren't
FDCPA only applies to consumer debt, not debt that someone accrued while running a business.
Many, but not all, states require collection agencies to be licensed and/or bonded. Always find out what your state requires and check whether the collection agency you're considering is compliant. While membership to ACA International is not mandatory, it does mean the agency has been vetted.
If this is a commercial or B2B debt, look for a collection agency certified by the Commercial Law League of America (CLLA) and one that is a member of the Commercial Collection Agency Association (CCAA). Like ACA International, both require commercial collection agencies to follow a strict code of ethics, proper accounting principles and to be bonded.
Aside from the lack of proper licenses and certifications, another red flag is whether the service has been sued. It's usually easy to uncover past (or current) lawsuits with a simple Google search.
There are many factors that determine collection agency fees, including the size of the debt portfolio, the type of work required to collect the debt, the age of the account, the agency's experience and more.
There are two main types of fee structures. The most common type – a contingency fee – is a form of tiered pricing, that only applies when an agency collects. The less-common type of fee structure is a fixed rate, or fixed fee, that is charged upfront.
Contingency fees are charged as a percentage of collected debt, and they are typically negotiable, especially for accounts that have a significant balance that is owed. Contingency fees, on average, range anywhere from 20 to 50% depending on the size of the debt and the age of the delinquent account. Some agencies display their rates on their websites. Most, however, require you to contact the firm for an exact rate on your accounts.
The lowest rate doesn't always mean the best results. Pay attention to the return rate. If you pay a 25% fee on a $1,000 debt and the agency collects only $300, your return is $225. However, if you pay a 35% return rate and the agency collects $500, you reclaim $325. Talk to agencies but also do your due diligence (checking references, looking up customer reviews, etc.) to see how well an agency performs in recouping debts and its return rate.
Although it's not as common, some agencies charge a fixed fee for collections. The fee is paid upfront, and you keep 100 percent of what funds the agency recoups for you. An agency will typically only agree to do this if the debt is less than 90 days old – otherwise known as precollection – or just over 90 days old. This rate structure is rare, but it can save you money on collection fees if you are seeking collection on newly delinquent accounts.
When assessing which fee structure is right for you, carefully consider the age, volume and breadth of your accounts. If you ask for a quote over the phone, request that the agent send you an email of the quote for future reference. Keep in mind, too, that many agents may negotiate on pricing if you ask.
The best collection agencies use tools such as technologies, partnerships with other agencies and attorneys, and a highly skilled and trained staff to recover money owed to your business. Here's more about the tech they use to locate debtors and recoup money owed to you.
Skip-tracing services locate customers who are hard to find. Typically, agencies consult databases that allow the collection firm to find debtors who have moved without leaving a forwarding address. Many agencies offer this service, but some provide advanced features that allow them to find even the hardest people to locate. If an agency does not offer skip tracing, it will have a much harder time finding debtors who have moved or fled the state, and the chance of you recovering any money is very slim.
locate customers who are hard to find. Typically, agencies consult databases that allow the collection firm to find debtors who have moved without leaving a forwarding address. Many agencies offer this service, but some provide advanced features that allow them to find even the hardest people to locate. If an agency does not offer skip tracing, it will have a much harder time finding debtors who have moved or fled the state, and the chance of you recovering any money is very slim. Today's tech lets you go beyond phone calls and snail mail; collection firms work more directly with debtors to negotiate payments. These strategies appeal to younger debtors and those who are uncomfortable discussing their payment obligations over the phone.
lets you go beyond phone calls and snail mail; collection firms work more directly with debtors to negotiate payments. These strategies appeal to younger debtors and those who are uncomfortable discussing their payment obligations over the phone. Algorithm-based collections tailor collection strategies to the debtor. Collection agencies can build a profile to better understand the debtor and the right way to resolve the debt. Often, email is the first form of communication, rather than a formal letter.
tailor collection strategies to the debtor. Collection agencies can build a profile to better understand the debtor and the right way to resolve the debt. Often, email is the first form of communication, rather than a formal letter. Online access allows you to quickly submit new delinquent accounts, monitor the status of current accounts, communicate with the agency and run reports on the status of your collections. This is especially helpful if you have multiple past-due accounts and time is of the essence.
October 2019: Businesses should be diligent in choosing a collection agency that abides by the current laws and regulations regarding the use of tech in debt collections. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau proposed the use of digital recovery notices (e.g., emails, texts and hyperlinks) for consumer debt collections. The U.S. Court of Appeals denied this proposal, claiming that this poses many threats to consumers' rights, including those protected under the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act. Ensure that your debt collection agency is conscientious in how it uses technology for collections.
You want a collection agency that is a partner, not just a contractor. To that end, you'll need to invest effort into managing the relationship. The agency should be willing to meet face to face periodically to review the status of your accounts, and they should promptly return phone calls and emails, ideally within one business day.
There's work to do on your end as well. To boost your chances of recovery money rightfully owed to you, provide the agency with as much information about the debtors as possible, including the following:
Names, addresses and telephone numbers
Cell phone numbers and email addresses
Names of the debtor's spouse, friends, relatives and neighbors
Information about whether the debtor has responded to your debt collection efforts, and if so, how
Details about the purchase or transaction, including the date
Any paperwork related to the transaction, including contracts and credit applications
Nicknames, maiden names and aliases
The more information the agency has, the more money you collect.
Here is a full list of collection agencies and a summary of what each company claims to offer. This alphabetical list also includes our best picks, which are marked with badges.
Account Management Systems – AMS collects commercial debts. Based out of Tampa Bay, this debt collection service collects debts nationwide, charges no upfront or sign-up fees, and only collects money if they recoup your debts. – AMS collects commercial debts. Based out of Tampa Bay, this debt collection service collects debts nationwide, charges no upfront or sign-up fees, and only collects money if they recoup your debts. https://www.amscollects.com/
Alexander, Miller & Associates LLC – Alexander, Miller & Associates is a national agency that specializes in large-balance collections. It offers demand letters, commercial credit reports, onsite investigations, prelitigation services and skip tracing. The vendor states it has collectors who specialize in trucking transportation and freight, wholesale seafood and produce, restaurant supply, and heavy equipment rental. – Alexander, Miller & Associates is a national agency that specializes in large-balance collections. It offers demand letters, commercial credit reports, onsite investigations, prelitigation services and skip tracing. The vendor states it has collectors who specialize in trucking transportation and freight, wholesale seafood and produce, restaurant supply, and heavy equipment rental. https://www.amafirm.com/
Asset Compliant Solutions – Asset Compliant Solutions is a commercial collection agency that offers standard collection services as well as 45-day delinquent secured collateral loans, unsecured open and revolving lines of credit and an online portal. Asset Compliant Solutions is a commercial collection agency that offers standard collection services as well as 45-day delinquent secured collateral loans, unsecured open and revolving lines of credit and an online portal. https://www.acs-cam.com/collection
Atradius Collections – Although Atradius Collections is primarily a UK-based commercial collection agency, it also has a base in the United States. It specializes in multinational accounts and offers collection services to over 30 countries. It has a very high return rate. To get a free quote on pricing, you can access their online portal. Although Atradius Collections is primarily a UK-based commercial collection agency, it also has a base in the United States. It specializes in multinational accounts and offers collection services to over 30 countries. It has a very high return rate. To get a free quote on pricing, you can access their online portal. https://agora.atradiuscollections.com/us/
Aspen National Collections – Aspen National Collections works with timeshare and education industries, as well as municipalities and utilities, to collect outstanding debts. It creates debt collection strategies tailored to each client it works with. This agency's website has an online portal so clients can log in and monitor the progress of their past-due accounts. – Aspen National Collections works with timeshare and education industries, as well as municipalities and utilities, to collect outstanding debts. It creates debt collection strategies tailored to each client it works with. This agency's website has an online portal so clients can log in and monitor the progress of their past-due accounts. http://aspennational.com/collections/
Benjamin Michael & Associates Inc. – Benjamin Michael & Associates is based in New York City. The firm utilizes several techniques, such as demand letters, skip tracing, and reports on demand, to help you recover debt from delinquent accounts. – Benjamin Michael & Associates is based in New York City. The firm utilizes several techniques, such as demand letters, skip tracing, and reports on demand, to help you recover debt from delinquent accounts. http://www.benjaminmichaelassociates.com/
Credit Management Company – Founded in 1966, Credit Management Company recovers debts for government, healthcare, higher education, financial services and commercial businesses. It has an online system for debtors to make payments. In addition to collection services, it offers claims resolution services. – Founded in 1966, Credit Management Company recovers debts for government, healthcare, higher education, financial services and commercial businessesIt has an online system for debtors to make payments. In addition to collection services, it offers claims resolution services. http://www.creditmanagementcompany.com/
Debt Recovery Resources – This is a full-service debt collection agency that not only helps recover debts but can help its clients improve their internal debt collection processes. Debt Recovery Resources can manage accounts receivable, perform free legal background checks and find debtors. – This is a full-service debt collection agency that not only helps recover debts but can help its clients improve their internal debt collection processes. Debt Recovery Resources can manage accounts receivable, perform free legal background checks and find debtors. https://www.debt-rr.com/
FCR Collection Services – Powered by FEDChex, FCR Collection Services offers several payment solutions to companies nationally. Services include check verification, automated clearinghouse, remote deposit capture, electronic payments and risk management. – Powered by FEDChex, FCR Collection Services offers several payment solutions to companies nationally. Services include check verification, automated clearinghouse, remote deposit capture, electronic payments and risk management. https://www.fcrcollectionservices.com/
Hunter Warfield – This collection agency provides services to a variety of industries, including property management, medical offices, financial services and commercial collections. This collection agency is best suited for businesses that provide credit on goods or services, or have extended, relationship-based contracts. This collection agency provides services to a variety of industries, including property management, medical offices, financial services and commercial collections. This collection agency is best suited for businesses that provide credit on goods or services, or have extended, relationship-based contracts. https://www.hunterwarfield.com/
Martini, Hughes & Grossman – Martini, Hughes & Grossman offers customized approaches to debt collection. It has in-house legal advisors, skip-tracing technology, it sends status reports bimonthly, and it collects both B2B and B2C accounts. It can track down debt nationally and internationally and is accredited with the Better Business Bureau. – Martini, Hughes & Grossman offers customized approaches to debt collection. It has in-house legal advisors, skip-tracing technology, it sends status reports bimonthly, and it collects both B2B and B2C accounts. It can track down debt nationally and internationally and is accredited with the Better Business Bureau. http://mhg.bz/
National Service Bureau – National Service Bureau serves both B2B and B2C collections. It offers precollections, third-party collections, letter services, litigation and skip tracing to a variety of industries. These industries include commercial, education, financial, insurance, medical, telecom and utilities. National Service Bureau serves both B2B and B2C collections. It offers precollections, third-party collections, letter services, litigation and skip tracing to a variety of industries. These industries include commercial, education, financial, insurance, medical, telecom and utilities. http://nsbi.net
*Prestige Services Inc. – PSI is our choice for the best B2B collection agency. It provides commercial collection services throughout the United States, Mexico and Canada. It provides professional skip tracing to help locate debtors, and it can investigate businesses. If the debtor won't pay even after all of PSI's efforts, the agency can forward the account to an attorney in the debtor's area. – PSI is our choice for the best B2B collection agency. It provides commercial collection services throughout the United States, Mexico and Canada. It provides professional skip tracing to help locate debtors, and it can investigate businesses. If the debtor won't pay even after all of PSI's efforts, the agency can forward the account to an attorney in the debtor's area. https://psicollect.com/
Rapid Recovery Solutions – Rapid Recovery Solutions provides collection services both nationally and internationally. It caters towards all commercial accounts and medical billing accounts by using a four-step system to collect funds from debtors. Rapid Recovery Solutions provides collection services both nationally and internationally. It caters towards all commercial accounts and medical billing accounts by using a four-step system to collect funds from debtors. http://rapidrecoverysolutions.com/
Revenue Assurance Partners – This solution customizes its service to your business. You can outsource as many or as few internal processes as you want. The company states it has over 50 years of experience collecting past-due accounts. It also provides auditing, reporting, legal forwarding and other collection services. – This solution customizes its service to your business. You can outsource as many or as few internal processes as you want. The company states it has over 50 years of experience collecting past-due accounts. It also provides auditing, reporting, legal forwarding and other collection services. https://rapcollect.com/
Rocket Receivables – This debt recovery agency supports collections for small- and mid-sized businesses. It focuses primarily on industries including healthcare, education, professional services, residential, commercial, contracted services, trades and general retail. It offers fixed-fee pricing for newly-delinquent accounts, as well as contingency pricing for older accounts. – This debt recovery agency supports collections for small- and mid-sized businesses. It focuses primarily on industries including healthcare, education, professional services, residential, commercial, contracted services, trades and general retail. It offers fixed-fee pricing for newly-delinquent accounts, as well as contingency pricing for older accounts. https://www.rocketreceivables.com/
Ross, Stuart & Dawson Inc. – This commercial collection agency provides collection services to businesses throughout the United States. It can help you with follow-up letters and statements, soft calls, credit reports and portfolio liquidation services. This commercial collection agency provides collection services to businesses throughout the United States. It can help you with follow-up letters and statements, soft calls, credit reports and portfolio liquidation services. http://rsdcollects.com/
*Rozlin Financial Group Inc. – RFGI is our choice for the best B2C collection agency. It uses a tailored approach to connect with debtors, including phone, mail, email and online chat. It offers collection services for a variety of industries, including dental and medical offices, hospitals, schools, property management companies, utilities, retailers and lending service companies (e.g., credit cards, auto loans, mortgages). It is a Better Business Bureau-accredited agency. RFGI is our choice for the best B2C collection agency. It uses a tailored approach to connect with debtors, including phone, mail, email and online chat. It offers collection services for a variety of industries, including dental and medical offices, hospitals, schools, property management companies, utilities, retailers and lending service companies (e.g., credit cards, auto loans, mortgages). It is a Better Business Bureau-accredited agency. https://www.rfgionline.com/
Smyyth LLC – Smyyth Collections LLC, partnered with Leib Solutions LLC, is a commercial collection agency that serves a variety of industries, including commerce, property and casualty insurance, health insurance, healthcare, law firms and CPA collection services. It provides basic collection services like first- and third-party collections, collection letters and call services, plus more advanced techniques, such as accounts receivable management and revenue cycle consulting. – Smyyth Collections LLC, partnered with Leib Solutions LLC, is a commercial collection agency that serves a variety of industries, including commerce, property and casualty insurance, health insurance, healthcare, law firms and CPA collection services. It provides basic collection services like first- and third-party collections, collection letters and call services, plus more advanced techniques, such as accounts receivable management and revenue cycle consulting. https://www.smyyth.com/solutions/collection-management/
*Summit Account Resolution – This agency is our pick as the best collection agency for small businesses, and it serves both consumer and commercial collections. It offers an online portal, a skip-tracing department and litigation services. Once you sign up with this provider, you receive an account manager who is available to answer all your questions. – This agency is our pick as the best collection agency for small businesses, and it serves both consumer and commercial collections. It offers an online portal, a skip-tracing department and litigation services. Once you sign up with this provider, you receive an account manager who is available to answer all your questions. https://www.summitcollects.com/
The Kaplan Group – The Kaplan Group is a commercial collection agency that specializes in international, judgement and large-balance claims. It requires a minimum of $1,000 to be collected on and has low contingency rates. It provides advanced collection services, such as background investigations, credit analysis, skip tracing, legal services and payment plans. The Kaplan Group is a commercial collection agency that specializes in international, judgement and large-balance claims. It requires a minimum of $1,000 to be collected on and has low contingency rates. It provides advanced collection services, such as background investigations, credit analysis, skip tracing, legal services and payment plans. https://www.kaplancollectionagency.com/
TSI – This agency provides collection services for commercial, education, financial, government and healthcare industries for both SMBs and enterprises. It provides basic collection services like demand letters, calls, and payment reminders, as well as more advanced services, such as first- and third-party accounts receivable management options and skip tracing. This agency provides collection services for commercial, education, financial, government and healthcare industries for both SMBs and enterprises. It provides basic collection services like demand letters, calls, and payment reminders, as well as more advanced services, such as first- and third-party accounts receivable management options and skip tracing. https://www.tsico.com/
Tucker, Albin & Associates – This B2B collection agency has a network of over 500 private investigators and attorneys to help with debt collections across the globe. It uses a tailored approach to collect on commercial debts. – This B2B collection agency has a network of over 500 private investigators and attorneys to help with debt collections across the globe. It uses a tailored approach to collect on commercial debts. http://tuckeralbin.com/
Vengroff Williams Inc. – This agency focuses on four specific collection areas, including credit to cash, subrogation, revenue cycle management and collections business process outsourcing. It provides advanced collection tactics such as first- and third-party collections, nationwide subrogation management and claim recovery services. This agency focuses on four specific collection areas, including credit to cash, subrogation, revenue cycle management and collections business process outsourcing. It provides advanced collection tactics such as first- and third-party collections, nationwide subrogation management and claim recovery services. https://www.vwinc.com/
VeriCore – This international collection agency focuses on recovery, reporting and remittance. It provides a tailored approach to each collection account, ranging from soft to assertive. – This international collection agency focuses on recovery, reporting and remittance. It provides a tailored approach to each collection account, ranging from soft to assertive. https://www.vericore.com/indexS.htm
Verliance Inc. – Verliance Inc. is a Better Business Bureau-accredited collection agency that focuses primarily on the insurance industry. It offers many advanced collection services like first- and third-party collections, benchmarking data, credit checks, delinquency rate modeling and asset searches. Verliance Inc. is a Better Business Bureau-accredited collection agency that focuses primarily on the insurance industry. It offers many advanced collection services like first- and third-party collections, benchmarking data, credit checks, delinquency rate modeling and asset searches. http://www.verliance.com
Your Collection Solution – This collection agency collects consumer and commercial debts. It has a contingency-based fee structure. Though headquartered in Florida, Your Collection Solution can work to recoup debt in the U.S. and in several other countries. The company states its management team has over 30 years of experience in the industry. – This collection agency collects consumer and commercial debts. It has a contingency-based fee structure. Though headquartered in Florida, Your Collection Solution can work to recoup debt in the U.S. and in several other countries. The company states its management team has over 30 years of experience in the industry. https://www.ycscollects.com/
Editor's note: Looking for a collection agency for your business? If you're looking for information to help you choose the one that's right for you, use the questionnaire below to have one of our vendor partners contact you about your needs.
buyerzone widget

Story 113
Midst the turmoil of a diesel emissions scandal and the crisis that followed in late 2015, there was a quiet but striking development inside Volkswagen’s U.S. showrooms.
Americans were buying Golfs. A lot of Golfs. More Golfs than at any point since Ronald Reagan was president. Volkswagen Golf volume nearly doubled, year-over-year, in 2015, and Volkswagen nearly sustained that level in 2016 before rising to a 31-year high of 68,978 sales in 2017.
A trend it was not. Seven months into 2018, Golf sales are nosediving.
It’s not a phenomenon unique to the Golf. As Volkswagen’s Jetta transitions into seventh-generation form, deliveries of the company’s best seller are down 40 percent. The Jetta’s on track for its first sub-100K U.S. sales year since 2008. Jetta sales have fallen by roughly two-thirds just since 2012.
The Passat, meanwhile, is nearing the end of the sixth-generation sedan’s tenure, and sales of the midsize sedan are in freefall. Passat volume is down 35 percent in 2018, year-over-year, a harsh decline following a half-decade in which U.S. Passat sales slid by more than half.
Yet despite these significant downturns, Volkswagen of America sales are actually up 8 percent in 2018, a noteworthy improvement in a largely stagnant market, an increase that stems from a 5-percent uptick in 2017. At this rate of growth, Volkswagen is on track to sell nearly 370,000 vehicles in 2018, which would be a five-year high.
No thanks to the Golf. Nearly across the board, in nearly every corner of the lineup, at nearly every level of Golf hierarchy, sales are falling.
Regular Golf hatchbacks? They’re down 45 percent compared with 2017.
The iconic GTI? It remains the biggest seller in the Golf range, but sales are down 17 percent.
So much for the romance of wagons. Including the SportWagen and Alltrack, Golf wagon volume in 2018 is precisely half as strong as it was in 2017.
The e-Golf is not spared. Sales of the electric hatch are down 64 percent, a loss of a couple hundred units per month, on average.
The low-volume Golf R is the exception to the rule. A 4-percent rise resulted in 88 additional vehicles between January and July — a drop in the bucket considering the 16,403-unit decline in overall Golf sales, a 37-percent drop. At this point in 2017, the Golf family accounted for nearly a quarter of all Volkswagen sales in the United States. That figure is down to 13 percent for 2018.
It’s only fair to blame changing tastes. Passenger car sales are falling everywhere. America’s five most popular cars — Camry, Civic, Corolla, Accord, Altima — are all selling less often this year than last. In fact, 17 of America’s 18 best-selling cars are in decline. Only one passenger car more popular than the Golf is declining more rapidly. That car, of course, is Volkswagen’s own Jetta, which is understandably struggling in the face of a generational changeover.
Fortunately for Volkswagen, the shortcomings produced by the Golf and its VeeDub car cohorts have been overcome (to date) by in-demand utility vehicles. Incidentally, after initially backing its SUVs with maximum strength, Volkswagen now stands ready to stand behind all of its vehicles equally (e-Golf aside), with a six-year/72,000-mile bumper-to-bumper warranty.
That change for MY2018 is not making a difference.
The Tiguan and Atlas produced just under half of Volkswagen’s U.S. sales in 2018’s first seven months, up from a trivial 13 percent a year ago. The Tiguan is now the brand’s No.1 seller, outperforming the Jetta by a 1.3-to-1 margin. Meanwhile, the Atlas outsells the entire Golf range by more than 1,000 units per month.
We shouldn’t be so surprised. America’s brief, three-year fascination with the Golf wasn’t really much of a fascination at all. At fewer than 70,000 sales, the vast Golf range attracted only one buyer for every 5.5 Civic owners, for example. It’s been 36 years since Volkswagen managed to sell 100,000 Golfs in a calendar year in America.
The Golf is a top seller in a variety of markets around the world. But America will not soon be one of those countries.
[Image: Volkswagen]

Story 114
Life / Motoring DRIVING IMPRESSION Top of the range Tiguan cruiser has the power to handle the most strenuous of tasks Volkswagen has added the diesel variant to its Tiguan range, but is it arguably the pick of the range? Lerato Matebese puts it through its paces BL PREMIUM
As part of its model expansion, the Volkswagen Tiguan is now also available in a more powerful 162kW and 350Nm 2.0l TSI 4Motion and, in the instance of our review, the 2.0l TDI 4Motion with 130kW and 400Nm. Both come exclusively with a seven-speed DSG automatic transmission and switchable — via a rotary switch — four-wheel drive system that has four terrain modes including tarmac, snow, individual and off-road, the latter perfect for tackling slushy conditions. Personally, though, it was seeing how the more powerful TDI engine fared compared to the 1.4l turbo petrol we have up to now sampled that was the main attraction. The range itself may not have won the coveted SA Car of the Year competition this year, but we are cognisant of the fact that the model remains a shining beacon among its competitors and an outright great package. In the flagship diesel on test here, a number of items come standard including full LED adaptive headlights, 18-inch alloy wheels, electric leather heated...

Story 115
APEX, N.C., May 19, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- TigerSwan International was awarded a contract from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) Middle East District, to perform construction services for the South Gate Entry Control Point, Eskan Village, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
The one year contract consists of four projects: a South Gate Overwatch Position; Two Security Guard Gate Houses; a Vehicle Inspection-Search Facility; and a Visitor Control Center. The project also includes supporting infrastructure (utilities, roadway pavements, signs and sidewalks) to produce a complete and usable facility.
"We are grateful for the opportunity to work with the USACE on a project of this magnitude and importance to the entire Eskan Village Military Community, said Tony Turpin, president TigerSwan International. "A project of this size and complexity affords TigerSwan International the ability to once again showcase the professional talents of our experienced staff and project management team and our dedication to complete this project with the highest standards of quality, safety and client satisfaction."
TigerSwan International, based in Riyadh, is licensed with the Saudi Arabian General Investment Authority (SAGIA). TigerSwan's work in Saudi Arabia focuses on contract services to the U.S., the Saudi Arabian Government and international businesses establishing a presence in the Kingdom.
TigerSwan International provides a wide range of integrated Business, Logistics, Construction and Security Services to include full-spectrum architectural design, total systems integration, program management supervision and design and build services with integrated security measures. TigerSwan International is a subsidiary of TigerSwan Inc. (TSI).
TSI is a global leader in vulnerability management. TSI provides comprehensive solutions to Global Instability support, Construction and engineering, Training, Security Services, Logistics, Crisis Management, IP protection and business continuity implementation. TSI employs more than 350 multi-cultural personnel worldwide with offices in the U.S., Iraq, Jordan, Afghanistan, Saudi Arabia and Japan.
www.tigerswan.com
CONTACT: Anthony R. Turpin (Riyadh), a.turpin@tigerswanintl.com, + 966-56-975-5165; Billy J. Buckner, Public Relations Manager (USA), b.buckner@tigerswan.com, +1-919-249-5076
SOURCE TigerSwan, Inc.

