Story 0
Ipsy, an online cosmetic brand, was a pioneer in paying social-media stars hefty fees to promote its eye shadow and lip gloss in Instagram posts and YouTube videos.
Now, the brand is leading the way again, this time by pulling back.
Companies will funnel billions of dollars this year to the online personalities, known as influencers, who...

Story 1
Contact and Call Centre Outsourcing Market to 2027 - Global Analysis and Forecasts by Type (Contact Center, Call Center); Outsourcing Type (On-shore, Off-shore, Near Shore); Industry Vertical (BFSI, IT and Telecom, Manufacturing, Transport and Logistics, Healthcare and Pharmaceutical, Others) and Geography
Contact and call centers are the central points from where the customer contacts are managed. Contact and call center outsourcing is the process of assigning the customer care service to other contact center outsourcing service providers.
The increasing focus towards increasing the efficiency and reducing the cost are the significant factors that are expected to drive the growth of this market. The contact and call center outsourcing market is highly competitive due to the presence of some of the well-established global players as well as regional players.
Growing focus towards simplifying customer engagement, growing focus of the organization towards better customer engagement, and cost-cutting are the major factors that are expected to drive the growth of this market. The integration of new technologies for customer engagement, such as Artificial Intelligence and speech recognition are providing opportunities for the companies operating in the market to gain a strong customer base.
The Asia-Pacific region is expected to grow at a high CAGR during the forecast period.
The "Global Contact and Call Center Outsourcing Market Analysis to 2027" is a specialized and in-depth study of the contact and call center outsourcing industry with a special focus on the global market trend analysis. The report aims to provide an overview of the contact and call center outsourcing market with detailed market segmentation by type, outsourcing type, industry vertical and geography.
The global contact and call center outsourcing market is expected to witness high growth during the forecast period. The report provides key statistics on the market status of the leading contact and call center outsourcing market players and offers key trends and opportunities in the contact and call center outsourcing market.
The report also includes the profiles of key contact and call center outsourcing companies along with their SWOT analysis and market strategies. In addition, the report focuses on leading industry players with information such as company profiles, components, and services offered, financial information of the last 3 years, key development in the past five years.

- Alorica Inc
- Arvato
- Atento
- Comdata Group
- Datamark Inc
- Merchants SA (Pty) Ltd
- Sitel Group
- Sykes Enterprises, Incorporated
- Teleperformance
- Teletech Holdings
The global contact and call center outsourcing market is segmented on the basis of type, outsourcing type, and industry vertical. Based on type, the market is segmented into the contact center and call center.
On the basis of outsourcing type, the market is segmented as on-shore, off-shore, near Shore. On the basis of industry vertical, the market is segmented as BFSI, it and telecom, manufacturing, transport and logistics, healthcare and pharmaceutical, and others.
The report provides a detailed overview of the industry including both qualitative and quantitative information. It provides an overview and forecast of the global contact and calls center outsourcing market based on various segments.
It also provides market size and forecast estimates from the year 2017 to 2027 with respect to five major regions, namely; North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific (APAC), Middle East and Africa (MEA) and South America. The contact and call center outsourcing market by each region is later sub-segmented by respective countries and segments.
The report covers the analysis and forecast of 18 countries globally along with the current trend and opportunities prevailing in the region.

The report analyzes factors affecting contact and call center outsourcing market from both demand and supply side and further evaluates market dynamics effecting the market during the forecast period i.e., drivers, restraints, opportunities, and future trends. The report also provides exhaustive PEST analysis for all five regions namely; North America, Europe, APAC, MEA and South America after evaluating political, economic, social and technological factors effecting the contact and call center outsourcing market in these regions.
News From Premium Market Insights
Category: Market Research Publishers and Retailers Company about: Premium Market Insights is a one stop shop of market research reports and solutions to various companies across the globe. We help our clients in their decision support system by helping them choose most relevant and cost effective research reports and solutions from various publishers.

Story 2
The report on “Green Energy Market” will help Major Players and the new entrants to understand scrutinize the market in detail. This information will encourage the Major Players to decide their business strategy and achieve proposed business aims.
The rising demands for energy, energy sustainability, as well as GHG impacts of conservative sources of energy have augmented the application of renewable energy sources globally. The government support, regulations, policies, and investments in this sector are increasing the demand of green energy market.
The different types of green energy covered in this report are hydroelectric power, wind power, bioenergy, solar energy, and geothermal energy.
The lower greenhouse gas emissions, increasing investments in hydro power, as well as long life of power unit produced by solar energy are the major drivers for the growth of green energy market.
The substantial growth in biodiesel initiatives and enhanced focus towards the geothermal systems (EGS) is creating opportunities for the green energy market in the coming years.
View further details about this report www.premiummarketinsights.com/sample/…tech-sohan
Leading Green Energy Market Players:
1. ABB Ltd.
2. Acciona, S.A.
3. ?lectricit? de France S.A.
4. Enel Spa (Enel)
5. General Electric (GE)
6. Geronimo Energy
7. Innergex Renewable Energy Inc.
8. Invenergy, LLC
9. The Tata Power Company Limited (Tata Power)
10. Xcel Energy Inc.
The exclusive report on Green Energy Market research report has been formulated with the help of extensive primary research (inputs from industry experts, companies, and stakeholders) and secondary research to get a universal view of the market. The report gives in-detailed information across global regions, including North America, Europe, Asia Pacific (APAC), Middle East & Africa (MEA), and South America & Central America (SCAM).
We follow an iterative research methodology model to formulate the report that helps decision-makers take sound investment evaluation. Secondary research is carried out using internal and external sources to obtain qualitative and quantitative information of the market backed by the primary interview of KOLs and SME’s.
This model negates any drastic deviation in the market estimation and is used to estimate the Green Energy Market size and forecasts until 2027.
The Green Energy Market report gives a 360-degree holistic view of the market and highlights the key developments, drivers, restraints and future trends with impact analysis of these trends on the market for short-term, mid-term and long-term during the forecast period. In addition, the report also provides profiles of major companies along with detailed SWOT analysis, financial facts and key developments of products/service from the past three years.
Green Energy Market to 2027 – Global Analysis and forecast is a specialized and in-depth study of the Green Energy industry with a focus on the global market trend. The report provides an overview of global Green Energy Market with detailed market segmentation by product/application and regions.
The global Green Energy Market is expected to witness high growth during the forecast period. The report provides key statistics on the market status of the key players and offers key trends and opportunities in the market.
The Green Energy Market report provides a detailed overview of the industry including both qualitative and quantitative information. It provides an overview and forecast of the global Green Energy Market based on product and application.
It also provides market size and forecast till 2027 for overall Green Energy Market with respect to five major regions, namely; North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific (APAC), Middle East and Africa (MEA) and South America and Central America (SCAM), which is later sub-segmented by respective countries and segments. The report evaluates market dynamics affecting the market during the forecast period i.e., drivers, restraints, opportunities, and future trend and provides exhaustive PEST analysis for all five regions.
Access this report at www.premiummarketinsights.com/buy/TIP…tech-sohan
Also, key Green Energy Market players influencing the market are profiled in the study along with their SWOT analysis and market strategies. The report also focuses on leading industry players with information such as company profiles, products, and services offered, financial information of the last 3 years, key development in past five years.
Reason to access
– Save and reduce time carrying out entry-level research by identifying the growth, size, leading players and segments in the global Green Energy Market
– Highlights key business priorities in order to assist companies to realign their business strategies.
– The key findings and recommendations highlight crucial progressive industry trends in the Green Energy Market, thereby allowing players to develop effective long term strategies.
– Develop/modify business expansion plans by using substantial growth offering developed and emerging markets.
– Scrutinize in-depth global market trends and outlook coupled with the factors driving the market, as well as those hindering it.
– Enhance the decision-making process by understanding the strategies that underpin commercial interest with respect to products, segmentation, and industry verticals.

Story 3
The report presents complete overview of the market, starting from basic it goes into each and every detail.
The compact camera modules are being increasingly used in numerous vehicles for a range of applications, especially in passenger cars. The compact camera modules that are installed in front, rear, and inside the vehicle, provide safety to passengers and convey enhanced driving experience by the improved rear and front view of the driver.
The major factors driving the growth of the automotive compact camera module market are increase in adoption of compact camera module as a replacement for side and rear view mirrors, rising impact of new car assessment program, and growing demand for safety measures owing to increase in road accidents. Further, the supportive government policies and emerging trend of installing ADAS in passenger cars is anticipated to create opportunities for growth of automotive compact camera module market.
Get sample copy of report at:
www.premiummarketinsights.com/sample/TIP00020767
The report includes the profiles of key automotive compact camera module companies along with their SWOT analysis and market strategies. In addition, the report focuses on leading industry players with information such as company profiles, components, and services offered, financial information of the last three years, key development in the past five years.

- Ability opto-Electronics Technology
- Ambarella Inc.
- Autoliv Inc.
- Continental AG
- Ficosa Internacional SA
- KYOCERA Corporation
- LG INNOTEK
- LITE-ON Technology Corporation
- Robert Bosch GmbH
- Sharp Electronics Corporation
The global automotive compact camera module market is segmented on the basis of vehcile type, pixel size, and application. Based on vehicle type, the market is segmented as mid-sized passenger cars, luxury passenger cars, heavy commercial vehicles, compact passenger cars, premium passenger cars, light commercial vehicles.
Based on pixel size, the automotive compact camera module market is divided into less than 720p, 720p-080p, and more than 1080p (upto 4K). Further, based on application the market is segmented as lane departure warning system (LDWS), blind spot detection system (BSD), forward collision warning system (FCW), pedestrian protection, night vision, head-up displays, and others.
It also provides market size and forecast estimates from the year 2017 to 2027 with respect to five major regions, namely; North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific (APAC), Middle East and Africa (MEA) and South & Central America. The automotive compact camera module market by each region is later sub-segmented by respective countries and segments.
The report covers the analysis and forecast of 18 countries globally along with the current trend and opportunities prevailing in the region.
Access this report at:
www.premiummarketinsights.com/buy/TIP00020767
Table of Contents
Introduction Key Takeaways Automotive Compact Camera Module Market Landscape Market - Key Industry Dynamics Automotive Compact Camera Module Market Analysis- Global Analysis Automotive Compact Camera Module Market Revenue And Forecasts To 2027 – Vehicle Type Market Revenue And Forecasts To 2027 – Pixel Size Market Revenue And Forecasts To 2027 – Application Market Revenue And Forecasts To 2027 – Geographical Analysis Market Revenue And Forecasts To 2027 - Industry Landscape Competitive Landscape Automotive Compact Camera Module Market, Key Company Profiles Appendix

Story 4
A wiper motor is a critical component used for the actuation of a wiper system in the automobile. The wiper motor activates the linkage which moves the wiper arms back and forth, and with vehicles having a rear window wiper, a separate wiper motor is used. Different sized windscreen systems of automobiles require differently designed windscreen wiper systems.
Wiper systems are used on a regular basis by the driver of the automotive when the automobile subjected to adverse climatic conditions such as rainfall and snowfall. Continued use of wiper system leads to the wear and tear of the motor and demands the need for its replacement.
The increase in the sales of automobiles coupled with increasing average age of vehicles on the roads is anticipated to be the major driving factors for the wiper motor afterMarket. The ease of availability of substitutes to the wiper motors pose unique challenges to the growth of wiper motor afterMarket in the coming years.
However, the increasing adoption of rear wiper systems and growth in the commercial vehicles using the wiper motors would provide good opportunities to the players operating in the wiper motor afterMarket.
Get sample copy of report at:
www.premiummarketinsights.com/sample/TIP00020856
The report includes the profiles of key companies along with their SWOT analysis and market strategies in the wiper motor afterMarket. In addition, the report focuses on leading industry players with information such as company profiles, products and services offered, financial information of the last 3 years, the key development in the past five years.

- DOGA Automotive
- Febi Bilstein
- Lucas TVS Ltd.
- Magneti Marelli
- PSV Wipers Ltd.
- Robert Bosch GmbH
- Trico Products
- Valeo S.A
- WAI Global
- Wexco Industries Inc.
The global wiper motor afterMarket is segmented on the basis of vehicle type. Based on vehicle type, the wiper motor afterMarket is segmented into optical wiper motor aftermarket, ultrasonic wiper motor aftermarket, and vibrating tuning wiper motor aftermarket.
It also provides market size and forecast estimates from the year 2018 to 2027 with respect to five major regions, namely; North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific (APAC), Middle East and Africa (MEA) and South America. The wiper motor afterMarket by each region is later sub-segmented by respective countries and segments.
The report covers the analysis and forecast of 18 countries globally along with the current trend and opportunities prevailing in the region.
Access this report at:
www.premiummarketinsights.com/buy/TIP00020856
Table of Contents
Introduction Key Takeaways Automotive Compact Camera Module Market Landscape Market - Key Industry Dynamics Wiper Motor AfterMarket Analysis- Global Analysis Wiper Motor AfterMarket Revenue And Forecasts To 2027 – Vehicle Type Market Revenue And Forecasts To 2027 – Geographical Analysis Market Revenue And Forecasts To 2027 - Industry Landscape Competitive Landscape Automotive Compact Camera Module Market, Key Company Profiles Appendix

Story 5
This report focuses on the Passenger Service System (PSS) Market, especially in United States, China, South Korea, United Kingdom, Southeast Asia. This report categorizes the market based on manufacturers, countries, type and application.
The "Global Passenger Service System Market Analysis to 2027" is a specialized and in-depth study of the Technology, Media and Telecommunication industry with a special focus on the global market trend analysis. The report aims to provide an overview of Passenger Service System market with detailed market segmentation by type, deployment type, application, and geography.
The global Passenger Service System market is expected to witness high growth during the forecast period. The report provides key statistics on the market status of the leading Passenger Service System market players and offers key trends and opportunities in the market.
Worldwide Passenger Service System (PSS) Market Analysis to 2027 is a specialized and in-depth study of the Passenger Service System (PSS) industry with a focus on the global market trend. The report aims to provide an overview of global Passenger Service System (PSS) market with detailed market segmentation by product & services /application and geography.
The global Passenger Service System (PSS) market is expected to witness high growth during the forecast period. The report provides key statistics on the market status of the Passenger Service System (PSS) players and offers key trends and opportunities in the market.
Get Sample Copy of this Report at: www.theinsightpartners.com/sample/…m=Nivedita

Leading Passenger Service System (PSS) Market Players:
Amadeus IT Group SA
Bravo Passenger Solutions Pte Limited
Hexaware Technologies
Hitit Computer Services
IBS Software
Radixx
Sabre Corporation
Sirena-Travel CJSC
Travel Technology Interactive
Unisys Corp
The Insight Partner's dedicated research and analysis team consist of experienced professionals with advanced statistical expertise and offer various customization options in the existing study.
An exclusive Passenger Service System (PSS) market research report created through broad primary research (inputs from industry experts, companies and stakeholders) and secondary research, the report aims to present the analysis of Global Passenger Service System (PSS) Market By Type, By Application, By Region - North America, Europe, South America, Asia-Pacific, Middle East and Africa. The report intends to provide cutting-edge market intelligence and help decision makers take sound investment evaluation.
Besides, the report also identifies and analyses the emerging trends along with major drivers, challenges and opportunities in the global Passenger Service System (PSS) market. Additionally, the report also highlights market entry strategies for various companies across the globe.
The report provides a detailed overview of the industry including both qualitative and quantitative information. It provides overview and forecast of the global Passenger Service System (PSS) market based on product and application.
It also provides market size and forecast till 2027 for overall Passenger Service System (PSS) market with respect to five major regions, namely; North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific (APAC), Middle East and Africa (MEA) and South America (SAM), which is later sub-segmented by respective countries and segments. The report evaluates market dynamics effecting the market during the forecast period i.e., drivers, restraints, opportunities, and future trend and provides exhaustive PEST analysis for all five regions.

Access this Report at: www.theinsightpartners.com/buy/TIPRE00004832/
Also, key Passenger Service System (PSS) market players influencing the market are profiled in the study along with their SWOT analysis and market strategies. The report also focuses on leading industry players with information such as company profiles, products and services offered, financial information of last 3 years, key development in past five years.

Key Benefits of Getting this Research Study:
Save and reduce time carrying out entry-level research by identifying the growth, size, leading players and segments in the global Passenger Service System (PSS) Market.
Highlights key business priorities in order to assist companies to realign their business strategies
The key findings and recommendations highlight crucial progressive industry trends in the Passenger Service System (PSS) Market, thereby allowing players across the value chain to develop effective long term strategies
Develop/modify business expansion plans by using substantial growth offering developed and emerging markets
Scrutinize in-depth global market trends and outlook coupled with the factors driving the market, as well as those hindering it
Enhance the decision-making process by understanding the strategies that underpin commercial interest with respect to client products, segmentation, pricing and distribution
Examine the political, economic, social and technology impact of the five regions namely: North America, Europe, Asia Pacific, Middle East & Africa and South America.

Story 6
A new research study from HTF MI with title Global Deep Brain Stimulation Devices Sales Market Report 2019 by Manufacturer, Region, Type and Application provides an in-depth assessment of the Deep Brain Stimulation Devices including key market trends, upcoming technologies, industry drivers, challenges, regulatory policies, key players company profiles and strategies.
The report studies essential market players such as Boston Scientific, Deep Brain Innovations, Medtronic
Latest research study from HTF MI provide a comprehensive analysis of the Global Deep Brain Stimulation Devices Market is provided in this intelligence document. It includes the primary investigations to cover historical progress, ongoing market scenarios, and future prospects.
An accurate data of the products, strategies and market shares of leading companies in the market is derived to help manufacturers locate market position. The report presents a 360-degree overview of the competitive scenario of the overall market.
The study further projects the size and valuation of the Global Deep Brain Stimulation Devices market during the forecast period. It also presents a thorough qualitative and quantitative data and the impact analysis of any influencing factors on future market's growth prospects.

Key Players in Global Deep Brain Stimulation Devices Market: Aleva Neurotherapeutics SA (Switzerland), Boston Scientific Corp. (US), Deep Brain Innovations, LLC (US), Medtronic, plc (US), St.
Jude Medical, Inc. (US)

Get Free PDF Sample Pages Of Global Deep Brain Stimulation Devices Market Report @ www.htfmarketreport.com/sample-…les-market

With the help of this study a detailed outline of the Global Deep Brain Stimulation Devices Market is being covered considering all the important parameters. End users verticals/application (Application 1, Application 2 & Application 3), products (, Type I, Type II & Type III), regions (China, USA, Europe, Japan, Korea, India, Southeast Asia & South America), and many other segments are studied and explained with further sub-segment where ever required.
A brief idea about the driving forces which help make the market more flourishing is discussed in order to help the client understand the industry dynamics. Estimated YOY growth in terms of revenue & volume for historical & upcoming years is provided with detailed explanation.

On the basis of geographical regions, the Global Deep Brain Stimulation Devices Market is segmented broadly into China, USA, Europe, Japan, Korea, India, Southeast Asia & South America. The market is still in its exploratory stage in most of the regions but it holds the promising potential to flourish steadily in coming years.
The major companies investing in this market are situated in US, China and United Kingdom and some more countries of Asia Pacific region. Consequently, Asia Pacific, North America, and Western Europe are estimated to hold more than half of the market shares.

Read Detailed Index of full Research Study at @ www.htfmarketreport.com/reports…les-market

Key questions answered in the report include
What will the Deep Brain Stimulation Devices Market size and the growth rate be in 2025?
What are the key factors driving the Global Deep Brain Stimulation Devices Market?
What are the key market trends impacting the growth of the Global Deep Brain Stimulation Devices Market?
What are the challenges to market growth?
Who are the key vendors in the Global Deep Brain Stimulation Devices Market?
What are the market opportunities and threats faced by the vendors in the Global Deep Brain Stimulation Devices Market?
Trending factors influencing the market shares of the China, USA, Europe, Japan, Korea, India, Southeast Asia & South America.
What are the key outcomes of the five forces analysis of the Global Deep Brain Stimulation Devices Market?

The reports provides a detailed chapter on market dynamics that uncover market restraint which can actually slow down the demand of Global Deep Brain Stimulation Devices market and hamper the regional economy, whereas, the opportunity for its future growth is also covered for the customers so that they can easily understand the market scenario.

In the end, the report concludes the new project, key development areas, business overview, product/services specification, SWOT analysis, investment feasibility analysis, return analysis, and development trends. The study also presents a round-up of vulnerabilities which companies operating in the market and must be avoided in order to enjoy sustainable growth through the course of the forecast period.

Table of Content:
Global Deep Brain Stimulation Devices Market Research Report 2018-2023
Chapter 1 Global Deep Brain Stimulation Devices Market Overview
Chapter 2 Global Economic Impact
Chapter 3 Competition by Manufacturers
Chapter 4 Productions, Revenue (Value) by Region (2018-2023)
Chapter 5 Supplies (Production), Consumption, Export, Import by Regions (2018-2023)
Chapter 6 Productions, Revenue (Value), Price Trend by Type (, Type I, Type II & Type III)
Chapter 7 Analysis by Application (Application 1, Application 2 & Application 3)
Chapter 8 Manufacturing Cost Analysis
Chapter 9 Industrial Chain, Sourcing Strategy and Downstream Buyers
Chapter 10 Marketing Strategy Analysis, Distributors/Traders
Chapter 11 Market Effect Factors Analysis
Chapter 12 Market Forecast (2018-2023)
Chapter 13 Appendix

Thanks for reading this article; you can also get individual chapter wise section or region wise report version like North America, Europe or Asia.

Story 7
What if the reason democracy is collapsing around the world is because men really don't want to do the dishes?
That might sound a bit silly, but it was a thought that kept creeping up on me while reading this excellent and thoughtful examination of the rise of anti-liberalism around the globe by Zack Beauchamp at Vox. By "anti-liberalism," Beauchamp doesn't mean a rejection of the narrowly defined liberalism of the Democratic Party, but the "school of thought that takes freedom, consent, and autonomy as foundational moral values" that is traditionally understood to have been defined by Enlightenment philosophers, particularly John Locke, and underpins the institution of democracy itself.
Advertisement:
As Beauchamp explains, the political compromises necessitated by liberal democracies frustrate radicals on both the left and the right, but especially the right, and so there's increasing talk — again, mostly on the right — of abandoning liberal democracy and turning to authoritarian governments that will foist radical ideologies on the public, whether they like it or not. Politicians like Jair Bolsonaro of Brazil, Vladimir Putin of Russia, Viktor Orbán of Hungary, Recep Tayyip Erdoğan of Turkey and, yes, Donald Trump of the United States are all hostile to the core values of liberal democracy, Beauchamp argues, which include "democracy, the rule of law, individual rights, and equality."
Beauchamp outlines a number of largely convincing reasons why increasing numbers of people are embracing illiberalism: Economic losses, global violence, cultural changes, decaying institutions such as the church or the nuclear family. But, even though Beauchamp recommends reading outside the dead white male canon to understand liberalism, he underplays what I believe is a major, if not the major, objection that conservative thinkers have to liberal democracy: They hate the liberation of women.
And they really do not want to the dishes.
As Beauchamp notes, the baseline concept of liberalism is that "people should be free to choose their paths in life," whereas conservative critics say that people should be "embedded inside social relations and identities" to give their lives meaning.
He quotes Sen. Josh Hawley, R-Mo., who objects to the concept of freedom, because it is "a philosophy of liberation from family and tradition, of escape from God and community, a philosophy of self-creation and unrestricted, unfettered free choice."
This is treated as a gender-neutral statement by both Hawley and Beauchamp (who disagrees with Hawley, to be clear), but any feminist who has been dealing with the religious right knows full well that it is not. Hawley and his ilk do not, in fact, object to men having the freedom of choice or self-creation or the ability to liberate themselves from family and community. Hawley, after all, is a rabid fan of Trump and Donald Trump Jr., both men who felt free to choose adultery and who liberated themselves from their wives for sexy new mistresses. No, when conservatives talk about "people" having too much freedom, what they largely mean is women having too much freedom.
Advertisement:
The entire system of communities, churches and especially families of yore, for which conservatives feel so much nostalgia, is at heart patriarchal. It's a system that depends on putting women under the direct control of men — first fathers, then husbands — and extracting unpaid labor from them to keep the system running. It's a system where men's freedom is predicated on women's entrapment, where men can run the world, secure in the knowledge that someone is at home making sure the dishes get done.
This is why, despite all the high-minded conservative rhetoric about "the unchosen duties that are entailed in being a member of a community and nation," they never seem interested in passing laws imposing unwanted duties to family and community on heterosexual males. It is women who are told they have a duty to reproduce, and who are subjected to laws meant to ensure they cannot escape that duty through birth control or abortion. It is LGBT people who are told they have a duty to hide their sexuality, and conservatives have attempted to ban same-sex marriage in order to punish those who don't.
Advertisement:
Conservatives turn a blind eye towards sexual abuse and sexual harassment, repeatedly rewarding men by giving more power to those who have been credibly accused or who have outright confessed to sexual abuse. Women who speak out against rape or harassment are routinely demonized by the right. The implication is clear: Men should be free to sexually exploit women, and women have a duty to protect men's right to abuse by staying silent.
It's not really that conservative critics of liberal democracy prefer a system that focuses on duty and community over individual rights. On the contrary, one of their main objections to feminism is that freeing women increases men's duties, including the duty to treat women with respect and the duty to share responsibility for the unpaid and often tedious labor needed so that families, churches and other social institutions run smoothly. Conservatives prefer a system where men's freedom is contingent on women's servitude.
Conservative men, in other words, really don't want to do the dishes.
Advertisement:
Feminism may seem like a relatively new phenomenon, but even in the heyday of the Enlightenment, it was clear that the emerging concepts of liberalism — freedom, autonomy, equality — were in direct conflict with the traditions of patriarchy. John Locke, the 17th-century philosopher who is the primary author of the liberal ideas that led to the American concept of "life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness," was certainly no feminist, but he also bent toward the logic that human rights should apply to women as well as men. Around the time of the American Revolution, philosopher and feminist pioneer Mary Wollstonecraft argued that the concepts of self-governance and reason driving the American and French revolutions carried the implication of freedom for women.
And then, of course, in 1848, a group of social reformers in Seneca Falls, New York, echoing the language of the Declaration of Independence, declared that "all men and women are created equal" and that women deserve "all the rights and privileges which belong to them as citizens of these United States."
It took a long time, but the demands made at Seneca Falls — including equal pay and equal education — are finally starting to be treated seriously, not just in the U.S., but around the world. It's probably not a coincidence that just as women are getting closer to fair treatment in liberal democracies, conservatives are deciding that liberal democracy has got to go.
Advertisement:
So much of the dissatisfaction driving conservative anger towards democracy these days goes right back to men's rage at women for demanding respect and equality. Donald Trump was elected in no small part because so many men simply would not accept electing the first female president. (Fifty-two percent of men voted for Trump, and 54% of women voted for Hillary Clinton.) The rise of the alt-right is largely the result of young men who are bitter and lonely, because they can't find romantic partners who will accept a subservient role. Rather than encourage those young men to change their expectations, conservative "intellectuals" floated the idea that women's right to freely choose their own romantic partners should be curtailed.
And the far-right, authoritarian leaders Beauchamp writes about have put a priority on taking away women's equality and LGBT rights. As he notes, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán of Hungary "has banned the teaching of 'gender ideology' in universities" and tried to bribe Hungarian women into having more children. Putin used International Women's Day to suggest that a woman's role is decorative and servile, and certainly not equal. He's also passed laws meant to terrorize LGBT people. Erdoğan has flat-out denied that women are equal and claims their primary duty is to the home. Bolsonaro, like his friend in Washington, has a long history of misogynist remarks.
And, of course, there's Trump: An accused rapist who bragged about sexually assaulting women and who, since becoming president, has done everything possible to restrict abortion rights and birth control access, while also making it harder for rape victims to get justice.
To be clear, Beauchamp sees anti-feminism as an important aspect of the far-right's rejection of liberal democracy. But I'd argue it goes further than that, and that the beating heart of authoritarianism is misogyny. All this right-wing chatter about duty and community and family is coded language about a return to patriarchal systems. And the high-minded rhetoric about putting duty ahead of freedom is aimed squarely at women. In this old-school worldview, straight men cannot be asked to curtail their sexual freedoms or career ambitions for the common good. If anything, women's rights are viewed as an impediment to male freedom.
Advertisement:
That's why the Women's March was so powerful and why the message of that day shouldn't be forgotten: Feminism is and must continue to be the central organizing force of the fight to preserve liberal democracy. Defeating authoritarianism means defeating the sexism that fuels it. And yes, that means guys are going to have to suck it up and learn to do the dishes.

Story 8
The Global Polyphenylene Sulfide (PPS) Market is forecasted to reach USD 2.17 Billion by 2026, according to a new report by Reports and Data. PPS is utilized in the manufacture of different electronics components, like connectors, micro switches, coil formers, HDD actuators, circuit breakers, relay components, brush holders, bobbins, motor housing, thermostat parts, and many other things. This products will augment the demand for PPS. The market is expected to witness a rise in demand owing to the increasing application from sectors like electronics, automotive, aerospace and industrial. The product is consumed in high-temperature applications, due to its superior performance and mechanical characteristics.
The report studies essential market players such as DIC Corporation, Solvay S.A., Kureha Corporation, Tosoh Corporation, Fortron Industries LLC, Medacta
The product is completely recyclable; it reduces emission levels and increases fuel economy. All these factors are expected to drive the market.
It is also preferred more over metals because of its weight reduction. Use of PPS as filter bags in coal-fired power plants is forecasted to boost the market.
The need for low emissions, higher fuel economy, and reduction in vehicle’s weight is expanding the automotive industry in countries like China, India, and Brazil and will propel the demand for the market.
Request a sample copy of this premium report at: www.reportsanddata.com/sample-…-form/1361
Asia Pacific holds the largest market share in 2018. China has the largest market for PPS but is mainly depended on imports for demand.
Market players are expanding in the country by installing compounding plants. Japan is the largest producer for PPS globally.
Japan along with the US has been manufacturing more than there is demand for PPS. The country is expanding in China by setting up new plants.
Players have been operating at low costs to create future demand.
Further key findings from the report suggest
Linear PPS is forecasted to grow with an annual growth rate of 7.7% throughout the forecast period. Cross-Linked PPS holds a market share of 57% in the year 2018.
Virgin holds a market share of 51% in the year 2018. The decrease in the price of virgin PPS globally will increase its demand.
Environmental concerns and cost savings is encouraging manufacturers to use recycled PPS, but the implementation of environmental regulations on its use will propel the market for virgin PPS.
PPS is used in fuel systems parts, power trains, brake system, transmission, and engine components. It is forecasted to hold a market share of 17% by 2026 in the automotive sector.
Aerospace and Defense holds a market share of 19% in the year 2018 owing to the surge in demand for commercial flying.
Filter Bags hold a market share of 19% in the year 2018. The product is used in the filter and filter bags used in dust chamber filters in incinerators and coal-fired powered fire stations.
PPS coatings are applied using methods such as the electrostatic coating on cold or hot surfaces, as slurry coating, fluidized bed coating, and powder flocking. PPS coatings application is limited by large surfaces as they cannot be accommodated in the oven.
Rapid industrialization and urbanization in the APAC region are driving the PPS market in automotive applications.
Asia Pacific holds the largest market share of 36% in the year 2018 owing to the fact that China and Japan are the leading regions of PPS.
Key participants include DIC Corporation, Solvay S.A., Lion Idemitsu Composites Co. Ltd., Kureha Corporation, Tosoh Corporation, Fortron Industries LLC, Medacta, CONMED, Kinamed Inc., and ConforMIS among
Access Now: www.reportsanddata.com/checkout-form/1361
For the purpose of this report, Reports and Data have segmented the global Polyphenylene Sulfide (PPS) Market on the basis of Type, Recyclability, Application, End Users and Region:
Type Outlook (Revenue, USD Billion; 2018-2026)
Linear PPS
Cross-Linked PPS
Recyclability Outlook (Revenue, USD Billion; 2018-2026)
Virgin
Recycled
Application Outlook (Revenue, USD Billion; 2018-2026)
Automotive
Electrical & Electronics
Industrial
Filter Bags
Aerospace
Coatings
Others
End Users Outlook (Revenue, USD Billion; 2018-2026)
Healthcare
Automobiles
Textiles
Aerospace and Defense
Business Equipment
Construction and Buildings
Engineering Equipment
Regional Outlook (Revenue, USD Billion; 2018-2026)
North America U.S.
Europe UK France
Asia Pacific China India Japan
MEA
Latin America Brazil

Get Full Report Description, TOC, Figure, Chart, etc. @ www.reportsanddata.com/report-…pps-market

Story 9
Driving in Europe could be about to get a bit more complicated (Picture: esp_imaging/Getty Images/E+)
In the event of a no-deal Brexit, driving in Europe could become a lot less straightforward, with extra paperwork potentially required to be legally able to drive in the EU.
Brexit uncertainty is as prevalent as ever, as, following last night’s indicative Brexit vote, still no conclusion seems to have been made as to how the UK is going to leave the EU.
400 MPs voted against a no deal Brexit during last night’s indicative voting with only 160 voting for it, but it is still a possibility if a Withdrawal Agreement isn’t approved by the government.
If the UK were to crash out of the EU without a deal in place, then UK drivers using their own car in the EU, or possibly even driving over the Irish border, could need to prepare extra documentation in advance in the form of a Green Card.
Advertisement
Advertisement
What is a Green Card?
Not to be confused with the American certification of permanent residency, a Green Card for motorists is a certificate of insurance, which gets its name from the colour of the paper it’s printed on.
As it currently stands, UK drivers licence holders who are also living in the UK need an International Driving Permit (IDP) in addition to their UK licence if they want to drive in some non-EU and non-EAA (European Economics Area) countries.
Meanwhile you can currently drive legally with nothing more than a UK driving licence inside all EU and EEA countries.
With the right documentation, all this could be yours (Picture: 123ducu/Getty Images/iStockphoto)
However the government has said: ‘in the event that there is no EU Exit deal and the European Commission does not make a decision ensuring that UK registered vehicles will not be checked for proof of insurance, drivers of UK registered vehicles will need to carry a motor insurance Green Card when driving in the EU and EEA.’
Some countries also require separate insurance for trailers. This means that you may also need a separate Green Card for your trailer.’
How to get a Green Card and an IDP
If the UK drops out of the EU without a deal in place, then it’s possible that you’ll need both a Green Card and an IDP if you want to drive abroad in the EU – which includes the Republic of Ireland.
To get a Green Card, you’ll need to contact your insurance policy provider roughly a month before you plan on traveling in either the EEA or the EU.
Advertisement
Advertisement
A Green Card will be given free of charge, while an IDP will need to be purchased for £5.50.
You can get an IDP from your local Post Office as long as you bring with you:
A passport-sized photo of yourself, signed on the back by you
Your driving licence
A secondary proof of ID, like your passport
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video
What type of IDP do I need? If you’re travelling to the following EU countries, you’ll need a 1968 IDP: Austria Belgium Czech Republic Denmark Estonia Finland France Bulgaria Italy Latvia Croatia Germany Greece Hungary Lithuania Luxembourg Netherlands Slovenia Sweden Norway Poland Portugal Romania Slovakia Meanwhile these EU countries might require a 1949 IDP: Ireland Malta Spain Cyprus Iceland You could also find yourself needing a 1926 IDP if you’re driving through Liechtenstein.
MORE: Brexit supporters got up at 6am to replace EU flags with 34 Union flags
MORE: Pro-Brexit group really regrets holding second referendum poll

Story 10
The "Global Probiotics Market Analysis to 2027" is a specialized and in-depth study of the food and beverages industry with a special focus on the global market trend analysis. The report aims to provide an overview of the probiotics market with detailed market segmentation by ingredient, end use, application, distribution channel, and geography. The report studies essential market players such as BioGaia AB, Chr Hansen Holding A/S, Danone S. A., E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company and Ganeden, Inc
The Probiotics Market to 2027 sheds light on the existing industry landscape and puts forward crucial market drivers and opportunities in the coming years. The Probiotics market is anticipated to witness decent growth in the coming years.
The report offers an extensive pool of market data covering market sizes, revenue forecasts, value chain, product trends, and price trends that serve as a blueprint for businesses.
Request a sample copy of this report @ bit.ly/2JtpZxe
Probiotics are live bacteria that are useful for the digestive system.They are also called as good microorganisms and promote human health when consumed in enough quantities.
Probiotic are useful in preventing and treating inflammatory conditions, such as pouchitis, inflammatory bowel diseases, and chronic stomach inflammation. It also helps in treating constipation, irritable bowel syndrome, acid reflux, spastic colon, and reducing the recurrence of the bladder and colorectal cancer.
Probiotics produce vitamins such as B6, B12, and K2, and aid the absorption of minerals such as iron, calcium, and magnesium. Thus, they are called as new vitamins.
The key factors driving the probiotics market are rising demand from functional food and dietary supplements industry and increasing health consciousness among consumers. Strong scientific evidence for disease treatment and auxiliary health benefits provided including curing intestinal inflammation, urogenital infection and bad gut bacteria treatment should facilitate the probiotics product demand globally.
However, factors such as strict international quality standards and regulations for probiotic products and high research and development costs for developing new probiotic strains act as a threat to probiotic market growth. A ban on the use of antibiotics and growth promoters in Europe lead to high demand for probiotics as an alternative which further provides a developing opportunity for the market players over the forecast period.
The global food and beverage sector has experienced significant growth over the past few years, with robust developments and innovations in the industry. Consumer preferences and demands have drastically changed owing to improved focus on dietary habits and the incorporation of super foods.
On the other hand, processed, ultra-processed, and frozen foods are also witnessing high demand due to modern lifestyles. Besides, manufacturers are now looking at creating differentiated and customized food products, which further escalates the growth of the food & beverage industry.
The Probiotics market is segmented based on Type, Form and Applications. The report features exhaustive PEST analysis for five major regions, North America, Europe, Asia Pacific (APAC), Middle East and Africa (MEA), and South and Central America (S&CAM).
The report covers forecasts of 18 major countries along with existing trends and opportunities within these regions.
Leading companies profiled in the report include:
1. BioGaia AB
2. Chr Hansen Holding A/S
3. Danone S. A.
4. E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company
5. Ganeden, Inc
6. Lifeway Foods, Inc.
7. Nestle S. A
8. Probi AB
9. Protexin
10. Yakult Honsha Co. , Ltd.
The global probiotics market is segmented on the basis of ingredient, end use, application and distribution channel. On the basis of ingredient the global probiotics market is segmented into lactobacilli, bifidobacterium, streptococcus, bacillus, and others.
The probiotics market on the basis of the end use the market is classified into human, and animal. On the basis of application, the probiotics market is classified into functional food & beverages, dietary supplements, and animal feed.
Likewise, by distribution channel the global probiotics market is bifurcated into supermarkets, pharmacies, online, and others.
The report highlights key growth strategies adopted by these players of the Probiotics industry, including details such as financial overview, product/ services offered, notable developments, and SWOT analysis.
The report answers the following key aspects:
Probiotics Market size and growth rate in the forecast period.
Existing market trends.
Factors driving Probiotics market growth.
Future opportunities in the Global Probiotics Market.
Market initiatives by the leading vendors.
PEST analysis across five major regions.
Access Now @ bit.ly/2JtwQHh

Story 11
[141 Pages Report] Oxygen-Free Copper Market is projected to reach USD 18.35 Billion by 2021. Electronics & electrical segment is one of the fastest-growing segment, Cu-OF grade of oxygen-free copper is anticipated to grow at the highest CAGR, Asia-Pacific is the largest market for the oxygen-free copper in 2016
According to the new market research report "Oxygen-Free Copper Market by Grade (Cu-OF, Cu-OFE), Product Form (Wires, Strips, Busbars & Rods), End-Use Industry (Electronics & Electrical, Transportation), Region - Global Forecast to 2021", published by MarketsandMarkets™, the oxygen-free copper market is projected to reach USD 18.35 Billion by 2021, at a CAGR of 4.4% from 2016 to 2021.

Download PDF Brochure @ www.marketsandmarkets.com/pdfdown…=196978298

The increase in demand for oxygen-free copper from the electronics & electrical industry to achieve high conductivity is propelling the growth of this market.

Electronics & electrical segment is one of the fastest-growing segment of the global oxygen-free copper market

The electronics & electrical end-use industry segment is estimated to account for the largest share of the oxygen-free copper market in 2016, and is projected to be the fastest-growing segment from 2016 to 2021. The growth is mainly attributed to the increasing use of electronics products in the Asia-Pacific and North America regions.

Cu-OF grade of oxygen-free copper is anticipated to grow at the highest CAGR from 2016 to 2021

The Cu-OF segment is anticipated to grow at the highest CAGR in the global oxygen-free copper market from 2016 to 2021. Cu-OF is 99.95% pure copper with 0.001% oxygen content.
Its conductivity rating is equivalent to electrolytic tough pitch (ETP) with minimum 100% conductivity. It is used in cutting-edge scientific equipment, such as magnetometers, electromagnets, and other superconductors.
The increase in the use of Cu-OF in electronics & electrical industry in China and India is expected to drive the growth of the Cu-OF segment.

Browse and in-depth TOC on "Oxygen-Free Copper Market"

117 - Tables
41 - Figures
141 - Pages

Don’t miss out on business opportunities in Oxygen-Free Copper Market. Speak to our analyst and gain crucial industry insights that will help your business grow: www.marketsandmarkets.com/speakto…=196978298

Asia-Pacific is the largest market for the oxygen-free copper in 2016

Asia-Pacific is the largest market for oxygen-free copper in 2016. This can be attributed to the increasing demand from the electronics & electrical end-use industry, which accounts for the largest share in the global market.
The growth in the e-commerce leading to a high demand for electronic goods in China and India is also a major growth driver for the oxygen-free copper market.

Key players operational in the market include Citizen Metalloys Limited (India), KGHM Polska MiedŸ S.A. (Poland), Luvata (U.K.), National Bronze & Metals, Inc. (U.S.), Sam Dong America (South Korea), SH Copper Products Co., Ltd. (Japan), Zhejiang Libo Holding Group Co., Ltd. (China), Mitsubishi Materials Corporation (Japan), Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd. (Japan), Watteredge LLC (the U.S.), Freeport-McMoRan Inc. (the U.S.), KME Germany GmbH & Co KG (Germany), Wieland-Werke AG (Germany), Cupori Oy (Finland), and Metrod Holdings Berhad (Malaysia), among others.

Request for New Version of This Report @ www.marketsandmarkets.com/Request…=196978298

Story 12
The Automotive Testing Inspection and Certification (TIC) Market to 2027 highlights the key growth strategies adopted by the leading players of the Automotive Testing Inspection and Certification (TIC) industry in the competitive landscape, including their key developments and profile. The study evaluates current trends and analyses drivers, restraints, and opportunities during the forecast period. The Automotive Testing Inspection and Certification (TIC) Market is anticipated to witness decent growth in the coming years.
Rising pollution levels owing to the unprecedented growth of vehicular population has forced the regulatory authorities to lay down stringent vehicular emission regulations. The emergence of electric vehicles as well as autonomous vehicles has enabled the growth in the automotive sector.
Electric vehicles have helped the automotive OEMs to meet the stringent vehicle emission regulations. The rising vehicular pollution propels the need for testing, inspection and certification of the automobiles for ensuring regulatory compliances.
An enhanced focus on the quality control for automotive manufacturing operations as well as additional safety and testing measures have increased in the recent times.
Get Sample Copy of this Report Click Here: www.theinsightpartners.com/sample/…ce=WHT-SNJ
Leading companies profiled in the report include: DEKRA SE, Applus Services S.A, Bureau Veritas S.A, Element Materials Technology, Eurofins Scientific, Intertek Group PLC, Lloyd's Register Group Limited, Mistras Group, SGS Group, TUV SUD Group.
The report includes details such as financial overview, product/ services offered, notable developments, and SWOT analysis for each of these companies.
Growing demand for enhanced safety and comfort coupled with the need to curb the vehicular pollution levels and the rise in electronic automotive integrations by the automotive sector are anticipated to be the major driving factors for the automotive testing inspection and certification market. Lack of technological awareness would pose a challenge to the growth of the automotive testing inspection and certification market.
Advanced technological integrations coupled with the growing investments by the automotive giants worldwide would provide significant opportunities to the players operating in the automotive testing inspection and certification market.
The automotive and transportation industry is witnessing advancements on a continuous scale. Technological innovations and urbanization are key drivers propelling the growth of this sector.
The development of Automotive Testing Inspection and Certification (TIC) are expected to drive in the market in the future. Automotive Testing Inspection and Certification (TIC) is further likely to prove revolutionary for the automotive and transportation industry.
The global automotive testing inspection and certification market is segmented on the basis of service type, sourcing type, and application. Based on service type, the automotive testing inspection and certification market is segmented into testing, inspection, and certification.
The automotive testing inspection and certification market on the basis of sourcing type is classified into house and outsourced. The automotive testing inspection and certification market on the basis of application is segmented into vehicle inspection services, telematics, electrical systems and components, and others.
The report offers an extensive pool of market data covering market sizes, revenue forecasts, value chain, product trends, and price trends that serve as a blueprint for businesses.
The Automotive Testing Inspection and Certification (TIC) Market is segmented based on a, b, and c. The report provides exhaustive PEST analysis for five major regions, North America, Europe, Asia Pacific (APAC), Middle East and Africa (MEA), and South & Central America (S&CAM).
The report covers forecasts of 18 major countries along with existing trends and opportunities within these regions.
The report acknowledges following key Elements:
Automotive Testing Inspection and Certification (TIC) Market size and growth rate in the forecast period.
Key market trends affecting the Automotive Testing Inspection and Certification (TIC) Market.
Drivers and challenges to market growth.
SWOT analysis of the existing vendors in the Global Automotive Testing Inspection and Certification (TIC) Market.
Market initiatives by the leading vendors.
PEST analysis across five major regions.
Access This Report @ www.theinsightpartners.com/inquiry…ce=WHT-SNJ

Story 13
The report on “Aircraft Electrical System Market” will help Major Players and the new entrants to understand scrutinize the market in detail. This information will encourage the Major Players to decide their business strategy and achieve proposed business aims.
The aircraft electrical system is a self-contained network of components that generate, transmit, distribute, utilize, and store electrical energy. In recent years, the aviation industry has undergone tremendous changes such as no-bleed systems aircraft architecture and development of hybrid and electric propulsion systems.
Moreover, the growing trend towards developing electrical components for optimum performance is expected to boost the aircraft electrical system market. Key industry players are coming up with advanced solutions and offering innovative electrical systems to the aircraft manufacturers.
The aircraft electrical system market is anticipated to grow rapidly in the forecast period owing to growth of the commercial aviation sector and advancements in the electrical systems. Besides, optimized performance resulting from using more electric technology is further propelling the growth of the aircraft electrical system market.
However, power efficiency is a significant challenge faced by the aircraft electrical system market during the forecast period. Meanwhile, lightweight wiring systems and other technological advancements are expected to create symbolic opportunities for market players in the coming years.
View further details about this report www.premiummarketinsights.com/sample/…tech-sohan
Leading Aircraft Electrical System Market Players:
1. Astronics Corporation
2. Avionic Instruments LLC
3. Collins Aerospace
4. Crane Aerospace and Electronics
5. GE Aviation
6. Hartzell Engine Technologies LLC
7. Honeywell International Inc.
8. Meggitt PLC
9. Safran SA
10. Thales SA
The exclusive report on Aircraft Electrical System Market research report has been formulated with the help of extensive primary research (inputs from industry experts, companies, and stakeholders) and secondary research to get a universal view of the market. The report gives in-detailed information across global regions, including North America, Europe, Asia Pacific (APAC), Middle East & Africa (MEA), and South America & Central America (SCAM).
We follow an iterative research methodology model to formulate the report that helps decision-makers take sound investment evaluation. Secondary research is carried out using internal and external sources to obtain qualitative and quantitative information of the market backed by the primary interview of KOLs and SME’s.
This model negates any drastic deviation in the market estimation and is used to estimate the Aircraft Electrical System Market size and forecasts until 2027.
The Aircraft Electrical System Market report gives a 360-degree holistic view of the market and highlights the key developments, drivers, restraints and future trends with impact analysis of these trends on the market for short-term, mid-term and long-term during the forecast period. In addition, the report also provides profiles of major companies along with detailed SWOT analysis, financial facts and key developments of products/service from the past three years.
Aircraft Electrical System Market to 2027 – Global Analysis and forecast is a specialized and in-depth study of the Aircraft Electrical System industry with a focus on the global market trend. The report provides an overview of global Aircraft Electrical System Market with detailed market segmentation by product/application and regions.
The global Aircraft Electrical System Market is expected to witness high growth during the forecast period. The report provides key statistics on the market status of the key players and offers key trends and opportunities in the market.
The Aircraft Electrical System Market report provides a detailed overview of the industry including both qualitative and quantitative information. It provides an overview and forecast of the global Aircraft Electrical System Market based on product and application.
It also provides market size and forecast till 2027 for overall Aircraft Electrical System Market with respect to five major regions, namely; North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific (APAC), Middle East and Africa (MEA) and South America and Central America (SCAM), which is later sub-segmented by respective countries and segments. The report evaluates market dynamics affecting the market during the forecast period i.e., drivers, restraints, opportunities, and future trend and provides exhaustive PEST analysis for all five regions.
Access this report at www.premiummarketinsights.com/buy/TIP…tech-sohan
Also, key Aircraft Electrical System Market players influencing the market are profiled in the study along with their SWOT analysis and market strategies. The report also focuses on leading industry players with information such as company profiles, products, and services offered, financial information of the last 3 years, key development in past five years.
Reason to access
– Save and reduce time carrying out entry-level research by identifying the growth, size, leading players and segments in the global Aircraft Electrical System Market
– Highlights key business priorities in order to assist companies to realign their business strategies.
– The key findings and recommendations highlight crucial progressive industry trends in the Aircraft Electrical System Market, thereby allowing players to develop effective long term strategies.
– Develop/modify business expansion plans by using substantial growth offering developed and emerging markets.
– Scrutinize in-depth global market trends and outlook coupled with the factors driving the market, as well as those hindering it.
– Enhance the decision-making process by understanding the strategies that underpin commercial interest with respect to products, segmentation, and industry verticals.

Story 14
The global BPO Market 2027 by The Insight Partners introduces you to the minute details of the BPO industry shedding light on the ongoing market trends. The report is aimed at providing a comprehensive view of the global BPO market with detailed segmentation by product/application and geography. The global BPO market is likely to witness robust growth during the forecast period.
The BPO or business process outsourcing involves the outsourcing of various business processes of organizations such as accounting, finance, customer care, and other non-core services. BPO enables organizations to carry out their core business activities effectively.
BPO service providers today are incorporating advanced technologies such as artificial intelligence and analytics to enhance their offerings.

Get Sample Copy of this Report @ www.theinsightpartners.com/sample/…RE00006794
The BPO market is anticipated to grow in the forecast period owing to driving factors such as the advent of AI and analytics-based BPO services and increased competition among the enterprises.
Also, outsourcing helps to reduce capital and operational expenditure, thereby, fueling market growth. However, several large and small companies are considering outsourcing their non-core processes, which is expected to create significant opportunities for the key players of the BPO market in the coming years.
Top Leading Key Players profiles in this Report includes, Alorica Inc., Atento S.A., Capita PLC, Comdata Group, Concentrix (SYNNEX Corporation), Genpact Ltd, Sitel Group, Sykes Enterprises, Incorporated, Teleperformance SE, Webhelp (Groep Brussel Lambert NV).
The reports cover key developments in the BPO market as organic and inorganic growth strategies. Various companies are focusing on organic growth strategies such as product launches, product approvals and others such as patents and events.
Inorganic growth strategies activities witnessed in the market were acquisitions, and partnership & collaborations. These activities have paved the way for the expansion of business and customer base of market players.
The market players from BPO market are anticipated to lucrative growth opportunities in the future with the rising demand for BPO in the global market.
The global BPO market is segmented on the basis of services offered and industry vertical. Based on services offered, the market is segmented as human resources, procurement & supply chain, knowledge process outsourcing, finance & accounting, customer services, and others.
On the basis of the industry vertical, the market is segmented as BFSI, IT & telecommunications, retail, healthcare, manufacturing, and others.
Access Copy of this Report @ www.theinsightpartners.com/buy/TIP…794/?wt-jd
Reasons to read
- Save and reduce time on entry-level research by identifying the growth, size, leading players and segments in the global BPO Market
- Highlighted key business priorities aim to assist companies in realigning their business strategies through optimal decisions.
- The key findings and recommendations shed light on progressive industry trends in the BPO Market, allowing players to develop effective long term strategies.
- Develop/modify business expansion plans by observing growth prospects in the developed as well as emerging markets.
- Scrutinize in-depth global market trends and outlook combined with the driving and restraining factors active in the market.
- Enhance the decision-making process through strategies involving commercial interest for products, segmentation, and industry verticals.

Story 15
A cappucino coffee (credit: Takeaway / Wikimedia Commons), https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?curid=26758175
The What Works Centre for Children’s Social Care has caused a stir on social media after posting details of a new study exploring whether “access to free, high-quality tea and coffee” reduces social worker sickness rates.
The randomised control trial, added to the What Works Centre’s site last week, will see coffee machines installed in the kitchens of buildings accommodating social workers, in numbers large enough to ensure easy access for staff.
“A laminated note will be attached to the side of the coffee machines, addressed to the social worker teams in the building, explaining that it is a token of thanks for the ‘compassion, integrity and dedication they display in their service to the children and families in the region,” the project documentation said.
It added that the experiment was designed to help social workers feel valued, and increase their sense of belonging, motivation and positive feelings towards their employer.
‘Boosting staff wellbeing’
Many studies have highlighted the high levels of stress and burnout social workers experience, especially in children’s services, where annual turnover was 15.2% across English local authorities in 2017-18.
“Research suggests non-cash rewards which emphasise recognition for employees’ efforts can produce disproportionately large effects given the monetary cost, and therefore might be effective in boosting staff wellbeing,” the What Works Centre’s project documents said.
The trial will take place over six months to July 2020 at Kent and Sandwell councils, with all practitioners at or below the level of team manager given daily access to a choice of tea or coffee.
Only certain buildings housing social workers will be included, in order to test the impact of the free beverages without sparking office warfare.
“Randomising at the building level was designed to mitigate the potential negative spillover effects in the social workers who did not have access to the coffee machines,” the project documents said. “[It] also recognises the practical challenge of stopping participants in the control group from using a coffee machine installed in their building.”
The documents acknowledged that the initial two-council study size was likely to be “underpowered” but said more authorities could be added depending on initial results.
‘Absolutely unbelievable’
The latest project from the What Works Centre, which has been established to build an evidence base that informs best practice, predictably caught the attention of the social work community on Twitter.
Lisa Morriss, editor of the Qualitative Social Work journal, questioned whether the project was a spoof, adding that it was “unbelievable” and professing herself speechless.
It is absolutely unbelievable. — Dr Lisa Morriss (@MorrissLisa) July 1, 2019
Mark Baldwin, of the Social Work Action Network, criticised the study for its “stupidity and wastefulness”.
This ranks with the million $ research project looking at why people try and escape from prison for stupidity and wastefulness. — Mark Baldwin (@markswan52) July 2, 2019
Meanwhile Surviving Safeguarding, a social work trainer and mother who has gone through care proceedings, suggested the money being spent on the trial could be better spent reopening Sure Start centres.
Hi @whatworksCSC – instead of providing tea and coffee for paid employees, is there any chance you might fancy redirecting the money towards reopening SureStart centres for families in poverty who are struggling?https://t.co/WndZF1EbVH — SafeguardingSurvivor (@survivecourt) July 2, 2019
“I’m one of the biggest advocates for self-care and wellbeing in social work there is, but this is ludicrous when families are on the bones of their arses,” she added. “The majority of the social workers I work with just want more time to build relationships with families and young people.”
Former social worker Tracey Wright echoed this perspective, calling this experiment “patronising”.
It's absolutely patronising. We need more staff, less paperwork and much less arse covering processes. Give us the time to build relationships and provide actual support. Maybe even throw in some positive reinforcement and appreciation in supervision @whatworksCSC — Tracey (@traceycjwright) July 2, 2019
‘Human right’
But Dez Holmes, director at Research in Practice, who described herself as a “three-cafetieres-a-day-woman”, disagreed, saying decent coffee should be a “human right” and that the study should not be seen in isolation.
Yeah, I see they’re getting a bit of stick for it… I guess people think it sounds frivolous? Not totally fair imo; they are also doing studies on supervision etc which will be really insightful.
Personally, I think decent coffee (much like FGCs) should be a human right!
☕️ — Dez Holmes (@dez_holmes) July 2, 2019
Michael Sanders, the executive director at the What Works Centre, said the study was one of a number of small projects around supporting social workers in the workplace being run by the centre under the title of Healthier Happier Professionals, and that it was based on consultation with 20 local authorities.
Hi K, I definitely don’t think that’s all that’s needed! This idea (and a bunch of other things that we’re doing in this space as @dez_holmes says), came out of consultation with 20LAs inc lots of SWs. Might not work but we’re trying to do something +ve with what we’ve got. — Michael Sanders (@mike_t_sanders) July 2, 2019
A What Works Centre spokesperson told Community Care the organisation was still in the early stages of setting up the study and that no coffee machines had yet been purchased.
“As we are still recruiting local authority participants we are unable to give a definite expected [project] cost, as it will depend on the number of participants, building layout and so on,” the spokesperson said. “However, we are anticipating a cost of £150-200 per team of participants over the course of six months. We expect to spend approximately £5,000, but this will depend on the number of participating teams.”
This year’s Community Care Live 2019 boasts over 30 free learning sessions to equip you to face the key challenges in social work practice today. You can also sign up to any of our eight legal learning sessions to help ensure you have the legal literacy your role requires. Register now to ensure you don’t miss out.

Story 16
New Market Research Reports Title” Mobile Bending Machine Market Analysis Size and Segment Forecasts, 2018-2025” Has Been Added to Supply Demand Market Research Report database.
Suuply Demand Market Research has actively included a new research study titled Mobile Bending Machine Market Insights, Forecast to 2025 to its wide online repository. The concerned market is discoursed based on a variety of market influential factors such as drivers, opportunities and restraints.
This study tends to inform the readers about the current as well as future market scenarios extending up to the period until the forecast period limit; 2025. In addition, a deep analysis of the competitive landscape, including prime market players is also enclosed in this report.
Global Mobile Bending Machine Market Report focuses on the international market. It offers a foundational overview of the market including its definition, applications, and technology of manufacturing.
The research explores in detail the major players on the global market Size, Share, Trends, Business Strategy and Top Countries. The research paper provides the complete expertise of methods, processes, cost structures and future growth for augmentation
Mobile Bending Machine Market Exploring by Top Key Participants, SWOT Analysis, Type, Applications, and Industry Professional Survey Report, Forecast to 2025
Download a FREE Sample Copy of Report at www.supplydemandmarketresearch.com/home/co…MRMA708601
The study provides detail insights about the industry that comprise Weakness, Strength, Threats, Opportunities analysis, supply and value chain analysis, Market Trends, Opportunities, and the factor that drives and hamper the growth of the market during the forecast period. Also, the study provides an in-depth analysis of the various segments of the market.
Global Mobile Bending Machine Market Competition By Top Manufacturers/Players Analysis
Addition Manufacturing Technologies Eaton Leonard, AKYAPAK MAKINA SAN TIC, AMOB Maquinas Ferramentas SA, Baltic Machine-building Company, Carell Corporation, COMAC, Gensco Equipment, GREENLEE, King-Mazon, MABI, MACKMA SRL, and Mewag Maschinenfabrik AG
Mobile Bending Machine Market by Geography
North America
Europe
Asia-Pacific
South America
Middle East & Africa
Mobile Bending Machine Market by Type
Hydraulic
Electric
Manual
Pneumatic
Others
Access Report at www.supplydemandmarketresearch.com/home/co…MRMA708601
Mobile Bending Machine Market by Applications
Metal Plate
Metal Tube
Cable
Conductor
Others
If you have any special requirements, please let us know and we will offer you the report as you want.
Report Highlights
Global Mobile Bending Machine Market Sizes from 2017 to 2025 Market growth projections through 2025 and the resultant market forecast for 2025 Impact of the market dynamics including market drivers, restraints and opportunities in the market size Key industry trends, product trends, and application trends Major driving/ leading segmentations, regions and countries in the Global Mobile Bending Machine Market Competitive analysis with comprehensive company profiles of the leading industry players In-depth analysis on growth and expansion strategies adopted by market players and their resulting effect on market growth and competition How this report will add value to your organisation This report provides the in-depth analysis of the complete value chain from the raw material suppliers to the end users.

Story 17
South Africa will give ailing state-owned power utility Eskom an additional R59 billion spread over two years, according to a copy of a special appropriations bill seen by Bloomberg.
Eskom will get R26 billion of the money this financial year and R33 billion in 2020-21.
Key Insights
President Cyril Ramaphosa announced plans for additional funding for the struggling company last month, without providing details.
Finance Minister Tito Mboweni was due to announce the proposal tomorrow.
The funds will come from the Revenue Fund, according to the bill.
The government had already approved a R69 billion, three-year bailout for the debt-laden company in February. Eskom has debt of R440 billion and is regarded as the biggest risk to South Africa’s economy.
The government has been under pressure to finalise plans to fix the business. A spokesperson for National Treasury wasn't immediately able to comment.

Story 18
The "Global Food flavors Market Analysis to 2027" is a specialized and in-depth study of the food and beverages industry with a special focus on the global market trend analysis. The report aims to provide an overview of the food flavors market with detailed market segmentation by type, end user and geography.
The Food Flavors Market to 2027 sheds light on the existing industry landscape and puts forward crucial market drivers and opportunities in the coming years. The Food Flavors market is anticipated to witness decent growth in the coming years.
The report offers an extensive pool of market data covering market sizes, revenue forecasts, value chain, product trends, and price trends that serve as a blueprint for businesses.
Request a sample copy of this report @ bit.ly/31Yfg4v
Food flavors are the components added to foods in order to impart taste and smell.
These food flavors are used in small amounts and are not intended to be consumed alone. Food flavor can be broadly classified into natural and artificial.
Natural flavors are derived from herbs, spices and substances having an exclusively sweet, sour or salty taste. Likewise, artificial food flavors are produced by fractional distillation and additional chemical manipulation naturally sourced chemicals.
Manufacturers plan to develop new & innovative formulations such as natural food flavors removed from exotic fruits. Furthermore, market players have introduced new & advanced technologies such as solid-liquid extraction (SLE), supercritical carbon dioxide extraction, supercritical fluid extraction and others, for easy extraction and to retain the original flavor.
Growth of the food flavors market is driven by a transformed lifestyle of customers, higher demand for processed food and expansion of the global beverage industry. A surge in demand for ready-to-eat and canned foods majorly drives the industry across the globe.
Furthermore, other factors such as innovation of technologies, introduction of new flavors and heavy inflow of investment in R&D activities, boost the market growth. Nevertheless, the cost of raw material and high entry barriers on manufacturers hampers market growth.
Moreover, emerging markets and increasing spending power of the consumers provides a promising opportunity for the market players in the near future.
The global food and beverage sector has experienced significant growth over the past few years, with robust developments and innovations in the industry. Consumer preferences and demands have drastically changed owing to improved focus on dietary habits and the incorporation of super foods.
On the other hand, processed, ultra-processed, and frozen foods are also witnessing high demand due to modern lifestyles. Besides, manufacturers are now looking at creating differentiated and customized food products, which further escalates the growth of the food & beverage industry.
The Food Flavors market is segmented based on Type, Form and Applications. The report features exhaustive PEST analysis for five major regions, North America, Europe, Asia Pacific (APAC), Middle East and Africa (MEA), and South and Central America (S&CAM).
The report covers forecasts of 18 major countries along with existing trends and opportunities within these regions.
Leading companies profiled in the report include:
1. Firmenich SA
2. Frutarom
3. Givaudan
4. International Flavors and Fragrances Inc.
5. Mane
6. ROBERTET SA
7. Sensient Colors LLC
8. Symrise
9. T.HASEGAWA CO., LTD.
10. Takasago International Corporation
The global food flavors market is segmented on the basis of type and end user. On the basis of type, the global food flavors market is segmented into natural flavors and artificial flavors.
On the basis of the end user, the food flavors market is classified into beverages, dairy & frozen products, bakery & confectionery, savory & snacks, animal & pet food and others.
The report highlights key growth strategies adopted by these players of the Food Flavors industry, including details such as financial overview, product/ services offered, notable developments, and SWOT analysis.
The report answers the following key aspects:
Food Flavors Market size and growth rate in the forecast period.
Existing market trends.
Factors driving Food Flavors market growth.
Future opportunities in the Global Food Flavors Market.
Market initiatives by the leading vendors.
Pest analysis across five major regions.
Enquire Now @ bit.ly/2otN7Vb

Story 19
What term do you want to search? Search with google

Story 20
The report on “Flexible Packaging Solutions Market” will help Major Players and the new entrants to understand scrutinize the market in detail. This information will encourage the Major Players to decide their business strategy and achieve proposed business aims.
The flexible packaging solutions are used to reduce the beverage and product waste and also permits the online brands to strengthen their packaging to improve the e-commerce experience. The rising Cost-effectiveness as well as improved product shelf-life is boosting the flexible packaging solutions market across the world.
Additionally, the characteristics of flexible packaging materials such as aroma retention, barrier against moisture, sealing & heating insulation, and strength are the major factors bolstering the growth of flexible packaging solutions market.
The continuous enhancement in the global manufacturing activities, as well as the growing demand of downsizing of packaging, are the major drivers for the growth of flexible packaging solutions market.
The substantial growth in demand for sustainable packaging solutions and rising substitution of traditional packaging is creating opportunities for the flexible packaging solutions market in the coming years.
View further details about this report www.premiummarketinsights.com/sample/…tech-sohan
Leading Flexible Packaging Solutions Market Players:
1. Amcor Limited
2. Bemis Company, Inc.
3. Berry Plastics Group, Inc.
4. CLONDALKIN GROUP
5. Constantia Flexibles Group GmbH
6. Coveris Holdings S.A.
7. Huhtam?ki OYJ
8. Mondi Group
9. Sealed Air Corporation
10. Sonoco Products Company
The exclusive report on Flexible Packaging Solutions Market research report has been formulated with the help of extensive primary research (inputs from industry experts, companies, and stakeholders) and secondary research to get a universal view of the market. The report gives in-detailed information across global regions, including North America, Europe, Asia Pacific (APAC), Middle East & Africa (MEA), and South America & Central America (SCAM).
We follow an iterative research methodology model to formulate the report that helps decision-makers take sound investment evaluation. Secondary research is carried out using internal and external sources to obtain qualitative and quantitative information of the market backed by the primary interview of KOLs and SME’s.
This model negates any drastic deviation in the market estimation and is used to estimate the Flexible Packaging Solutions Market size and forecasts until 2027.
The Flexible Packaging Solutions Market report gives a 360-degree holistic view of the market and highlights the key developments, drivers, restraints and future trends with impact analysis of these trends on the market for short-term, mid-term and long-term during the forecast period. In addition, the report also provides profiles of major companies along with detailed SWOT analysis, financial facts and key developments of products/service from the past three years.
Flexible Packaging Solutions Market to 2027 – Global Analysis and forecast is a specialized and in-depth study of the Flexible Packaging Solutions industry with a focus on the global market trend. The report provides an overview of global Flexible Packaging Solutions Market with detailed market segmentation by product/application and regions.
The global Flexible Packaging Solutions Market is expected to witness high growth during the forecast period. The report provides key statistics on the market status of the key players and offers key trends and opportunities in the market.
The Flexible Packaging Solutions Market report provides a detailed overview of the industry including both qualitative and quantitative information. It provides an overview and forecast of the global Flexible Packaging Solutions Market based on product and application.
It also provides market size and forecast till 2027 for overall Flexible Packaging Solutions Market with respect to five major regions, namely; North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific (APAC), Middle East and Africa (MEA) and South America and Central America (SCAM), which is later sub-segmented by respective countries and segments. The report evaluates market dynamics affecting the market during the forecast period i.e., drivers, restraints, opportunities, and future trend and provides exhaustive PEST analysis for all five regions.
Access this report at www.premiummarketinsights.com/buy/TIP…tech-sohan
Also, key Flexible Packaging Solutions Market players influencing the market are profiled in the study along with their SWOT analysis and market strategies. The report also focuses on leading industry players with information such as company profiles, products, and services offered, financial information of the last 3 years, key development in past five years.
Reason to access
– Save and reduce time carrying out entry-level research by identifying the growth, size, leading players and segments in the global Flexible Packaging Solutions Market
– Highlights key business priorities in order to assist companies to realign their business strategies.
– The key findings and recommendations highlight crucial progressive industry trends in the Flexible Packaging Solutions Market, thereby allowing players to develop effective long term strategies.
– Develop/modify business expansion plans by using substantial growth offering developed and emerging markets.
– Scrutinize in-depth global market trends and outlook coupled with the factors driving the market, as well as those hindering it.
– Enhance the decision-making process by understanding the strategies that underpin commercial interest with respect to products, segmentation, and industry verticals.

Story 21
Not Acceptable!
An appropriate representation of the requested resource could not be found on this server. This error was generated by Mod_Security.

Story 22
STEM is a curriculum based on the idea of educating students in four specific disciplines — science, technology, engineering and mathematics — in an interdisciplinary and applied approach. Rather than teach the four disciplines as separate and discrete subjects, STEM integrates them into a cohesive learning paradigm based on real-world applications.
Though the United States has historically been a leader in these fields, fewer students have been focusing on these topics recently. According to the U.S. Department of Education, only 16 percent of high school students are interested in a STEM career and have proven a proficiency in mathematics. Currently, nearly 28 percent of high school freshmen declare an interest in a STEM-related field, a department website says, but 57 percent of these students will lose interest by the time they graduate from high school.
As a result, the Obama administration announced the 2009 "Educate to Innovate" campaign to motivate and inspire students to excel in STEM subjects. This campaign also addresses the inadequate number of teachers skilled to educate in these subjects. The goal is to get American students from the middle of the pack in science and math to the top of the pack in the international arena.
Thirteen agencies are partners in the Committee on Stem Education (CoSTEM), including mission science agencies and the U.S. Department of Education. CoSTEM is working to create a joint national strategy to invest federal funds in K-12 STEM education, increasing public and youth STEM engagement, improving the STEM experience for undergraduates, reaching demographics underrepresented in STEM fields, and designing better graduate education for the STEM workforce. The Department of Education now offers a number of STEM-based programs, including research programs with a STEM emphasis, STEM grant selection programs and general programs that support STEM education.
The Obama administration's 2014 budget invests $3.1 billion in federal programs on STEM education, with an increase of 6.7 percent over 2012. The investments will be made to recruit and support STEM teachers, as well as support STEM-focused high schools with STEM Innovation Networks. The budget also invests into advanced research projects for education, to better understand next-generation learning technologies.
The importance of STEM education
All of this effort is to meet a need. According to a report by the website STEMconnector.org, by 2018, projections estimate the need for 8.65 million workers in STEM-related jobs. The manufacturing sector faces an alarmingly large shortage of employees with the necessary skills — nearly 600,000. The field of cloud computing alone will have created 1.7 million jobs between 2011 and 2015, according to the report. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics projects that by 2018, the bulk of STEM careers will be:
Computing – 71 percent
Traditional Engineering – 16 percent
Physical sciences – 7 percent
Life sciences – 4 percent
Mathematics – 2 percent
STEM jobs do not all require higher education or even a college degree. Less than half of entry-level STEM jobs require a bachelor's degree or higher. However, a four-year degree is incredibly helpful with salary — the average advertised starting salary for entry-level STEM jobs with a bachelor's requirement was 26 percent higher than jobs in the non-STEM fields, according to the STEMconnect report. For every job posting for a bachelor's degree recipient in a non-STEM field, there were 2.5 entry-level job postings for a bachelor's degree recipient in a STEM field.
This is not a problem unique to the United States. In the United Kingdom, the Royal Academy of Engineering reports that the Brits will have to graduate 100,000 STEM majors every year until 2020 just to meet demand. According to the report, Germany has a shortage of 210,000 workers in the mathematics, computer science, natural science and technology disciplines.
Blended learning
What separates STEM from the traditional science and math education is the blended learning environment and showing students how the scientific method can be applied to everyday life. It teaches students computational thinking and focuses on the real world applications of problem solving. As mentioned before, STEM education begins while students are very young:
Elementary school — STEM education focuses on the introductory level STEM courses, as well as awareness of the STEM fields and occupations. This initial step provides standards-based structured inquiry-based and real world problem-based learning, connecting all four of the STEM subjects. The goal is to pique students' interest into them wanting to pursue the courses, not because they have to. There is also an emphasis placed on bridging in-school and out-of-school STEM learning opportunities.
— STEM education focuses on the introductory level STEM courses, as well as awareness of the STEM fields and occupations. This initial step provides standards-based structured inquiry-based and real world problem-based learning, connecting all four of the STEM subjects. The goal is to pique students' interest into them wanting to pursue the courses, not because they have to. There is also an emphasis placed on bridging in-school and out-of-school STEM learning opportunities. Middle school — At this stage, the courses become more rigorous and challenging. Student awareness of STEM fields and occupations is still pursued, as well as the academic requirements of such fields. Student exploration of STEM related careers begins at this level, particularly for underrepresented populations.
— At this stage, the courses become more rigorous and challenging. Student awareness of STEM fields and occupations is still pursued, as well as the academic requirements of such fields. Student exploration of STEM related careers begins at this level, particularly for underrepresented populations. High school — The program of study focuses on the application of the subjects in a challenging and rigorous manner. Courses and pathways are now available in STEM fields and occupations, as well as preparation for post-secondary education and employment. More emphasis is placed on bridging in-school and out-of-school STEM opportunities.
Much of the STEM curriculum is aimed toward attracting underrepresented populations. Female students, for example, are significantly less likely to pursue a college major or career. Though this is nothing new, the gap is increasing at a significant rate. Male students are also more likely to pursue engineering and technology fields, while female students prefer science fields, like biology, chemistry, and marine biology. Overall, male students are three times more likely to be interested in pursuing a STEM career, the STEMconnect report said.
Ethnically, Asian students have historically displayed the highest level of interest in the STEM fields. Prior to 2001, students of an African-American background also showed high levels of interest in STEM fields, second only to the Asian demographic. However, since then, African-American interest in STEM has dropped dramatically to lower than any other ethnicity. Other ethnicities with high STEM interest include American Indian students.

Story 23
Why did this happen?
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Story 24
Well, good afternoon/evening/morning/day everyone! Today we’re going to talk about Japanese greetings and what they really mean.
Just as in English, “Konnichiwa” or “Good day” is a greeting that is technically an idiom with a complex and near-forgotten past. Just as English language greetings tend to stem from bastardizations of foreign loan words and/or full sentences that have been gradually shortened over the years, “konnichiwa” is actually a shortened version of a full and meaningful greeting, because, if anything, human beings are a lazy sort with a bad habit of cutting corners whenever possible.
“Konnichiwa,” back in the day, was actually the beginning of a sentence that went, “konnichi wa gokiken ikaga desu ka?,” or “How are you feeling today?” (今日はご機嫌いかがですか？）
Building on that, it’s easy to see that the traditional Japanese greeting in the evening, “Konbanwa“ is basically the same thing, but with “this evening” substituted for “today” (今晩はご機嫌いかがですか？）.
When it comes to mornings, we deviate slightly with “ohayou” or “ohayou gozaimasu“ depending on how much you respect the recipient of the greeting (when it comes to my editor, he gets nothing but a curt, “ossu.”), which is spelled in Japanese, “お早う,” or, literally, “It’s early!” Again, humans being the lazy things we are, we can’t be bothered doing anything more than exclaiming about the ungodly hour every morning, so this is understandable.
There’s even more word origin fun to be had with Japanese greetings/idioms:
“Arigatou” or “Thank you” is spelled something like this in Japanese: 有難う, which, taken literally, means, “It’s hard that this exists.” In other words, you’re expressing gratitude for someone doing something difficult or going out of their way for you.
“Gochisousama,” the traditional phrase uttered after a fulfilling meal, and spelled “ご馳走様,” in Japanese literally means, “You ran around!” It sounds weird to an English speaker, of course, but it’s meant to recall a hard-working chef hustling to and fro to prepare a meal.
“Itadakimasu,” the phrase one is supposed to say just before tucking into a meal, on the other hand, is spelled “頂きます,” or literally, “I take!” While it sounds a little blunt and self-serving in English, it’s not hard to understand that this honorific phrase is used to express gratitude to the chef or host.
“Otsukaresama” is a greeting you’ll hear a lot around Japanese offices, schools and any other place where people work hard. The Japanese, “お疲れ様,” literally meaning, “You look tired!” The 様 part, which appears in a lot of these greetings/idioms, is hard to explain in English, but it stems from the Japanese の様 (“no yo,” or, “as if”), which denotes an observation on the part of the speaker.
“Omedetou,” (“Congratulations!”) is a more complicated animal, and even after some research and asking Japanese friends, we still aren’t entirely sure of this word’s origins. But, it appears that it stems from the verb, “mederu” （愛でる）, “to treat importantly,” combined with “itashi” (甚し), “very.” In other words, you are acknowledging to someone that their accomplishment is “very important” to you. Note that the current kanji characters used for this, “お目出度い,” are actually what is referred to as “ateji” or kanji characters assigned to fit the sound of the word, rather than the other way around, and have nothing to do with the word’s meaning/origin.
Bonus tip! Being the incredibly handsome/gorgeous bilingual journalists we are, RocketNews24 writers feel for the common Japanese language learner. While Japanese grammar can seem perplexing at first, it’s actually quite intuitive. Take, for example, the verb modifier, “miru,” as in “shite miru,” or, “I will try.” When you look at the origin of this modifier, “して見る,” you see that it literally means, “I will do it, and see.” So, if you were to say something like, “歌ってみる,” at your next office karaoke session, you’re literally saying, “I will sing this song, and see [how it goes].” In our case, it will always go poorly.
If you’re looking for more Japanese language primers, you can check out Rachel, who inspired this article, on YouTube:
Feature photo: Wikimedia Commons, Inset 1, Inset 2, Inset 3

Story 25
Air France launched a "boutique" airline last summer targeted at a slightly younger clientele (18 to 35) — and "Joon" certainly has a number of millennial-friendly perks, including its selection of booze.
Passengers can enjoy organic food and drinks, high quality alcoholic beverages — including signature cocktails designed by Paris' Experimental Cocktail Club and craft beer — as well as a comprehensive digital entertainment offering.
It's supposedly a chilled affair on-board, too. Joon's cabin crew wear more relaxed, modern uniforms than traditional airlines, and can even opt to wear trainers.
Air France previously said that it doesn't consider Joon to be a low-cost carrier, but a lifestyle-centric brand focused on design and digital technology.
Still, its price point looks pretty reasonable — flights to European destinations departing from Paris cost start at €49 each way, while long-haul flights start from €149 each way, excluding checked baggage.
Scroll down for a look at what it's like to fly on Joon, the new airline for millennials.

Story 26
The greatest mistake I have made so far in my academic life was to confuse democracy and republic. Since I read “Failed states: the abuse of power and the assault of democracy” by Noam Chomsky, I started to develop a feeling that South Africa is easily confused, or should I say, it is misusing “democracy” and “republic”. I often come across people in South Africa expressing their feelings by saying “South Africa’s transition from apartheid to democracy remains one of the most impressive transitions in the history of our country” some would say “Democratic South Africa is a miracle story that almost did not happen”.
I want to be clear on this statement: South Africa is not a democratic state, it has never been a democratic state and it is not a republic state either. It is time our politicians shed some light and educate the masses about the true meaning of the two forms of government I have mentioned above.
Democracy is a word that I always say or use without smiling. I attempt not to use the word “democracy” more often, but it is impossible to do that. Democracy to me is a dream that I will never give up on because I have never seen or experienced the true meaning of the word. I am hungry for democracy. “People are always teaching us democracy but the people who teach us democracy don’t want to learn it themselves”-Vladimir Putin. If there is democracy in South Africa, I guess it is an idea that we have never seen before, perhaps it is still hiding and it will come out later however 20 years of waiting is like complementing torture.
Let me share my knowledge and understanding of what are democracy and republic. Democracy in its simplest form is the government of the people, by the people for the people. “Democracy refers to social levelling or the collapse of legally maintained class hierarchies. At other times, it refers to self government or the institution guaranteeing that rulers remain responsible to electoral majority” (Stephen Holmes). Democracy is all about representing the will of the majority. If there was democracy in South Africa, the poor would have more power than the rich because there are more poor people in South Africa and the will of the majority would be supreme. If democracy’s definition was, getting votes from the poor and getting campaign funds from the rich, by promising to protect each from the other, I would believe that South Africa is a democratic country.
Democracy is something that South Africa is avoiding to have. As I use Karl Marx’s class analysis, the Politicians of the majority ruling party are the owners of the means of production and the majority people are the means of production in South Africa. Why is that the case? The politicians of the majority party form part of the ruling class and this enables them to be in a position to exploit the rest of the society. We cannot continue to consider South Africa a democratic state while it has leaders who fail to take actions and decisions that serve the interests of all people. The leaders of the majority ruling party have weak interests especially in regard to the interest of the poor and marginalised people.
I often hear the word democracy being used by majority party (ANC) whenever they address the masses. The reason why they always use democracy is because they want to achieve one-sided advantage in accessing the levers of power. When you are power hungry, you will always use the word democracy even when you don’t know its true meaning. I once listened to an interview of the former United States of America (USA) president, Bill Clinton, stating how USA helped South Africa to attain democracy. I was confused by his statements because the last time I checked the founding fathers of USA hated democracy to the extreme. I will quote 3 founders of USA. “Remember, democracy never lasts long. It soon wastes, exhausts, and murder itself”-John Adam; “Democracy is two wolves and a lamb voting on what to have for lunch”-Benjamin Franklin; “The best argument against democracy is five-minute conversation with the average voter”-Winston Churchill. I guess when USA formed coalition with the ANC to end apartheid; ANC leaders were not familiar with these quotes.
Western countries like USA can do everything for democracy including stealing, lying etc. To Western countries, democracy is a luxury that an African country can’t afford to possess. During apartheid, the USA did not care about democracy in South Africa; they did not care how South Africans were governed or how many people were dying; they did not care about human rights or peace in South Africa; they only cared about their national interest of exploiting South African natural resources and bringing American companies to operate in our country. In a nutshell, South Africa starved its own people to feed the western countries and there is nothing democratic about that. If the ANC had competent leaders, we would be telling a different story. The ANC excels in producing weak, too greedy and aggressive leaders. For example, all people who are corrupt the ANC does not punish them, instead it rewards them with higher positions in the government to squander and embezzle public money. Is that democracy?
The only democratic element we adopted is the multi party system, but it is now becoming a problem as it is dominated by one political party. The ANC dominates the political landscape and it faces little prospects of electoral defeat. One party domination in Africa give rise to the possibility of declining government response to public opinion; loss of accountability; the overall erosion of democracy principles and development of authoritarian methods of rule (Adar, Hamdok and Rukambe, 2008:96-97). My advice to the South African government is that “With public sentiment, nothing can fail; without it, nothing can succeed”. Since the ANC dominates the multi party system ostensibly over a prolonged period of time and this party is guaranteed to win every election, competitiveness is unable to play its pressure to deliver.
South Africa is not a republic country, it was a republic some few years ago. A republican government is a system of rule in which the citizens of a nation have the power to govern themselves. In a republican system, the citizens give power to leaders that they have selected to serve their interests. These leaders then work to promote the common good for the people or community as a whole. I was not born by the time South Africa became a republic country in 1910 however I have read the history of South Africa and I have learnt from it, so I refuse its mistakes. The idea to constitute South Africa as a republic was to unite white South African people, both Afrikaans and English speaking. When the referendum was held on 5 October 1910, most whites favored a republic. Throughout the referendum, blacks, coloreds and Indians were not allowed to vote. Why? It is because the government of South Africa in 1910 was only serving the interests of the whites only. In a republic, people have no obligation to the government; instead, the government being hired by the people, is obliged to its owner, the people. So if we still call South Africa a republic country, does the current government serve the interest of the black people now? Or is the current government serving the interests of all people living in South Africa?
Between 1910 and 1994, 31st May in South Africa was celebrated as a republic day. If we are a republic indeed, why the 31st of May is no longer celebrated as a republic day? If we no longer celebrate the 31st of May because this day is not important, I suggest that we should also not celebrate 27th April, 24th September and 16th December. May 31st is equally important as other days we celebrate in South Africa. I don’t know if whether the ANC is trying to bury the history of white people or not, but burying the history of white people is the last thing ANC must try not to attempt. The history of white people has been a recruiting tool of the ANC that’s why they are still in power. History of white people is the survival of the ANC. That’s part of the history of South Africa, nobody can deny that.
In a republic country popular sovereignty is important. Why am I saying so? Popular sovereignty protects a nation’s rights not to be exploited by other nations. It also gives the citizens of the country a right to determine for themselves the nature of their government. Is popular sovereignty applicable in South Africa? No it is not applicable in our country. Since we became the victims of what I normally call the CHINA THREAT THEORY, our country’s rights have been exploited by China. Every government decision we make in our country is influence and determined by China. I have a feeling that it is only a matter of time until South Africa will be called Mao Tse-tung. It is true when they say History repeats itself, China is slowly colonizing Africa and South Africa as a hegemonic state in Africa, it has been used as a gateway to access Africa. My lecturer describes China and South Africa’s relationship as romantic one, whereby China and South Africa are kissing and hugging. BUT we all know that love is like communism, it is a good idea unlike capitalism but it is not easy to attain. In this case, South Africa will be heart broken when they realize that China is only interested in advancing their national interests. Remember what John Mearsheimer said “The rise of China will never be peaceful to the world”.
I know that some people will argue that South Africa is a constitutional democracy. Let me educate those who believe that South Africa is a constitutional democracy. Constitutional democracy has 3 elements; limiting power of the government; adherence to the rule of law; and protection of fundamental rights. In South Africa does our government have limited power? If our government had limited power we would not have rife corruption. Our government is embracing corruption and they are not trying to combat it. Do our leaders adhere to the rule of law? No our government can do whatever it wants and the people of South Africa have no say in the decisions taken by the government. Our government is ignoring the basic principle of democracy which states that “every citizen has a right to a say in any decision that may affect him/her.” The most important fundamental rights are the human rights. To kill someone is a violation of human rights and we all know what happened at Marikana. No one has been held accountable. Where is justice in our country?
Poverty is one of the challenges of South Africa and our government is doing nothing to eradicate poverty. Poverty is also a human rights violation. According to the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights Article 21 which link democracy and human rights states that: the value of freedom, respect of human rights and the principle of holding periodic and genuine elections by universal suffrage are essential elements of democracy. In South Africa there is no equilibrium; people who are poor remain poor and the rich become richer. When the ANC came into power in 1994, many South African citizens voted for it as it was viewed as the country’s best political party to reduce the gap between the rich and the poor. The ANC was a hope of many citizens to create a balance between the rich and the poor despite the inequalities of the past. Judging from what I have seen, most people who were poor in 1994 are still poor even today that is why we have endless violent service delivery protests. People are not only concerned about the levels of service delivery they receive; they are also concerned about the quality of democracy they experience. I repeat South Africa is not a democratic or republic state.
So South Africa is neither a democratic nor a republic country, then what is it exactly. I think South Africa is slowly becoming a kleptocracy country. A kleptocracy is a form of political and government corruption where the government exists to increase the personal wealth and political power of its officials and the ruling class at the expense of the wider population, often with pretense of honest service. The characteristics of kleptocracy are concealment of illegal gains, dictatorship, autocratic government, and instability of economic and political agenda (Owah, 2011). Some people are of the view that South Africa is an autocratic country. Yes, they are right because the supreme power in our country is concentrated in one person. One individual obtained power and governs without being accountable to the higher authority. Autocratic government is one of the characteristics of kleptocracy. In South Africa we don’t have leadership that is responsive to the needs of the society.
I conclude prudently that South Africa since 2009 became a government of the crooks. The state of South Africa has been used an instrument for the predatory accumulation of wealth. And South Africa will continue to be a kleptocracy country because power in our country is placed in the hands of people with material wealth whether or not they have mind and time to reflect the interest of our country. I have no confidence in the government and leadership of South Africa.

Story 27
Wikipedia is a fascinating 21st century innovation. With over 38 million articles in more than 250 different languages, it is an undeniably useful global asset. This free-access, free-content, user-edited Internet encyclopedia is so culturally influential that the Wikipedia page for any given topic is usually one of the first search results on Google. To keep up with their reputation, the editorial staff actively monitors attempts to corrupt a page and corrects inconsistencies within a matter of seconds. The enormous cost of labor alone would threaten the viability of Wikipedia if the non-profit had to pay its staff, but contributions are made almost entirely by volunteers. So, if such a valuable resource is run by people who work for free, why do they do it?
Research presented at the Behavioral Science and Policy Association conference in Washington, D.C. on April 29, 2016 asked this very question. Jana Gallus, a postdoctoral fellow in the Behavioral Insights Group at Harvard, along with a group of veteran editors at Wikipedia, designed an award to honor newcomers who made valuable contributions to the German-language Wikipedia during their first month on staff. They purposely left the criteria for receiving this award, named an “Edelweiss with Star,” vague so that they could randomly distribute it to a group of active editors and compare their performance to that of their peers. The winners received a badge on their profile pages accompanied by an explanation of the honor, and a list of recipients each month was displayed on the Wikipedia page for the award.
After one month, the retention rate of new editors who received an Edelweiss with Star was 20 percent higher than editors who received nothing. And this wasn’t just true of the most prolific editors who modified upwards of 100 articles per day. Administering awards to new contributors increased retention across all levels of activity in the first month after the award date. Two months after receiving the award, the retention rate of these new editors was still 14% higher than the unrecognized editors, which suggests that the reaction to receiving the Edelweiss with Star was not just a fleeting emotion.
This study tells us that understanding how individuals value status and reputation is crucial to decoding motivation. Especially for volunteerism, finding effective ways to recognize people for their work that do not conflict with their intrinsic motivation can be tricky. In the case of Wikipedia, one potential problem is that the types of people who contribute might actually be more extrinsically motivated than other kinds of volunteers. That is, they choose to contribute to articles because of the public nature of the Internet, and the international recognition of Wikipedia. If more outwardly ambitious people respond better to positive affirmation, then we might find it hard to extend this research to less visible volunteer projects.
Instead of public recognition, Gallus credits the success of this experiment primarily to the effect of identification with a community. That is, the symbolic recognition of receiving Edelweiss with Star made editors feel like they were part of an exclusive group. Although contributions that editors make to Wikipedia pages are public, no one gets direct credit for authorship. In the study, only about 6% of recipients publicly displayed their award on their user pages, so we can interpret this as an indication that Wikipedia editors responded well to private recognition rather than celebrity.
So, what does Gallus’s research tell us about motivating volunteerism more broadly? Since this study addresses the problem of high turnover in volunteer organizations once people have already made the first move to contribute, the key takeaway is not how to attract volunteers, but how to keep them. In organizations with a steep learning curve, the cost of high turnover is problematic. Since people deeply desire validation and a sense of ownership over their work, simple recognition is a low cost way to give volunteers a stake in the success of the venture. Although this might not seem like a new concept, the challenge lies in understanding what recognition means for each organization’s particular context, and establishing a community in which volunteers want to belong. Like Gallus did with veteran editors at Wikipedia, bringing the core group of committed stakeholders together to talk about why they have stuck with the organization is a good first step.

Story 28
Opinion
San Antonio barbers make the cut on new TV show S.A. barbers trade barbs in TV battle
Artistic hair clipper Rob Ferrel (Rob the Original) is featured on the San Antonio episode of "Cedric's Barber Battle." Artistic hair clipper Rob Ferrel (Rob the Original) is featured on the San Antonio episode of "Cedric's Barber Battle." Photo: Courtesy Rob Ferrel Photo: Courtesy Rob Ferrel Image 1 of / 14 Caption Close San Antonio barbers make the cut on new TV show 1 / 14 Back to Gallery
Debuting this week, a funny new reality show about barbers features two from San Antonio who really make the cut.
In fact, “Cedric’s Barber Battle,” hosted by Cedric the Entertainer, dedicates an entire episode to the Alamo City and its many visual charms.
What’s more, two of S.A.’s masterful barbers, clipper artists known for hair designs that celebrate the Spurs, are spotlighted on the competition series.
Joe Barajas, aka Joe Barber, competes on the premiere (7 p.m. Friday, The CW), and Rob Ferrel, aka Rob the Original, battles on the San Antonio episode the following Friday.
They and the other barbers on the show strut not only their clipping talent but also a bit of razor-sharp wit, trading barbs with competitors. Some prove they can cut up with the best, including their rapid-fire comedian-host.
On the half-hour, Cedric (who played a barber in the “Barbershop” movies) takes viewers to various cities across the nation — Hollywood, Brooklyn, Austin and, yes, San Antonio — to showcase the skills of some of the country’s best hair artists.
Their task: to create elaborate designs on volunteer heads, which Cedric calls “crowns.” The work ranges from portraits of people to grand cityscapes.
The barbers use nothing more than their clippers and a few coloring tools to create art that’s imaginative and location-centric. The one deemed the best on each episode by the panel of judges wins $15,000, a championship belt from Cedric and other prizes.
Giving the show even more oomph is the banter, encouraged by Cedric, that has contestants ripping on one another.
According to a CW press release, Friday’s premiere takes place in Long Beach, California. The trio of barbers competing includes Barajas, who’s best known for his intricate Spurs designs, which include the team’s name, logo and players’ faces. Last year, ABC News took note of his fabulous cut based on a Spurs team selfie.
The show’s second episode (7 p.m. April 24) is even more of a must-see for locals. Titled “San Antonio,” it celebrates the Alamo City with beauty shot after beauty shot — from the River Walk and the Alamo to its historic missions and rousing mariachis.
“What up, San Antonio, Texas!” Cedric bellows at the beginning of the episode. “Get ready for the barber brawl at the mall!” The first challenge takes place at the old Razor Sharp Cutz inside Ingram Park Mall. (The salon has since moved to a location behind the mall at 3235 Wurzbach Road).
Among the lively competitors is local clipper Ferrel, known for his scalp portraits of the Spurs and other celebrities. On the show, he’s not only quick with his hands but quick on his feet, trading wisecrack after wisecrack with challengers.
“That shirt looks kind of like my grandma’s dress,” Ferrel tells one colorfully dressed male competitor, who fires back this retort: “Where do you think I got it from?”
Later, Ferrel compares a Mississippi contender’s hard-to-understand speech to the teacher’s voice in the Charlie Brown TV specials: “Wha-wha-wha-wha.”
Doling out the insult humor was “tough at first,” Ferrel said in a phone chat. “I’m not used to cutting down my fellow workers. … I actually got inspiration from the crowd; they yelled out jokes. But I’m not a comedian. The last thing I wanted to do was get on bad terms with these guys; they’re all great guys.”
The challenges: At Razor Sharp Cutz, the barbers initially are charged with creating a Lucha Libre mask on the heads of the volunteer “crowns.”
The two who advance bring their clippers to picturesque Enchanted Springs Ranch in Boerne, where they duplicate cowboys’ faces from wanted posters.
What was it like sharing the screen with such a jokester king as Cedric?
“I did get nervous at one point,” Ferrel said. “But it was an awesome experience meeting Cedric. … He was very funny.”
As for what he does on a daily basis in San Antonio, Ferrel, like S.A.’s other “Barber Battle” contestant, Barajas, gets lots of requests from Spurs fans for portraits — Tim, Tony and Manu, of course, but also younger players.
“I actually met Danny Green. I gave him a poster of a portrait haircut I did,” he said.
“A lot of celebrities post my work,” he added.
Norman Reedus from “The Walking Dead” is one of the many stars who have recognized him, he said. “I’ve been blessed. They’ve helped me get national recognition.”
Ferrel even appeared on Queen Latifah’s talk show last fall, impressing the host with his cuts depicting Kanye West and Kim Kardashian, as well as the Queen herself.
He also does San Antonio proud on “Cedric’s Barber Battle.”
The show may not be to everyone’s taste — it’s loud, rude with lots of bleeped-out language — but the barbers and their amazing cutting skills make the 30 minutes move quickly, helped by glints of humor along the way.
Jeanne Jakle’s column appears Wednesdays and Sundays in mySA, and she blogs at Jakle’s Jacuzzi on mySA.com. Email her at jjakle@express-news.net.

Story 29
What: Shares of aircraft manufacturer Embraer SA (ADR) (NYSE:ERJ) are down 10.7% at 11:45 a.m. EST on March 3, following release of the company's fourth quarter financial results.
So what: Embraer reported a relatively solid quarter, though it came up short of Wall Street analyst expectations (or did the analysts expect too much?), the drop is tied to a few different things.
The impact -- or concerns of what the impact will be -- of the Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing of Republic Airways Holdings is playing a role. Embraer recorded nearly $101 million in provisions related to the Republic bankruptcy. These provisions are tied to Republic's current fleet of Embraer jets, specifically its fleet of 50 ERJ145 aircraft. There's also concern that the Republic bankruptcy could cost Embraer sales, with 24 aircraft in its backlog on order from Republic expected to be delivered this year and next. From the earnings release:
Republic currently operates a fleet of 230 Embraer jets, of which 50 are of the ERJ145 family of aircraft and 180 are E170/E175 jet models. The final Republic decision on how it will manage the future operation of these aircraft, and the receipt of future aircraft deliveries related to firm orders in Embraer's backlog, is still ongoing.
However, Embraer's total firm backlog includes over 500 aircraft, worth almost $16 billion in revenue, so even if Republic's bankruptcy drags on, the total impact should be relatively minor in the big picture. Furthermore, as fellow Fool (and airline expert) Adam Levine-Weinberg pointed out recently, Embraer's regional jets are relatively profitable aircraft, and even if the orders from Republic were to be cancelled or delayed, other airlines would almost certainly soak up those orders in the short-term.
The other concern seems to be over the macroeconomic environment in Brazil, where Embraer is based. Brazil's economy continues to struggle, and double-digit inflation is pushing up the company's costs, which could weigh on profits in the near term.
Now what: There are some near-term macro pressures for Embraer, but demand for the types of aircraft it produces -- particularly for commercial and corporate customers -- remains strong, and is expected to remain strong for the next several years.
That's not to say that there won't be some short-term pain, but that the market's reaction may be more speculative than what the actual impact will be. Stay tuned for more in-depth earnings analysis on Embraer in coming days.

Story 30
The report on “Target Acquisition Systems Market” will help Major Players and the new entrants to understand scrutinize the market in detail. This information will encourage the Major Players to decide their business strategy and achieve proposed business aims.
The target acquisition systems are in high demand for increased use in Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) applications. The growing need for border surveillance and rising demands for artillery systems in the military are key factors fuelling the market demand.
Manufacturers are focusing on partnerships and new product launches. North America is likely to hold the largest market share during the forecast period owing to heavy demand from US Defense and presence of defense players.
The target acquisition systems market is anticipated to grow in the forecast period owing to driving factors such as advancements in automatic weapon systems coupled with demand for border surveillance and reconnaissance. Ongoing military modernization programs are further expected to leverage the growth of the target acquisition systems market.
On the other hand, regulations associated with sales to overseas countries is a major challenge faced by the target acquisition systems market. However, R&D investments for defense operations offer key opportunities to the market players during the forecast period.
View further details about this report www.premiummarketinsights.com/sample/…tech-sohan
Leading Target Acquisition Systems Market Players:
1. BAE Systems Plc
2. Elbit Systems Ltd.
3. Instro Precision Limited
4. Israel Aerospace Industries Ltd.
5. Kearfott Corporation
6. Lockheed Martin Corporation
7. Raytheon Company
8. Rheinmetall AG
9. Safran SA
10. Thales SA
The exclusive report on Target Acquisition Systems Market research report has been formulated with the help of extensive primary research (inputs from industry experts, companies, and stakeholders) and secondary research to get a universal view of the market. The report gives in-detailed information across global regions, including North America, Europe, Asia Pacific (APAC), Middle East & Africa (MEA), and South America & Central America (SCAM).
We follow an iterative research methodology model to formulate the report that helps decision-makers take sound investment evaluation. Secondary research is carried out using internal and external sources to obtain qualitative and quantitative information of the market backed by the primary interview of KOLs and SME’s.
This model negates any drastic deviation in the market estimation and is used to estimate the Target Acquisition Systems Market size and forecasts until 2027.
The Target Acquisition Systems Market report gives a 360-degree holistic view of the market and highlights the key developments, drivers, restraints and future trends with impact analysis of these trends on the market for short-term, mid-term and long-term during the forecast period. In addition, the report also provides profiles of major companies along with detailed SWOT analysis, financial facts and key developments of products/service from the past three years.
Target Acquisition Systems Market to 2027 – Global Analysis and forecast is a specialized and in-depth study of the Target Acquisition Systems industry with a focus on the global market trend. The report provides an overview of global Target Acquisition Systems Market with detailed market segmentation by product/application and regions.
The global Target Acquisition Systems Market is expected to witness high growth during the forecast period. The report provides key statistics on the market status of the key players and offers key trends and opportunities in the market.
The Target Acquisition Systems Market report provides a detailed overview of the industry including both qualitative and quantitative information. It provides an overview and forecast of the global Target Acquisition Systems Market based on product and application.
It also provides market size and forecast till 2027 for overall Target Acquisition Systems Market with respect to five major regions, namely; North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific (APAC), Middle East and Africa (MEA) and South America and Central America (SCAM), which is later sub-segmented by respective countries and segments. The report evaluates market dynamics affecting the market during the forecast period i.e., drivers, restraints, opportunities, and future trend and provides exhaustive PEST analysis for all five regions.
Access this report at www.premiummarketinsights.com/buy/TIP…tech-sohan
Also, key Target Acquisition Systems Market players influencing the market are profiled in the study along with their SWOT analysis and market strategies. The report also focuses on leading industry players with information such as company profiles, products, and services offered, financial information of the last 3 years, key development in past five years.
Reason to access
– Save and reduce time carrying out entry-level research by identifying the growth, size, leading players and segments in the global Target Acquisition Systems Market
– Highlights key business priorities in order to assist companies to realign their business strategies.
– The key findings and recommendations highlight crucial progressive industry trends in the Target Acquisition Systems Market, thereby allowing players to develop effective long term strategies.
– Develop/modify business expansion plans by using substantial growth offering developed and emerging markets.
– Scrutinize in-depth global market trends and outlook coupled with the factors driving the market, as well as those hindering it.
– Enhance the decision-making process by understanding the strategies that underpin commercial interest with respect to products, segmentation, and industry verticals.

Story 31
Don’t be too confident in the correctness of your Christian beliefs—they’re just the reflection of your culture. You’d be a Muslim if you were born in Pakistan (or Saudi Arabia or Iran or in any other overwhelmingly Muslim country).
This argument feels right—it’s hard to imagine a baby born in Yemen growing up as anything but a Muslim—but let’s put our confidence in this argument on hold until we explore some popular objections.
Objection 1: The argument fails when stated in absolute terms. There are people born in Pakistan and Somalia who grow up to not be Muslims. Some come from Christian communities, and some grow up to reject the Islam of their birth. Ayaan Hirsi Ali (raised as a Muslim in Somalia) is one well-known example. And a large fraction of the American atheist community must’ve rejected their Christian upbringing.
You’re right. We’re talking about a tendency or correlation, not a certainty. “You’d be a Muslim if you were born in Pakistan” is a concise way to express the observation, but it isn’t precisely correct. Better would be: “People tend to reflect the religion of their environment.” Or: “We find a very strong correlation between belief and the environment of the believer. Why is that?”
While adults can switch religions, this is rare. The recent Pew Research study of the changes in world religions estimates that of the 8.1 billion believers in 2050, just 65 million (less than one percent) will have switched into their belief (chart).
People don’t pick their religion by throwing a dart at a grid of the hundreds or thousands of religions of history. They don’t even roll the dice and pick a religion based on its popularity at the moment (31% Christian, 23% Muslim, 15% Hindu, etc.). The religion of young adults is very strongly correlated with that of their culture.
Objection 2: So there’s a correlation; so what? Does it therefore prove one’s religious beliefs are false? This is the genetic fallacy (think “genesis”—the genetic fallacy criticizes an argument based on where it comes from).
No, this argument doesn’t prove anything. It simply points out a correlation that must be explained.
Objection 3: A pro-Christian argument stands on its own. When I present an argument for Christianity, you must respond to the premises. Let’s say I’m biased—so what? That does nothing to prove my argument wrong.
Agreed, but your arguments aren’t the issue. Here I’m presenting the argument, that upbringing correlates with belief and therefore religion looks like nothing more than a cultural custom.
Objection 4: The atheist is hoist with his own petard. The argument applies to the atheist as well. Was the atheist raised in an atheist environment? Then his conclusions about religion must be as suspect as those of the Muslim raised in Pakistan. Was the atheist instead raised in a religious environment? Then since the atheist is confident in his beliefs, adults can then be trusted to correctly wade through the possibilities, Christians as well as others.
Imagine four people. One has malaria, one smallpox, one yellow fever, and one is healthy. Which of these is the odd man out? “Healthy” isn’t a kind of sickness just like bald isn’t a kind of hair color. We don’t see four people with different sorts of sickness; rather, we see three people sick and one healthy.
The symmetry that you imagine doesn’t exist. Children raised in a religion-free environment usually aren’t atheists because they were taught to be atheists but because they were not taught to be religious. By contrast, Christians are Christian because they were taught. Remove tradition and religious books, and Christianity would vanish. There is no objective knowledge from which to rebuilt it. No supernatural beliefs are self-evident. (I explore religions vanishing in such a scenario here .)
Remember the chart of religious switching mentioned above. Religions must continually get new recruits to thrive, and switching as adults isn’t where they get them. They get them through childhood indoctrination: they get them through making new babies (discussed more here).
These four objections are representative of the dust raising that I’ve found on the internet in response to this argument. But when the dust settles, the problem remains. The strong correlation between adult beliefs and environment must be answered: almost all religious adults got their religion from their families, friends, or elsewhere in their environment.
Glass House rebuttal
Christians must be careful about pushing back too much. If they deny that the correlation between upbringing and adult belief means much, they’re left explaining why there are 26 countries that are 95+% Muslim and eight that are 99+% Muslim. Is it because the claims of Islam are correct? Or is it (dare I say it?) that people tend to adopt the religion of their culture?
What explains this?
Religion is a cultural trait like customs, fashion, or traditional foods. If there really were a god, we would expect people to be drawn to the true religion over all the others because its claims were supported by far better evidence, not that people would mirror their environment and religions would fill their ranks by indoctrinating children before their critical thinking skills are developed.
Religion is like language. I speak English because I was raised in the United States. I didn’t evaluate all the languages of the world before I picked the best one; it was just part of my environment.
Language, customs, fashion, and food aren’t things that are evaluated on a correct/incorrect scale. English isn’t any more correct than French or Chinese or Farsi; it’s just what some people are accustomed to. It’s not incorrect to understand or speak or prefer French; it’s just uncommon in the United States.
In the United States, one speaks English—not everyone, of course, but mostly. And in the United States, one is a Christian—not everyone, of course, but mostly. There’s no value judgment behind either one. Religion and language are simply properties of society.
How thoughtful of God to arrange matters so that,
wherever you happen to be born,
the local religion always turns out to be the true one.
— Richard Dawkins
Image credit: Arian Zwegers, flickr, CC

Story 32
Here's one thing you already knew: red pandas are adorable. While they're not domesticated and therefore are probably not suitable as pets, some people keep them as pets anyway - especially in Nepal and India - and upload their adorable hijinks to the internet for the world to see.
Here are seven other facts about red pandas (Ailurus fulgens) that you might not already know.
1. Red pandas aren't pandas. Despite their name, red pandas aren't actually closely related to giant pandas (Ailuropoda melanoleuca), but it wasn't until the last ten or fifteen years that scientists settled upon just where red pandas fit on the evolutionary tree of life. It was clear that red pandas were members of the taxonomic "infraorder" Arctoidea, placing them in a group with bears, pinnipeds (seals, sea lions, and walrus), raccoons, and mustelids (weasels, skunks, otters, and badgers). Research published in 2000 in the journal Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution determined that they were not most closely related to bears or to raccoons as had been previously suggested. Instead, red pandas form their own phylogenetic family, alongside skunks, raccoons, and mustelids. From a genetic perspective, they're more like the skunks and raccoons you might find in your own backyard than the giant pandas with whom they share habitats.
2. Herbivorous carnivoran. As a member of the Order Carnivora, the red panda is a carnivoran. But unlike most carnivorans, it's not actually a carnivore. That is, the red panda is a mostly an herbivore. It's actually one way in which the red panda is more like the giant panda than its genetic relatives: its diet consists almost entirely of bamboo leaves, plus bamboo shoots when in season, and the occasional fruit, flower, and (rarely) an odd egg or bird. The other carnivoran who is also primarily herbivorous? The binturong, the funny-looking bearcat that smells like popcorn.
3. Sweet tooth. Speaking of diet, red pandas like fake sugar. In a 2009 study in The Journal of Heredity, researchers presented a variety of Carnivoran species with bowls of plain water, naturally sweetened water, or artificially sweetened water. They discovered that red pandas preferred three artificial sugars: neotame, sucralose (Splenda), and aspartame (Nutrasweet or Equal). That makes them the only non-primate species known to be able to taste aspartame, an ability previously thought unique to Old World monkeys, apes, and humans.
4. Blending in. Take a look at the reddish-orange tint of the red panda's coat and you might not immediately think "good for camouflage," but that's where you'd be mistaken. It turns out that the red panda is pretty good at hiding from predators by disappearing into the branches of fir trees which are usually covered with reddish-brown moss. Which is pretty handy because death by snow leopard seems like a particularly bad way to go.
5. A Cheesy Problem. Okay, stay with me on this one. Red pandas, classified as "vulnerable" by the IUCN, are threatened by habitat loss and poaching, despite being protected by legislation in the countries where they're found. Because of that habitat loss, wild populations of red pandas are increasingly fragmented. One fragment that hosts a population of around forty red pandas is Nepal's Langtang National Park, in the Himalayas. Even within the national park, those forty pandas are fragmented into four groups. In Langtang, the red pandas have another problem, and it's cheese. You see, the park is also home to two cheese factories that produce a combined 14,000 kilograms of cheese each year to be sold in nearby Kathmandu. To amass the 140,000 liters of milk necessary to make the cheese, farmers keep large herds of chauri, a yak-cow hybrid, and those herds are permitted to graze within the park. The competition over food sources with the chauri combined with other threats to their lives from the herders and from their dogs has led to the death of many, many red pandas. "This problem might be solved," write a pair of researchers in the journal Conservation Biology, "by reducing cheese production and restricting the number of chauri while commensurately increasing the price of cheese so that farmers’ income from milk could remain the same."
6. Red pandas tweet. They don't tweet in 140 characters like you or I do, but they tweet nonetheless. Actually, to be accurate, the sound they make is known as "twittering." Have a listen (source):
According to researchers at the National Zoo, twittering seems to mainly used to signal reproductive intent. Which, now that I think about it, is not all that different from some twitterers of our own species either.
7. It Could Have Been Called The Wah. Red pandas have different names depending on where you are. In Nepal, they're called bhalu biralo. Sherpas call the critter ye niglva ponva or wah donka. But the Western world did not always call it a red panda. In 1821, the English naturalist Major General Thomas Hardwicke made a presentation on the creature at the Linnean Society in London. That is typically regarded as the moment the red panda became known in Western science. In his presentation, titled "Description of a new Genus of the Class Mammalia, from the Himalaya Chain of Hills Between Nepaul and the Snowy Mountains," he argued that the animal be called a "wha," explaining, "It is frequently discovered by its loud cry or call, resembling the word ‘Wha’, often repeating the same: hence is derived one of the local names by which it is known. It is also called Chitwa." Unfortunately, Hardwicke's paper wasn't published until 1827, by which time the French zoologist Frédéric Cuvier had already published a description of the species along with a drawing. Naming rights, therefore, went to Cuvier.
Flynn J.J., Nedbal M.A., Dragoo J.W. & Honeycutt R.L. Whence the red panda?, Molecular phylogenetics and evolution, PMID: 11083933
Pradhan S., Saha G.K. & Khan J.A. (2001). Ecology of the red panda Ailurus fulgens in the Singhalila National Park, Darjeeling, India, Biological Conservation, 98 (1) 11-18. DOI: 10.1016/S0006-3207(00)00079-3
Li X., Glaser D., Li W., Johnson W.E., O'Brien S.J., Beauchamp G.K. & Brand J.G. (2009). Analyses of Sweet Receptor Gene (Tas1r2) and Preference for Sweet Stimuli in Species of Carnivora, Journal of Heredity, 100 (Supplement 1) S90-S100. DOI: 10.1093/jhered/esp015
Roberts M.S. & Gittleman J.L. (1984). Ailurus fulgens, Mammalian Species, (222) 1. DOI: 10.2307/3503840
Roberts M.S. & Kessler D.S. (1979). Reproduction in Red pandas, Ailurus fulgens (Carnivora: Ailuropodidae), Journal of Zoology, 188 (2) 235-249. DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-7998.1979.tb03402.x
YONZON P.B. & HUNTER M.L. (1991). Cheese, Tourists, and Red Pandas in the Nepal Himalayas, Conservation Biology, 5 (2) 196-202. DOI: 10.1111/j.1523-1739.1991.tb00124.x
Header photo: Wikimedia Commons/Greg Hume. Other photos: Wikimedia Commons/Jar0d; Wikimedia Commons/marshmallowbunnywabbit; Wikimedia Commons/Carlos Delgado; Wikimedia Commons/Rainer Halama.

Story 33
The report on “Aircraft Fuel Tank Market” will help Major Players and the new entrants to understand scrutinize the market in detail. This information will encourage the Major Players to decide their business strategy and achieve proposed business aims.
The aviation sector across the globe has surged over the years, and the growth curve is at a constant rise. This is majorly due to significant growth in civil aviation sector and business aviation sector.
The order and delivery patterns of aircraft manufacturers are showcasing tremendous progress, which in turn is reflecting the demand for aircraft fuel tanks. This factor is catalyzing the growth of aircraft fuel tank market.
The aircraft fuel tank market is driven by the increasing trend of development of lightweight, high capacity composite or alloy based fuel tanks. The growing demand for aircraft fleet from commercial airlines, military forces, business aviation, and general aviation sector is constantly driving the aircraft fuel tank market.
The revenue size of aircraft fuel tank market is anticipated to soar in the coming years, owing to the fact that, the demand for long range commercial aircraft is throttling at a significant pace, thereby, demanding aircraft tanks with increased size and capacity.
View further details about this report www.premiummarketinsights.com/sample/…tech-sohan
Leading Aircraft Fuel Tank Market Players:
1. Aero Tec Laboratories Inc
2. Cobham Plc
3. Elbit System Ltd.
4. General Dynamics Corporation
5. GKN Aerospace
6. Marshal Aerospace and Defense Group
7. Meggit Plc
8. Northstar
9. Robertson Fuel Systems LLC
10. Safran SA
The exclusive report on Aircraft Fuel Tank Market research report has been formulated with the help of extensive primary research (inputs from industry experts, companies, and stakeholders) and secondary research to get a universal view of the market. The report gives in-detailed information across global regions, including North America, Europe, Asia Pacific (APAC), Middle East & Africa (MEA), and South America & Central America (SCAM).
We follow an iterative research methodology model to formulate the report that helps decision-makers take sound investment evaluation. Secondary research is carried out using internal and external sources to obtain qualitative and quantitative information of the market backed by the primary interview of KOLs and SME’s.
This model negates any drastic deviation in the market estimation and is used to estimate the Aircraft Fuel Tank Market size and forecasts until 2027.
The Aircraft Fuel Tank Market report gives a 360-degree holistic view of the market and highlights the key developments, drivers, restraints and future trends with impact analysis of these trends on the market for short-term, mid-term and long-term during the forecast period. In addition, the report also provides profiles of major companies along with detailed SWOT analysis, financial facts and key developments of products/service from the past three years.
Aircraft Fuel Tank Market to 2027 – Global Analysis and forecast is a specialized and in-depth study of the Aircraft Fuel Tank industry with a focus on the global market trend. The report provides an overview of global Aircraft Fuel Tank Market with detailed market segmentation by product/application and regions.
The global Aircraft Fuel Tank Market is expected to witness high growth during the forecast period. The report provides key statistics on the market status of the key players and offers key trends and opportunities in the market.
The Aircraft Fuel Tank Market report provides a detailed overview of the industry including both qualitative and quantitative information. It provides an overview and forecast of the global Aircraft Fuel Tank Market based on product and application.
It also provides market size and forecast till 2027 for overall Aircraft Fuel Tank Market with respect to five major regions, namely; North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific (APAC), Middle East and Africa (MEA) and South America and Central America (SCAM), which is later sub-segmented by respective countries and segments. The report evaluates market dynamics affecting the market during the forecast period i.e., drivers, restraints, opportunities, and future trend and provides exhaustive PEST analysis for all five regions.
Access this report at www.premiummarketinsights.com/buy/TIP…tech-sohan
Also, key Aircraft Fuel Tank Market players influencing the market are profiled in the study along with their SWOT analysis and market strategies. The report also focuses on leading industry players with information such as company profiles, products, and services offered, financial information of the last 3 years, key development in past five years.
Reason to Access
– Save and reduce time carrying out entry-level research by identifying the growth, size, leading players and segments in the global Aircraft Fuel Tank Market
– Highlights key business priorities in order to assist companies to realign their business strategies.
– The key findings and recommendations highlight crucial progressive industry trends in the Aircraft Fuel Tank Market, thereby allowing players to develop effective long term strategies.
– Develop/modify business expansion plans by using substantial growth offering developed and emerging markets.
– Scrutinize in-depth global market trends and outlook coupled with the factors driving the market, as well as those hindering it.
– Enhance the decision-making process by understanding the strategies that underpin commercial interest with respect to products, segmentation, and industry verticals.

Story 34
The report provides key statistics on the market status of the leading market players and offers key trends and opportunities in the market. The global microbiology testing/clinical microbiology market is expected to witness high growth during the forecast period. The analysis presents insight into the key players, market segments, development, and opportunities.
Microbiology testing/clinical microbiology is a discipline that incorporates with the testing for microorganisms. On the other hand, the clinical microbiology focused on medical science which is concerned with the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of infectious diseases.
The microbiology testing/clinical microbiology is used for the rapid identification of the microorganism and for the treatment of the infectious diseases caused by bacteria, fungus, viruses, parasites and other microorganism.
Microbiology Testing/Clinical Microbiology market is expected to grow significantly in the coming years, owing to the key factors such as rise in hospital-acquired infection & fungal infections in the immune-compromised and pathogen discovery across the globe.
Moreover, the growing technological advancements in disease diagnostics is likely to add new opportunities for the global medical holography market over the forecast period.
Get Sample Copy of the Report at – www.theinsightpartners.com/sample/…?WT-dinesh
The report “Microbiology Testing/Clinical Microbiology Market” gives varied description about the segmentation of the market on the basis of segmented Dosage, Route of Administration and Application, and leads with a descriptive structure of the trends and restrictions of the various segments and sub segments. It also provides the market size and estimates a forecast from the year 2019 to 2025 with respect to five major regions, namely; North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific (APAC), Middle East and Africa (MEA) and South & Central America.
The report also provides exhaustive PEST analysis for all five regions after evaluating political, economic, social and technological factors effecting the Typhoid Vaccines market.
The report facilitates in determining and interpreting the key market players, portfolios with necessary information such as company profiles, components and services offered, financial information of past few years, key developments in past few years, that helps in constructing strategies to gain competitive advantage in the long run. The report also analyzes factors affecting Microbiology Testing/Clinical Microbiologys market from both demand and supply side and further evaluates market dynamics effecting the market during the forecast period i.e., drivers, restraints, opportunities, and future trend.
Companies Mentioned:
Merck KGaA, Hologic Inc., F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., 3M, BD, Danaher, Shimadzu Corporation, bioMérieux SA, Bio-Rad Laboratories, Inc. and among others.
MARKET SEGMENTATION:
On the basis of product segment, the market is bifurcated into Instruments and Reagents. The instrument segment is further segmented into laboratory instruments and microbiology analyzers.
The reagents segment is further bifurcated into general reagents and pathogen-specific kits. The application segment is classified as respiratory diseases, bloodstream infections, gastrointestinal diseases, periodontal diseases, urinary tract infections, sexually transmitted diseases and others.
Based on end user, the microbiology testing/clinical microbiology market is segmented into hospitals, diagnostic centers, academic & research institutes and others. The microbiology testing/clinical microbiology market report provides key statistics on the market status of the leading market players and offers key trends and opportunities in the market.
Key Elements that the report acknowledges:
Market size and growth rate during forecast period.
Key factors driving the “Microbiology Testing/Clinical Microbiology” market.
Key market trends cracking up the growth of the “Microbiology Testing/Clinical Microbiology” market.
Challenges to market growth.
Key vendors of “Microbiology Testing/Clinical Microbiology” market.
Detailed SWOT analysis.
Opportunities and threats faces by the existing vendors in Global “Microbiology Testing/Clinical Microbiology” market.
Trending factors influencing the market in the geographical regions.
Strategic initiatives focusing the leading vendors.
PEST analysis of the market in the five major regions.
Access this Report at – www.theinsightpartners.com/buy/TIP…?WT-dinesh

Story 35
UNESCO rejects Coalition's bid to delist Tasmanian World Heritage forest
Updated
The Federal Government has lost a bid to delist more than 70,000 hectares of forest from Tasmania's World Heritage Area (WHA).
The United Nations' World Heritage Committee, meeting in Doha, took just 10 minutes to reject the Government's application to reverse protection for 74,000 hectares.
The area was part of 170,000 hectares added to the WHA last year under Tasmania's forest peace deal enacted by the former state and federal Labor governments.
News of the decision was quickly welcomed by conservation groups, including former Greens leader Bob Brown who described the decision as a "global diplomatic humiliation" for the Abbott Government.
The Coalition had argued the 74,000 hectares were degraded by previous logging and should be unlocked for the timber industry.
But opponents to the move said only 8.6 per cent of the forests had been disturbed, with the rest being pristine old-growth rainforest.
Speaking from Doha, delegates from Portugal said "accepting this delisting would set an unacceptable precedent".
Wilderness Society campaign manager Vica Bayley said the decision showed the world was behind preserving the forest.
"Over here in Doha, environmentalists and Aboriginal Tasmanians are together welcoming this decision because it does protect the integrity of the Tasmanian World Heritage Area and it would protect that in perpetuity," he said.
Prime Minister, State Government disappointed with decision
Prime Minister Tony Abbott said the Government would study the UN's decision before deciding on its next move, but was disappointed in the development.
"The application that we made to remove from the boundaries of the World Heritage listing - areas of degraded forest, areas of plantation timber - we thought was self-evidently sensible," he said.
Forests remain a battleground The UNESCO world heritage decision for Tasmania's forests is the latest salvo in a decades-long environmental war. The UNESCO world heritage decision for Tasmania's forests is the latest salvo in a decades-long environmental war.
The listing was part of Tasmania's forestry peace deal negotiated between industry, unions and environmentalists.
Federal Labor environment spokesman Mark Butler described the decision as a stunning victory for those who spoke out in support of the forests and the World Heritage listing.
"Why Tony Abbott wanted to go in, rip the agreement up and seek to become only the third country after Tanzania and Oman to seek to delist one of its own properties is still beyond me," he said.
Tasmanian Premier Will Hodgman said the Government was also disappointed with the outcome but there was not much his government could do.
"It's disappointing and it does contradict the decision by Tasmanians at two elections in recent times, we will accept it," he told Parliament.
"More importantly though, we have a plan for Tasmania's forest industry that we are seeking to implement."
Liberal Senator Richard Colbeck, the parliamentary secretary to the Minister for Agriculture and one of the major proponents of delisting the forests, also said the ruling would hurt Tasmania's struggling timber industry.
"We know, in particular, that the special species users in Tasmania will have a much diminished resource," he said.
"They are the top-end value adders of the forest industry we are talking about the wooden boat builders, the craft workers and the furniture makers, they are the first ones impacted by this decision."
The leader of Australia's greens group delegation, Alec Marr, said Senator Colbeck should resign and take responsibility for the Government's failed bid.
"The decision by the Committee to deny World Heritage delisting of these pristine forests has shown reason in the face of ideological spin," he said.
"(Senator Colbeck) has done massive damage to Australia's credibility in the World Heritage Convention and should resign his position immediately."
Senator Colbeck said calls for his resignation were ridiculous and rejected accusations that the Government has embarrassed Australia on the world stage.
"We put forward information that demonstrated the state of these areas, we provided that information to the World Heritage Committee, we put that in the public arena," he said.
"We're well recognised as having quite magnificent wilderness estates and the World Heritage Commission has themselves said we manage them well."
Environmentalists celebrate as 'full-frontal attack' repulsed
Australian Greens leader Christine Milne described the decision as a great win for forests, for wildlife and for Tasmania.
"Thankfully the world community doesn't believe political point scoring is a legitimate reason to abandon a globally significant area and to destroy the outstanding universal values for which it is famous," she said.
Environment Tasmania director Dr Phil Pullinger also welcomed UNESCO's decision.
"They have upheld the integrity of the World Heritage convention against a full-frontal attack from the Abbott Government," he said.
"Importantly for us in Tassie some remarkable areas of old growth forest that were trying to be opened up for logging remain protected as World Heritage wilderness areas... which is a fantastic outcome."
Speaking from Doha, Dr Pullinger said Australia had caused itself a lot of damage by the stands it was taking at the meeting.
"They tried to use some pretty strong tactics around the Great Barrier Reef and the World Heritage Committee basically put the Government on notice... that they will be looking at endangered listing for the reef if the Government does not clean up its act.
"On Tasmania's forests they were pretty clear that it was a poor proposal, that it could send a very bad precedent for the World Heritage Convention, and they unambiguously rejected it."
Tasmanian Aboriginal Centre Secretary Ruth Langford said the decision was also a win for Tasmanian Aborigines.
"This county not only holds magnificent forest, which provides medicine and good spirits for us, it is also the resting place for ancestors," she said.
Topics: forests, forestry, timber, states-and-territories, federal---state-issues, federal-government, tas, australia
First posted

Story 36
The National Basketball Association (NBA) was established on June 6, 1946 and originally known as the Basketball Association of American (BAA). Of the original 11 franchises in that inaugural season most folded within a season or two however three are still in operation today, two in their original cities (Boston Celtics, New York Knicks) and one since relocated (Philadelphia Warriors). In 1949 the BAA merged with the National Basketball League, the names were combined to form the National Basketball Association which has operated under that name ever since.
Expansion took place for the first time after the merger in 1961 with the addition of the Chicago Packers (now the Washington Wizards), following that expansion happened often usually with a new team added every other season. In 1976 a second merger took place, this time with the American Basketball Association when four teams were brought into the NBA (Denver Nuggets, Indiana Pacers, New York Nets, and San Antonio Spurs).
The Boston Celtics have won the most NBA Championships with 17, the Minneapolis/Los Angeles Lakers franchise is second with 16.

Story 37
New York, NY, October 30, 2019 (WiredRelease) -The Global Bronchitis Drug Market in-depth review report holds the description of all the essential focuses concerning the Bronchitis Drug market. It provides primary data that satisfies throughout the key aspects and highlights compared to Bronchitis Drug market current and conjecture development progress, and illustrate it with the support of suitable dimensions. The global Bronchitis Drug market covers the report likewise incorporates the top to bottom data in regards to the main Bronchitis Drug market manufacturers Advanced Inhalation Therapies (AIT), AstraZeneca Plc, DBV Technologies SA, F. Hoffmann-La Roche, Han Wha Pharma Co, Kyorin Pharmaceutical Co, Merck & Co Inc, Mucosis BV, Orbis Biosciences Inc, Therabron Therapeutics Inc rivaling each other just as planning projects in terms of value, the volume of proposals, request, and quality of services and commodities.
The report additionally seriously explored the global Bronchitis Drug market development pattern based on regional order. The powerful framework of the overall market relies on the individual product formation in several businesses, their expertise, income generated by every corporation, and advancement underway methods. The global Bronchitis Drug market is esteemed at $$ million US$ in 2019 is relied upon to reach $$ million US$ before the end of 2029, developing at a CAGR ranging 2020-2029. This report centers around Bronchitis Drug volume and incentive at the global dimension, territorial dimension, and friends level.
VIEW REPORT HERE (USE OFFICIAL EMAIL ID TO GET HIGHER PRIORITY) @ https://market.us/report/bronchitis-drug-market/request-sample
The research covers the current market size of the Global Bronchitis Drug market and its growth ratio based on 10-year history statistics along with the company profile of key members/manufacturers. The in-depth information by segments of Bronchitis Drug market helps monitor future profitability & to make critical decisions for growth. The Bronchitis Drug market report on trends and improvements focuses on markets and materials, capacities, technologies, CAPEX cycle and the changing structure of the Global Bronchitis Drug Market.
Top Companies Leading Global Bronchitis Drug Market:
Advanced Inhalation Therapies (AIT)
AstraZeneca Plc
DBV Technologies SA
F. Hoffmann-La Roche
Han Wha Pharma Co
Kyorin Pharmaceutical Co
Merck & Co Inc
Mucosis BV
Orbis Biosciences Inc
Therabron Therapeutics Inc
Market Research By Types:
AZD-9668
CG-367
Cyclosporine
HOB-051
Others
Market Research By Applications:
Clinic
Hospital
Homecare
Geographically, this report is scrutinized into several key Regions, with generation, consumption, revenue (million USD), and market share and growth rate of Bronchitis Drug market in these regions, from 2012 to 2019, covering North America, Europe, China & Japan and its Share (%) and CAGR for the forecast period 2020 to 2029.
Research Via Specific Region Including:
South America Bronchitis Drug Market (Brazil, Argentina, Colombia)
North America Bronchitis Drug Market (United States, Canada, Mexico)
Europe Bronchitis Drug Market (Germany, UK, France, Russia, Italy)
Center East and Africa Bronchitis Drug Market (Saudi Arabia, UAE, Egypt, Nigeria, South Africa)
Asia Pacific Bronchitis Drug Market (China, Japan, Korea, India, Southeast Asia)
GET REGION WISE REPORT VERSIONS HERE (USE CORPORATE DETAILS ONLY) @ https://market.us/report/bronchitis-drug-market/#inquiry
The following would be the Chapters to display the Global Bronchitis Drug market.
Chapter 1, represents Definition, Specifications, and Classification of Bronchitis Drug, Applications of Bronchitis Drug, Market Segment by Regions;
Chapter 2, to break down the Suppliers, and Raw Material, Bronchitis Drug Manufacturing Process, Industry Chain Structure, Manufacturing Cost Structure;
Chapter 3, to determine the Bronchitis Drug Manufacturing Plants and Technical Data Analysis of Bronchitis Drug, Capacity, and Commercial Production Date, R&D Status, Manufacturing Area Distribution, Technology Source, and Raw Materials Sources Analysis;
Chapter 4, to demonstrate the Overall Bronchitis Drug Market Analysis, Sales Analysis (Company Segment), Capacity Analysis (Company Segment), Sales Price Analysis (Company Segment);
Chapter 5 and 6, to demonstrate the Regional Market Analysis that incorporates North America, Europe, China, and Japan, Bronchitis Drug Segment Market Analysis (by Type);
Chapter 7 and 8, to break down the Bronchitis Drug Segment Market Analysis (by Application) Major Manufacturers Analysis of Bronchitis Drug;
Chapter 9, Bronchitis Drug Market Trend, Regional Market Trend by Product Type, Market Trends by Application;
Chapter 10, Supply Chain Analysis, Regional Marketing Type Analysis, International Trade Type Analysis by Bronchitis Drug Market;
Chapter 11, to investigate the Consumers Analysis of Global Bronchitis Drug Market;
Chapter 12,13, 14 and 15, to depict Bronchitis Drug sales, merchants, brokers, wholesalers, Research Findings and Conclusion, and information source.
Browse More Report Categories Over:- Global Online Gambling and Betting Market Research Report – 2019
CONTACT US:
Email: sales@market.us
420 Lexington Avenue Suite,
300 New York City,
NY 10170
Tel: +17186184351,+91788782262
Email: inquiry@market.us
Website: https://market.us

